Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Governance Report of the Nominations Committee 81 Report of the Nominations Committee This report has been prepared by the joint Nominations Activities of the Committee Committee of RELX PLC and RELX NV and has been approved During the year, the Committee met three times and its main areas by the respective Boards.
of focus were: the re-appointment of Adrian Hennah as a Non-Executive Director at the conclusion of his specified term of ofce Membership The Committee comprises only Non-Executive Directors.
The the appointment of Suzanne Wood as a Non-Executive Director members of the Committee who served during the year were: a review of the composition of the Audit and Remuneration Committees resulting in the following changes: Linda Sanford Anthony Habgood Committee Chairman stepped down as a member of the Audit Committees and joined Ben van der Veer the Remuneration Committee: Suzanne Wood was appointed as a member of the Audit Committees: and Carol Mills stepped Wolfhart Hauser down as a member of the Remuneration Committee and remained a member of the Audit Committees a review of the Committees Terms of Reference Responsibilities succession planning for Non-Executive Directors The principal role and responsibilities of the Committee are to provide assistance to the Boards by identifying the recommendation to the Boards of the suitability of individuals qualied to become Directors and recommending Directors external non-executive director appointments to the Boards the appointment of such individuals.
The responsibilities of the Committee are set out in written Terms Composition and diversity of the Boards of Reference available at www.
com and include: The Committee seeks to ensure that the Boards and their Committees comprise an appropriate balance of skills, experience, to keep under review the size and composition of the Boards independence, knowledge of RELX Groups businesses, and to develop and agree the specication for the recruitment diversity, including gender.
The Committee has established a of new Directors formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the recruitment of candidates to the Boards and recommendations by the Committee to procure the recruitment of new Directors are made principally on the basis of a candidates merit, against to recommend to the Boards the appointment of candidates objective criteria and with due regard for the benets of diversity.
subject, where appropriate, to the approval of shareholders The Groups Diversity and Inclusion D&I Statement applies of RELX PLC and RELX NV across RELX Group, including to the Boards and their Committees.
to recommend Directors to serve on the Committees of The objective of the Statement is to articulate the Groups the Boards, having regard to the criteria for service on commitment to a diverse workforce and to an environment that each Committee as set out in the Terms of Reference for respects individuals and their contributions, regardless of gender, such Committees, and to recommend members to serve race or other characteristics, and to ensure the implementation as the Chair of those Committees of that commitment.
The Committee takes the D&I Statement into consideration when discussing the composition of the Boards and to make recommendations to the Boards in relation to their Committees, and any appointments or changes to them, and the re-appointment of any non-executive Director at the this helps the Committee ensure that there is an appropriate conclusion of his her specified term of ofce and the balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the election or re-election of Directors at the Annual General Group and diversity including gender, background and nationality.
Meetings of RELX PLC and RELX NV The results of the implementation of the D&I Statement during to review and make recommendations to the Boards the year can be found within the Balance of our Boards section in relation to any Directors actual or potential conicts set out on page 74. of interest The Committee recognises the benets that diversity on the Boards can bring and has noted the recommendations set out in the Hampton-Alexander Review on improving gender balance in FTSE leadership and the Parker Report into ethnic diversity of UK Boards.
The Committee will continue to monitor developments in relation to Board diversity.
Details of the Groups approach to diversity and inclusion more generally in its workforce can be found in the Corporate Responsibility Report on page 42.
82 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2017 The Committee retained The Zygos Partnership, an independent recruitment consultancy specialising in non-executive appointments with no other connection to RELX Group, to carry out the search for a new Non-Executive Director.
Following a rigorous and transparent process of assessments and interviews, the Committee recommended to the Boards that Suzanne Wood be appointed as a Non-Executive Director.
The Boards accepted this recommendation and following approval by the shareholders of RELX NV, Ms Wood joined the Boards in September 2017.
As part of the selection process, the Committee considered, among other things, Ms Woods ability to devote sufficient time to the role of Non-Executive Director, her existing external interests, and her independence as dened under the UK Code.
The charts on page 74 illustrate in more detail the composition of the Boards.
Conicts of interest During the year, the Committee monitored Directors conicts of interest in respect of their external appointments, and undertook an annual review of these.
No actual conicts were identied.
However, situations were identied which could potentially give rise to a conict of interest, and the Boards authorised those situations and put in place appropriate procedures to manage any potential conicts at the recommendation of the Committee.
More information on conicts of interest can be found in the RELX PLC Directors Report on page 168.
Director re-elections The Committee reviewed the results of the evaluation of the effectiveness and performance of the Boards, their Committees and the individual Directors, which had been facilitated by Lorna Parker, an independent external practitioner, and overseen by the Corporate Governance Committee.
Details of the 2017 18 Board evaluation can be found on page 77.
Following this review, the Committee recommended that each Director on the Boards as at 31 December 2017 be put forward for election or re-election at the 2018 Annual General Meetings.
