Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Governance Report of the Audit Committees 103 Report of the Audit Committees This report has been prepared by the Audit Committees of Committee meetings RELX PLC and RELX NV in conjunction with the Audit Committee The Committees met four times during 2017.
The Audit Committee ofRELX Group plc the Committees and has been approved by the meetings are typically attended by the RELX Chief Executive respective Boards.
It provides an overview of the membership, officer, theRELX Chief Financial officer, the RELX Financial responsibilities and activities of the Committees.
The RELX PLC Controller, theRELX Chief Legal officer, the RELX Head of Audit and RELX NV Audit Committees full their roles from the and Risk, andaudit partners from the external auditors.
perspective of the respective companies and both Committees have access to the reports to and the work of the RELX Group plc Financial reporting In discharging their responsibilities in respect of the 2017 interim Audit Committee in this respect.
and full year financial statements, the Committees have: reviewed and discussed areas of significant judgement in the Membership preparation of the financial statements, including in particular: The Committees comprise at least three independent i. the carrying values of goodwill and intangible assets the Non-Executive Directors.
The members of each of the significant judgements in respect of asset carrying values Committees who served during the year were: relate to the assumptions underlying the value in use Ben van der Veer Chairman of the Committees calculations including discount rates and long-term growth Adrian Hennah assumptions.
The Committees received and discussed reports from the RELX Financial Controller on the Linda Sanford until 26 September 2017 methodology and the basis of the assumptions used: Marike van Lier Lels ii.
capitalisation of internally generated intangible assets Carol Mills thecapitalisation of costs related to the development of new Suzanne Wood from 26 September 2017 products and business infrastructure, together with the useful economic lives applied to the resulting assets, requires the Adrian Hennah, a UK chartered accountant, Suzanne Wood, a exercise of judgement.
The Committees received reports US chartered accountant, and Ben van derVeer, a registered from the RELX Financial Controller on the amounts accountant in the Netherlands, areconsidered to have capitalised and asset lives selected for major projects: significant, recent and relevant financial experience.
uncertain tax positions assessing potential liabilities The Committees as a whole are deemed to have competence across numerous jurisdictions is complex and requires relevant to the sectors in which RELX operates.
judgement in making tax determinations.
The Committees received and discussed reports from the RELX Head of Please see pages 66 and 67 for full proles of Audit Committee Taxation on the potential liabilities identied and members.
reviewed the recognition of certain pension scheme liabilities which are subject to judgement.
The Committees Responsibilities received and discussed reports from the RELX Financial Controller on the methodology and the basis of the The main role and responsibilities of the Committees are assumptions used: toassist the respective Boards in fullling their oversight responsibilities regarding: reviewed the critical accounting policies and compliance withapplicable accounting standards, including the the integrity of the Groups interim and full year financial preparations for IFRS 9, 15 and 16, reviewed other disclosure statements and financial reporting processes: requirements and received regular update reports on risk management and internal controls, and the accounting and regulatory developments, including a review effectiveness of the internal auditors: and of compliance with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code the performance of the external auditors and the which was issued on 8 December 2016: effectiveness of the external audit process, including received and considered the Financial Reporting Councils monitoring the independence and objectivity of Ernst audit quality review of Ernst & Young's audit of the Groups &Young.
financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016.
There were no significant findings from the review: The Committees report to the respective Boards on their reviewed the disclosures made in relation to internal control, activities, identifying any matters in respect of which they risk management, the going concern statement and the consider that action or improvement is needed and making viability statement.
The Committees received and discussed recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
reports from the RELX Head of Audit and Risk and the The terms of reference of each Audit Committee are reviewed RELX Treasurer on the processes undertaken and annually and a copy of each is published on the Groups assumptions used in formulating these disclosures: and website, www.
com considered whether the Annual Report taken as a whole was fair, balanced and understandable.
The Committees also received detailed written and verbal reports from the external auditors on these matters.
The Committees were satisfied with the explanations provided and conclusions reached.
104 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2017 Risk management and internal controls The auditors are precluded from engaging in non-audit With respect to their oversight of risk management and internal services that would compromise their independence or violate controls, the Committees have: any professional requirements or regulations affecting their appointment as auditors.
The auditors may, however, provide received and discussed regular reports summarising the non-audit services which do not conict with their independence, status of the Groups risk management activities, including and where their skills and experience make them a logical actions to mitigate risks, and the findings from internal audit supplier, subject to pre-approval by the Audit Committees.
reviews and the actions agreed with management.
Areas of focus in 2017 included: operational and financial controls: Non-audit services performed in the Netherlands are limited to regulatory compliance: business continuity and resilience: audit assurance activities.
The Committees will continue to review review ofinformation cyber security: data privacy including the policy on the provision of non-audit services in the light of the EU General Data Protection Regulation readiness : post ongoing regulatory developments.
acquisition integration: and continued compliance with the The Committees have, each quarter, reviewed and agreed the requirements of Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act non-audit services provided in 2017, together with the associated relating to the documentation and testing of internal controls fees which are set out in note 4 to the consolidated financial over financial reporting: statements.
The non-audit services provided were in the areas reviewed and approved the internal audit plan for 2018 and of audit-related activities, such as royalty assurance, and monitored execution of the 2017 plan, including progress in compliance, due diligence and other transaction-related services.
respect of recommendations made: The external auditors have confirmed their independence and reviewed the resources, terms of reference and effectiveness compliance with the Group policy on auditor independence to the ofthe RELX Group plc risk management and internal audit Audit Committees.
functions, including the results of an independent external review of the internal audit function: Ernst &Young LLP and Ernst & Young Accountants LLP were first appointed auditors of RELX PLC, RELC NV and RELX Group plc received presentations from: the RELX Chief Compliance for the financial year ended 31 December 2016.
The auditors officer on the compliance programmes, including the are required to rotate the lead audit partners responsible operation of the Groups codes of conduct, training for the audit engagements every five years.
The year ended programmes and whistleblowing arrangements and the 31 December 2017 was the second year for the lead engagement RELXChief Legal officer on legal issues andclaims: partner for RELX PLC, Nigel Jones, and for the lead engagement received reports from the RELXChief Strategy officer partner for RELX NV, Guus van Eimeren.
The Audit Committees and Chief Legal officer on information security and other confirm that they were in compliance with the provisions of technology-related risks: The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market received updates from the RELX Treasurer on pension Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes arrangements and funding, treasury policies and risk and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 during the management and compliance with treasury policies: financial year ended 31December 2017. received presentations from the RELX Head of Taxation The Committees have conducted their review of the performance ontaxpolicies and related matters: of the external auditors and the effectiveness of the external audit received regular updates from the RELX Chief Financial process for the year ended 31 December 2017.
The review was based officer on developments within the finance function: and on a survey of key stakeholders across the Group, consideration received presentations from chief financial ofcers of major of public reports by regulatory authorities on key Ernst & Young businesses.
member rms and the quality of the auditors reporting to and interaction with the Audit Committees.
Based on this review, the External audit effectiveness AuditCommittees were satisfied with the performance of the The Group has a well-established policy on audit effectiveness auditors and the effectiveness of the audit process.
and independence of auditors that sets out amongst other things: the responsibilities of each Audit Committee in the selection Audit Committee effectiveness of auditors to be proposed for appointment or re-appointment The effectiveness of the Audit Committees was reviewed as and for agreement on the terms of their engagement, scope part of the 2017 evaluation of the Boards which confirmed that and remuneration: the auditor independence requirements and the Committees continue to function effectively.
Details of the the policy on the provision of non-audit services: the rotation of evaluation are set out on page 77. audit partners and staff: and the conduct of meetings between the auditors and the Audit Committees.
The policy is available on Ben van der Veer Chairman of the Audit Committees thewebsite, www.
