REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE oversight of the external auditors performance, objectivity, qualifications COMMITTEE MEMBERS AND ATTENDANCE and independence: the approval process of non-audit services: recommendation to the Boards of the nomination of the external ATTENDANCE auditors for shareholder approval: and approval of their fees, refer to note 26 on page 137: John Rishton the performance of the internal audit function: and 7 7 Chair approval of the Unilever Leadership Executive ULE expense policy Nils Andersen 7 7 and the review of Executive Director expenses.
Judith Hartmann 7 7 Mary Ma Member until April 2017 4 4 In order to help the Committee meet its oversight responsibilities, each year management organise knowledge sessions for the Committee on This table shows the membership of the Committee together with their subject areas within its remit.
In 2017, a joint session was held with the attendance at meetings during 2017.
If Directors are unable to attend a Corporate Responsibility Committee on the Unilever Sustainable Living meeting, they have the opportunity beforehand to discuss any agenda items Plan USLP, which included a briefing on the methodology, impact and with the Committee Chair.
Attendance is expressed as the number of performance of Unilevers Sustainable Living Brands.
In addition, John meetings attended out of the number eligible to be attended.
Rishton visited both Brazil, where Indirect Taxation was reviewed in detail, and the UK and Ireland MCO where the progress of C4G, including within the Finance Function, and controls around promotional activity were discussed.
HIGHLIGHTS OF 2017 HOW THE COMMITTEE HAS DISCHARGED Annual Report and Accounts ITS RESPONSIBILITIES Connected 4 Growth C4G programme During the year, the Committees principal activities were as follows: Tax regulations, provisions and disclosure Information security, including Cyber, and IT resilience FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Supply Chain flexibility and continuity of supply The Committee reviewed prior to publication the quarterly financial Acquisition Review press releases together with the associated internal quarterly US tax reform reports from the Chief Financial Officer and the Disclosure Committee and, with respect to the half-year and full-year results, the external auditors reports.
It also reviewed this Annual Report PRIORITIES FOR 2018 and Accounts and the Annual Report on Form 20-F 2017.
These reviews incorporated the accounting policies and significant Tax judgements and estimates underpinning the financial statements Information Security as disclosed within note 1 on pages 90 to 93.
Particular attention Supply Chain flexibility and continuity of supply was paid to the following significant issues in relation to the Accounting for significant Mergers and Acquisitions financial statements: IFRS 16 Leases revenue recognition estimation of discounts, incentives on sales made during the year, refer to note 2 on pages 93 to 95: MEMBERSHIP OF THE COMMITTEE direct tax provisions, refer to note 6 on pages 105 to 107: The Audit Committee is comprised only of independent Non-Executive indirect tax provisions and contingent liabilities, refer to note 19 Directors with a minimum requirement of three such members.
It is on page 130: chaired by John Rishton.
The composition of the Committee changed accounting for the acquisition of Carver Korea measurement of after the AGMs in April 2017 when Mary Ma retired from the Committee.
assets and liabilities acquired at fair value, particularly intangible The other members are Nils Andersen and Judith Hartmann.
For the assets, refer to note 21 on pages 132 to 135: and purposes of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 John Rishton is the Audit presentation of the Spreads business, refer to note 22 on page 136.
The Boards have satisfied themselves that the current members of the Audit Committee are competent in financial The external auditors have agreed the list of significant issues matters and have recent and relevant experience.
Other attendees at discussed by the Audit Committee.
Committee meetings or part thereof were the Chief Financial Officer, For each of the above areas the Committee considered the key facts and Chief Auditor, EVP Financial Control, Risk Management, Pensions & judgements outlined by management.
Members of management attended Sustainability, Chief Legal Officer and Group Secretary and the external the section of the meeting of the Committee where their item was discussed auditors.
Throughout the year the Committee members periodically met to answer any questions or challenges posed by the Committee.
The issues without others present and also held separate private sessions with the were also discussed with the external auditors and further information can Chief Financial Officer, Chief Auditor and the external auditors, allowing be found on pages 78 to 85.
The Committee was satisfied that there are the Committee to discuss any issues in more detail directly.
relevant accounting policies in place in relation to these significant issues and management have correctly applied these policies.
ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE The role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee are set out At the request of the Boards the Committee undertook to: in written terms of reference which are reviewed annually by the review the appropriateness of adopting the going concern basis Committee taking into account relevant legislation and recommended of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements: and good practice.
The terms of reference are contained within The assess whether the business was viable in accordance with the Governance of Unilever which is available on our website at requirement of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Committees included a review of the principal risks facing Unilever, their potential responsibilities include, but are not limited to, the following matters, impact, how they were being managed, together with a discussion and relevant issues are brought to the attention of the Boards: as to the appropriate period for the assessment.
The Committee oversight of the integrity of Unilevers financial statements: recommended to the Boards that there is a reasonable expectation review of Unilevers quarterly and annual financial statements that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its including clarity and completeness of disclosure and approval liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period consistent with of the quarterly trading statements for quarter 1 and quarter 3: the period of the strategic plan of the assessment.
oversight of risk management and internal control arrangements: oversight of compliance with legal and regulatory requirements: Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Report 41 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED At the request of the Boards the Committee also considered whether Both Unilever and KPMG have safeguards in place to avoid the the Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 was fair, balanced and possibility that the external auditors objectivity and independence could understandable and whether it provided the necessary information be compromised, such as audit partner rotation and the restriction on for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, non-audit services that the external auditors can perform as described business model and strategy.
The Committee was satisfied that, below.
The Committee reviewed the report from KPMG on the actions taken as a whole, the Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 they take to comply with the professional and regulatory requirements is fair, balanced and understandable.
and best practice designed to ensure their independence from Unilever.
Each year, the Committee assesses the effectiveness of the external audit RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL process which includes discussing feedback from the members of the ARRANGEMENTS Committee and stakeholders at all levels across Unilever.
Interviews are The Committee reviewed Unilevers overall approach to risk management also held with key senior management within both Unilever and KPMG.
and control, and its processes, outcomes and disclosure.
It reviewed: the Controllers Quarterly Risk and Control Status Report, including The Committee also reviewed the statutory audit, audit related and Code of Business Principles cases relating to frauds and financial non-audit related services provided by KPMG and compliance with crimes and significant issues received through the Unilever Code Unilevers documented approach, which prescribes in detail the Support Line: types of engagements, listed below, for which the external auditors the 2017 corporate risks for which the Audit Committee had oversight can be used: and the proposed 2018 corporate risks identified by the ULE: statutory audit services, including audit of subsidiaries: managements improvements to reporting and internal financial audit related engagements services that involve attestation, control arrangements, through further automation and centralisation: assurance or certification of factual information that may be required processes related to information security, including cyber security: by external parties: tax planning, and related risk management: non-audit related services work that our external auditors are best treasury policies, including debt issuance and hedging: and placed to undertake, which may include: litigation and regulatory investigations.
audit and assurance certificates statements bond issue comfort letters The Committee reviewed the application of the requirements under Section internal control reviews.
404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 with respect to internal controls Unilever has for many years maintained a policy which prescribes over financial reporting.
In addition, the Committee reviewed the annual in detail the types of engagements for which the external auditors financial plan and Unilevers dividend policy and dividend proposals.
can be used and prohibits several types of engagements, including: During 2017 the Committee continued its oversight of the independent bookkeeping or similar services: assurance work that is performed on a number of our USLP metrics design and or implementation of systems or processes related to selected on the basis of their materiality to the USLP.
financial information or risk management: In fulfilling its oversight responsibilities in relation to risk management, valuation, actuarial and legal services: internal control and the financial statements, the Committee met internal audit: regularly with senior members of management and is satisfied with broker, dealer, investment adviser or investment bank services: the key judgements taken.
transfer pricing advisory services staff secondments of any kind: INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION Payroll tax: The Committee reviewed Corporate Audits audit plan for the year Customs duties: and and agreed its budget and resource requirements.
It reviewed interim Tax services except in exceptional and rare circumstances such and year-end summary reports and managements response.
The as where they are the only firm able to provide the service.
Committee engaged an independent third party to perform an effectiveness review of the function.
The review concluded that the All audit related engagements over 250,000 and non-audit related function is compliant with the IIA Chartered Institute of Internal engagements over 100,000 required specific advance approval by Auditors Standards in all material aspects.
The Committee also the Audit Committee Chairman.
The Committee further approved all carried out an evaluation of the performance of the internal audit engagements below these levels which have been authorised by the EVP function and was satisfied with the effectiveness of the function.
The Financial Control, Risk Management, Pension & Sustainability.
These Committee met independently with the Chief Auditor during the year authorities are reviewed regularly and, where necessary, updated in the and discussed the results of the audits performed during the year.
light of internal developments, external developments and best practice.
AUDIT OF THE ANNUAL ACCOUNTS The Committee confirms that the Group is in compliance with The KPMG, Unilevers external auditors and independent registered public Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation accounting firm, reported in depth to the Committee on the scope and Mandatory use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee outcome of the annual audit, including their audit of internal controls Responsibilities Order 2014.
The last tender for the audit of the annual over financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the US Sarbanesaccounts was performed in 2013.
Their reports included audit and accounting matters, EVALUATION OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE governance and control, and accounting developments.
As part of the internal Board evaluation carried out in 2017, the Boards The Committee held independent meetings with the external auditors evaluated the performance of the Committee.
The Committee also during the year and reviewed, agreed, discussed and challenged their audit carried out an assessment of its own performance in 2017.
Whilst plan, including their assessment of the financial reporting risk profile of overall the Committee members concluded that the Committee is the Group.
The Committee discussed the views and conclusions of KPMG performing effectively, the Committee agreed that to further enhance regarding managements treatment of significant transactions and areas its effectiveness it needed to ensure the Committee members of judgement during the year.
The Committee considered these views and continued to develop their knowledge of the Groups operations comments and is satisfied with the treatment in the financial statements.
which would involve further knowledge sessions and site visits.
EXTERNAL AUDITORS John Rishton KPMG have been the Groups auditors since 2014 and shareholders Chair of the Audit Committee approved their re-appointment as the Groups external auditors at the Nils Andersen 2017 AGMs.
On the recommendation of the Committee, the Directors will Judith Hartmann be proposing the re-appointment of KPMG at the AGMs in May 2018.
42 Governance Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017
