REPORT OF THE NOMINATING AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE APPOINTMENT AND REAPPOINTMENT OF DIRECTORS COMMITTEE MEMBERS, MEMBERSHIP STATUS Reappointment: All Directors unless they are retiring are AND ATTENDANCE nominated by the Boards for re-election at the AGMs each year on the recommendation of the Committee who, in deciding whether ATTENDANCE to nominate a Director, takes into consideration the outcomes of the Chairmans discussions with each Director on individual performance, Feike Sijbesma the evaluation of the Boards and its Committees and the continued 5 5 Chair good performance of individual Directors.
Non-Executive Directors Laura Cha 5 5 normally serve for a period of up to nine years.
The average tenure of Marijn Dekkers 5 5 the Non-Executive Directors who have retired from the Boards over the past ten years has been seven years.
The schedule the Committee This table shows the membership of the Committee together with their uses for orderly succession planning of Non-Executive Directors can attendance at meetings during 2017.
If Directors are unable to attend be found on our website at unilever.
Louise Fresco a meeting, they have the opportunity beforehand to discuss any agenda did not put herself forward for re-election at the AGMs in April 2017. items with the Committee Chair.
Attendance is expressed as the number She had served eight years on the Boards.
The Committee proposed of meetings attended out of the number eligible to be attended.
the reappointment of all other Directors and the Directors were appointed by shareholders by a simple majority vote at the AGMs.
HIGHLIGHTS OF 2017 The Committee also recommends to the Boards candidates for election as Chairman and Vice-Chairman and Senior Independent Develop pipeline of potential Non-Executive and Executive Director.
After being reappointed as Non-Executive Directors at the Director candidates 2017 AGMs, Ann Fudge remained the Vice-Chairman and Senior Capability Mapping Independent Director and John Rishton, Ann Fudge and Feike Monitoring of Corporate Governance developments Sijbesma respectively remained Chairs of the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee.
Strive Masiyiwa became Chair of the Corporate PRIORITIES FOR 2018 Responsibility Committee in April 2017.
Continued focus on development of a strong pipeline of Director Succession Planning and Appointment: In consultation potential Non-Executive and Executive Director candidates with the Committee, the Boards review the adequacy of succession and managing succession planning processes and the actual succession planning at Board level.
Follow up on actions agreed from the 2017 external In 2017 no new Non-Executive Directors were nominated by the Board evaluation Boards for appointment at the AGMs.
Continued focus on Board Diversity When recruiting, the Committee will take into account the profile of Unilevers Boards of Directors set out in The Governance of Unilever ROLE AND MEMBERSHIP OF THE COMMITTEE which is in line with the recommendations of applicable governance The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee is responsible regulations and best practice.
Pursuant to the profile the Boards for evaluating the balance of skills, experience, independence, diversity should comprise a majority of Non-Executive Directors who are and knowledge on the Boards and for drawing up selection criteria, independent of Unilever, free from any conflicts of interest and able ongoing succession planning and appointment procedures for both to allocate sufficient time to carry out their responsibilities effectively.
It also has oversight of all matters With respect to composition and capabilities, the Boards should be relating to corporate governance and brings any issues in this respect in keeping with the size of Unilever, its strategy, portfolio, consumer to the attention of the Boards.
base, culture, geographical spread and its status as a listed company and have sufficient understanding of the markets and business The Committees terms of reference are set out in The where Unilever is active in order to understand the key trends and Governance of Unilever which can be found on our website at developments relevant for Unilever.
The objective pursued by the www.
During the year, the Boards is to have a variety of nationality, race, gender, ethnicity and Committee reviewed its own terms of reference to determine whether relevant skills and expertise.
It is important that the Boards have its responsibilities are properly described.
The amended terms sufficient global experience and outlook, and financial literacy.
As became effective on 1 January 2018. discussed later in this Report, Unilever currently has diverse Boards The Committee is comprised of two Non-Executive Directors and the in terms of gender and nationality and, as can be seen from the subset Chairman.
The Group Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
of the mapping that this Committee has done of the current NonOther attendees at Committee meetings in 2017 or part thereof Executive Directors skills and capabilities on page 3, composition and were the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief HR Officer.
capabilities in line with our Board profile described above.
In 2017 the Committee met five times.
At the start of the year Unilever Leadership Executive ULE Succession Planning and the Committee considered the results of the Committees annual Appointment: In consultation with the Committee, the Boards self-evaluation for 2016 and its priorities for the year and used these review the adequacy of succession planning processes and the to help create an annual plan for meetings for 2017. actual succession planning at ULE level.
In 2017 the Boards were consulted by the Chief Executive Officer upon the selection criteria and appointment procedures for senior management changes, including the changes to the ULE that took effect at the start of 2018.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Report 45 REPORT OF THE NOMINATING AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE CONTINUED DIVERSITY POLICY EVALUATION Unilever has long understood the importance of diversity within As part of the Board evaluation carried out in 2017, the Boards our workforce because of the wide range of consumers we connect evaluated the performance of the Committee.
The Committee also with globally.
This goes right through our organisation, starting with carried out an assessment of its own composition and performance the Boards.
Unilevers Board Diversity Policy, which is reviewed in 2017.
The Committee members concluded that the Committee by the Committee each year, is reflected on our website at is performing effectively.
The Boards feel that, whilst gender and ethnicity are an important part of diversity, Unilever Directors will continue to be selected on the basis of their wideranging experience, backgrounds, skills, knowledge and insight.
Feike Sijbesma In 2017 the Committee also reviewed and considered relevant Chair of the Nominating and Corporate recommendations on diversity and remains pleased that over Governance Committee a third of our Non-Executive Directors are women and that there are eight nationalities represented on the Boards.
Laura Cha Marijn Dekkers CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DEVELOPMENTS The Committee reviews relevant proposed legislation and changes to relevant corporate governance codes at least twice a year.
It carefully considers whether and how the proposed laws rules would impact upon Unilever and whether Unilever should participate in consultations on the proposed changes.
For example, during 2017, developments and learnings from the first year of the Market Abuse Regulation were discussed by the Committee and the new Dutch Corporate Governance Code and Boardroom diversity were considered by the Committee.
46 Governance Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017
