Overview01 Strategic report04 Governance60 Financial statements102 Other information168 Audit and Risk Committee report Dear Shareholder Our key role is to ensure the The 2017 financial year was a busy year for the Audit and Risk integrity of the Companys Committee the Committee and I am pleased to share with you an insight into some of the matters the Committee financial reporting, and the considered.
I chair the Committee and I confirm that I have no other significant commitments.
effectiveness of its audit and risk management processes.
Independence and new member induction The Code recommends that all of the Committees members are independent Non-Executive Directors and the composition of the Committee is now in compliance with the Code.
During the year, Nordic Capital and Avista reduced their shareholding in the Group and as a result, Raj Shah and Thomas Vetander stepped down on 8 September 2017 and 31 March 2017 respectively.
On 11 August 2017, Margaret Ewing was appointed to the Committee as the fourth independent Director.
Further, the Board is satisfied that two members of the Committee, being myself and Margaret Ewing, have recent and relevant financial experience, and the Committee as a whole has competence relevant to the sector in which the Company operates as required by the Code.
As part of her induction programme as a director of the Company, Margaret Ewing was provided with relevant material on the responsibility and working of the Committee and copies of recent papers and presentations.
Details of the experience of all members of the Committee are included on page 63.
Key areas of responsibility Jesper Ovesen The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility for Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee overseeing financial reporting, internal and external audit, internal controls and risk management.
The Committee fulfils a key role in ensuring the integrity of financial information Committee membership, meetings and attendance published by the Group and the effectiveness of the internal The table below sets out the Committees membership.
It met and external audit processes.
In accordance with its terms of seven times during 2017, with three meetings timed to align reference the Committees key areas of responsibility include: with the financial and audit cycles of the Group.
Meeting attendance is also shown below.
Financial reporting Ensure integrity of the Groups financial statements and Attendance ensure compliance with UK company law and accounting Eligible to regulation.
Director Attended attend Review significant financial reporting judgements and the Jesper Ovesen 6 7 application of accounting policies, including compliance with Steve Holliday 7 7 the accounting standards made in connection with the Rick Anderson 7 7 preparation of the financial statements.
Ensure the Annual Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and Raj Shah member until 8 September 2017 5 5 understandable and recommend its approval to the Board.
Thomas Vetander member until 31 March 2017 2 2 Margaret Ewing appointed 11 August 2017 2 2 Internal audit Agree the internal audit annual audit plan and regularly review In addition to the Committee members, the meetings are also reports arising from internal audits.
regularly attended by the: Monitor the status of actions resulting from internal audits Chairman Company Secretary and consider remedial action for overdue items.
Chief Executive Officer Chief Compliance Officer Monitor and review the Groups internal audit resources and Chief Financial Officer VP, Internal Audit monitor its effectiveness.
Group Financial Controller key audit partners of the EVP, General Counsel & external auditor, Deloitte Corporate Development At least annually and as further required, the representatives of the external auditor and the VP, Internal Audit are each given the opportunity to discuss matters with the Committee without executive management being present.
The VP, Internal Audit and the external auditor have direct access to the members of the Committee should they wish to raise any concerns outside the formal Committee meetings.
ConvaTec Group Plc 73 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Audit and Risk Committee report continued External audit Activities of the Committee during the period Make recommendations to the Board on the appointment The Committee fulfilled its duties under its terms of reference and or reappointment of the external auditor and be and discharged its responsibilities primarily by reviewing: responsible for the procedure for the selection of the auditor.
The external auditors plan for the audit of the Groups Review and monitor the independence of the external auditor financial statements, which included key areas of scope of and formally assess the effectiveness of the audit process and work, key risks on the financial statements, confirmation of the quality of the external audit.
auditor independence and the proposed audit fee, and the Review the policy on non-audit services carried out by the auditors management letter on controls following the 2016 external auditor, taking account of relevant ethical guidance.
audit and an update at the end of 2017 on the progress made Negotiate and approve the scope of the audit and the terms by management.
of the external auditors engagement, and recommend their The Groups system of controls as set out in the table on fee to the Board for approval.
This included reviewing the Monitor the audit of the statutory consolidated financial work performed by Internal Audit to assess the effectiveness statements and inform the Board of the outcome of the of such controls, and the internal audit plan for 2017, external audit including scope, key audit areas and procedures reviewing the output from the process and control testing of to ensure the financial statements give a true and fair view of internal controls over financial reporting, reviewing the the Groups affairs and are prepared in accordance with compliance programme, compliance monitoring plan and International Financial Reporting Standards and Companies results, reviewing the risk management system and gaining Act 2006. assurance on the effectiveness of risk mitigation plans, and Report to the Board on the outcome of the external audit and reviewing IT controls, in particular relating to cyber security.
any audit findings report by the external auditor.
The Groups 2017 full-year and 2017 half-year results statements prior to Board approval ensuring that they are fair, Internal controls balanced and understandable and reviewing the external Monitor the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial auditors detailed reports thereon, and the processes controls and compliance with the Code.
underpinning their preparation, verification and management Monitor the adequacy of the internal financial controls sign-offs.
The accounting issues and significant judgements related to Submit recommendations or proposals to ensure the the 2017 half-year report and 2017 Annual Report and integrity of the internal financial controls.
Accounts, and relevant changes to accounting standards and agreed their appropriateness.
For example, the Committee Risk management has reviewed and challenged the documentation, Monitor the nature and extent of the principal risks that the assumptions used and conclusions reached relating to Group is facing and should be willing to take in achieving its acquisition accounting for both the EuroTec and Woodbury strategic objectives.
acquisitions, the procedures performed and assessment of Review the process undertaken and stress testing required to the impact of IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with approve the Groups Viability Statement and Going Concern customers, and assessment of certain tax matters.
The 2017 Annual Report and Accounts and ensuring they are Review the Groups compliance policies and procedures to fair and balanced and understandable, and concluded that the ensure that the Group complies with relevant regulatory and quality and range of information provided in the Annual legal requirements including the arrangements in place for Report was sufficient to enable shareholders to assess the reporting and investigation of concerns.
properly the Groups position, performance and presentation.
Review and monitor the Groups risks associated with the The process and stress testing undertaken to support the internal and external threats to, and the resilience of, the Groups Viability Statement.
Groups IT enterprise, information, operations and products Documentation prepared to support the Groups Going relating to cyber security.
Concern statements and concluded that the accounts had been properly prepared on a going concern basis.
Fraud and whistleblowing The appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies.
Monitor the process in place throughout the Group to prevent Internal controls and risk management systems, including and detect fraud and enable employees to raise concerns in reviewing the corporate risk register, reviewing risk confidence.
management processes and disclosures made in the Annual Receive reports on fraud attempts or incidents.
The foreign currency exposures and the Groups treasury policies.
Compliance with the Groups debt covenants.
The Groups tax strategy, tax policy, dividend planning, provisions and annual disclosures.
The Groups non-IFRS measures and approving the Group policy around the use of non-IFRS measures.
The effectiveness of the external audit process and reappointment of the external auditor.
The effectiveness of the Committee, including a review of the Committees activities against its terms of reference.
The Committee did not hold any meetings with shareholders during the year.
ConvaTec Group Plc 74 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview01 Strategic report04 Governance60 Financial statements102 Other information168 Committee evaluation The external auditor, subject to the implementation of adequate An annual self-assessment of the performance of the safeguards, can undertake other types of non-audit work so Committee was conducted via qualitative questionnaires as part long as the total fees for these non-audit services must not of the performance of the Board.
The questionnaires took into exceed 70% of the average audit fees billed to the Group by account the Committees collective skills and experience, the the external auditor in the past three years.
activities that it has engaged in, oversight of business and financial reporting announcements, and the effectiveness of its The Committees review of independence of the external actions in improving the Groups system of risk management auditor included: and internal control.
Following the conclusion of the Examining written confirmation from Deloitte that they evaluation it was determined that the Committee continues remained independent and objective within the context of to operate effectively.
Monitoring the ratio between the fees for audit work and External audit and tendering process non-audit services.
At the AGM on 11 May 2017 shareholders approved the appointment of Deloitte LLP as the Groups external auditors As a result of this review and receipt of written confirmation and Gregory Culshaw ACA was appointed senior statutory to the directors from Deloitte of their independence as auditor auditor.
Deloitte LLP have acted as the Groups external auditor of the Company, the Committee concluded that Deloitte and Gregory Culshaw as senior statutory auditor since listing remained appropriated independent in the role of external in October 2016.
The Company is in compliance with the auditor.
A summary of fees paid to the external auditor is set requirements of The Statutory Audit Services for Large out in Note 6 to the Financial Statements.
Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Responsibilities Order 2014, External audit effectiveness which relates to the frequency and governance of external Overall effectiveness of the external audit process is dependent audit tenders and the setting of a policy on the provision of upon open communication between the Group and the auditor, non-audit services.
which allows each party to raise potential accounting and financial reporting issues as and when they arise, rather than The Committee reviews and makes a recommendation to the limiting this exchange only during regularly scheduled meetings.
Board with regard to the reappointment of the external auditor The Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the external audit each year.
In making this recommendation, the Committee process at its meeting in December 2017.
This included considers auditor effectiveness and independence, partner reviewing the results of a formal survey to take into consideration rotation and any other factors that may impact the Committees the views of the Committee, Executive Directors, and regional judgement regarding the external auditor.
The survey included questions on Deloittes independence and objectivity, audit approach, Currently the Committee intends to run a tender for the audit communications with Deloitte, experience, technical knowledge role in or before 2021 but reserves the right to run such a and understanding of the Groups business.
The results were tender at any time.
The audit tendering process will occur at positive and confirmed that both Deloitte and its audit process least once every ten years.
were appropriate and effective and that the relationships between the audit teams and the Groups business continued Audit independence to provide effective and objective challenge.
Upon the The Committee is responsible for the development, recommendation of the Committee, Deloitte will be proposed implementation and monitoring of the Groups policy on for re-election by shareholders at the AGM to be held on 10 May non-audit work undertaken by the external auditor, which is 2018.
In reaching its decision to propose Deloitte for re-election, designed to maintain their objectivity and independence.
the Committee took into account the effectiveness of the This policy requires all material non-audit work proposed to external audit process, and the objectivity and independence be carried out by the external auditor to be pre-authorised by and the length of tenure of Deloitte as external auditor.
the Chair of the Committee in order to ensure that the provision of non-audit services does not impair the external auditors independence or objectivity.
Certain services cannot be provided by the external auditor or members of its network without the possibility of compromising its independence and as such are not permitted to be provided by the external auditor.
These prohibited non-audit services include, but are not limited to: The provision of internal audit services, design or implementation of information technology systems relating to the production of financial statements, valuation services, actuarial valuation services, certain taxation services.
Provision of legal services, recruitment services, restructuring services, bookkeeping and payroll services.
ConvaTec Group Plc 75 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Audit and Risk Committee report continued Risk management and internal controls Evaluated the effectiveness and scope of work performed by The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility for the Internal Audit function during 2017 and has agreed the routine monitoring of the effectiveness of its risk management scope of work to be performed for the upcoming year.
In fulfilling its responsibilities, Reviewed the Internal Audit reports and managements the Committee: responses to audit reports issued during the year.
Reviewed the results of managements internal financial Reviewed the status of actions resulting from internal audits control programme, including financial, operational and and consider remedial action for overdue items.
compliance controls, and mitigation plans to remedy the deficiencies identified by its internal control programme, The Committee has reviewed and approved the internal audit Internal Audit and Deloitte.
The Committee did not view charter and risk-based internal audit plan, and received updates any of the issues that had been identified and addressed six times during the year on the internal audit activity, as significant.
engagement results, and the status of management actions Reviewed managements risk register and mitigation plans, to help form a view on internal audit effectiveness.
including determination of the nature and extent of the principal risks.
The Committee has satisfied itself that the quality, experience and expertise of the Internal Audit function are appropriate for Details of the Groups principal risks and uncertainties are set the Group.
out on pages 30 to 36 together with information about the management and mitigation of such risks.
The Groups risk Compliance review management system is designed to manage rather than The Committee also reviews the Groups compliance policies eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and and procedures and compliance global monitoring plan and can provide only reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against results, including the operation of the third-party managed material misstatement or loss.
whistle-blowing solution to enable employees and third parties to report suspected breaches of our Code of Ethics and Internal audit Business Conduct.
In particular, it oversees the investigation The primary objective of the Groups Internal Audit function and outcome of significant issues reported via this mechanism.
is to systematically and objectively assess the adequacy and Further information about our compliance programme and our effectiveness of the business controls over the Groups Code of Ethics and Business Conduct is included on page 17 and operations, financial reporting, risk and compliance areas and in our Corporate Responsibility Report which is available on our review the quality of performance in achieving the Groups website, www.
As part of the Committees oversight of the Internal Audit function, the Committee has: Internal control system Control environment Risk assessment Clear organisational structure and internal decisionBoard responsible for defining risk appetite.
Bi-annual business unit risk review process.
Control activities Information and communication Financial, operational, IT and compliance controls designed Financial reporting including key judgements.
Reporting by internal audit function and from external Mitigation plans to remedy deficiencies identified through auditor.
Updates from Legal & Compliance function.
M onitoring and assurance via dedicated control functions, e. g. Compliance and Information Security.
Independent internal and external audit and assurance.
Review of managements risk register and mitigation plans.
ConvaTec Group Plc 76 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview01 Strategic report04 Governance60 Financial statements102 Other information168 Significant areas considered by the Committee in relation In its advisory capacity, the Committee confirmed to the Board, to the financial reporting matters in 2017 that based on its review of the Annual Report and Accounts and During the year, the Committee considered the following internal controls that support the disclosures, the Annual Report significant risks and issues in relation to the Groups financial and Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and statements and disclosures: understandable and provide the necessary information for the Analysis of factors used to determine risk related to revenue shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance recognition and the procedures performed by the external and its business model and strategy.
auditors to address such risks in connection with the audit.
The assessment of Group tax matters, including areas of The Committees process for ensuring the Annual Report and potential exposures, and tax administration audits.
Accounts taken as a whole are fair, balanced and understandable The changes to the tax environment announced as part of the includes a qualitative review of disclosures and a review of OECDs Base Erosion Profit Shifting project and US tax reform.
internal consistency throughout the Annual Report and Going Concern and long-term Viability Statements, including Accounts including but not limited to: the sensitivity scenarios and assumptions used in the Assessing the accuracy and integrity of the messages viability model.
conveyed in the report and appropriateness of the level of detail in the reporting.
The Committee also considered other areas that were nonCorrelation between the key working papers and results for routine or complex in nature such as: each of the significant issues and judgements considered by The valuation, accounting implications and conclusions the Audit Committee in the period as provided by management reached in connection with the EuroTec and Woodbury and the disclosures in the report.
Consistency between the Strategic report, Corporate The accounting implications and conclusions reached in governance report and Financial review, and the Financial connection with entering into an interest rate swap Statements.
Balance of statutory reported results and non-IFRS measures Foreign exchange losses experienced by the Group, review and the differences and reconciliation between them.
of the Groups treasury policy and plan to mitigate foreign exchange exposures.
The assessment of the carrying value of the goodwill due to the significance of the amounts recorded on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position and judgements involved in assessing goodwill for impairment.
The Groups strategic plan On behalf of the Audit and Risk Committee is the basis for the valuation projections.
The Committee Jesper Ovesen reviewed and challenged the growth assumptions included Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee in the strategic plan.
14 February 2018 The analysis of the circumstances leading to the trading announcement in October 2017 and review of improvements to the budgeting and forecasting controls and processes.
These issues were discussed with management during the year and during the preparation and finalisation of the financial statements.
After reviewing the presentations and reports from management the Committee is satisfied that the financial statements appropriately address the critical judgements and key estimates, both in respect of the amounts reported and the disclosures made.
The Committee is also satisfied that the significant assumptions used for determining the value of assets and liabilities have been appropriately scrutinised, challenged and are sufficiently robust.
The Committee has discussed these issues with the auditor during the audit planning process and at the finalisation of the year-end audit and is satisfied that its conclusions are in line with those drawn by the auditor in relation to these issues.
The Committees process for challenging the assumptions of management and addressing the risks identified includes the following activities: Reviewing the significant management judgements and assumptions underlying managements impairment analysis for goodwill and intangibles and challenging key assumptions such as discount rates and terminal growth rates applied, comparing rates to industry peers and historical performance.
Challenging management growth forecasts through analytical review and assessment of the ability to achieve these forecasts.
Reviewing the evidence supporting the Going Concern basis of accounts preparation and Viability Statement.
ConvaTec Group Plc 77 Annual Report and Accounts 2017
