STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS goods to facilitate the Groups fulfilment of the customer contracts.
The Funded development revenue is recognised based upon fair value of 1.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Group will continue to monitor the market practice and will re-evaluate work performed to the Balance Sheet date and assessed with reference Senior plc is a company incorporated in England and Wales under the The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are the accounting position if there are any significant developments which to completed contract milestones which have been accepted by the Companies Act.
The address of the registered office is given on the included in the Consolidated Income Statement from the effective date indicate a different treatment should be taken.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
activities are set out in Note 4 and on pages 1 to 35. c IFRS 16 Leases.
Effective for annual periods beginning Dividend income from investments is recognised when the The results of joint ventures are accounted for using the equity 1 January 2019 shareholders legal rights to receive payment have been established.
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities accounting method.
This standard, which will replace IAS 17, requires lessees to recognise are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment Interest assets and liabilities for all leases, unless the lease term is 12 months or Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of in which the entity operates the functional currency.
These Financial Interest receivable payable is credited charged to the Income Statement subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used in line with those used less or the underlying asset is low value.
As at 31 December 2017, the Statements are presented in Pounds Sterling, which is the Companys using the effective interest method.
Group holds a significant number of operating leases which currently, by the Group.
functional and the Groups presentation currency.
under IAS 17, are expensed on a straight-line basis over the lease term Leasing All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are see Note 33.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease eliminated on consolidation.
substantially transfer all the risks and rewards of ownership to the Basis of accounting Retrospective application in the comparative year ending 31 December Goodwill lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
These Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with 2018 is optional.
The Group expects that it will not take this optional Goodwill arising on consolidation is measured as the excess of the International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted by the application and will apply the standard from the transitional date using Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in European Union and they therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS the modified retrospective approach, adjusting opening retained at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease the acquiree and the acquisition date fair value of any previous equity Regulation.
They have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except earnings and not re-stating comparatives.
This involves calculating the payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the Groups share of the for the revaluation of certain financial instruments and retirement benefit right-of-use asset and lease liability based on the present value of corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the Balance Sheet as a identifiable net assets acquired.
It is recognised as an asset and costs measured in accordance with IAS 19.
They have also been remaining lease payments on all applicable lease contracts as at the finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between reviewed for impairment at least annually and will be reviewed for prepared on the going concern basis as set out in the Financial review transition date.
finance charges and a reduction of the lease obligation in order to indicators of impairment at the Balance Sheet date.
Any impairment is on pages 20 to 22.
The Directors have, at the time of approving these achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the recognised immediately through the Consolidated Income Statement The Group has collated the operating lease information across all the Financial Statements, a reasonable expectation that the Group and liability.
Finance charges are charged directly to the Income Statement.
and is not subsequently reversed.
Divisions and head office in order to assess the updated cumulative Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence adjustment on transition.
If the new requirements were adopted in 2017, Rentals payable under operating leases are expensed on a straight-line for the foreseeable future.
Therefore they continue to adopt the going If the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling profit before tax would change by an immaterial amount, whilst lease basis over the term of the relevant lease.
concern basis of accounting in preparing these Financial Statements.
interest in the acquiree and the acquisition date fair value of any previous liabilities and property, plant and equipment are estimated to increase equity interest in the acquiree is less than the fair value of the net assets Benefits received and receivable as incentives to enter into an operating Changes in accounting policies between 50m and 70m 2016 50m and 70m.
This is expected to acquired i. e. bargain purchase, the difference is credited to the lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
During the year, no new accounting standards or amendments to result in an increase of the Groups principal lending covenant, the ratio Consolidated Income Statement in the period of acquisition.
existing standards became effective which had a material impact on of net debt to EBITDA by 0.2x to 0.5x 2016 0.2x to 0.5x, except Foreign currencies these Financial Statements.
At the date of authorisation of these where it is determined at constant accounting standards.
The ranges Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at aquisition, Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are Financial Statements, a number of new standards and amendments to disclosed reflect the sensitivity of the adjustment to a -3 percentage to the group of cash-generating units CGU groups that are expected to recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the date of the existing standards have been issued but are not yet effective.
They have point movement in the discount rate used to calculate the present value benefit from that business combination.
CGU groups to which goodwill transaction.
At each Balance Sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities not been adopted early in these Financial Statements.
A summary of the of the future cash flow commitments.
The discount rate, the renewal of has been allocated are tested for impairment annually or more frequently that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates impact review performed on each standard is given below.
None of and changes to the lease portfolio and exchange rates on translation of when there is an indication that the CGU group may be impaired.
The prevailing on the Balance Sheet date.
Non-monetary items carried at fair these changes will have an effect on net cash from operating activities financial statements of non-Sterling operations are all subject to change recoverable amount of the CGU group is determined by applying a value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the nor on free cash flow see Note 32b.
in future years, which will impact the actual transitional adjustment as at pre-tax discount rate to its pre-tax future cash flows.
If the recoverable rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
amount of the CGU group is less than its carrying amount, the Non-monetary items that are measured at historical cost in a foreign a IFRS 9 Financial instruments.
Effective for annual periods beginning impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any currency are not retranslated.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation 1 January 2018 The Group will continue to monitor the impact until the transition date, goodwill allocated to the CGU group and then to the other assets of the are included in profit or loss for the period, except for exchange This standard covers the classification, measurement, impairment and providing further quantitative and qualitative measures as progress is CGU group pro rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in differences arising on non-monetary assets and liabilities where the derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities together with a made on implementation planning.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity, subject to meeting new hedge accounting model.
It will replace IAS 39 Financial reversed in a subsequent period.
d None of the amendments to existing standards are expected to have a the requirements under IAS 21.
The Group does not expect the transition to this standard significant impact on the Financial Statements when they are adopted.
to have a material impact on the Financial Statements.
On disposal of a subsidiary or part thereof, the attributable amount of In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, the goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Group enters into forward exchange contracts see section below on b IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
Effective for Basis of consolidation derivative financial instruments and hedging for details of the Groups annual periods beginning 1 January 2018 The Consolidated Financial Statements incorporate the Financial Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to the date of transition to IFRS has accounting policies in respect of such derivative financial instruments.
This standard requires the separation of performance obligations within been retained at the previous UK GAAP amount subject to being tested Statements of Senior plc and the entities controlled by it its subsidiaries contracts with customers and the contractual value to be allocated to made up to 31 December 2017.
Control is achieved when Senior plc has for impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas each of the performance obligations.
Revenue is then recognised as GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an invested operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the Balance each performance obligation is satisfied.
This standard will replace entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Income and expense items are translated at the average existing revenue recognition standards.
exchange rates for the period.
Exchange rate differences arising, if any, Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using the Revenue recognition are classified as equity and transferred to the Groups translation Retrospective application in the comparative year ending 31December acquisition method.
The consideration transferred for each acquisition is Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised as income or 2017 is optional.
The Group has not taken this optional application and the aggregate of the fair values at the date of exchange of assets receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods provided in the expense in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
will apply the standard from the transitional date using the cumulative transferred, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity interests issued normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales-related effect method.
This involves calculating the relevant adjustments by the Group.
The consideration transferred includes the fair value of any taxes.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a required for contracts not completed as at the transition date of asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement.
foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and Revenue from the sales of goods is recognised on delivery or when 1January2018.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
Identifiable assets translated at the closing rate on the relevant Balance Sheet date.
available for collection, in accordance with the terms and conditions of acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed are measured The Group has now completed the implementation of IFRS 15.
As sale, which is when the significant risks and rewards of ownership and initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
On an , the cumulative impact on adoption of IFRS 15 is not material effective control of the goods has passed to the customer, recovery of acquisition basis, the Group recognises any non-controlling interest in to either the Groups reported revenue or profit before tax.
Emerging the consideration is probable, and the amount of revenue and associated the acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests market practice and industry interpretations of the standard indicate that costs can be measured reliably.
proportionate share of the acquirees net assets.
the Group does not require an adjustment for customer contribution of 80 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 81 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on The recoverable amount is the higher of the fair value less the costs to 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the sell and the value in use.
In assessing the value in use, the estimated The exchange rates for the major currencies applied in the translation of Internally generated intangible assets research and Financial Statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax results were as follows: development expenditure computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the Balance discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value An intangible asset arising from unfunded development work shall be Average Average Year-end Year-end Sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of recognised if the following can be demonstrated: rates rates rates rates for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are future cash flows have not been adjusted.
2017 2016 2017 2016 i. the asset can be separately identified.
recognised to the extent it is probable that taxable profits will be US Dollar 1.29 1.36 1.35 1.24 If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than its available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference Government grants benefits.
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense Government grants received for items of a revenue nature are arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that iii.
the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably during recognised as income over the period necessary to match them with which case the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease.
the related costs and are deducted in reporting the related expense.
affects neither the Groups taxable profit nor its accounting profit.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount Government grants relating to investment in property, plant and Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences iv.
it is technically feasible to complete the asset so that it will be of the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in available for use or sale.
equipment are deducted from the initial carrying value of the related amount, so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the capital asset.
joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of v. there is intention to complete the asset and use or sell it.
carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference Retirement benefit costs loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
A reversal of an will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
the Group has ability to use or sell the asset.
Payments to defined contribution retirement plans are charged as an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately, unless the expense as they fall due.
Payments made to state-managed retirement The carrying value of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each Balance relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal vii.
the Group has availability of adequate technical, financial and other benefit plans are dealt with as payments to defined contribution plans Sheet date and reduced to the extent it is no longer probable that resources to complete the development work and to use or sell the of the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation increase.
where the Groups obligations under the plans are equivalent to those sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset.
Inventories deferred tax asset to be recovered.
arising in a defined contribution retirement plan.
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Costs Internally generated intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line For defined benefit retirement plans, the cost of providing benefits is Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in comprise direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and basis over their useful lives.
the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised based on an appropriate allocation of production overheads.
Cost is calculated determined using the Projected Unit Method, with full actuarial Costs incurred in relation to funded development work are accumulated valuations being carried out on a triennial basis, and updated at each tax laws and rates that have been enacted at the Balance Sheet date.
using the first-in, first-out method.
Net realisable value represents the in inventory and are recognised when the related billings are made.
Any Deferred tax is charged or credited in the Income Statement, except estimated selling price less the estimated costs of completion and the Balance Sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in amounts held in inventory are subject to normal inventory valuation the period in which they occur.
They are recognised outside the Income when it relates to items charged or credited to Other Comprehensive costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Income or directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt Statement and are presented in the Statement of Comprehensive Financial instruments Income.
with in Other Comprehensive Income or equity.
Other expenditure on research and development activities, that do not Financial assets and liabilities are recognised when the Group becomes meet the capitalisation criteria above, is recognised as an expense in the Past service cost is recognised as an expense at the earlier of a plan Property, plant and equipment a party to the contractual provisions of the relevant instrument and period in which it is incurred.
Land and buildings held for use in the production or supply of goods or derecognised when it ceases to be a party to such provisions.
services, or for administrative purposes, are stated in the Balance Sheet Other intangible assets Financial instruments are classified as cash and cash equivalents, bank The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the Balance Sheet at their historical cost, or at modified historical cost, being a revaluation Other intangible assets include computer software and intangible assets represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation, and as overdrafts and loans, obligations under finance leases, trade receivables, undertaken in 1988 which has been taken as the effective cost on acquired as part of a business combination.
trade payables, deferred consideration receivable, other receivables and reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
Any net asset resulting from transition to IFRS.
Land and buildings were revalued to fair value at the this calculation is limited to the past service cost plus the present value other payables, as appropriate.
The cost of acquiring computer software including associated date of revaluation.
of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
implementation and development costs where applicable is classified Non-derivative financial assets are categorised as Financial assets at The Group does not intend to conduct annual revaluations.
Costs associated with maintaining computer Taxation amortised cost and non-derivative financial liabilities are categorised as software programs are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Fixtures, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated Financial liabilities at amortised cost.
Derivative financial assets and Current tax payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit Capitalised computer software is amortised over its estimated useful life differs from profit before tax as reported in the Income Statement depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
liabilities that are not designated and effective as hedging instruments of between three and five years on a straight-line basis, and is stated at are categorised as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or Depreciation is charged to write off the cost of an asset on a straight-line cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, respectively.
basis over the estimated useful life of the asset, and is charged from the The classification depends on the nature and purpose of the financial taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination principally time an asset becomes available for its intended use.
Annual rates are using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the assets and liabilities and is determined at the time of initial recognition.
comprise customer relationships, contracts and trade names.
They are as follows: Balance Sheet date.
shown at fair value at the date of acquisition less accumulated Trade receivables Freehold land Nil amortisation at the rates of between three and five years on a straightTrade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their Provisions for tax uncertainties are included within current tax liabilities Freehold buildings 2% line basis.
There are transactions and activities that the nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated Leasehold buildings o ver their expected useful lives on the same irrecoverable amounts.
These are recognised in the Income Statement Group engages in where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill basis as owned assets or, where shorter, anda provision may be made against the tax benefit.
For example, the when there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired.
Significant At each Balance Sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of over the lease term financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter Group seeks to price transactions between Group companies as if they its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any Plant and equipment 5% 33% were unrelated parties in compliance with OECD transfer pricing bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any payments are considered indicators that the asset is impaired.
The principles and the laws of the relevant jurisdictions and this involves a The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated degree of uncertainty.
Provisions against uncertainties are established carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance determined as the difference between the sale proceeds and the in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
When a trade receivable is considered uncollectible, it is based on management judgement of the range of likely tax outcomes carrying amount of the asset at disposal and is recognised in the Income the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other inopen years and in consideration of the strength of technical written off against the allowance account.
assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cashamounts previously written off are credited against the allowance arguments and are based on amounts that the company expect to pay generating unit to which the asset belongs.
When making this assessment, the Group account.
Changes in the carrying amount of the allowance account are recognised in the Income Statement.
Trade receivables are utilises specialist in-house tax knowledge and experience and takes intoconsideration specialist tax advice from third party advisers on derecognised when factored, without recourse, through third party financial institutions the Factors.
The risks and rewards of ownership specificitems.
and right to receive cash flows of the trade receivables are transferred to the Factors.
82 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 83 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not bonds.
Estimation is required when setting the criteria for bonds to be 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the Income Statement as included in the population from which the yield curve is derived.
The Cash and cash equivalents Critical accounting judgements they arise.
most significant criteria considered for the selection of bonds include Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and other short-term IAS requires disclosure of the judgements management makes when the issue size of the corporate bonds, quality of the bonds and the highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to a known amount applying its significant accounting policies and that have the most Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires identification of outliers which are excluded.
Management follows of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
significant effect on amounts that are recognised in the Groups or is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge actuarial advice from a third party when determining these estimates.
In the course of preparing the Financial accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging Non-derivative financial liabilities The carrying amount of the UK Plans retirement benefits at 31 Statements, no significant critical judgements have been made in the instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until the forecasted Non-derivative financial liabilities are stated at amortised cost using the December 2017 was a surplus of 19.4m 2016 surplus of 4.0m, process of applying the Groups accounting policies, other than those transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to effective interest method.
The effective interest method is a method of being the present value of the defined benefit obligations of 301.8m involving estimations, which are dealt with separately below.
occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred calculating the amortised financial liability and of allocating interest over 2016 297.4m and fair value of plan assets of 321.2m 2016 Management makes other judgements in the normal course of to the Income Statement for the period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly 301.4m.
Further details and sensitivities from changes in estimates conducting business, such as those in relation to contractual matters discounts estimated future cash payments through the expected life of Gains and losses accumulated in equity are recognised in the Income are set out in Note 35g.
and legal costs see Note 24 for further details.
the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net Statement on disposal of the overseas operation.
Goodwill carrying amount on initial recognition.
For borrowings, their carrying Key sources of estimation and uncertainty During the year, management has reviewed the carrying value of Assets and disposal groups held for sale value includes accrued interest payable, as well as unamortised issue When applying the Groups accounting policies, management must goodwill and available headroom the extent to which recoverable Assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be costs.
make assumptions and estimates concerning the future that affect the amount exceeds carrying amount in the context of the in-year recovered by sale rather than by continuing use in the business.
Where carrying amounts of assets and liabilities at the Balance Sheet date and Equity instruments performance, future forecasts and market conditions.
Based on this a group of assets and their directly associated liabilities are to be the amounts of revenue and expenses recognised during the period.
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the value of assessment, management has resolved that the carrying value of disposed of in a single transaction, such disposal groups are also Such assumptions are based upon factors including historical the proceeds received, net of direct transaction costs.
goodwill is no longer considered a significant risk in terms of a material classified as held for sale.
For this to be the case, the asset or disposal experience, the observance of trends in the industries in which the misstatement.
The carrying value of goodwill and sensitivities are set group must be available for immediate sale in its present condition, and Group operates, and information available from the Groups customers Derivative financial instruments and hedging out in Note 13. management must be committed to and have initiated a plan to sell the and other external sources.
The key sources of estimation and The Groups activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes asset or disposal group which, when initiated, was expected to result in uncertainty at the Balance Sheet date that have a significant risk of in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
REVENUE a completed sale within 12 months.
Assets that are classified as held for causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and foreign exchange contracts and, on occasion, interest rate swap An analysis of the Groups revenue is as follows: sale are not depreciated.
Assets or disposal groups that are classified as liabilities within the next financial year and beyond include: contracts to hedge these exposures.
The use of financial derivatives is held for sale are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair Year ended Year ended governed by the Groups Treasury Policies as approved by the Board of Income taxes value less costs to sell.
2017 2016 Directors, which provides written principles on the use of derivatives.
m m In determining the Group provisions for income tax and deferred tax, it is The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative Provisions Sale of goods 1,023.4 917.0 necessary to consider transactions in a small number of key tax purposes.
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation jurisdictions for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
To the legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting.
extent that the final outcome differs from the tax that has been 4.
SEGMENT INFORMATION Group will be required to settle that obligation and a reliable estimate provided, adjustments will be made to income tax and deferred tax These are categorised as at fair value through profit or loss and are The Group reports its segment information as two operating Divisions can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Provisions are measured stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss recognised in the provisions held in the period the determination is made.
The carrying according to the market segments they serve, Aerospace and Flexonics, at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the amount of net current tax liability and deferred tax liability at 31 Income Statement.
which is consistent with the oversight employed by the Executive obligation at the Balance Sheet date, taking into account the risks and December 2017 was 20.2m 2016 20.8m and 32.7m 2016 Committee.
The chief operating decision maker, as defined by IFRS 8, is The Group designates certain hedging instruments in respect of foreign uncertainties such as timing or amount surrounding the obligation.
Further details on these estimates are set out in the Executive Committee.
For management purposes, the Aerospace currency risk as cash flow hedges.
At the inception of the hedge They are not discounted to present value if the effect is not material.
Division is managed as two sub-divisions, Aerostructures and Fluid relationship, the Group documents the relationship between the hedging Provisions for restructuring costs are recognised when the Group has a Systems: however, these are aggregated as one reporting segment as Inventory net realisable value instrument and the hedged item, along with its risk management detailed formal plan for the restructuring and the plan has been Management assesses the carrying value of inventory to ensure that it they service similar markets and customers in accordance with IFRS 8. objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions.
communicated to the affected parties.
Provisions for the expected cost The Flexonics Division is managed as a single division.
is held at lower of cost and net realisable value.
Where necessary, The Group also documents, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing for warranty obligations under local sale of goods legislation are management makes an estimate to write down inventory to its net basis, whether the hedging instrument that is used in a hedging The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as the recognised at the date of sale of the relevant products.
relationship is highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash realisable value.
The Group held a net inventory balance at the year-end Groups accounting policies described in Note 2 and the sales between of 154.5m 2016 154.4m.
In determining an estimate of net flows of the hedged item.
Share-based payments segments are carried out at arms length.
Adjusted operating profit, as realisable value, management has made assumptions in respect of the The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based described in Note 9, is the key measure reported to the Groups Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are durability, quality, specificity and order cover, which provide some payments.
Executive Committee for the purpose of resource allocation and designated and are effective as a cash flow hedge are recognised protection against adverse market conditions, and competitor product assessment of segment performance.
Investment income, finance directly in equity and the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in The Group has issued equity-settled share-based payments to certain development and pricing activity.
Inventory held is typically built on a costs and tax are not allocated to segments, as this type of activity is the Income Statement.
If the cash flow hedge of a firm commitment or employees.
The fair value excluding the effect of non-market-related demand basis and is customer specific.
driven by the central tax and treasury function.
forecasted transaction results in the recognition of an asset or a liability, conditions, as determined at the grant date, is expensed on a straightThe Group holds a number of customer work packages in the Aerospace then, at the time the asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of the Segment assets include directly attributable computer software assets, Division, which are tested for onerous conditions at each Balance Sheet or losses on the derivative that had previously been recognised in equity number of shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of property, plant and equipment, working capital assets, goodwill and date.
A significant change in production costs or in the execution to are included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability.
Cash, deferred and current tax and deliver planned cost savings in the next financial year could result in hedges that do not result in the recognition of an asset or a liability, other financial assets except for working capital are not allocated to Fair value is measured by use of a Black-Scholes model for the share unavoidable costs associated with one or more of these work packages amounts deferred in equity are recognised in the Income Statement in segments for the purposes of reporting financial performance to the option plans, and a binomial model for the share awards under the 2005 to exceed the economic benefits expected to be received over their life.
the same period in which the hedged item affects profit or loss.
In such cases a provision for the resulting present obligation would be For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in fair value, the recognised.
To date no such provisions have been required.
Segment liabilities include directly attributable working capital liabilities.
The liability in respect of equity-settled amounts is included in equity.
hedged item is adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to the risk Debt, finance leases, retirement benefits, deferred and current tax and Retirement benefits being hedged with the corresponding entry in the Income Statement.
other financial liabilities except for working capital are not allocated to Management makes assumptions and estimates, for the next financial Gains or losses from remeasuring the derivative are also recognised in segments for the purposes of reporting financial performance to the year and beyond, which affect the value of the carrying amount of the the Income Statement.
If the hedge is effective, these entries will offset Groups Executive Committee.
UK Plan retirement benefit obligation at 31 December 2017.
The UK Plan in the Income Statement.
retirement benefit obligation is discounted at a rate set by reference to Central costs, assets and liabilities are corporate items not allocated to market yields at the end of the reporting period on high quality corporate segments, which is consistent with the format used by the chief operating decision maker.
84 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 85
