GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT ENSURING INDEPENDENCE OTHER SAFEGUARDS OF THE EXTERNAL AUDITOR The external auditor is required to adhere to a rotation AngloAmericans policy on auditors independence is policy based on best practice and professional standards consistent with the ethical standards published by the in the UK.
The standard period for rotation of the audit Audit Practices Board.
engagement partner is five years and, for any key audit partner, seven years.
The audit engagement partner, Kari A key factor that may impair an auditors independence Hale, was appointed in 2015, and will rotate off at the end is a lack of control over non-audit services provided by the of the 2019 audit in accordance with this requirement.
The external auditors independence is deemed to be impaired if the auditor provides a service that: Any partner designated as a key audit partner of AngloAmerican shall not be employed by AngloAmerican results in the auditor acting as a manager or employee of in a key management position unless a period of at least the Group two years has elapsed since the conclusion of the last puts the auditor in the role of advocate for the Group relevant audit.
creates a mutuality of interest between the auditor and The external auditor is required to assess periodically the Group.
whether in their professional judgement, they are independent of the Group.
AngloAmerican addresses this issue through three primary measures, namely: The Audit Committee ensures that the scope of the auditors work is sufficient and that the auditor is fairly disclosure of the extent and nature of non-audit services remunerated.
the prohibition of selected services this includes the The Audit Committee has primary responsibility for undertaking of internal audit services making recommendations to the Board on the prior approval by the Audit Committee chairman of appointment, re-appointment and removal of the non-audit services where the cost of the proposed external auditor.
service is likely to exceed $100,000.
This was increased The Audit Committee has the authority to engage from the prior limit of $50,000, which had been in place for independent counsel and other advisers as they determine many years.
necessary to resolve issues on the auditors independence.
AngloAmericans policy on the provision of non-audit An annual assessment is undertaken of the auditors services is regularly reviewed.
effectiveness through a structured questionnaire and The definition of prohibited non-audit services corresponds input from all business units and Group functions covering with the European Commissions recommendations on the all aspects of the audit process.
The Audit Committee auditors independence and with the Ethical Standards members also participate in this assessment, which issued by the Audit Practices Board in the UK.
evaluates audit planning, execution, communications and reporting.
The assessment identifies strengths and areas Non-audit work is only undertaken where there is for improvement which are discussed with the auditor and commercial sense in using the auditor without jeopardising action plans agreed.
The assessment conducted in 2017 auditor independence: for example, where the service is for the 2016 audit showed an improvement from the related to the assurance provided by the auditor or benefits previous assessment due to actions taken.
from the knowledge the auditor has of the business.
Non-audit fees represented 31% of the 2017 audit fee of $9.5 million.
A more detailed analysis is provided on page 173.
84 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 Governance Audit tender RISK MANAGEMENT AngloAmerican will undertake a tender and rotation of the Risk management is the responsibility of the Board and is audit appointment no later than at the time of the rotation of integral to the achievement of our objectives.
The Board the lead engagement partner, which is due after completion establishes the system of risk management, setting risk of the 2019 audit.
Deloitte has been the auditor since 1999. appetite and maintaining the system of internal control to AngloAmerican confirms compliance during the year with manage risk within the Group.
The Groups system of risk the provisions of the Competition and Markets Authority management and internal control is monitored by the Audit Order on mandatory tendering and audit committee Committee under delegation from the Board.
The system of risk management is designed to ensure FRC Audit Quality Review awareness of risks that threaten the achievement of The FRCs Audit Quality Review team selected the audit of objectives.
The controls that mitigate those risks are the 2016 Anglo American plc financial statements to review identified so that assurance can be provided on the as part of their 2017 18 annual inspection of audit firms.
The effectiveness of those controls and a determination can focus of the review and their reporting is on identifying areas be made as to whether the risk is operating within the where improvements are required rather than highlighting Groups risk appetite.
We seek to embed a culture of risk areas performed to or above the expected level.
The awareness into the development of our strategic and chairman of the Audit Committee, who also met with the operational objectives.
Audit Quality Review team as part of the process, received The process for identification and assessment of the a full copy of the findings of the Audit Quality Review team principal risks combines a top-down and bottom-up and has discussed these with Deloitte.
At the operations level, a process to identify confirms that there were no significant areas for all risks that prevent the achievement of objectives is improvement identified within the report.
Detailed analysis of the material risks at Committee is also satisfied that there is nothing within the each location is performed to ensure management report which might have a bearing on the audit appointment.
understanding of the risk and controls that reduce Conclusions of the Audit Committee for 2017 likelihood of occurrence and impact should the risk The Audit Committee has satisfied itself that the external materialise.
These operational risk profiles contribute to the auditors independence was not impaired.
assessment of risks at the business unit level.
Executive management at each business unit assesses risks that The Audit Committee held meetings with the external threaten achievement of the business unit objectives and auditor without the presence of management on two the status of controls, or actions, that mitigate those risks.
occasions, and the chairman of the Audit Committee held At the Group level, risks are identified through assessment regular meetings with the lead audit engagement partner of global factors affecting the industry and the Group during the year.
specifically, as well as the risks arising from the business Consideration given to the appointment of the unit assessments.
Materiality of risk is determined through external auditor assessment of the various impacts that may arise and The Audit Committees assessment of the external likelihood of occurrence.
An exception relates to those auditors performance and independence underpins its risks deemed catastrophic in nature, where the focus of recommendation to the Board to propose to shareholders assessment is on impact and status of internal controls, the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP as auditor until the given the very low likelihood of occurrence.
When conclusion of the AGM in 2019.
Resolutions to authorise the considering the impact of any risk, we assess financial, Board to re-appoint and determine the remuneration of safety, environmental, legal or regulatory, social and Deloitte LLP will be proposed at the AGM on 8 May 2018. reputational consequences.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 85 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE The robust process of identifying and evaluating the The scope of internal audit work covers the broad principal risks is ongoing and was in place during 2017. spectrum of risk to which the Group is exposed.
The audit Regular reports on the status of risks and controls are of controls associated with major operating technical risks presented to executive management teams throughout the is undertaken in conjunction with relevant experts from year.
The Audit Committee reviews reports on the overall the Technical and Sustainability function, the results of AngloAmerican risk profile on two occasions during the which were shared with the Sustainability Committee and year and conducts in-depth reviews of specific risks during Audit Committee.
its meetings over the course of the year.
Each principal risk In determining its opinion that the internal control is assigned to either the Board or the relevant Board environment was effective during 2017, the Audit committees to oversee executive management actions in Committee considered the following factors: response to that risk.
The Audit Committee reviews that oversight process on an annual basis.
the results of internal audit work, including the response of management to completion of actions arising from Details of the principal risks are provided on pages 42-45. audit work Risk appetite the output of risk management work We define risk appetite as the nature and extent of risk that AngloAmerican is willing to accept in relation to the pursuit the output of external audit work and other of its objectives.
Each principal risk is assessed as to assurance providers whether it is operating within the limit of appetite for the issues identified by management or reported through Group, based on review of the external factors influencing whistleblowing arrangements, and the results of that risk, the status of management actions to mitigate or investigations into allegations of breaches of our control the risk and the potential impact should the risk values and business principles.
For risks operating beyond the limit of appetite, a change in strategy may be required.
For risks operating Reviewing the effectiveness of the system within, but approaching the limit of, appetite, specific of risk management and internal control management actions may be required to ensure the risk The Board, through the Audit Committee, fulfils its remains within the limit of appetite.
responsibility in reviewing the effectiveness of the system of risk management and internal control through review of Risk management and the system reports submitted over the course of the year covering the of internal control risk management process, adequacy of the internal control Controls either reduce the likelihood or impact of any risk environment, consideration of risk appetite, in-depth once it has occurred, while the identification of material reviews of specific risks and the results of external audit controls i. e. those controls that have the most influence in work.
The Sustainability Committee also reviews technical mitigating a risk is an important input for audit planning.
and safety risks in detail and reports its findings to the Board.
The system of internal control operates on a traditional Reviewing the effectiveness of Internal Audit three lines of defence approach, with operating During the latter part of 2016, the Audit Committee management implementing and monitoring controls on commissioned and participated in an external review of a day-to-day basis, and business unit or functional internal audit to assess its effectiveness in the delivery of management providing a second line of defence through its assurance work.
This is a regular assessment performed regular and frequent oversight of operating managements every five years.
The review assessed the purpose and implementation of controls.
A centrally managed internal remit, position and organisation, process and technology, audit department provides the third line of defence by people and knowledge, and performance and reviewing the design and operating effectiveness of the communication practices of the internal audit team.
The internal control environment, which includes the work results of the assessment, which concluded internal audit performed by the first and second lines of defence is effective in its duties, were discussed in detail by the management teams.
Internal audit operated in all of the committee and the recommendations submitted for Groups managed businesses in 2017, reporting its work improvement were evaluated.
During the course of 2017, the to executive management and the Audit Committee on a Audit Committee reviewed progress on the implementation regular basis.
The internal audit departments mandate of agreed actions to address the recommendations made.
and annual audit coverage plans were approved by the The committee also assesses the work of internal audit Audit Committee.
through its annual committee evaluation.
86 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 Governance Whistleblowing programme The Group has a whistleblowing facility operating in all its managed operations as well as a Group-wide stakeholder complaints and grievance procedure see the 2017 Sustainability Report for more details.
The whistleblowing programme, which is monitored by the Audit Committee, is designed to enable employees, customers, suppliers, managers or other stakeholders to raise concerns on a confidential basis where conduct is deemed to be contrary to our values.
During 2017, 272 2016: 413 reports were received via the global Speak Up facility, covering a broad spectrum of concerns, including: ethical criminal supplier relationships health and safety HR issues.
The majority of reports were received on an anonymous basis.
Of the cases closed in 2017, 19% were proven to support the allegations received and resulted in some form of management action.
In addition, more than 600 alerts were received in respect of an attempted purchasing fraud committed by third parties against other companies in South Africa using email domain addresses similar to Anglo American Platinum.
These alerts are being used as evidence by authorities in a criminal investigation which is ongoing.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 87
