GOVERNANCE REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE A list of our current Directors, their roles on the Boards, their dates UNILEVERS STRUCTURE of appointment, tenure and their other major appointments is set out on page 3.
Since its formation in 1930, the Unilever Group has operated as nearly as practicable as a single economic entity.
This is achieved by special The Boards have delegated the operational running of the Unilever provisions in the Articles of Association of NV and PLC, together Group to the CEO with the exception of the following matters which with a series of agreements between NV and PLC which are together are reserved for the Boards: structural and constitutional matters, known as the Foundation Agreements described below.
These corporate governance, approval of dividends, approval of overall agreements enable Unilever to achieve unity of management, strategy for the Unilever Group, approval of significant transactions operations, shareholders rights, purpose and mission and can or arrangements in relation to mergers, acquisitions, joint ventures be found on our website.
The CEO is responsible to the Boards in relation to the operational running of the Group and other powers delegated to him by The Equalisation Agreement makes the economic position of the the Boards.
The CEO can delegate any of his powers and discretions, shareholders of NV and PLC, as far as possible, the same as if they and he does so delegate to members of the Unilever Leadership held shares in a single company and also regulates the mutual rights Executive ULE with power to sub-delegate.
The ULE is composed of of the shareholders of NV and PLC.
Under this agreement, NV and the CEO, CFO and other senior executives who assist the CEO in the PLC must adopt the same financial periods and accounting policies.
discharge of the powers delegated to the CEO by the Boards.
Members The Deed of Mutual Covenants provides that NV and PLC and their of the ULE report to the CEO, and the CEO supervises and determines respective subsidiary companies shall co-operate in every way for the roles, activities and responsibilities of the ULE.
Whilst ULE the purpose of maintaining a common operating policy.
They shall members other than the CEO and the CFO are not part of the Boards exchange all relevant information about their respective businesses decision-making process, to provide the Boards with deeper insights, the intention being to create and maintain a common operating ULE members often attend those parts of the Board meetings which platform for the Unilever Group throughout the world.
This Deed relate to the operational running of the Group.
The ULE currently also contains provisions for the allocation of assets within the consists of the CFO, the Category Presidents, the Presidents for Unilever Group.
Europe and North America, and the Chief Category Research and Development Officer, Chief HR Officer, Chief Legal Officer and Group Under the Agreement for Mutual Guarantees of Borrowing between Secretary, Chief Marketing and Communications Officer and Chief NV and PLC, each company will, if asked by the other, guarantee Supply Chain Officer.
the borrowings of the other and the others subsidiaries.
These arrangements are used, as a matter of financial policy, for certain The biographies of ULE members are on page 5. significant borrowings.
They enable lenders to rely on our combined financial strength.
BOARD COMMITTEES The Boards have established four Board Committees: the Audit Each NV ordinary share represents the same underlying economic Committee, the Compensation Committee, the Corporate Responsibility interest in the Unilever Group as each PLC ordinary share.
However, Committee and the Nominating and Corporate Governance NV and PLC remain separate legal entities with different shareholder Committee.
The terms of reference of these Committees can be constituencies and separate stock exchange listings.
Shareholders found on our website and the reports of each Committee, including cannot convert or exchange the shares of one for the shares of the attendance at meetings in 2017, can be found on pages 41 to 76. other.
More information on the exercise of voting rights can be found in NVs and PLCs Articles of Association and in the Notices of Meetings www.
com investor-relations agm-and-corporatefor our NV and PLC AGMs, all of which can be found on our website.
governance  Throughout this report, when referring to NV shares or shareholders, the term THE GOVERNANCE OF UNILEVER shares or shareholder also encompasses a depositary receipt or a holder of depositary receipts.
Further details of the roles and responsibilities of the Chairman, Vice-Chairman, CEO and other corporate officers and how our Boards www.
com investor-relations  operate as one board, govern themselves and delegate their governance  authorities are set out in the document entitled The Governance of Unilever, which can be found on our website.
BOARDS The Governance of Unilever also describes the Foundation The Boards of NV and PLC have ultimate responsibility for the Agreements, Directors appointment, tenure, induction and training, management, general affairs, direction, performance and long-term Directors ability to seek independent advice at Unilevers expense success of our business as a whole.
The Boards are one-tier boards, and details about Board and Management Committees including the the same people are on both Boards and the responsibility of the Disclosure Committee.
Directors is collective, taking into account their respective roles as Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors.
com investor-relations agm-and-corporatethe Directors are Non-Executive Directors who essentially have governance  a supervisory role.
Unilever has two Executive Directors, the Chief Executive Officer CEO and the Chief Financial Officer CFO.
34 Governance Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 The report of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee BOARD EFFECTIVENESS NCGC on pages 45 and 46 describes the work of the NCGC in Board appointments and recommendations for re-election.
In addition, BOARD MEETINGS shareholders are able to nominate Directors.
The procedure for A minimum of five face-to-face meetings are planned throughout shareholders to nominate Directors is contained within the document the calendar year to consider important corporate events and actions, entitled Appointment procedure for NV and PLC Directors which is for example, the half-year and full-year results announcements of available on our website.
To do so they must put a resolution to both the Unilever Group: the development of and approval of the overall the NV and PLC AGMs in line with local requirements.
Directors are strategy of the Unilever Group: oversight of the performance of the appointed by shareholders by a simple majority vote at each AGM.
business: review of risks and internal risk management and control systems: authorisation of major transactions: declaration of dividends: www.
com investor-relations  of shareholders meetings: succession planning: review governance  of the functioning of the Boards and their Committees: and review of corporate responsibility and sustainability, in particular the Unilever DIRECTOR INDUCTION AND TRAINING Sustainable Living Plan.
Other ad hoc Board meetings are convened All new Directors participate in a comprehensive induction programme to discuss strategic, transactional and governance matters that arise.
when they join the Boards.
The Chairman ensures that ongoing In 2017 the Boards met physically in January, February, April, July, training is provided for Directors by way of site visits, presentations October and November.
Meetings of the Boards may be held either in and circulated updates at and between Board and Board Committee London or in Rotterdam or such other locations as the Boards think fit, meetings on, among other things, Unilevers business, environmental, with one or two off-site Board meetings a year.
The Chairman sets the social, corporate governance, regulatory developments and investor Boards agenda, ensures the Directors receive accurate, timely and relations matters.
For example, in 2017 the Directors received clear information, and promotes effective relationships and open presentations on Corporate Ventures, Marketing, Channel and communication between the Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
Customer Development, the Supply Chain and R&D.
ATTENDANCE INDEPENDENCE AND CONFLICTS The table showing the attendance of current Directors at Board As the Non-Executive Directors make up the Committees of the meetings in 2017 can be found on page 3.
If Directors are unable Boards, it is important that they can be considered to be independent.
to attend a Board meeting they have the opportunity beforehand to Each year the Boards conduct a thorough review of the Non-Executive discuss any agenda items with the Chairman.
Louise Fresco attended Directors, and their related or connected persons, relevant five of the Board meetings she was eligible to attend before retiring relationships referencing the criteria set out in The Governance of from the Boards on 27 April 2017.
Unilever which is derived from the relevant best practice guidelines in the Netherlands, UK and US.
The Boards currently consider all our NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR MEETINGS Non-Executive Directors to be independent of Unilever.
The Non-Executive Directors meet as a group, without the Executive Directors present, usually four or five times a year to consider relevant We attach special importance to avoiding conflicts of interest between items as agreed by them.
The Chairman, or NV and PLC and their respective Directors.
The Boards ensure that in his absence the Vice-Chairman Senior Independent Director, chairs there are effective procedures in place to avoid conflicts of interest such meetings.
If an actual, apparent or potential conflict arises, the materiality of that conflict will be determined by the Group BOARD EVALUATION Secretary.
If the conflict exceeds any materiality thresholds set from Each year the Boards formally assess their own performance with time to time, the Boards will be asked to consider the conflict and, if the aim of helping to improve the effectiveness of both the Boards determined to be appropriate, authorisation of the conflict will be given and the Committees.
At least once every three years an independent by the Boards to the relevant Director.
The authorisation includes third party facilitates the evaluation.
In April 2017 JCA Group Limited conditions relating to keeping Unilever information confidential and JCA, an independent third-party consultant, facilitated an external to the Directors exclusion from receiving and discussing relevant Board evaluation.
JCA has no other connection with the Unilever information at Board meetings.
Conflicts are reviewed annually by the Group.
No questionnaires were used in the evaluation this year given Boards.
In between those reviews Directors have a duty to inform the questionnaires were completed for the last Board evaluation in Boards of any relevant changes to their situation.
The evaluation consisted of individual interviews vote on, or be counted in a quorum in relation to, any resolution of the with the Directors by JCA followed by Board discussions at both the Boards in respect of any situation in which he or she has a conflict of April and July Board meetings on both the outcome of the evaluation interest.
The procedures that Unilever has put in place to deal with and proposed actions to enhance the Boards effectiveness.
The conflicts of interest operate effectively.
Chairmans Statement on page 2 describes the key actions agreed Unilever recognises the benefit to the individual and the Unilever by the Boards following the evaluation exercise.
Group of senior executives acting as directors of other companies Committees of the Boards evaluate themselves annually under but, to ensure outside directorships of our Executive Directors do not supervision of their respective Chairs taking into account the views involve an excessive commitment or conflict of interest, the number of respective Committee members and the Boards.
The key actions of outside directorships of listed companies is generally limited to one agreed by each Committee in the 2017 evaluations can be found in per Executive Director and approval is required from the Chairman.
INDEMNIFICATION APPOINTMENT The terms of NV Directors indemnification are provided for in NVs In seeking to ensure that NV and PLC have the same Directors, Articles of Association.
The power to indemnify PLC Directors is the Articles of Association of NV and PLC contain provisions which provided for in PLCs Articles of Association and deeds of indemnity are designed to ensure that both NV and PLC shareholders are have been agreed with all PLC Directors.
Third party directors and presented with the same candidates for election as Directors.
Anyone officers liability insurance was in place for all Unilever Directors being elected as a Director of NV must also be elected as a Director throughout 2017 and is currently in force.
Therefore, if an individual fails to be elected In addition, PLC provides indemnities including, where applicable, to both companies he or she will be unable to take his or her place a qualifying pension scheme indemnity provision to the Directors on either Board.
of three subsidiaries each of which acts as trustee of a Unilever UK pension fund.
Appropriate trustee liability insurance is also in place.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Report 35 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED for $26,420,256.
These purchases were made to facilitate grants made OUR SHARES in connection with Unilevers employee compensation programmes.
NV SHARES In addition, NV conducted a share buy-back programme during 2017 with an aggregate market value of approximately 2.5 billion bought SHARE CAPITAL back in the form of 50,250,099 NV ordinary shares or depositary receipts NVs issued share capital on 31 December 2017 was made up of: in respect of such ordinary shares.
274,356,432 split into 1,714,727,700 ordinary shares of 0.16 each: By means of a public offer, Unilever Corporate Holdings Nederland B. V. UCHN, an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of PLC, acquired 1,028,568 split into 2,400 special ordinary shares numbered approximately 99% of all outstanding 6% cumulative preference 1 2,400 known as special ordinary shares: and shares and 7% cumulative preference shares during 2017.
This 62,065,550 split into two classes 6% and 7% of cumulative represents an important step in simplifying the capital structure.
The offer valued all of the issued 6% and 7% cumulative preference shares that were not held in treasury by NV at 448 million.
These shares are included within liabilities note 15C.
Since the public offer was declared unconditional, a number of private LISTINGS agreements have been completed regarding the sale and transfer of the NV has listings of ordinary shares, 6% and 7% cumulative preference 6% and 7% cumulative preference shares to UCHN at a price equal to the shares and depositary receipts for such ordinary shares and 7% public offer price.
UCHN has also initiated statutory buy-out proceedings cumulative preference shares on Euronext Amsterdam and a listing to acquire the remaining issued 6% and 7% cumulative preference shares.
of New York Registry Shares on the New York Stock Exchange.
In addition, in an announcement on 28 November 2017, Unilever stated One New York Registry Share represents one NV ordinary share with a nominal the Boards intention to terminate the 6% and 7% cumulative preference value of 0.16. shares upon any unification.
VOTING RIGHTS Further information on these purchases can be found in note 4C NV shareholders can cast one vote for each 0.16 nominal capital they to the consolidated accounts on pages 103 and 104. hold and can vote in person or by proxy.
The voting rights attached to NV SPECIAL ORDINARY SHARES NVs outstanding shares are split as follows: To ensure unity of management, the provisions within the NV Articles Total number of Association containing the rules for appointing NV Directors cannot of votes % of issued capital be changed without the permission of the holders of the special ordinary shares numbered 1 2,400 inclusive.
These NV special a 1,714,727,700 ordinary shares 1,714,727,700 81.30 ordinary shares may only be transferred to one or more other holders 2,400 special shares 6,428,550 0.30 of such shares.
The joint holders of these shares are N. V. Elma and 123,382 6% cumulative United Holdings Limited, which are subsidiaries of NV and PLC b preference shares 330,485,595 15.67 respectively.
The Boards of N. V. Elma and United Holdings Limited comprise three Directors of the Unilever Boards.
21,438 7% cumulative c preference shares 57,424,094 2.72 TRUST OFFICE As at 31 December 2017: The Foundation Unilever N. V. Trust Office Stichting Administratiekantoor a 191,810,728 shares were held in treasury and 9,728,181 shares were Unilever N. V. is a trust office with a board independent of Unilever.
As held to satisfy obligations under share-based incentive schemes.
part of its corporate objects, the Trust Office issues depositary receipts in b 1 6% cumulative preference share was held in treasury.
exchange for the NV ordinary shares and NV 7% cumulative preference c 1 7% cumulative preference share was held in treasury.
These depositary receipts are listed on Euronext Amsterdam, as The special shares and the shares under a, b and c are not voted on.
are the NV ordinary and 7% cumulative preference shares themselves.
SHARE ISSUES AND BUY BACKS Holders of depositary receipts can under all circumstances exchange NV may issue shares not yet issued and grant rights to subscribe for their depositary receipts for the underlying shares and vice versa and are shares only pursuant to a resolution of the General Meeting or of entitled to dividends and all economic benefits on the underlying shares another corporate body designated for such purpose by a resolution of held by the Trust Office.
There are no limitations on the holders voting the General Meeting.
At the NV AGM held on 26 April 2017 the Board of rights, they can attend all General Meetings of NV, either personally or by NV was designated as the corporate body authorised to resolve on the proxy, and have the right to speak.
The Trust Office only votes shares that issue of, or on the granting of rights to subscribe for, shares not yet are not represented at a General Meeting.
The Trust Office votes in such issued and to restrict or exclude the statutory pre-emption rights that a way as it deems to be in the long-term interests of the holders of the accrue to shareholders upon issue of shares, on the understanding depositary receipts.
This voting policy is laid down in the Conditions of that this authority is limited to 10% of the issued share capital of NV, Administration that apply to the depositary receipts.
plus an additional 10% of the issued share capital of NV in connection The Trust Offices shareholding fluctuates daily.
Its holdings on with or on the occasion of mergers, acquisitions or strategic alliances.
31 December 2017 were 1,320,059,035 NV ordinary shares 76.98% and These authorities expire on the earlier of the conclusion of the 2018 116 NV 7% cumulative preference shares 0.54%.
At the 2017 NV AGM, NV AGM or the close of business on 30 June 2018 the last date by which the Trust Office represented 32.9% of all votes present at the meeting.
Such authorities are renewed annually.
The current members of the board at the Trust Office are Mr J H Schraven However, it is intended to align the NV and PLC authorities as from the Chairman, Mr P M L Frentrop, Mr A Nhn and Ms C M S Smits-Nusteling.
At the 2018 NV AGM, NV will therefore seek shareholder The Trust Office reports periodically on its activities.
Further information authority to issue new ordinary shares up to 33% of NVs issued ordinary on the Trust Office, including its Articles of Association, Conditions of share capital and to disapply pre-emption rights up to 5% of NVs issued Administration and Voting Policy, can be found on its website.
share capital and an additional 5% authority only in connection with an acquisition or specified capital investment.
Unilever considers the arrangements of the Trust Office to be appropriate and in the interests of NV and its shareholders given the size of the voting During 2017 companies within the Unilever Group purchased 2,260,000 rights attached to the financing preference shares and the relatively low NV ordinary shares, representing 0.13% of the issued ordinary share attendance of holders of ordinary shares at the General Meetings of NV.
capital, for 111,205,702.6 and 493,000 NV New York Registry Shares, representing 0.03% of the issued ordinary share capital, www.
nl eng home 36 Governance Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 PLC SHARES OUR SHAREHOLDERS SHARE CAPITAL SIGNIFICANT SHAREHOLDERS OF NV PLCs issued share capital on 31 December 2017 was made up of: As far as Unilever is aware, the only holders of more than 3% of, or 1 9 40,760,420 split into 1,310,156,361 ordinary shares of 3 p each: and 3% of voting rights attributable to, NVs share capital Disclosable Interests on 31 December 2017 apart from the Foundation Unilever 100,000 of deferred stock of 1 each.
N. V. Trust Office, see page 36 are BlackRock, Inc. BlackRock and LISTINGS UCHN, see page 36, as indicated in the table below.
PLC has shares listed on the London Stock Exchange and, as Total number of % of relevant American Depositary Receipts, on the New York Stock Exchange.
Shareholder Class of shares shares held class One American Depository Receipt represents one PLC ordinary share with a 1 BlackRock ordinary shares 66,947,018 3.90 nominal value of 3 9p.
6% cumulative VOTING RIGHTS UCHN 122,985 99.68 preference shares 1 9 PLC shareholders can cast one vote for each 3 p nominal capital they hold, and can vote in person or by proxy.
This means that shareholders 7% cumulative UCHN 21,320 99.44 can cast one vote for each PLC ordinary share or PLC American preference shares Depositary Receipt of Shares.
Therefore, the total number of voting As far as Unilever is aware, no new Disclosable Interests have been rights attached to PLCs outstanding shares is as follows: notified to the AFM between 1 January 2018 and 21 February 2018 the Total number latest practicable date for inclusion in this report.
Between 1 January of votes % of issued capital 2015 and 21 February 2018, BlackRock, NN Group N. V. NN and ASR a Nederland N. V. ASR have held more than 3% in the share capital of 1,310,156,361 ordinary shares 1,310,156,361 99.76 NV.
During 2017 Unilever Corporate Holdings Nederland B. V. acquired 100,000 deferred stock 3,214,285 0.24 from NN and ASR all of their 6% and 7% cumulative preference As at 31 December 2017: shares.
a Of which 78,389,278 shares were held by PLC in treasury and 6,074,283 shares were held by NV group companies.
These shares SIGNIFICANT SHAREHOLDERS OF PLC are not voted on.
As far as Unilever is aware, the only holders of more than 3% of, or 3% of voting rights attributable to, PLCs ordinary share capital The PLC Board may, subject to the UK Companies Act 2006 and the on 31 December 2017 apart from shares held in treasury by PLC, passing of the appropriate resolutions at a General Meeting, issue see page 37, are BlackRock and the Leverhulme Trust as indicated shares within the limits prescribed within the resolutions.
PLC AGM held on 27 April 2017 the PLC Directors were authorised to issue new shares, up to a maximum of 13,300,000 nominal value Total number % of relevant which at the time represented approximately 33% of PLCs issued Shareholder Class of shares of shares held class ordinary share capital and to disapply pre-emption rights up to BlackRock ordinary shares 84,013,193 6.8 approximately 5% of PLCs issued ordinary share capital and an The Leverhulme Trust ordinary shares 68,531,182 5.6 additional 5% authority only in connection with an acquisition or specified capital investment.
In addition, at PLCs 2017 AGM the PLC Board was authorised to No disclosable changes in interests in the share capital of PLC have make market purchases of its ordinary shares, up to a maximum been notified to PLC between 1 January 2018 and 21 February 2018 of 128,345,000 shares representing just under 10% of PLCs issued the latest practicable date for inclusion in this report.
Between ordinary share capital and within the limits prescribed in the resolution 1 January 2015 and 21 February 2018, i BlackRock, and ii the until the earlier of the conclusion of PLCs 2018 AGM and 30 June aggregated holdings of the trustees of the Leverhulme Trust and 2018.
These authorities are renewed annually and authority will be the Leverhulme Trade Charities Trust, have held more than 3% sought at PLCs 2018 AGM.
of, or 3% of voting rights attributable to, PLCs ordinary shares.
During 2017 companies within the Unilever Group purchased 1,667,000 SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT PLC ordinary shares, representing 0.13% of the issued share capital, Unilever values open, constructive and effective communication with for 68,225,066.
These purchases were made to facilitate grants our shareholders.
Our shareholders can raise issues directly with made in connection with its employee compensation programmes.
the Chairman and, if appropriate, the Vice-Chairman and Senior Further information on these purchases can be found in note 4C Independent Director.
The CFO has lead responsibility for investor to the consolidated accounts on pages 103 and 104.
In addition, relations, with the active involvement of the CEO.
They are supported PLC conducted a share buy-back programme during 2017 with an by our Investor Relations department which organises presentations aggregate market value of approximately 2.2 billion bought back in for analysts and investors.
These and other materials e. g. an the form of 51,692,284 PLC ordinary shares.
Introduction to Unilever and AGM materials are generally made available on our website.
PLC DEFERRED STOCK The joint holders of the PLC deferred stock are N. V. Elma and United Holdings Limited, which are subsidiaries of NV and PLC respectively.
The provisions within the PLC Articles of Association containing the rules for appointing PLC Directors cannot be changed without the permission of the holders of PLCs deferred stock.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Report 37 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Principal shareholders: the Executive Directors investor relations The 2017 AGMs were held in Rotterdam and London in April and the programme continued in 2017 with meetings in eleven major cities topics raised by shareholders included: Acquisition policy, progress of in Europe, North America and Asia.
In all, they met more than 100 the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan, the Baking, Cooking and Spreads investors during these roadshows.
In addition, our Chairman met business, tax transparency, the NV cumulative preference shares, investors in Europe and North America.
As part of the strategic remuneration policy, Brexit, innovation and risk assessment.
review of options to accelerate sustainable value creation, we Shareholders of NV may propose resolutions if they individually or together sought feedback from our Top 50 shareholders and other investors.
hold at least 1% of NVs issued capital in the form of shares or depositary The feedback was shared with, and discussed by, the Boards.
receipts issued for NV shares.
Shareholders who together represent at Quarterly announcements: briefings on quarterly results are given via least 10% of the issued capital of NV can, under certain circumstances, teleconference and are accessible by telephone or via our website.
also requisition the District Court to allow them to convene an Extraordinary General Meeting to deal with specific resolutions.
Annual investor seminar: this annual event was held at our Englewood Cliffs offices in the US in November.
It focused on our Connected 4 Shareholders of PLC may propose resolutions if they individually or Growth programme.
The event was attended by the Chairman, CEO, together hold shares representing at least 5% of the total voting rights CFO and other senior management.
The slides shown and an audio of PLC, or 100 shareholders who hold on average 100 each in nominal recording of the presentations were made available and can be value of PLC share capital can require PLC to propose a resolution accessed on our website.
This allows those investors not attending at a General Meeting.
PLC shareholders holding in aggregate 5% in person to access the information provided at the event.
of the issued PLC ordinary shares are able to convene a General Meeting of PLC.
Investor conferences: the Executive Directors and members of the Investor Relations team also meet a large number of investors at the Information on the 2018 AGMs can be found within the NV and PLC industry conferences they attend.
In 2017 the conferences that were AGM Notices which will be published in March 2018. attended by Unilever representatives included broker sponsored REQUIRED MAJORITIES conferences in London, Paris, Stockholm, Boston, New York, Toronto Resolutions are usually adopted at NV and PLC General Meetings by and Singapore.
an absolute majority of votes cast, unless there are other requirements Feedback from shareholders: we maintain a frequent dialogue under the applicable laws or NVs or PLCs Articles of Association.
For with our principal shareholders and regularly collect feedback.
We example, there are special requirements for resolutions relating to the use this feedback to help shape our investor programme and future alteration of the Articles of Association, the liquidation of NV or PLC and shareholder communications.
Private shareholders are encouraged the alteration of the Equalisation Agreement.
to give feedback via shareholder.
The A proposal to alter the Articles of Association of NV can only be made Chairman, Executive Directors and Chairs of the Committees are by the NV Board.
A proposal to alter the Articles of Association of PLC also generally available to answer questions from the shareholders can be made either by the PLC Board or by requisition of shareholders at the AGMs each year.
in accordance with the UK Companies Act 2006.
Unless expressly Board awareness: the Boards are briefed on investor reactions specified to the contrary in PLCs Articles of Association, PLCs to the Unilever Groups quarterly results announcements and are Articles of Association may be amended by a special resolution.
briefed on any issues raised by shareholders that are relevant to Proposals to alter the provisions in the Articles of Association of NV their responsibilities.
and PLC respectively relating to the unity of management require the prior approval of meetings of the holders of the NV special ordinary www.
com investor-relations shares and the PLC deferred stock.
The Articles of Association of both NV and PLC can be found on our website.
GENERAL MEETINGS Both NV and PLC hold an AGM each year.
At the AGMs the Chairman www.
com investor-relations  his thoughts on governance aspects of the preceding year and governance  the CEO gives a detailed review of the performance of the Unilever Group over the last year.
Shareholders are encouraged to attend the RIGHT TO HOLD SHARES relevant meeting and to ask questions at or in advance of the meeting.
Unilevers constitutional documents place no limitations on the right Indeed, the question and answer session forms an important part of to hold NV and PLC shares.
There are no limitations on the right to each meeting.
The external auditors are welcomed to the AGMs and hold or exercise voting rights on the ordinary shares of NV and PLC are entitled to address the meetings.
imposed by Dutch or English law.
8 of the Corporate Governance Code in the Netherlands Dutch Code and Code Provision E. 2.3 of the UK Corporate Governance Code UK Code require all Directors to attend both the NV and PLC AGMs.
As questions asked at our AGMs tend to focus on business related matters, governance and the remit of our Board Committees, the Chairman, CEO, CFO and the Chairs of our four Committees of the Board attend both our AGMs and the remaining members of the Board attend at least one AGM.
38 Governance Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 The information required to be included in this corporate governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE statement as described in articles 3, 3a and 3b of the Decree can be found on our website.
GENERAL We conduct our operations in accordance with internationally accepted www.
nl principles of good governance and best practice, whilst ensuring www.
com corporategovernance compliance with the corporate governance requirements applicable in the countries in which we operate.
Unilever is subject to corporate THE UNITED KINGDOM governance requirements legislation, codes and or standards in the PLC, being a company that is incorporated in the UK and listed on Netherlands, the UK and the US and in this section we report on our the London Stock Exchange, is required to state how it has applied compliance against these.
the main principles and how far it has complied with the provisions MATERIAL CONTRACTS set out in the UK Code, which is available on the Financial Reporting Under the European Takeover Directive as implemented in the Councils FRC website.
In 2017 PLC complied with all UK Code Netherlands and the UK, the UK Companies Act 2006 and rules of the provisions with the exception of UK Code Provision E. 2.3 as noted US Securities and Exchange Commission, Unilever is required to in the General Meetings section above.
provide information on contracts and other arrangements essential or Risk Management and Control: Our approach to risk management material to the business of the Unilever Group.
Other than the and systems of internal control is in line with the recommendations Foundation Agreements referred to on page 34, we believe we do not in the FRCs revised guidance Risk management, internal control have any such contracts or arrangements.
and related financial and business reporting the Risk Guidance.
THE NETHERLANDS It is Unilevers practice to review acquired companies governance During 2017, the new Dutch Code came into effect in the Netherlands.
procedures and to align them to the Unilever Groups governance The Dutch Code is available on the Monitoring Committee Corporate procedures as soon as is practicable.
NV complies with almost all the principles Greenhouse Gas GHG Emissions: In line with the Large and Mediumand best practice provisions of the Dutch Code, with the exception sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 of Dutch Code Provision 4.1.
8 as noted in the paragraphs on General as amended by the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Meetings within the Our Shareholders section above and the best Report Regulations 2013 our greenhouse gas performance is set practice provisions set out below.
We report our CO emissions with reference to the latest 2 Best Practice Provision 3.2.
3 Greenhouse Gas GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard GHG Protocol to calculate emissions of carbon dioxide from The Dutch Code provides that in case of dismissal, the remuneration the combustion of fuels Scope 1 and from purchased electricity, heat, of an Executive Director should not exceed one years salary.
steam and cooling Scope 2, market-based method.
From 2017, we It is our policy to set the level of severance payments for Executive are extending our reporting of emissions from manufacturing facilities Directors at no more than one years salary, unless the Boards, on the to also include research laboratories, marketing sales offices and recommendation of the Compensation Committee, find this manifestly distribution centres because the additional data is now collected for unreasonable given circumstances or unless otherwise dictated by reporting of our carbon positive emissions reduction programme.
Carbon emission factors are used to convert energy used in our Best Practice Provision 4.3.
4 operations to emissions of CO.
Carbon emission factors for fuels are 2 The Dutch Code provides that the voting rights attached to financing provided by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change IPCC.
preference shares should be based on the fair value of the Carbon emission factors for grid electricity calculated according to capital contribution.
the market-based method are supplier-specific emissions factors The voting rights of the 6% and 7% cumulative preference shares reflecting contractual arrangements with electricity suppliers.
Where issued by NV between 1927 and 1964 are based on their nominal value, supplier-specific emissions factors are not available, carbon emissions as prescribed by Dutch law.
NV agrees with the principle in the Dutch factors reflect the country where each operation is located and are Code that the voting rights should be based on a fair value of the provided by the International Energy Agency IEA.
As mentioned in the Our Shares section above, we have selected an intensity ratio based on production: this aligns with Unilever has announced the Boards intention to terminate the 6% our long-standing reporting of manufacturing performance.
and 7% cumulative preference shares upon any unification.
The GHG data relates to emissions during the 12-month period from Corporate Governance Statements: 1 October 2016 to 30 September 2017.
This period is different from that In addition to an explanation of non-compliance to the Dutch Code, for which the remainder of the Directors Report is prepared which is as set out above, the Dutch Code also requires the Board to the calendar year 2017. confirm, and the Board hereby confirms that: EMISSIONS OF CO FROM MANUFACTURING, 2 this Annual Report and Accounts provides sufficient insights into any 1 OCTOBER 2016 TO 30 SEPTEMBER 2017 failings in the effectiveness of the internal risk management and 1 OCTOBER 2015 TO 30 SEPTEMBER 2016 control systems: Scope 1 773,856 tonnes CO 840,633 tonnes CO 2 2 the systems mentioned above provide reasonable assurance that the financial reporting does not contain any material inaccuracies: Scope 2 793,472 tonnes CO 864,936 tonnes CO 2 2 based on the current state of affairs, it is justified that the financial market-based method reporting is prepared on a going concern basis: and Total Scope 1 & 2 1,567,328 tonnes CO 1,705,569 tonnes CO 2 2 this Annual Report and Accounts states those material risks and uncertainties that are relevant to the expectation of NVs continuity Intensity ratio 76.77 kg CO per tonne of production 2 for the period of twelve months after the preparation of this Annual 83.52 kg CO per tonne of production 2 Report and Accounts.
For details and 2017 basis of The statements in this paragraph are not statements in accordance with preparation see www.
the requirements of Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
For details and 2016 basis of preparation see Furthermore, NV is required to make a statement concerning corporate www.
governance as referred to in article 2a of the decree on the content of the management report Besluit inhoud bestuursverslag the Decree.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Report 39 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Governance Standards of the NYSE is that the NYSE rules require EMISSIONS OF CO FROM DISTRIBUTION CENTRES, 2 that shareholders must be given the opportunity to vote on all equityRESEARCH LABORATORIES, MARKETING AND SALES compensation plans and material revisions thereto, with certain OFFICES, 1 OCTOBER 2016 TO 30 SEPTEMBER 2017 limited exemptions.
The UK Listing Rules require shareholder Scope 1 20,039 tonnes CO 2 approval of equity-compensation plans only if new or treasury shares Scope 2 are issued for the purpose of satisfying obligations under the plan 102,292 tonnes CO 2 or if the plan is a long-term incentive plan in which a director may market-based method participate.
Amendments to plans approved by shareholders generally Total Scope 1 & 2 122,331 tonnes CO 2 only require approval if they are to the advantage of the plan participants.
Furthermore, Dutch law and NVs Articles of Association require shareholder approval of equity-compensation plans only if the Emissions from the combustion of biogenic fuels biomass, fuel crops Executive Directors are able to participate in such plans.
Under Dutch etc within our operations are reported separately to other Scope 1 law, shareholder approval is not required for material revisions to and 2 emissions, as recommended by the GHG Protocol, and excluded equity-compensation plans unless the Executive Directors participate from our intensity ratio calculation.
The data also excludes Scope 3 in a plan and the plan does not contain its own procedure for revisions.
emissions including consumer use of our products which we report Attention is drawn to the Report of the Audit Committee on pages 41 as part of our Unilever Sustainable Living Plan.
In addition, further details about our corporate governance are Employee Involvement and Communication: Unilevers UK companies provided in the document entitled The Governance of Unilever which maintain formal processes to inform, consult and involve employees can be found on our website.
A National Consultative Forum comprising www.
com index employees and management representatives from key locations meets regularly to provide a forum for discussing issues relating to Unilever www.
gov sites in the United Kingdom.
We recognise collective bargaining on a number of sites and engage with employees via the Sourcing Unit All senior executives and senior financial officers have declared their Forum, which includes national officer representation from the three understanding of and compliance with Unilevers Code of Business recognised trade unions.
A European Works Council, embracing Principles and the related Code Policies.
No waiver from any provision employee and management representatives from countries within of the Code of Business Principles or Code Policies was granted Europe, has been in existence for several years and provides a forum in 2017 to any of the persons falling within the scope of the SEC for discussing issues that extend across national boundaries.
The Code of Business Principles and related Code Policies are published on our website.
Equal Opportunities and Diversity: Consistent with our Code of Business Principles, Unilever aims to ensure that applications for Risk Management and Control: Following a review by the Disclosure employment from everyone are given full and fair consideration Committee, Audit Committee and Boards, the CEO and the CFO and that everyone is given access to training, development and concluded that the design and operation of the Unilever Groups career opportunities.
Every effort is made to retrain and support disclosure controls and procedures, including those defined in the employees who become disabled while working within the Group.
United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Rule 13a 15 e, as at 31 December 2017 were effective, and that subsequently until www.
uk 23 February 2018 the date of the approval of this Annual Report and www.
com sustainable-living values-and-values Accounts and the Additional Information for US Listing Purposes by the Boards there have been no significant changes in the Unilever THE UNITED STATES Groups internal controls, or in other factors that could significantly Both NV and PLC are listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE.
As such, both companies must comply with the requirements of US Unilever is required by Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act legislation, regulations enacted under US securities laws and the of 2002 to report on the effectiveness of its internal control over Listing Standards of the NYSE, that are applicable to foreign private financial reporting.
This requirement is reported on within the section issuers, copies of which are available on their websites.
entitled Managements Report on Internal Control over Financial We are substantially compliant with the Listing Standards of the NYSE Reporting on page 168. applicable to foreign private issuers except as set out below.
In February 2017, the Group received a public potential offer by The We are required to disclose any significant ways in which our corporate Kraft Heinz Company for $50 per share in respect of all of NV and PLC governance practices differ from those typically followed by US shares.
companies listed on the NYSE.
Our corporate governance practices www.
com investor-relations agm-and-corporateare primarily based on the requirements of the UK Listing Rules, governance  the UK Code and the Dutch Code but substantially conform to those required of US companies listed on the NYSE.
The only significant way in which our corporate governance practices differ from those followed by domestic companies under Section 303A Corporate 40 Governance Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017
