GOVERNANCE THE BOARD IN 2017 THE BOARD IN 2017 THE ROLE OF THE BOARD committees terms of reference, explain which matters are delegated and which are retained for Board approval.
The Board provides leadership to the Group and is These documents can be found on the Groups website.
collectively responsible for promoting and safeguarding the long-term success of the business.
The Board is Executive structure supported by a number of committees, to which it has The Board delegates executive responsibilities to the chief delegated certain powers.
The role of these committees is executive, who is advised and supported by the Group summarised below, and their membership, responsibilities Management Committee GMC.
The GMC comprises the and activities during the year are detailed on pages 78-114. chief executive, business unit CEOs, Group directors of corporate functions and the Group general counsel.
The Some decisions are sufficiently material that they can only names of the GMC members, their roles and biographical be made by the Board as a whole.
The schedule of Matters details appear on pages 68-69.
Reserved for the AngloAmerican plc Board, and the BOARD COMPOSITION The Board currently comprises the chairman, chief governance: facilitating effective communication between directors: effective dialogue with shareholders and other executive, two further executive directors and eight stakeholders: and acting as ambassador for the Group.
The broad range of skills and experience our Board members bring to Chief executive AngloAmerican are set out on pages 65-67 and Mark Cutifani manages the Group.
His main responsibilities illustrated in the table on page 72.
The Board is supported include: executive leadership: formulation and implementation by the Group company secretary.
of Group strategy as agreed by the Board: approval and monitoring of business plans: organisational structure There is a clear separation of responsibilities at the head and senior appointments: business development: and of the Company between the running of the Board one stakeholder relations.
of the chairmans key responsibilities and the executive Senior independent director responsibility for the running of the Companys business Sir Philip Hampton is available to shareholders on matters the responsibility of the chief executive.
where the usual channels of communication are deemed The roles and of key responsibilities of the Board are inappropriate.
He acts as an intermediary between the described below.
other directors and as a sounding-board for the chairman.
Chairman Independent non-executive directors NEDs Stuart Chambers leads the Board, ensuring it works The role of the NEDs is to constructively challenge and constructively as a team.
His main responsibilities include: provide advice to executive management: effectively chairing the Board and the Nomination Committee and setting contribute to the development of the Groups strategy: their agendas: Board composition and succession planning: scrutinise the performance of management in meeting providing support and counsel to the chief executive and his agreed goals: and monitor the delivery of Group strategy.
team: promoting the highest standards of integrity and Board Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Sustainability Committee Oversight of financial Responsible for Board Determines the Oversees management reporting, audit, internal composition, appointment remuneration of executive of sustainability issues, control and risk of directors and senior directors, the chairman and including safety, health, management.
management and senior management and environment, social and succession planning.
For more details See page 80 policy for all employees.
For more details For more details See page 79 See page 78 For more details See page 88 Chief executive Group Management Corporate Committee Operational Committee Investment Committee Committee Reviews corporate and Responsible for driving Responsible for making Principal executive committee.
ethical policies and operational best practices recommendations to Responsible for developing and processes, and financial across the Group and the the GMC and chief executive executing strategy, setting performance and budgets setting of technical on capital investment budgets, monitoring at business unit level.
performance and managing the Groups portfolio.
70 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 Governance BOARD DISCUSSIONS formulated by management is debated, stress-tested, The rolling agenda of matters discussed by the Board is modified if necessary, and finally approved by the Board.
The Board is scheduled At least once a year, each of the Groups business unit to meet at least six times a year, but meets more often heads presents to the Board in some depth on key aspects should circumstances warrant this.
In addition, a full day of their business.
strategy session is held, during which strategy BOARD DISCUSSIONS TOPIC AND LINK AREAS COVERED COMMENTS TO PILLARS OF VALUE Safety and Health Fatal incidents, The chief executive reports at each Board meeting on Group safety total recordable case performance and this topic is always the first item on the agenda.
The causes frequency rate TRCFR, of fatal incidents and those causing injury are examined in detail by the health and medical Sustainability Committee and the findings discussed by the Board as a whole.
incidents Management performance in reducing such incidents and to improve occupational health is reviewed.
Environmental incidents, Material environmental incidents are reported on, together with efforts made Environment energy and climate to reduce energy and natural resource consumption, and to generally reduce change, water availability the impact of the Groups operations on the environment.
and rehabilitation Socio-political Social incidents Community comments about environmental matters, and any health and and performance, safety issues are reported.
Investor and media relations updates are given.
government, media, Feedback from external stakeholders such as customers, suppliers, global investor and stakeholder influencers and governments on their expectations of the Group are relations presented and discussed.
People Employee feedback, The results of employee engagement surveys on how employees feel the organisational restructure, Group is doing and what could be done better are reviewed.
Progress on key appointments and organisational restructuring and changes in headcount are monitored.
Targets resignations, business for areas such as diversity are agreed and reported on.
The Board is updated integrity and Code of on compliance with our Code of Conduct and the business integrity policy.
Conduct Operational performance A report on each business unit is received and each business unit head Operations by each business unit and presents in detail on its performance, operations, strategy, safety and progress of key projects sustainable development, technological innovation and risks once a year.
Financial Key financial measures, Progress against the annual budget and three-year plan is monitored and liquidity and balance discussed.
Liquidity, balance sheet strength and debt are reviewed and, sheet strength, cost if any corrective actions are necessary, these are agreed.
improvements Macro-economic The Board receives briefings from internal teams and external advisers on Economic outlook environment and trends in relevant areas and likely scenarios for global economic growth.
and commodity commodity price Commodity prices, and the effect of these on the Group, are noted and taken prices outlook into account for strategy and planning purposes.
Disposals, three-year As well as having a dedicated strategy meeting each year, the Board reviews Strategy plan, progress on progress against the Groups agreed strategy at each meeting and considers critical tasks if any changes are needed.
There are annual presentations on exploration activities.
Reports from Each of the committee chairmen report on recent meetings and on any Board governance committees, legislative developments which need the attention of the Board as a whole.
Reports are and regulatory received on the Groups compliance with relevant legislation and regulation, compliance and any actions needed to respond to recent developments.
The Board receives biannual updates on material litigation across the Group.
Matters which generally assist the effective functioning of the Board and Group as a whole are considered and actions agreed.
For more information on our strategy and how we measure our performance through our pillars of value See pages 10 and 34-35 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 71 GOVERNANCE THE BOARD IN 2017 BOARD INFORMATION AND SUPPORT Highlights On joining AngloAmerican in January 2017, Stephen All directors have full and timely access to the information Pearce undertook an intensive orientation programme required to discharge their responsibilities fully and designed to ensure familiarisation with the Groups effectively.
They have access to the advice and services businesses, people, and governance and control of the Group company secretary, other members of the processes ahead of his appointment as finance director Groups management and staff, and external advisers.
Directors may take independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties, at the Companys expense.
On joining the Board as a non-executive director in April 2017, Nolitha Fakude received a briefing on the obligations Where a director is unable to attend a Board or committee and responsibilities of directors of UK listed companies, meeting, he or she is provided with all relevant papers and to complement her considerable knowledge and information relating to that meeting and encouraged to experience of serving on the boards of South African discuss issues arising with the respective chairman and companies.
In October, Nolitha accompanied Stuart other Board and committee members.
Chambers to Brazil to visit the Minas-Rio Iron Ore and Barro Alto Nickel operations.
BOARD INDUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT On joining the Board as a non-executive director in July Following appointment and as required, directors receive 2017, Ian Ashby undertook internal deep dive briefings training appropriate to their level of experience and on the AngloAmerican Operating Model and the Groups knowledge.
This includes the provision of a tailored Quellaveco copper project.
induction programme and individual briefings with GMC Ahead of his appointment as chairman, Stuart Chambers members and their teams so as to provide newly appointed undertook an extensive induction programme described directors with information about the Groups businesses in detail on page 64 of the chairmans introduction to and other relevant information to assist them in effectively governance.
In addition to scheduled Board operational site visits, non-executive directors are As part of their onboarding process, Nolitha Fakude, encouraged to spend time at the Groups operations to Ian Ashby and Stuart Chambers attended meetings of meet management and staff.
Further information about the Audit and Sustainability committees at the invitation the Boards visits to operations in 2017 can be found on of the respective committee chair prior to their formal pages 76-77. appointment date.
Board experience and diversity Diversity Professional experience Broadbased Large Construction Safety, international Previous Previous Economics Experience project in mining health, business NED chief and global as an Directors Nationality Female Mining Engineering management oil and gas Finance environment experience experience executive economy investor Stuart Chambers UK 1 Mark Cutifani Australia 2 Stephen Pearce Australia Tony ONeill Australia Ian Ashby Australia Nolitha Fakude South Africa 3 Byron Grote USA UK 3 Sir Philip Hampton UK 4 Mphu Ramatlapeng Lesotho Jim Rutherford UK 5 Anne Stevens USA 6 Jack Thompson USA 1 4 Independent director of Total S. A.
Government minister 2 5 Former non-executive director of Cedar Woods Properties Limited COO, South America at Ford: chief executive of GKN plc 3 6 Audit Committee members determined to have recent and relevant financial experience in Born in Cuba, naturalised US citizen accordance with UK Corporate Governance Code Provision C. 3.1 Also GMC members 72 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 Governance BOARD AND COMMITTEE MEETINGS 2017 FREQUENCY AND ATTENDANCE OF MEMBERS The table below shows the attendance of directors at meetings of the Board and committees during the year.
Attendance is expressed as the number of meetings attended out of the number eligible to be attended.
Independent Board Board Strategy Audit Nomination Remuneration Sustainability 1 Sir John Parker n a 5 5 1 1 5 5 2 3 2 Stuart Chambers n a 3 3 1 1 Mark Cutifani No 6 6 1 1 4 4 3 Ren Mdori No 1 1 4 Stephen Pearce No 5 5 1 1 Tony ONeill No 6 6 1 1 4 4 5 Ian Ashby Yes 4 4 2 2 6 Nolitha Fakude Yes 5 5 1 1 2 2 3 3 Byron Grote Yes 6 6 1 1 4 4 5 5 3 3 Sir Philip Hampton Yes 6 6 1 1 4 4 5 5 3 3 Mphu Ramatlapeng Yes 6 6 1 1 4 4 7 Jim Rutherford Yes 6 6 1 1 4 4 1 1 4 4 Anne Stevens Yes 6 6 1 1 4 4 5 5 3 3 8 Jack Thompson Yes 6 6 1 1 3 3 4 4 1 5 Resigned 31 October 2017.
Sir John was unable to attend the February 2017 Appointed 25 July 2017.
6 Sustainability Committee meeting due to a diary conflict.
2 7 Appointed as a non-executive director and chairman designate, and a member Appointed to the Remuneration Committee on 25 July 2017.
8 of the Nomination Committee, on 1 September 2017.
Appointed as chairman of Appointed to the Nomination Committee on 25 July 2017.
9 the Board, chairman of the Nomination Committee and a member of the As part of their onboarding process, new Board and committee members attended Sustainability Committee on 1 November 2017. meetings at the invitation of the respective committee chair prior to their formal 3 Resigned 24 April 2017. appointment date.
Attendance is not reflected in the table above.
PROCESS USED IN RELATION TO In each case, prior to the search commencing, the BOARD APPOINTMENTS Nomination Committee agreed the skills and experience they thought were necessary for the roles and provided The Board is committed to ensuring that it has the right these to the consultancies with the request to include balance of skills, experience and diversity, taking into female candidates and people of colour.
A list of potential account the targets of the Davies and Parker Reports.
candidates was then identified by the relevant consultancy Currently, the Board comprises 12 directors, of whom and discussed with the committee members excluding 25% are female and two of whom are people of colour.
Sir John Parker in the case of the recruitment for his In terms of nationality, nine members of the Board have successor to agree a shorter list to be interviewed.
The a nationality other than British, with two of them being non-executive directors were invited to apply for the position from southern Africa.
of chairman if they wished to be considered for the role.
In During 2017, the Nomination Committee led search each case, the initial list of potential candidates included processes to recruit two new non-executive directors and a both female and male participants and people of colour.
successor for Sir John Parker as chairman of the Company.
Shortlisted candidates were interviewed by all members of The processes were led by Spencer Stuart South Africa the committee again with the exception of Sir John Parker for the recruitment of Nolitha Fakude, by Heidrick & in the case of the recruitment for his successor and, where Struggles for the recruitment of Ian Ashby and by Zygos practical, other directors.
The final two candidates for the Partnership for the recruitment of Stuart Chambers.
These role of chairman were interviewed by all the directors.
consultancies were chosen as they had previously worked References were sought for each preferred candidate prior for the Group in recruiting for senior appointments and to an offer being made to them.
accordingly had a good understanding of the Boards requirements, given the markets in which the most suitable candidates were likely to be found.
They are also accredited under The Enhanced Code of Conduct for Executive Search firms which acknowledges those with a strong track record in and promotion of gender diversity in FTSE350 companies.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 73 GOVERNANCE THE BOARD IN 2017 BOARD, COMMITTEE AND INDIVIDUAL Committee evaluations DIRECTORS EVALUATION The committee evaluations looked at ways in which the committees could improve their overall efficiency, their Each year, the Board evaluates its own performance, that of performance in the current year and the areas they needed its committees and of the individual directors.
In 2016 and to address in the coming year.
All the committees were 2017, the directors completed online, questionnaire-based, believed to be performing satisfactorily and were internal evaluations.
To allow the Board and its committees appropriately constituted.
to judge progress over the two years, the evaluations explored similar areas on each occasion.
The results were Audit Committee collated, summarised and considered by the Nomination The results of the 2016 review suggested a greater focus Committee before being submitted to the relevant on actions mitigating risk and the effectiveness of controls committee and the Board itself.
and remediating actions, and an understanding of critical operating issues and risks, and their potential financial Action plans were developed based on the results and outcomes.
As the Groups priorities changed, and the progress against these measured at various points business moved into a phase where capital allocation was throughout the year.
The results of the findings and the once again desirable, the work of the committee changed actions taken in response to the 2016 evaluation are to reflect this.
The 2017 evaluation results suggested the summarised below.
Action plans based on the 2017 committee should build on these changes and continue the evaluations were approved in February 2018, and will be work started in the year.
The questionnaires completed by the individual directors were used as part of their Nomination Committee performance evaluation by the chairman, with the From late 2016 until the middle of 2017 the committee chairmans performance evaluation being led by the was focused on Board succession planning and recruitment.
While these processes were believed to have gone well, the 2016 review identified the following goals: In 2018, an external evaluation exercise will be undertaken using a consultancy with no other connection to the better communication of succession planning work for Company, and this will be reported on in the 2018 key executives, including the pipeline target for female Annual Report.
members of the GMC Board evaluation improving the ethnic diversity of the Board and in senior Areas of focus for the evaluations in 2016 and 2017 included management strategic oversight, the support provided to the Board and making the plans in these areas broader and more the management of meetings, and priorities for the coming forward-looking.
From the 2016 exercise, the top priorities for the Board in 2017 were identified by the respondents as: In addition, the 2017 evaluation identified the development of internal candidates for the executive board positions.
making Board member appointments to replace the skills and experience lost towards the end of 2016 Remuneration Committee The 2016 review highlighted the need to address the focusing on strategy and growth options expectations of stakeholders in drafting the current succession planning remuneration policy, and to have a good understanding of the trends and initiatives in other FTSE 100 companies in progressing the implementation of new technology.
relation to remuneration when doing this.
The 2017 review Changes were made to address these priorities, prioritised the need to continue this work to ensure including to the Board agendas and to the information remuneration targets are aligned with strategic goals and the Board receives.
Group performance, and to evaluate the range of emerging remuneration ideas.
The 2017 evaluation identified the following priorities for 2018: driving demonstrable and sustainable safety and operating improvements execution against the asset-led strategy identifying additional growth opportunities while targeting credit strength, debt reduction and refinancing ensuring the Group has a suitably diverse workforce with the capability and skills to drive continuous improvement deploying winning technologies especially in the areas of water reduction and safety improvements.
An action plan is being developed to progress these areas in 2018.
74 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 Governance Sustainability Committee The oversight of management of people issues was a INVESTOR RELATIONS new responsibility for the committee in 2016, and it was The Company has an active engagement programme agreed that more effort was needed in 2017 to improve with its key financial audiences, including institutional performance in this area.
Suggestions from the 2017 shareholders and buyand sell-side analysts, as well evaluation for improving the performance of the as potential shareholders.
committee included: The Groups investor relations department manages placing greater emphasis on forward-looking measures the interactions with these audiences and regular and initiatives that will improve performance around presentations take place at the time of the interim critical controls to avoid fatalities and injuries and final results, as well as during the rest of the a more rigorous follow-up process on major incidents year.
An active programme of communication with potential shareholders is also maintained.
Any ensuring a tighter link to risk identification and mitigation significant concerns raised by a shareholder in developing reporting to include a fuller, more robust relation to the Company and its affairs are analysis of country risks.
There was also recognition of communicated to the Board.
the need to continue focus on the major risks facing the The Board receives a briefing at each meeting from Group, such as those around tailings storage facilities.
the investor relations department and analysts These suggestions informed the committees planning reports are circulated to the directors when available.
and discussions in the year.
Feedback from meetings held between executive management or the investor relations department, The 2017 review acknowledged that avoiding fatalities and institutional shareholders, is also communicated remains the key priority, and that: to the Board.
more work is needed to address recurring incidents During the year there were regular presentations to, leading to injury or death and meetings with, institutional investors in the UK, more information is sought on people issues and South Africa, continental Europe and North America talent management to communicate the strategy and performance of AngloAmerican.
Executive directors and key there is a need to ensure there is the right balance executives, including business unit heads, host such of resource management across all aspects of the presentations, which include seminars for investors committees responsibilities.
and analysts and one-to-one meetings.
Throughout the year, executive management also present at industry conferences that are organised mainly by investment banks for their institutional investor base.
Private shareholders are encouraged to attend the Companys general meetings or to submit questions to the Company via the Groups website.
The website also provides the latest news and historical financial information, details about forthcoming events for shareholders and analysts, and other information regarding AngloAmerican.
Voting levels at the AGM in 2017 were around 67%, with no more than 1.7% of that total being votes withheld.
This is broadly in line with 2016 levels.
All resolutions submitted to the meeting in 2017 were passed with more than 83% of the shareholders voting in favour, and only two resolutions the re-election of the auditors and the authority for directors to allot shares received fewer than 90% of the votes cast in favour.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 75 GOVERNANCE THE BOARD IN 2017 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS VISITS BOARD VISITS TO GROUP In July 2017, fide Beers senior management hosted a visit OPERATIONS IN 2017 by Nolitha Fakude and Ian Ashby to fide Beers Technologies Undertaking regular site visits allows directors to UK, the world-leading diamond research and technological gain a better understanding of the Groups operations development centre which specialises in diamond sorting and affords Board members the opportunity to meet and valuing technology, and synthetics detection.
During 2017, the Board In September 2017, non-executive directors, including met on two occasions outside the UK at locations in members of the Sustainability Committee, visited Platinums which the Group operates.
In September, the Board Precious Metals Refinery in South Africa accompanied by met in South Africa to coincide with AngloAmericans Chris Griffith, CEO of Platinum.
centenary celebrations: and in October the Board met in Santiago, as described below.
In 2017, non-executive In October 2017, Nolitha Fakude accompanied Stuart directors visited Group operations in Brazil, Chile, Chambers to Brazil to visit the Minas-Rio Iron Ore and Peru, South Africa and the UK.
BOARD VISIT TO SOUTH AMERICA Site visits are an integral part In October 2017, the AngloAmerican plc Board met in of performing your duties as a Santiago, Chile.
During the course of the visit, the Board received detailed presentations from Copper and Base director.
They are invaluable in Metals management on their strategy and operations, enabling board members to develop asset base and outlook.
Directors undertook an operational visit to the Los Bronces copper mine, located around 3,500 a greater understanding of the metres above sea level.
The Board joined Copper as they issues affecting the business.
In celebrated Anglo Americans centenary celebrations with external stakeholders, including Chiles Minister of Mining.
turn, that helps inform discussion A number of directors also visited AngloAmericans around the board table.
Quellaveco copper project in southern Peru, accompanied by Duncan Wanblad, CEO of Base Metals.
During the course Jim Rutherford, Non-executive Director of the visit, directors participated in on-site activities with employees and contractors organised for the Groups annual Global Safety Day campaign.
Directors received detailed briefings on Quellaveco, and toured the projects main sites, including the open pit, the Asana river diversion works and the concentrator plant site.
In addition, directors visited agricultural and female empowerment social development and community projects in the Moquegua Region which are supported by AngloAmerican in Peru.
In Lima, the chairman, finance director and CEO of Base Metals met with national and regional leaders.
For more information on Quellaveco See page 19 Top: Coppers CEO Hennie Faul left and NED Jack Thompson at Los Bronces mine.
Bottom left: NED Anne Stevens centre with Los Bronces head of shift mine operations Pablo Gomez left and vice president operations Patricio Chacana right at the mine.
Bottom right: Hennie Faul left and Base Metals CEO Duncan Wanblad with the Board at their meeting in Santiago.
76 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 Governance Left: Directors visiting the Quellaveco copper project in Peru.
Right: left to right Quellaveco project vice president Domenico Pelliccia, Duncan Wanblad and Anglo American chairman Stuart Chambers listen to a presentation for employees and contractors at Quellaveco on Global Safety Day.
Above: Directors and executives participating in Global Safety Day at Quellaveco.
Left and right: Directors and executives at social projects around the town of Moquegua, which lies close to the Quellaveco project.
Bottom right: left to right Angela Marca Flores, Mary Atencio Colque and Irene Quispe, who have received assistance from Mujures Emprendedoras, a project supported by Anglo American, helping women set up their own businesses.
Bottom left: In Moquegua, NED Mphu Ramatlapeng addresses directors and Quellaveco management at Casa Informativa, an information centre established by Anglo American where members of the public can obtain information about the Quellaveco project.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 77
