Corporate governance report UK Corporate Governance Code compliance Board responsibilities This report sets out how the Company has applied the The Board is specifically responsible for the long-term success principles and provisions of the Code throughout the accounting of the Group and for ensuring that there is a framework of period.
A copy of the Code is available on the Financial appropriate and effective controls which enables risk to be Reporting Councils website at www.
The Board sets the Companys strategic aims, ensures that the necessary financial and human resources As highlighted in the Chairmans governance letter, the Company are in place for the Company to meet its objectives and reviews is now in full compliance with the provisions of the Code.
The Board also sets the Companys the IPO of the Company in October 2016, the Board has made vision, values and corporate standards and ensures that its significant progress to ensure that its governance arrangements obligations to shareholders and other stakeholders are meet the expectations of shareholders and, before the end of understood and met.
2017, full compliance with the Code.
The progress made is explained in more detail throughout this report.
This was a year The Board has a schedule of matters reserved for its approval of transition and as such full compliance with the Code was only and a formal structure of delegated authority, whereby specified achieved part way through the year: items have been delegated to the Board committees, and Code provision B.
1.2 balance of independent Non-Executive specified management control has been delegated to the Directors three new independent Non-Executive Directors Executive Directors and the senior management teams within were appointed in June 2017 and August 2017 and three nonthe business.
The Board has agreed the terms of reference for independent private equity representative Directors resigned the Audit and Risk, Nomination, Remuneration, Corporate from the Board in March and September 2017.
However, full Responsibility and Market Disclosure committees.
The powers of compliance with this provision was achieved from 11 August the Directors are set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
2017 when the Board was expanded to ten Directors The Board and the committees, with the support of the Company comprising of: Chairman, six independent Non-Executive Secretary, ensure the workflow of the Board and committees is Directors, one Non-Executive Director representing Novo compliant with the requirements of the above documents.
Holdings A S Novo and two Executive Directors noting it was briefly eleven Directors until the resignation of Raj Shah Matters reserved for the Board on 8 September 2017 as Non-Executive Director A schedule of formal matters reserved for the Boards decision representing Nordic Capital.
and approval is available at www.
2.1 membership of the Nomination largely relate to matters of governance and business where Committee full compliance from 11 August 2017 when Ros independence from executive management is important, and Rivaz was appointed as the third independent Non-Executive include the following: Director, with Raj Shah stepping down as a member on Approving the annual and half-year results and any other 8 September 2017.
Group trading or interim statements, the Annual Report and Code provision C. 3.1 membership of the Audit and Risk Accounts, accounting policies and, subject to shareholder Committee full compliance from 8 September 2017 when approval, the appointment and remuneration of the external Raj Shah stepped down as a member, with Margaret Ewing auditors.
having been appointed as the fourth independent NonApproving the Groups strategic aims and objectives.
Approving the annual operating and capital expenditure Code provision D. 2.1 membership of Remuneration budgets, including all investments in excess of $10m or Committee full compliance from 8 September 2017 when otherwise as required under the Boards delegation of Raj Shah stepped down as a member, with Ros Rivaz having authority.
been appointed as the third independent Non-Executive Approving any material extension of the Groups activities into Director on 11 August 2017. new business or geographic areas.
4.2 appraisal of Chairmans performance Oversight of the Groups operations and review of led by Senior Independent Director conducted at the end of performance against the Groups annual budget and its the year and led by Steve Holliday.
4.2 review of each Directors training and Approving appointments to the Board.
development needs conducted by Chairman in the autumn.
Approving any changes to the capital structure of the Code provision B.
6.1 Board and committee evaluation Company as appropriate.
conducted at the end of the year and discussed by the Approval of the Groups dividend policy and the payment of respective committees and the Board in December 2017 interim and the recommendation of final dividends.
Code provision C. 2.3 annual review of the effectiveness of Approving major capital projects, acquisitions and disposals.
the Companys risk management and internal control systems.
This was undertaken by the Audit and Risk Committee and Determining and monitoring the Groups risk appetite, reported to the Board in December 2017. systems of internal control, corporate governance structures, practices and approval authorities.
Determining the Groups remuneration policy and the remuneration arrangements of the Executive Directors and other senior executives, monitoring executive performance and succession planning.
Approval and monitoring of the corporate responsibility policy and report.
ConvaTec Group Plc 64 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview01 Strategic report04 Governance60 Financial statements102 Other information168 Governance framework Our governance framework is set out below.
Biographical details of all Directors are included on page 63 and on our corporate website, www.
The Board has established five committees which are also detailed below.
Each of these committees operates under written terms of reference which set out formally delegated duties and responsibilities.
These terms of reference are available at www.
Board Audit and Risk Remuneration Nomination Corporate Market Disclosure Committee Committee Committee Responsibility Committee Committee See Report on pages See Report on pages See Report on pages See Report on One Executive 73 to 77 78 to 96 70 to 71 page 72 Director Jesper Ovesen Steve Holliday Sir Christopher Gent Sir Christopher Gent One Non-Executive Chair Chair Chair Chair Director Chairman or Senior Independent Rick Anderson Sir Christopher Gent Steve Holliday Rick Anderson Director Margaret Ewing Jesper Ovesen Jesper Ovesen Regina Benjamin or any other NonSteve Holliday Ros Rivaz Ros Rivaz Margaret Ewing Executive Director Paul Moraviec Executive Committee During the year, no changes were made to the schedule of The Senior Independent Director formal matters reserved for the Boards decision.
Such decisions Steve Holliday was the Companys Senior Independent Director are usually by consensus at Board meetings.
On occasion, SID throughout the year.
The SID role is to provide a decisions may be taken by a majority of Board members.
In the sounding board for the Chairman, to serve as an intermediary case of an equality of votes, the Companys Articles of Association for the other Directors when necessary and to be available to provide the Chairman with a second or casting vote.
The Board shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the has a forward schedule of work to ensure that it meets its normal channels of the Chairman or Executive Directors has responsibilities during the course of the current financial year.
either failed to resolve or for which such contact is This has been developed and enhanced in the first full year inappropriate.
The SID also led the annual evaluation of the following the IPO.
The documentation detailing the Board approved role and responsibilities of the SID is available at Board composition www.
At the end of the year the Board comprised ten Directors: the Chairman, two Executive Directors, six independent NonExecutive Directors and one Non-Executive Director.
The Chairman Sir Christopher Gent was the Chairman throughout the year and to the date of this Annual Report.
He was independent on appointment in October 2016.
In accordance with the Code there is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer.
Each have Board approved roles and responsibilities and the documentation detailing their specific roles and responsibilities is available at www.
ConvaTec Group Plc 65 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate governance report continued Board changes during the year Committee membership changes during the year There were a number of directorate changes during the year, The appointment of new independent Non-Executive Directors resulting in the achievement of an appropriate balance of during the year and the resignation of Non-Executive Directors independence in the composition of the Board and committees representing Nordic Capital and Avista during the year allowed in full compliance with the Code.
for the committees of the Board to be reconfigured, bringing the membership of the Audit & Risk Committee, Remuneration Novo is a significant shareholder of the Company.
Given its and Nomination Committees in line with the requirements of significant investment in the Company, Novo is entitled to the Code.
The changes to these committees is detailed above.
appoint one Non-Executive Director to the Board for so long In addition, membership of the Corporate Responsibility as it and its associates are entitled to exercise, or control the Committee was strengthened by the appointment of Margaret exercise of, 10% or more of the votes able to be cast on all or Ewing and Regina Benjamin from 11 August 2017.
The current substantially all matters at general meetings of the Company.
compositions of the Boards committees are shown in the The representative Non-Executive Director of Novo is Kasim relevant committee sections on pages 70 to 79.
Kutay who was appointed on 31 March 2017.
He is not a member of any committee of the Board.
The representative Re-appointment of Directors Non-Executive Directors of Nordic Capital and Avista who were All Directors are subject to annual re-election and all Directors not independent have all stepped down.
Following Nordic will be proposed for election or re-election as appropriate by Capital and Avista respectively ceasing to hold 10% or more shareholders at the AGM to be held on 10 May 2018.
Nonshares in the Company, Thomas Vetander Nordic Capital and Executive Directors are initially appointed for a one-year term Kunal Pandit Avista both ceased to be a Director on 31 March and retiring Directors, if willing to act, will be deemed to be 2017 and Raj Shah Nordic Capital ceased to be a Director on re-appointed unless the resolution for their re-appointment is 8 September 2017. not approved.
Three new independent Non-Executive Directors were Board meetings and attendance appointed in the period, being Ros Rivaz on 20 June 2017 The Board meets approximately nine times a year, including two and Margaret Ewing and Regina Benjamin on 11 August 2017. scheduled calls around the quarterly results, and aims to hold at Ros has extensive knowledge and experience in operations, least two Board meetings each year at one of the Companys manufacturing and supply chain in healthcare and other sectors.
operations to provide the Board with access to the Groups Margaret has a wealth of experience in finance, audit and wider management team and the opportunity to deepen their reporting previously with Deloitte and in business.
Regina is a understanding of the Groups business.
Seven in-person practising physician and former United States Surgeon General, meetings were held in 2017 with supplementary telephone so brings in-depth healthcare knowledge and patient perspective.
Each of the Directors has confirmed that they have sufficient time to properly fulfil their duties including Frank Schulkes joined the Board as Group Chief Financial attendance at the Board meetings scheduled to take place in Officer CFO designate in August and became CFO on 2018 and separate time with management.
He succeeds Nigel Clerkin who, following the decision to relocate the CFO role to our Head Office in Reading, The table below shows the number of scheduled Board decided not to move his family from Dublin and left the meetings attended by each Director out of the number Company.
Frank has exceptional MedTech experience having convened during the time served by each Director on the Board: been with GE Healthcare for 27 years, where he held a number Attendance of increasingly senior financial and planning roles including eight Eligible to years as CFO of GE Healthcare.
Director Attended attend Sir Christopher Gent 8 9 The search, selection and appointment process for Executive Steve Holliday 9 9 Directors and independent Non-Executive Directors is fully described in the report from the Nomination Committee on Jesper Ovesen 8 9 page 71.
Rick Anderson 9 9 Raj Shah member until 8 September 2017 6 6 Thomas Vetander member until 31 March 2017 2 2 Kunal Pandit member until 31 March 2017 2 2 Ros Rivaz appointed on 20 June 2017 3 4 Margaret Ewing appointed on 11 August 2017 3 3 Regina Benjamin appointed on 11 August 2017 3 3 Kasim Kutay appointed on 31 March 2017 6 6 Paul Moraviec 9 9 Frank Schulkes appointed on 1 November 2017 1 1 Nigel Clerkin member until 31 October 2017 8 8 ConvaTec Group Plc 66 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview01 Strategic report04 Governance60 Financial statements102 Other information168 The Chairman and Jesper Ovesen were unable to attend one At its meetings during the year, the Board discharged its scheduled Board meeting each due to unexpected family responsibilities, and in particular, it considered: matters, and Ros Rivaz was unable to make one scheduled Strategy.
meeting shortly after her appointment due to a pre-existing Trading and financial performance.
conflict with a board meeting with another company.
In addition The Groups 2017 and 2018 annual operating plans.
to the scheduled meetings the Board may meet at other times Review of annual and half-year reports and interim and final as required or at the request of one or more Directors.
decisions are required between meetings on matters reserved Approval of scrip dividend.
to the Board, there is a process in place to schedule meetings by Review of the Margin Improvement Programme.
As well as scheduled meetings 12 additional Reports from the Companys brokers in respect of market meetings were held.
These were mainly in respect of strategic consensus, share price performance and shareholder matters that the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer decided feedback.
should be considered by the Board prior to the next scheduled Appointment of independent Non-Executive Directors on meeting.
Despite these meetings being held at relatively short recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
notice, there was very high levels of attendance at each one: Oversight of work conducted by, and reports from, the Directors unable to attend gave their input to the Chairman or Boards Audit & Risk Committee, Nomination and Senior Independent Director on the business to be conducted Remuneration Committees.
prior to the meeting and were briefed afterward on the Review of each of the Groups franchises and new product meeting discussions.
Review, and approval of, acquisitions of EuroTec and Woodbury.
As highlighted in the biographical information provided about Corporate development strategy and metrics.
each Director on page 63, the Board benefits from a wide Approval of the employee share plans.
variety of skills, experience and knowledge.
However, each Corporate governance issues including appointment of independent Non-Executive Director must be able to commit auditors, Board and committee evaluation review, Modern sufficient time to the Company and this must be balanced Slavery statement, and key corporate governance against other commitments and any other external appointment developments.
Through the annual evaluation of Non-Executive Directors effectiveness it was assessed that they each can give Directors conflicts of interest a sufficient time commitment to the Company.
The Companies Act has codified the Directors duty to avoid a situation in which they have, or can have, an interest that In addition to scheduled Board meetings, Non-Executive conflicts, or possibly may conflict with the interests of the Directors are expected to attend the AGM, the Companys Company.
A Director will not be in breach of that duty if the annual strategy meeting and certain other Company events and relevant matter has been authorised in accordance with the site visits throughout the year.
A time commitment of 15 to 25 Articles of Association or by the other Directors.
The days per annum is the anticipated requirement for each Nomination Committee reviews the interests of candidates Non-Executive Director.
A greater time commitment is required prior to making recommendations for the appointment of new from the Chairman.
He has no other significant commitment Directors.
Directors are required to discuss any additional that could affect his commitment to the Company.
commitments with the Chairman on an ongoing basis to ensure that any conflicts can be avoided or managed.
At each Board meeting, the Chief Executive Officer presents a comprehensive update on the strategy and trading performance Confirmation of Director independence across the Group and the Chief Financial Officer presents At its December meeting, the Board considered the analysis of the financial performance.
Senior executives below independence of Non-Executive Directors against the criteria Board level attend relevant parts of the Board and Committee specified in the Code and determined that Steve Holliday, meetings in order to make presentations on their areas of Jesper Ovesen, Rick Anderson, Ros Rivaz, Margaret Ewing and responsibility.
This gives the Board access to a broader group Regina Benjamin were independent.
The Board considers these of executives and helps the Directors make assessments when individuals to be independent of management and free from considering succession plans.
The Board continually reviews the business relationships that could interfere with the exercise of Groups strategy and holds one dedicated full-day strategy independent judgement.
The Board believes that any shares in meeting each year.
the Company held by the Chairman and the independent Non-Executive Directors serve to align their interests with those of the Companys shareholders.
ConvaTec Group Plc 67 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate governance report continued Board induction and development All new Directors participate in a formal induction programme which is monitored by the Chairman and is the responsibility of the Company Secretary.
Its purpose is to familiarise new Directors with the Groups business and its operations and provide key information in relation to its governance and compliance processes and procedures.
This programme has evolved as we build on the experience of inducting each new Director.
The induction of a Director typically includes an on-site meeting at the Groups global research and development facility.
Information about the most recent on-site meeting, which took place in December 2017, is shown on the left.
Further, individual meetings are held with members of the Executive Committee and other senior management to provide a thorough briefing on the business and key processes.
Individual induction Franchise presentation During the on-site induction meeting at our Deeside research and development requirements are overseen by the Chairman, with the support facility in December 2017, members of the franchise leadership team made a of the Company Secretary, to ensure that newly appointed series of presentations to Regina Benjamin and Margaret Ewing.
Directors are provided with sufficient knowledge in a timely fashion to enable them to contribute to the Boards discussions as quickly as possible.
During the scheduled Board meetings, the Directors received updates and presentations from the Groups senior management on business developments, with rotating deep dives on each franchise, geographic regions and strategic initiatives including new products.
Operation of the Board and its committees The Directors have access to a fully encrypted electronic portal system, which enables them to receive and review Board and committee papers quickly and securely electronically.
Scheduled Board and committee meetings are held physically and most ad hoc meetings are held by phone.
The Company Secretary attends all Board and committee meetings.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising and supporting the Chairman, the Board and its Committees on Tour of the Deeside research facilities Regina and Margaret also toured the R&D facility and met a number of the corporate governance matters as well as ensuring that there scientists that develop our AWC, Ostomy and CCC products.
is a smooth flow of information to enable effective decision making.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and, through her, have access to independent professional advice in respect of their duties, at the Companys expense.
Tour of the Deeside manufacturing plant The December 2017 Deeside visit also included a tour of the manufacturing plant and concluded with a Q&A session with the senior management team.
ConvaTec Group Plc 68 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview01 Strategic report04 Governance60 Financial statements102 Other information168 Board evaluation Executive Directors With 2017 being our first full year as a listed Company, the The Groups performance management system applies to Board are committed to developing and maintaining high management at all levels.
The individual performance of the standards of corporate governance.
As part of that, we envisage Executive Directors is reviewed separately by the Chairman and conducting an externally facilitated review on the recommended the Remuneration Committee.
Further details of the Executive three-year cycle, with the first such review to take place in 2018.
Directors performance measures and objectives are provided in the Remuneration report on pages 78 to 96.
This year, our Board evaluation was led by the Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, conducted Investor relations using a bespoke questionnaire delving into all aspects of Board As highlighted in the Chairmans governance letter the Board is processes and effectiveness, followed by frank and open debate committed to maintaining an active dialogue with shareholders.
on the results between all Board members.
Each committee of the Board also undertook questionnaire-style evaluations and In addition to the activities undertaken by the Chairman and subsequent discussions, with the Audit and Risk Committee Non-Executive Directors during the year a comprehensive range using a best practice framework provided by the auditors.
of IR activities were undertaken by the Executive Directors, IR team and relevant members of the senior management The evaluation concluded that the Board felt its work and team including: performance during the year had predominantly been positive, Investor roadshows were conducted in the UK, US, with strong support for the Chairman of the Board and each of Switzerland and France.
It was recognised that the Over 100 investor meetings and calls were held.
Board had been significantly occupied with the challenges Three site visits were arranged including visits to Deeside experienced in the year.
The dynamics between Board and Haina.
members, composition of the Board and its committees as well The Company participated in two conferences organised by as discussions at meetings were sighted as particular strengths.
The Company hosted full and half-year results presentations Areas considered in need of further development centred to which analysts and institutional investors were invited to largely around the objectives to be expected of any nascent attend.
Both presentations were webcast and transcripts public company, in particular: made available.
Improved management reporting to better enable effective Analysts and institutional investors were invited to participate Board discussion, deliberation and decision making, with a in the Companys trading update conference calls and stronger emphasis on risk and risk controls.
Cultivating and maturing the flow of information to the Board.
Tighter governing of processes around agenda submissions from key senior management for discussion at Board meetings.
Re-evaluating the balance of discussions between strategic and technical matters.
Succession planning for the Board, Executive Committee and other key senior management roles.
Arrangements have been put in place to address the agreed actions which will be monitored by the Chairman with the support of the Company Secretary, with reports on progress provided to the Board.
Chairman evaluation The performance of the Chairman of the Board and each committee chairman were considered as part of the wider evaluations conducted.
The chairmen in each case abstained from the questions pertaining to their performance.
In each case there was strong support from the Board and committee members for their chairman, highlighting good knowledge of the business and presiding over their respective meetings and Board discussions.
In addition, the Chairman undertook individual evaluation of each member of the Board to review their contribution to the Company and to identify areas for improvement.
ConvaTec Group Plc 69 Annual Report and Accounts 2017
