Nomination Committee report Dear Shareholder Our diverse Board has a good This is the second report of the Nomination Committee the range of skills and expertise and Committee.
I chair the Committee and I confirm that I have no other significant commitments.
we will continue to monitor its Independence composition.
The Code recommends that a majority of the Committees members are independent Non-Executive Directors and as we committed previously, the Committee is now compliant with the Code as three of the members are independent.
Key areas of responsibility The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility for reviewing and proposing appointments to the Board and for recommending any other changes to the composition of the Board.
The Committees key areas of responsibility include to: Lead the process for Board appointments and make recommendations to the Board.
Review regularly the structure, size and composition of the Board including its skills knowledge, independence, experience and diversity and make recommendations to the Board about any changes.
Consider plans and make recommendations to the Board for orderly succession for appointments to the Board and to senior management.
Maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience within the Company and on the Board and to ensure Sir Christopher Gent progressive refreshing of the Board, taking into account the Chairman of the Nomination Committee challenges and opportunities facing the Company.
Review each year the time Non-Executive Directors are expected to spend on the Companys matters and whether Committee membership, meetings and attendance each Non-Executive Director is devoting enough time to his The table below sets out the Committees membership.
five times during 2017 and attendance is shown.
Detailed responsibilities are set out in the Committees terms Attendance of reference which can be found at www.
Eligible to Director Attended attend Activities of the Committee during the period Sir Christopher Gent 5 5 At its meetings during the period, the Committee discharged its Jesper Ovesen 4 5 responsibilities as listed above and in particular: Steve Holliday 4 5 Conducted a thorough process and made recommendations to the Board to appoint a new CFO and new independent Raj Shah member until 8 September 2017 5 5 Non-Executive Directors, including expanding the number of Kunal Pandit member until 31 March 2017 0 1 Non-Executive directors to strengthen the Board.
Ros Rivaz appointed 11 August 2017 0 0 As part of those processes: In relation to the appointment of the CFO, reviewed the In addition to the Committee members, the meetings are also proposed role specification and candidates to ensure an regularly attended by: appropriate balance of technical and operational skills.
Chief Executive Officer In relation to the appointment of Non-Executive Directors, Company Secretary reviewed the Boards objectives in terms of balance of EVP, Human Resources independence and diversity, and in order to determine the attributes required of new Non-Executive Directors, conducted an assessment of the skills and experience required against the Companys current and future requirements.
Upon the appointment of new independent Non-Executive Directors, conducted a review of, and made recommendations in respect of, the memberships of the Boards Committees.
Reviewed the succession planning for the Board and the senior management team and talent management arrangements.
Reviewed the Companys diversity and inclusion programme and approved a Board Diversity Policy and gender diversity targets.
Assisted management by interviewing and assessing key candidates for Executive Committee roles.
ConvaTec Group Plc 70 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview01 Strategic report04 Governance60 Financial statements102 Other information168 The biographies of each Director are set out on page 63, it can Non-Executive Director appointments be seen that none of the Directors hold more than five nonInternational search and selection firms, The Zygos Partnership, chair non-executive director positions with other companies Egon Zehnder and Russell Reynolds, have been used by the and all have confirmed that they have sufficient time to commit Chairman to identify a range of suitable candidates for review by to their roles at the Company.
The talent and succession the Nomination Committee.
As a result of this process, Ros Riva planning review of the Committee supported the changes to was appointed to the Board on 20 June 2017, and Margaret the organisational structure of the Group and membership of Ewing and Regina Benjamin were appointed on 11 August 2017. the Executive Committee announced in December 2017.
The Committee has a forward work programme and a key area of Copies of all appointment letters are available for inspection at focus for 2018 shall be succession planning for the Board and the Companys registered office.
senior management building on changes made in 2017 to the Board and the organisational structure, and activities to From time to time Korn Ferry will also conduct executive search continually improve diversity and inclusion within the Company.
To enable it to carry out its duties and responsibilities effectively, the Committee relies on information and support from the EVP, The Zygos Partnership, Egon Zehnder, Korn Ferry and Russell Human Resources and Company Secretary.
Reynolds have no connection with the Company other than they may be engaged to assist with senior management Board appointments and diversity appointments from time to time.
When evaluating candidates for Board membership, candidates are considered on merit and objective criteria, taking account of their relevant skills, expertise and sector knowledge and recognising the benefits of Boardroom diversity, including age, nationality, ethnicity and gender.
This Committee leads this evaluation process and makes recommendations to the Board.
On behalf of the Nomination Committee Sir Christopher Gent The Board endorses the aims of the Davies report entitled Chairman of the Nomination Committee Women on Boards, the Hampton-Alexander report entitled 14 February 2018 FTSE Women Leaders Improving Gender Balance in FTSE Leadership and the recently published Parker report entitled A Report into the Ethnic Diversity of UK Boards, and confirms that the Board complies with the recommendations set out in each report.
During the year, to achieve diversity in other parts of the Group, we implemented a number of changes including setting an objective to have 30% of senior management roles held by female executives by 2020.
Further information about the steps we are taking to promote diversity is included on page 18.
At Board level we have members of various nationalities, gender, ethnicity and age who have a good range of skills and expertise.
The Committee will continue to monitor the composition of the Board and ensure any individuals appointed are appointed on merit and the Board at all times has relevant skills and expertise to perform effectively.
External search firms will be engaged to assist with candidate identification.
Selected candidates will be interviewed by members of the Committee, including myself, and will be offered meetings with the Executive Directors.
The Committee will then make recommendations to the Board for its approval.
ConvaTec Group Plc 71 Annual Report and Accounts 2017
