GREENCOAT U K W I N D Corporate Governance Report This Corporate Governance Report forms part of the of the AGM, shall retire from ofce but may offer Report of the Directors as further disclosed on pages themselves for re-appointment.
The Board operates under a framework for phased Board appointments and retirements and corporate governance which is appropriate for an enable the Board to consider whether there is any risk investment company.
All companies with a premium that such Director might reasonably be deemed to listing of equity shares in the UK are required under have lost independence through such long service.
the UK Listing Rules to report on how they have The terms and conditions of appointment of nonapplied the UK Code in their Annual Report and executive Directors are available for inspection from financial statements.
The Company became a member of the AIC with Diversity Policy effect from 27 March 2013 and has therefore put in place arrangements to comply with the AIC Code The Board has a policy to base appointments on and, in accordance with the AIC Code, complies with merit and against objective criteria, with due regard the UK Code.
for the benefits of diversity, including gender diversity.
Its objective is to attract and maintain a The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, Board that, as a whole, comprises an appropriate addresses all the principles set out in the UK Code, balance of skills and experience.
as well as setting out additional principles and The Board consists of individuals from relevant and recommendations on issues that are of specic relevance complementary backgrounds offering experience in to investment companies such as the Company.
the investment management of listed funds, as well as The AIC Code and the AIC Guide are available on the in the energy sector from both a public policy and a AICs website, www.
The UK Code is commercial perspective.
As at the date of this report, available on the FRCs website, www.
the Board comprised 4 men and 1 woman, all nonexecutive Directors who are considered to be The Company has complied with the recommendations independent of the Investment Manager and free from of the AIC Code throughout the year.
any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent The Board judgement.
There were no changes to the Board As at the date of this report, the Board consists of 5 members during the year.
non-executive Directors and represents a range of investment, financial and business skills and The Investment Manager operates an equal experience.
The Chairman of the Board is Tim Ingram.
opportunities policy and its partners and employees In considering the independence of the Chairman, the comprise 18 men and 10 women.
Board took note of the provisions of the AIC Code relating to independence, and has determined that Performance and Evaluation Mr Ingram is an independent Director.
The Senior Pursuant to Principle 7 of the AIC Code, the Board Independent Director is William Rickett C. B..
The undertakes a formal and rigorous evaluation of its Company has no employees and therefore there is no performance each financial year.
As a FTSE 250 requirement for a chief executive.
company, in keeping with the provisions of the AIC Code, it is the Companys policy that every 3 years an The Articles of Association provide that Directors shall external consultant, who has no connection with the retire and offer themselves for re-election at the first Company, carries out a formal review of the Boards AGM after their appointment and at least every performance.
This was conducted in late 2016.
However, as a FTSE 250 company, all Directors should be subject to an annual election Since then, an internal evaluation of the Board, the by shareholders as prescribed by the AIC Code, Audit Committee and individual Directors has been therefore, Directors offer to be re-elected annually.
conducted in the form of performance appraisal, All of the Directors shall offer themselves for requestionnaires and discussion to determine election at the forthcoming AGM.
Having considered effectiveness and performance in various areas, as well their effectiveness, demonstration of commitment to as the Directors continued independence and tenure.
the role, length of service, attendance at meetings This process was facilitated by the Company Secretary.
and contribution to the Boards deliberations, the The review concluded that the overall performance of Board approves the nomination for re-election of all the Board and Audit Committee was satisfactory and of the Directors.
the Board was confident in its ability to continue to govern the Company.
Any Director, who has held ofce with the Company for a continuous period of 9 years or more at the date 31 Greencoat UK Wind PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2017 Corporate Governance Report continued Performance and Evaluation continued committee also has responsibility for the identication of inside information for the purpose of maintaining Each individual Directors training and development the Companys insider list.
All new Directors receive an induction from the Investment Manager, which Terms of reference for the Communications and includes the provision of information about the Disclosure Committee have been approved by the Company and their responsibilities.
In addition, each Board and membership consists of Tim Ingram or one Director visits portfolio wind farms and specic Board other Director and one of Stephen Lilley and Laurence training days are arranged involving presentations on Fumagalli.
Additional members of the committee may relevant topics.
be appointed and existing members removed by the committee.
The membership of the committee is Board Responsibilities reviewed by the Board on a periodic basis and at least The Board will meet, on average, 4 times in each once a year.
calendar year for scheduled Board meetings and on an ad hoc basis as and when necessary.
At each meeting The Company has established a Management the Board follows a formal agenda that will cover the Engagement Committee which comprises all of the business to be discussed.
Between meetings there is Directors and is required to meet at least once per regular contact with the Investment Manager and the year.
The chairman of the Management Engagement Administrator.
The Board requires to be supplied with Committee is Tim Ingram and its main function is to information by the Investment Manager, the keep under review the performance of the Investment Administrator and other advisers in a form appropriate Manager and make recommendations on any to enable it to discharge its duties.
proposed amendment to the Investment Management Agreement.
Terms of reference for the The Board has responsibility for ensuring that the Management Engagement Committee have been Company keeps proper accounting records which approved by the Board.
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and which enable it The AIC Code recommends that companies appoint to ensure that the financial statements comply with Remuneration and Nomination Committees, however applicable regulation.
It is the Boards responsibility the Board has not deemed this necessary, as being to present a fair, balanced and understandable wholly comprised of non-executive Directors, the Annual Report, which provides the information whole Board considers these matters.
necessary for shareholders to assess the performance, The Investment Manager strategy and business model of the Company.
This responsibility extends to half-yearly and other priceThe Board has entered into the Investment sensitive public reports.
Management Agreement with the Investment Manager under which the Investment Manager is Committees of the Board responsible for developing strategy and the day-to-day The Companys Audit Committee is chaired by Shonaid management of the Groups investment portfolio, in Jemmett-Page, and consists of a minimum of 3 accordance with the Groups investment objective and members.
In accordance with best practice, the policy, subject to the overall supervision of the Board.
Companys Chairman is not a member of the Audit A summary of the fees paid to the Investment Manager Committee however he does attend Audit Committee are given in note 3 to the financial statements.
meetings as and when deemed appropriate.
The Audit The Investment Managers appointment is terminable Committee report which is on pages 35 to 38 of this by the Investment Manager or the Company on report describes the work of the Audit Committee.
not less than 12 months notice, such notice not to The Company has established a Communications and expire earlier than 30 June 2019.
The Investment Disclosure Committee which is required to meet at Management Agreement may be terminated with least once a year.
The committee has responsibility for, immediate effect and without compensation, by either amongst other things, determining on a timely basis the Investment Manager or the Company if the other the disclosure treatment of material information, and party has gone into liquidation, administration or assisting in the design, implementation and periodic receivership or has committed a material breach of the evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures.
32 GREENCOAT U K W I N D Corporate Governance Report continued The Investment Manager continued The Companys principal risks and uncertainties are detailed on pages 5 to 7 of this report.
As further The Board as a whole reviewed the Companys explained in the Audit Committee Report, the risks of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Company are outlined in a risk matrix which was the Listing Rules, the Disclosure Guidance and reviewed and updated during the year.
The Board Transparency Rules and the AIC Code.
In accordance continually reviews its policy setting and updates the with the Listing Rules, the Directors confirm that the risk matrix at least annually to ensure that procedures continued appointment of the Investment Manager are in place with the intention of identifying, mitigating under the current terms of the Investment and minimising the impact of risks should they Management Agreement is in the interests of crystallise.
The Board relies on reports periodically shareholders.
The Board also reviewed the provided by the Investment Manager and the performance of other service providers and examined Administrator regarding risks that the Company faces.
the effectiveness of the Companys internal control When required, experts are employed to gather systems during the year.
information, including tax and legal advisers.
The Board Meetings, Committee Meetings and Board also regularly monitors the investment Directors Attendance environment and the management of the Companys portfolio, and applies the principles detailed in the The number of meetings of the full Board attended in internal control guidance issued by the FRC.
the year to 31 December 2017 by each Director is set out below: The principal features of the internal control systems Scheduled Board Additonal Board which the Investment Manager and the Administrator Meetings Meetings have in place in respect of the Groups financial Total of 4 Total of 10 reporting include: Tim Ingram 4 10 internal reviews of all financial reports: Shonaid Jemmett-Page 4 9 William Rickett C. B.
4 9 review by the Board of financial information prior Dan Badger 4 8 to its publication: Martin McAdam 4 10 authorisation limits over expenditure incurred by the Group: During the year, there were also 10 meetings of subcommittees of the Board.
review of valuations: and The number of meetings of the Audit Committee authorisation of investments.
attended in the year to 31 December 2017 by each Audit Committee member is set out below: Whistleblowing The Board has considered the AIC Code Audit Committee Meetings Total of 4 recommendations in respect of arrangements by which staff of the Investment Manager or Administrator may, Shonaid Jemmett-Page 4 in confidence, raise concerns within their respective William Rickett C. B.
4 organisations about possible improprieties in matters Dan Badger 4 of financial reporting or other matters.
It has concluded Martin McAdam 4 that adequate arrangements are in place for the proportionate and independent investigation of such Internal Control matters and, where necessary, for appropriate followThe Board is responsible for the Companys system of up action to be taken within their organisation.
internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Amendment of Articles of Association Board confirms that it has an ongoing process for The Companys Articles of Association may be identifying, evaluating and managing the significant amended by the members of the Company by special risks faced by the Company.
This process has been in resolution requiring a majority of at least 75 per cent.
place throughout the year and has continued since the of the persons voting on the relevant resolution.
33 Greencoat UK Wind PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2017 Corporate Governance Report continued Relations with Shareholders Shareholders may also nd Company information or contact the Company through its website: The Company welcomes the views of shareholders and www.
places great importance on communication with its shareholders.
The Investment Manager is available On behalf of the Board at all reasonable times to meet with principal shareholders and key sector analysts.
The Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and other Directors are also available to meet with shareholders if required.
Tim Ingram All shareholders have the opportunity to put questions Chairman of the Board to the Company at the registered address.
The AGM of the Company will provide a forum for shareholders to 25 February 2018 meet and discuss issues with the Directors and Investment Manager.
The Board receives comprehensive shareholder reports from the Companys Registrar at all quarterly Board meetings and regularly monitors the views of shareholders and the shareholder prole of the Company.
The Board is also kept fully informed of all relevant market commentary on the Company by the Investment Manager.
