247149 RIT R&A pp023-pp038 26 02 2018 11:10 Page 28 Audit and Risk Committee Report place provide for staff to have direct recourse to the The Audit and Risk Committee I am pleased to present the report of the Audit and Risk Committee, through myself as Chairman.
Committee for the year ended 31 December 2017.
The most significant matters we considered during the year include: The Committee has oversight responsibilities delegated to it by the Board in three principal areas: financial UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 reporting, risk management and the external audit.
The We reviewed the information and analysis provided by responsibilities are set out in more detail in the the Manager to support the disclosures required to be Committees Terms of Reference, which may be viewed made to shareholders in the annual report.
The valuation of direct private investments and other Committee composition assets The Committee currently comprises three Directors, each Direct private investments comprise approximately 9% of whom is non-executive and independent of the of net assets.
By their very nature such investments Company.
The Board is satisfied that I have requisite, merit individual attention when considering their fair recent and relevant financial experience to chair the value.
The estimation of fair value requires the exercise Committee: I am a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered of considerable judgement and in many instances the use Accountants and a former partner at Deloitte LLP.
of a range of valuation techniques.
This subjectivity Mike Wilson left the Committee when he retired from means that there is a higher degree of uncertainty in such the Board on 19 October 2017. valuations compared with those of other assets.
The two other members of the Committee at the year We have considered the work of the Valuation end have recent and relevant financial experience and Committee and the results of their discussions with both both are also Fellows of the Institute of Chartered the Manager and the external auditors.
Their individual biographies are shown on work to be detailed, comprehensive and that the persons page 20. preparing the reports have sufficient and appropriate expertise through their experience and qualifications.
Committee meetings and activity during the year Furthermore, we believe that the process is planned and We meet twice each year to review the Groups halfmanaged so as to devote adequate time and resource to yearly and annual financial statements.
The reviews preparation and review by both the Manager and the include the assessment and assurance that the reports, members of the Valuation Committee.
taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to We have also considered the work of the Valuation assess the Groups position, performance, business Committee as it relates to other assets in the portfolio.
We also consider the year-end Here, the combination of detailed processes, rigorous reports from the external auditors and discuss any analysis and, where relevant, external advice has matters arising with the Manager.
The adequacy of the provided comfort over the entirety of the portfolio Groups accounting policies and financial reporting procedures are discussed with the external auditor at valuations.
Related Party Disclosures We hold two further meetings each year to review the Related party transactions are a common feature of effectiveness of the Groups risk management and commerce and business.
The Group often takes internal controls, by reference to reports prepared by the advantage of opportunities offered to it, or services Manager, its internal audit function and BNPSS as provided to it via many relationships built up over time Depositary.
During the year three extra meetings including those arising from Board members.
Disclosure occurred in connection with the audit tender process.
of such transactions is a legal requirement in order to allow shareholders and other users of the financial We also review the Groups whistleblowing procedures statements to assess the risks and opportunities facing for staff to follow in the event that they might have any the Group.
Any failure to properly address this concerns about possible improprieties in matters of requirement could expose the Group to legal, regulatory financial reporting or other matters.
The procedures in or reputational risk.
28 Report and Accounts December 2017 RIT Capital Partners plc 247149 RIT R&A pp023-pp038 26 02 2018 11:10 Page 29 | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Audit and Risk Committee Report of the Committee have been established to maximise the We consider the work of the Conflicts Committee in independence of the function from JRCMs executive reviewing cost-sharing arrangements, co-investment management.
transactions and any other similar arrangements with parties related to any Director, and have discussed with JRCM also monitors the compliance of external the Manager the systems and processes in place to managers with the terms of their investment identify, review, record and disclose such transactions.
management arrangements, as well as periodically We note the importance the Board and the Manager reviewing their control procedures.
We have reviewed the disclosures made in the financial statements regarding such transactions The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the key and consider them to be the result of a process designed systems of internal control in operation during the to ensure that not only are the transactions themselves financial year, and up to the date of this report, through on appropriate terms but that the necessary disclosures the Committee.
During the course of the reviews have been made.
conducted, the Committee has not identified or been apprised of any failings or weaknesses representing a Internal Control significant business risk.
The Board of Directors is responsible for the Groups system of internal control although it has delegated the The Group maintains guidelines in relation to the key supervision of the system to the Committee.
Such controls exercised over its financial and operating affairs.
systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, Duties are segregated to an extent commensurate with the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and, as the size of the Groups organisation and business such, can provide only reasonable and not absolute environment.
assurance against any material misstatement or loss.
External Auditors The Board has delegated to JRCM the implementation of The external auditors are  LLP the system of internal control within an established PwC.
framework acceptable throughout the Group.
The system of internal control is reviewed twice each year by the PwC attended all meetings of the Committee, apart from Committee, using a comprehensive report prepared by those concerning the audit tender, and provided reports management.
The report outlines principal risks and their on their audit approach and work undertaken, the quality management covering all aspects of financial and and effectiveness of the Groups accounting records and operational risk.
The relative importance of each principal their findings in connection with the Groups annual risk is assessed by reference to the possible impact on statutory audit.
the Groups net asset value or share price should a loss occur, alongside the likelihood of that loss occurring The Committee considers PwCs independence, taking into consideration the current control environment.
objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process with the benefit of formal and informal feedback from the The Board considers that the procedures in place are Manager.
consistent with the Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business The level of non-audit services provided to the Group by Reporting published by the FRC in September 2014. the auditors is monitored, as is the auditors objectivity in providing such service, to ensure that the independence As part of the review of the control environment, an of the audit team from the Group is not compromised.
internal audit of selected areas is undertaken.
This is Non-audit services provided by PwC in 2017 totalled performed on an annual basis and follows a rolling 48,016 split between audit-related assurance and programme targeting key areas.
The precise scope and permitted taxation services.
Their selection for this work depth of the remit is subject to ongoing review.
Where was due to their expertise in this area.
Further required improvements are identified, timetables are information on fees paid to PwC is set out in note 5 to agreed for implementing these and progress is monitored the financial statements.
Clear and direct reporting lines between those conducting the reviews and the Chairman RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2017 29 247149 RIT R&A pp023-pp038 26 02 2018 11:10 Page 30 Audit and Risk Committee Report Audit Tender Following these presentations, we considered the As disclosed in last years Report and Accounts, the performance of each firm over the entire process Board, on the recommendation of the Committee, including: decided to put the audit contract out to tender in 2017 RFP submissions: with a view to appoint a new external auditor at the 2018 FRC Audit Quality Review team reports: AGM.
References: and PwC has been our auditor since listing in 1988 and under Interaction with management.
new European audit reforms we will be required to At the completion of this review we concluded that, replace them as our external auditor no later than 2020. while all three firms demonstrated they had the ability to Alison Morris, our current audit partner, comes to the end provide an excellent audit service, the commitment of her five-year rotation at the 2018 AGM and we had shown by Ernst & Young to deliver a high quality, mutually agreed that PwC would not take part in the value-added audit as well as their knowledge of the tender process.
industry in which the Group operates meant that the The Committee instigated and led an audit tender Committee recommended this firm to the Board.
The process following the 2017 AGM.
The process was Board agreed with the recommendation and as a result, designed to be fair, transparent and robust, and to give Ernst & Young will be proposed to shareholders as new each participating firm an equal opportunity to tender for auditors at the 2018 AGM.
The Committee took the principal role in overseeing the work of management, who supported the Committee in developing and implementing the agreed approach which is summarised below: Preparation of an internal short list considering: John Cornish Industry experience: Chairman, Audit and Risk Committee Technical expertise: Audit approach and quality: and Resourcing.
Shareholder consultation: Confirmation of independence from short-listed firms: Preparation, Committee review and issuance of a Request for Proposal RFP : and Information exchange via access to a data room as well as Committee members and management.
Following a review of the submitted responses, we invited Deloitte, Ernst & Young and KPMG to present to the Committee as it was judged that these three firms had the capability and experience to meet the required criteria.
30 Report and Accounts December 2017 RIT Capital Partners plc
