Board of Directors A diverse Board with extensive relevant skills and experience.
8 10 9 6 1 2 3 7 4 5 Board experience Public Finance Healthcare M&A Global ConvaTec Group Plc 62 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview01 Strategic report04 Governance60 Financial statements102 Other information168 1 Sir Christopher Gent 4 Steve Holliday Hospitals and Health Plan, and 9 Jesper Ovesen Chairman, 69 Deputy Chairman and Senior Ascension Hospital System.
Regina Non-Executive Director, 60 Independent Non-Executive holds an endowed chair in Public Date of appointment Date of appointment Director, 61 Health Sciences at Xavier University October 2016 October 2016 of Louisiana.
Date of appointment Skills and experience Skills and experience October 2016 Committee membership Sir Christopher has significant board Jespers previous board positions CR Committee level experience across global Skills and experience include Executive Chairman of Nokia operations and a range of sectors, Steve was previously Chief Executive Nationality Siemens Networks, Chief Financial including healthcare.
His previous of National Grid plc, a role he held for American Officer of TDC, Chief Executive of board positions include Chief over nine years until his retirement in Kirkbi Group, Chief Financial Officer Executive of Vodafone, Chairman of July 2016, a board member of British 7 Margaret Ewing of The Lego Group and Danske Bank GlaxoSmithKline, Chairman of the Borneo Oil and Gas and the lead Non-Executive Director, 62 and the Audit Chair of FLSmidth & Supervisory Board of Mannesmann non-executive director at Defra.
He Co. Orkla Group and Danisco.
He was Date of appointment AG, board member of Verizon also held senior management roles also a director of corporate finance August 2017 Wireless, board member of Ferrari, with Exxon in refining, shipping and for Novo Nordisk A S. He is currently non-executive director of China international gas.
Currently he is Skills and experience Deputy Chairman of SEB, one of the Mobile Hong Kong Limited and Vice-Chairman of Business in the Margaret is currently a non-executive largest banks in the Nordic region, non-executive director of Lehman Community and Vice-Chairman of director and member of the Audit and and the Audit Chair of Lundbeck and Brothers.
He was also a Senior Adviser the Careers and Enterprise Company, Risk Committee of ITV Group plc and Sunrise Communications Group.
He is currently a Chairman of the Board of Trustees a Trustee of the Board, Chairman of Jesper is a chartered accountant.
member of the international advisory at Crisis, the homeless charity and the Finance and Audit Committee Committee membership board of Hakluyt.
Chairman of Senvion S. A.. Steve is and a member of the Investment Audit and Risk Committee Chairman a fellow of the Royal Academy of Committee and the Governance, Committee membership Nomination Committee Engineering.
Reputation and Risk Committee of Nomination Committee Chairman Remuneration Committee Great Ormond Street Hospital CR Committee Chairman Committee membership Childrens Charity.
She is also the Nationality Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee Chairman external member of the Audit Danish Audit and Risk Committee Nationality Committee of The Lawn Tennis Nomination Committee British Association.
Previously she was 10 Dr Ros Rivaz Nationality Managing Partner of Deloitte LLP Non-Executive Director, 62 2 Paul Moraviec British and Group Chief Financial Officer of Date of appointment Chief Executive Officer, 59 BAA plc and Trinity Mirror plc.
Prior June 2017 5 Rick Anderson to that, Margaret was a corporate Date of appointment Non-Executive Director, 57 finance partner with Deloitte.
Skills and experience September 2016 Margaret has also held non-executive Ros was Chief Operating Officer of joined ConvaTec Limited in 2009 Date of appointment director positions with Standard Smith & Nephew plc until 2014 and October 2016 Skills and experience Chartered plc, Whitbread plc and the previously held senior management Paul was appointed Chief Executive Skills and experience CBI, and was a member of the Audit positions in global companies, in 2014.
He joined ConvaTec Limited Rick was previously Group Chairman and Risk Committee of The John including ICI, Tate & Lyle and in 2009 as President of EMEA.
of Johnson & Johnson and Lewis Partnership and member of Diageo, in the areas of supply chain Previously he held senior positions Worldwide Franchise Chairman of the Financial Reporting Review Panel.
management, logistics, manufacturing, with a number of leading global Cordis Corporation.
Before joining IT, procurement and systems.
She is a Committee membership medical device companies, including Johnson & Johnson, Rick was Vice non-executive director of RPC Group Audit and Risk Committee Abbott Laboratories where he was President of Global Marketing of plc, Computacenter plc, Boparan CR Committee Vice President of International Racal HealthCare and, prior to that, Holdings Limited and the MoD Commercial Operations covering he was with Boehringer Mannheim Nationality Defence Equipment and Support EMEA, APAC, Latin America and Pharmaceuticals and Allergan British Board.
She was previously a nonCanada, Johnson & Johnson where Pharmaceuticals.
Currently he is a executive director of Rexam plc and he held a series of increasingly senior Managing Director at PTV Healthcare 8 Kasim Kutay Chair of its Remuneration Committee.
international management and Capital PTV and serves on the Non-Executive Director, 52 She was also Vice-Chair of the Council marketing roles and Bausch & Lomb board of PTVs portfolio company of the University of Southampton, Date of appointment where he was a country manager.
He is also the where she holds an honorary March 2017 Prior to joining ConvaTec he was Chair of the board for Cardiva Medical.
doctorate, until stepping down in July Chief Executive of a specialist surgical Kasim is Chief Executive Officer of 2017, and a non-executive director of Committee membership robotics company.
Novo Holdings A S, the investment the Government sponsored Your Life Audit and Risk Committee holding company of the Novo Nordisk initiative, which ran for three years Committee membership CR Committee Foundation, a charitable foundation until the end of 2017, and encouraged CR Committee Nationality focused on contributing significantly 14 to 16 year olds to pursue Nationality American to research and development that qualifications in mathematics British improves the health and welfare of and physics.
Prior to joining Novo Holdings Committee membership 3 Frank Schulkes Non-Executive Director, 61 A S in 2016, he spent seven years at Nomination Committee Chief Financial Officer, 56 Moelis & Company where he was Date of appointment Remuneration Committee Managing Director, Co-head of Date of appointment August 2017 Europe and member of the Global Nationality November 2017 Skills and experience Management Committee with a focus British joined in August 2017 Regina was the United States on healthcare.
Prior to that he spent Skills and experience Surgeon General between 2009 and 18 years at Morgan Stanley, where he Frank was previously CFO of Wittur 2013.
Prior to that she served on the was Chairman of the European Group, a privately-held industrial board of the Medical Association of Healthcare Group.
Currently, he is a company based in Germany, prior to Alabama and in 1995 became the first board director of Novo Nordisk A S which he spent 27 years with GE in a Young Physician to be elected to the and Novozymes A S. variety of increasingly senior financial American Medical Association Board Nationality and planning roles.
Currently she is CEO and British appointed Executive Vice President a practising physician at the Bayou La and CFO of GE Healthcare, a position Batre Rural Health Clinic in Alabama, he held until mid-2015 when he left which she founded in 1990, and a to join Wittur.
non-executive director of Diplomat Pharmacy, Inc. Computer Programs Nationality and Systems, Inc. Kaiser Foundation Dutch ConvaTec Group Plc 63 Annual Report and Accounts 2017
