Our resources and relationships Our ability to deliver sustainable value for all our stakeholders is dependent on a number of key relationships and resources.
To ensure our long-term success we consider the interests of our people, how we engage effectively with our customers and build long-term relationships with our suppliers and partners.
We also focus on how we run our business and aim to ensure that at all times we operate in a responsible way upholding the Providing development and training opportunities to enhance skills and capabilities highest standards of business conduct and minimising our During the year we made good progress in establishing a strong and effective impact on the environment.
training and development platform across the Group.
We continued to make available our monthly Development Matters webinars.
Our people Accessible via our Group intranet, these webinars are delivered by our own internal experts and cover a range of personal and professional development The people we employ around the world are key to our success.
topics as well as enhancing product knowledge.
During 2017 we delivered over Every day their skill and dedication enables us to fulfil our 30 webinars which were attended by over 1,600 employees across all levels of the business.
Purpose and execute our strategy in a responsible way.
1 At 31 December 2017, we employed 9,541 people across our We also trained 50 internal peer coaches to support leadership development global operations.
Further information about our employee and 360-degree feedback.
profile, including employee turnover and the agency staff and During 2018 we will launch a number of key development programmes.
independent contractors we retain, is included in our Corporate TheConvaTec Management Experience programme, for our 200 new and Responsibility Report, which is available on our website, early career managers and theConvaTec Leadership Experience programme, www.
for our top 100 leaders globally.
We will also launch the Career Matters programme which will be accessible via our Group intranet.
It will focus initially on career development across sales and marketing, and will include selfOur ambition is to be the preferred employer for those who assessment against a suite of relevant functional competencies and want to build a career in our sector.
All our employees are development discussions with managers to plan longer-term development important to our business and we are committed to creating needs and activities.
a positive working environment where everyone can fully contribute in different but meaningful ways.
Creating career development opportunities across ConvaTec To stimulate internal mobility across our business and to provide career Development and training progression opportunities, during 2017 we began the roll-out of our internal To help our employees progress their careers and also ensure career portal which provides employees with full visibility of internal job that we have the right experience and skills across the Group opportunities across the business.
Launched using Workday, our global HR and a pipeline of talent for the future, we invest in a full range of system, the portal is now live across our UK and US operations, and in 2018 will be rolled-out across our Infusion Devices franchise and throughout the EMEA training and development opportunities which are underpinned and APAC regions.
by policies, systems and technologies which we embed across the Group.
Details of some of the key developments in these areas during the year are set out to the right.
Excludes our eight Non-Executive Directors.
ConvaTec Group Plc 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview01 Strategic report04 Governance60 Financial statements102 Other information168 Succession planning We promote our values and culture by helping our employees We continue to focus on our critical leadership roles and fully understand our Purpose, vision and mission and how our succession planning.
To support this activity, during 2017 we values translate into desired behaviours.
To embed our desired completed a Group-wide in-depth talent review to assess culture across our business we reward our people on both leadership potential.
Working closely with the Board, we have achievement of objectives the what and demonstration of used this review to identify our key leadership priority areas and our values in delivering the how.
We have actively engaged develop detailed succession and talent action plans.
our employees to define our expectations and the criteria for our behaviours, which are assessed as part of our formal Engagement performance management process.
Those employees identified To motivate our people and help them understand the value of with development needs in either achieving our goals or in their contribution, we engage with them on a regular basis using the demonstration of behaviours are supported through a several channels, and encourage the sharing of feedback and 90-day performance feedback, coaching and improvement ideas throughout our organisation.
Further details about how planning process.
we ensure effective engagement with our employees is provided below in Our culture.
To help us understand and further reinforce our culture we have established the Culture Transformation Forum the Forum In June 2017 we launched our first all-employee ShareSave which is made up of representatives from all parts of the scheme, one of the few global schemes of its kind.
The scheme business across the Group.
The Forums role is to gather offers all employees an opportunity to invest in our shares, at a information, take a pulse check on our culture, act as a sounding discounted price, regardless of location.
As at 31 December 2017, board for our leaders and employees and help to implement 22% of our total workforce had joined the scheme, a take-up rate important changes where needed.
Feedback is regularly that compares favourably with other save-as-you-earn plans which provided to our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer generally have a take-up rate in the first year of between 6%10% and Executive Vice President Human Resources who regularly of the total workforce.
In December 2017, the scheme won two attend the Forums meetings.
As a result of feedback gathered ProShare Awards: Best New Share Plan and a joint winners by the Forum we have introduced a leader-led cascade to award for Most Effective Communication of an Employee ensure that everyone across the business is updated on key Share Plan in the 5,000 to 50,000 employees category.
During the year we also developed and piloted a ConvaTec culture survey to gather Health and Safety detailed feedback about how employees experience our culture The health and safety H&S of our employees and others who locally and help local leaders take appropriate actions to ensure visit our sites is a priority.
We run regular H&S training courses effective engagement with our employees.
and, through our global H&S programme, 22 core H&S standards are embedded throughout our operations.
During We also implement a number of policies and procedures to 2017 there were no fatalities, however the lost time injury rate reinforce our values and culture including our Code of Ethics 2 did increase to 0.6 2016: 0.3.
This increase, in part, reflects an and Business Conduct our Code which covers business improvement in the consistency, completeness and accuracy of conduct and compliance issues including bribery and corruption.
Across the Group we provide ethics training, which is mandatory, and also make available an independent whistleblower hotline which can be used by employees and third parties to report Our culture suspected breaches of our Code.
We also deploy policies and procedures that are consistent with our Code which cover the Our values-based culture helps drive our success.
Caring for our third parties we rely upon to achieve our Purpose.
Further customers and developing innovative products and technologies details about these policies and procedures are set out on that anticipate and respond to their needs are essential ways of page 21. working if we are to deliver value for all our stakeholders.
In our business, we must also earn trust which means at all times we Promoting a positive working environment must act with integrity, behave responsibly and do what we say We are committed to creating a working environment where we will do.
everyone is treated fairly with respect, dignity and consideration and there are opportunities for all.
Our Human Rights and Our Values Labour Standards Policy, which incorporates the principles and Caring for people guidelines set out in the United Nations Universal Declaration of We are passionate about improving peoples lives and we put Human Rights, and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and people at the centre of everything we do.
Human Rights, addresses a range of issues including equal opportunities, anti-harassment and dignity at work and we Driving innovation and excellence undertake regular training in this area.
A copy of our Human We are dedicated to finding innovative solutions that Rights and Labour Standards Policy is available on our website anticipate and address our customers needs and to delivering www.
Earning trust We earn trust by delivering quality products and services that our customers can rely on.
Our personal actions underpin this trust.
Further information about our working environment and 2.
The lost time injury rate is calculated on the basis of 200,000 hours worked, our values-based culture is included in our Corporate and relates to our manufacturing facilities, R&D centres and our Amcare Responsibility Report, which is available on our website, business in the UK.
ConvaTec Group Plc 17 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Our resources and relationships continued Diversity, including gender, age, ethnicity, nationality and Definition and calculation of a gender pay gap experience, enhances our ability to achieve our Purpose.
The gender pay gap is the difference in the average hourly As outlined in the Chairmans letter on page 4, in line with the rate of pay between all relevant fully paid men and women in commitments we made last year to diversify its composition, the a company.
It is different to equal pay which is the difference Boards membership now reflects the requirements for gender in pay between a man and a woman who carry out the same, diversity.
However, we recognise that gender diversity in other similar or work of equal value in a company.
parts of the Group needs improvement.
To achieve this we have implemented a number of changes.
In particular we have: Our gender pay and bonus gap developed a gender diversity strategy and are establishing The table below shows our overall mean and median gender pay 3 a Diversity and Inclusion Steering Committee to oversee gap based on hourly rates of pay as at the snapshot date, its implementation: 5 April 2017.
It also captures the mean and median difference updated our Board Diversity Policy to provide for 30% female between bonuses paid to our male and female employees in the Board representation: year up to the snapshot date, i. e. for the performance year 2016 set an objective to have 30% of senior management roles which included our successful IPO in October 2016.
The data held by female executives by 2020 a challenging but provided only relates to our UK employees.
realistic target given our current position: and Percentage Percentage introduced metrics which promote the engagement of other difference difference under-represented groups within the business.
mean median Hourly rate of pay 13.0% 12.4% The Board will review relevant metrics quarterly to ensure Bonus excluding IPO awards 15.5% 11.3% that we continue to build a sustainable diverse and inclusive Bonus including IPO awards 52.6% 12.1% organisation at senior leadership levels and throughout the Group.
In the table above, we have set out bonus payments showing Our diversity and inclusion strategy the inclusion and exclusion of IPO awards.
The IPO awards Our diversity and inclusion strategy focuses on three key areas were one-off conversions of historic incentives, triggered upon to encompass all forms of diversity and inclusion: successful completion of the IPO.
These awards were made in Leading and educating the organisation on diversity and the eight-year period prior to the IPO to a number of senior inclusion goals.
Employees in these senior roles were predominantly Developing and promoting diverse talents and creating an male.
The table shows that the bonus payments including the inclusive culture.
IPO awards for all female employees, was significantly less than Actively sourcing diverse talent.
the same payment for male employees.
The bonus payments excluding IPO awards provide a more relevant baseline for future reporting.
As at 31 December 2017 our gender diversity statistics were The median hourly pay difference between our male and female as follows: employees is 12.4%, which compares favourably with the UK median pay gap of 18.1% across all sectors in April 2016 source: Male Female Office for National Statistics.
We have conducted an analysis Total Number % Number % a and believe that the gap is largely a function of experience and Board 10 7 70 3 30 contribution.
However, 73% of our employee population have a b Executive Committee 11 10 91 1 9 gender pay variance of less than 5%.
Furthermore, our female Senior management 74 57 77 17 23 employees in senior roles which we define as Associate Other employees 9,454 3,424 36 6,030 64 Director, Director and Vice President are paid higher than their Total 9,549 3,498 37 6,051 63 male counterparts.
A detailed breakdown of pay by gender and by pay quartile is b.
For the purposes of this table the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer are included as members of the Board.
As explained on page shown in the table below.
In the lower quartile, we have an even 8, membership of the Executive Committee has changed since 31 December split of males and females and in the lower middle quartile, we 2017.
Membership, as at 1 January 2018, is shown on page 6. have more females 59% than males 41%.
Between the upper middle to the upper quartile we have 54%56% males Gender pay compared to 46%44% females.
Following the introduction of new UK legislation all employers with 250 or more UK employees are required to disclose Proportion of females and males in each quartile band information about their gender pay gap on an annual basis from 7.63 12.44 16.13 24.19 April 2017.
We have analysed our pay data in detail and the 12.44 16.13 24.10 156.58 adjacent tables summarise the key information, which has been Total in band 194 193 193 193 reviewed and confirmed accurate by Ernst & Young.
Male total: 390 97 79 105 109 Female total: 383 97 114 88 84 As highlighted on page 17 we are committed to creating a % male 50% 41% 54% 56% positive and diverse working environment where everyone is % female 50% 59% 46% 44% treated fairly.
Specifically in relation to pay and our recruitment, % difference mean 0.4% 0.6 % 1.4 % 12.1% performance review and reward processes, we strive to ensure % difference median 0.0% 1.0 % 4.1 % 3.2% that regardless of gender employees are paid the same or similar for the same or similar positions.
Snapshot date: Specific reference date in which the Gender Pay Gap needs to be calculated as Government requirement from the Advisory, Conciliation and Further information about our pay data is included on our website at Arbitration Service and Government Equalities Office.
charities this date is 5 April.
ConvaTec Group Plc 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview01 Strategic report04 Governance60 Financial statements102 Other information168 As detailed in the table below, 89.5% of our female employees Our new product development pipeline and 83.3% of our male employees received a bonus payment.
Both figures are above the UK reported average.
Females Males Proportion of females and males receiving Concept phase Development phase At or nearing launch phase a bonus payment 89.5% 83.3% Eligible population for a bonus during the Including products commercialised for roll-out in new markets and or for relevant bonus pay period 401 400 new indications Ensuring gender pay equality and fairness forms part of our During the year we enhanced our product launch capabilities by sustainable development goals.
In 2018 we will continue to embedding our Gateway Programme, a consistent and rigorous monitor and analyse our pay data across our main geographies framework, in our new product development process.
Gateway worldwide and develop appropriate measures in order to ensure balances our market leading R&D capabilities with strategic gender pay equality.
Furthermore, as highlighted on the previous planning, effective governance and commercial execution.
page we are committed to improving diversity across the Group, including at senior management level, and we have set an During 2017 we successfully launched 16 new products and line objective to have 30% of senior management roles held by extensions 2016: 13 and our strong development pipeline will female executives by 2020. support this momentum in future years.
Our world-leading R&D capabilities and extensive IP portfolio We have a long and successful track record of developing and commercialising innovative products and technologies that improve peoples lives and advance clinical outcomes and practices.
Our world-leading R&D team has enabled us to establish these industry-leading credentials.
We are dedicated to developing safe and reliable products and technologies that meet customers needs.
We continuously gather feedback from customers and healthcare professionals, including through focus groups and surveys, which helps to inform all stages of the R&D process.
Our R&D team, which includes over 300 people, is located across two Centres of Excellence.
Our Centre of Excellence at Continuing to innovate to address customer and patient needs Deeside in Wales focuses on our AWC, Ostomy Care and CCC Flexi-Seal PROTECT FMS is a temporary containment device designed franchises, and the other, which is the centre for our Infusion to provide protection for both patients and clinicians in a number of ways.
including by helping to reduce risks of skin breakdown and the spread of Devices R&D activities is in Osted in Denmark.
We also have acute fecal incontinence associated C. difficile infection.
process development and life cycle management teams based at our manufacturing facilities in Slovakia and Belarus.
Regardless of location, our R&D team work in a collaborative We own an extensive intellectual property portfolio which we way sharing best practice to drive innovation and maximise actively protect and defend.
Currently it includes over 240 synergies.
Our activities primarily focus on four core active patent families and more than 2,100 patents and patent competencies: applications globally.
The majority of our portfolio relates to Skin and tissue healing and protection our key technologies, such as our core Hydrofiber Technology, Infection detection and prevention our infusion device technologies, our AWC negative pressure Adhesives wound therapy NPWT technologies and our ConvaTec Advanced mechanical designs.
Moldable Technology used in our ostomy products, as well as compositions, processes or product features.
When patents expire, historically we have been successful in Our strong innovative new product development pipeline bringing new commercially viable patentable features to market, As explained on page 25, innovation is one of our key strategic effectively upgrading our older product offerings.
We relentlessly focus on R&D and have a strong development pipeline of proprietary technologies and products In addition to patent protection, we rely on trade secrets and that spans our four franchises.
Our new product development manufacturing know-how in particular with respect to our pipeline includes 24 programmes at the concept phase, products that incorporate our Hydrofiber Technology, which 29 programmes at the development phase and 11 programmes is produced using complex manufacturing and chemical at or nearing the launch phase.
processes to protect the competitive position of our products.
ConvaTec Group Plc 19 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Our resources and relationships continued within their workplace which could be made more efficient Manufacturing processes and how we manage and effective.
In addition, Six Sigma Green Belt training was our environmental impact launched across three manufacturing sites and two offices and is expected to deliver over 50 improvement projects.
We own and operate nine manufacturing sites in the UK, Denmark, the Dominican Republic, Slovakia, Mexico, Belarus We recognise that we must minimise the negative impact of and the Netherlands.
This global network provides significant our operations including greenhouse gas GHG emissions operational flexibility and the potential to drive continuous on the environment.
Our environmental policy statement which is improvements in productivity and overall profitability.
We also set out on our website www.
com corporatework with third-party contract manufacturers to support our responsibility , explains our approach, and own manufacturing capability.
reflects a more detailed internal environmental policy document which provides direction to our major facilities on how to The safety and reliability of our products is critical.
We operate structure their environmental management programmes.
extensive quality management programmes focused on the These programmes focus on: efficacy of the products we supply, their constituent materials, Minimising the environmental impacts of our own and our the manufacturing environment and the supply chain that partners operations.
Minimising the environmental impacts of our products and services across their whole life cycle.
We also implement rigorous regulatory compliance procedures Setting objectives to improve our performance and the which aim to ensure products meet regulatory requirements.
development of more environment-friendly products.
Our third-party manufacturing partners must have relevant Implementing management systems to support achievement regulatory qualifications and, prior to their appointment and on of our objectives.
a regular ongoing basis, we inspect and audit their operations.
Our larger manufacturing facilities have a dedicated Aligned to our Global Training Standard Operating Procedure Environment, Health and Safety Manager, and are developing which was launched in December 2017, we have established environmental management systems in line with corporate a global project team which is focused on consolidating best requirement and referencing ISO 14001. practice in employee technical training and assessment of competence.
During 2018 this team will further enhance the Our GHG emissions process and tools for the formal accreditation of our trainers, Our GHG emissions relate mainly to the consumption of diesel, assessors and our employees who manufacture our products.
natural gas and electricity to power, heat and cool our facilities.
At this stage we are not generating any renewable energy.
In To support our drive for continuous improvement and 2016, we reported on the energy consumed in our manufacturing operational efficiency, we are embedding LEAN manufacturing facilities only.
This year we have extended the scope to include 4 processes across all our operations.
During 2017 we continued our R&D centres, major offices and distribution centres.
to provide extensive LEAN training.
As at year end 2017, over The table below shows the like-for-like comparison with 2016, 90% of our manufacturing shop floor employees had participated as well as the increased scope of GHG emissions for 2017. in LEAN Six Sigma Yellow Belt training which covers the basic Our 2017 emissions represent our GHG baseline for LEAN methods and enables our employees to identify areas future comparisons.
2016 2017 restated Greenhouse gas emissions Tonnes CO e % change Tonnes CO e 2 2 Comparative scope Scope 1 Greenhouse gas emissions 4,908 23% 4,001 Scope 2 Greenhouse gas emissions 28,015 6% 26,422 Total GHG emissions comparative scope 32,923 8% 30,423 Additional scope in 2017 Scope 1 Greenhouse gas emissions 565 Scope 2 Greenhouse gas emissions 1,040 Total GHG emissions additional scope 1,605 Total GHG emissions Scope 1 5,474 Total GHG emissions Scope 2 29,054 Total GHG emissions full scope baseline 34,528 GHG emission intensity tonnes $m revenue 19.6 Greenhouse gas emissions for 2016 have been restated due to i changes in policy regarding fuel and electricity conversion factors and ii an error in reporting electricity consumption at a manufacturing site.
The net impact of the restatement is an increase in GHG emissions of 3%.
Further information about our manufacturing processes, our GHG emissions, limited reporting on certain Scope 3 emissions and what we do to conserve the planet is provided in our Corporate Responsibility Report, which is available on our 4.
Offices serving as a regional or global headquarters, or with more than website, www.
ConvaTec Group Plc 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview01 Strategic report04 Governance60 Financial statements102 Other information168 We have seen a like-for-like increase in GHG emissions of Sales and distribution 8% and this has been driven largely by increases in productionWe market and sell our products in over 110 countries through related activities in certain manufacturing locations.
In 2018 our four franchises which are organised on a regional basis we will be developing a climate change strategy and target for across the Americas, EMEA and APAC.
Our Infusion Devices franchise has a concentrated businessOur GHG emissions have been calculated in-line with the to-business customer base consisting primarily of the leading GHG Protocol and using conversion factors published by the insulin pump manufacturers.
Our other franchises sell their International Energy Agency and the UK Government.
products directly to customers through a number of channels.
Marketing and engagement Our sales team operates globally.
They participate in regular training sessions throughout the year and attend national sales Building direct and deeper engagement with customers is one meetings to gain information about our strategic direction and of our strategic priorities.
Feedback we receive from customers business priorities.
To coincide with new product launches, sales enables us to enhance our product offering and better understand teams are gathered for formal instructional training sessions and meet their needs.
This approach also differentiates our which cover product design features, instructions for use and offering and enhances our ability to win new customers and clinical value.
Our home delivery companies also sell directly to customers We engage directly with customers through a number of and we operate online sales platforms and, in certain markets channels.
Our me consumer-focused programmes, operated including Latin America and parts of Asia, shops and clinics that by our Ostomy Care and CCC franchises, provide access to provide our products directly to consumers.
services and support and an inspirational diverse community network.
We also operate home delivery companies, Home We also rely on a network of distributors and wholesalers who Distribution Group in the US, which includes 180 Medical, and sell our products and manage the entire distribution process on Amcare in the UK, which distribute catheter and incontinenceour behalf.
related products directly to customers.
Partners Building direct and deeper engagement with our customers To achieve our Purpose we rely on a number of third parties, In February 2017, building on the success of our me programme which including healthcare professionals who provide valuable provides support and services for people living with an ostomy, we launched the GentleCath me programme for continence care to meet the needs of feedback about our products, our suppliers who provide individual intermittent catheter users.
materials and services, and distributors who sell our products on our behalf.
Within the relevant ethical and regulatory Created in collaboration with and for clinicians and intermittent catheter users, frameworks, we aim to work with them collaboratively and build the GentleCath me programme provides, via an innovative website www.
com, easily accessible information and guidance including long-term relationships based on trust.
To achieve this we videos containing hints and tips that catheter users can personalise to address deploy a number of policies and procedures including our Global their own needs, by simply answering a few questions.
The programme also Third Party Compliance Manual, which mitigates the risk of offers professional advice and support from dedicated continence nurses that unethical behaviour when marketing our products and our is unique to our me approach.
Supplier Code of Conduct which is consistent with our own Code of Ethics and Business Conduct and our Human Rights Our dedicated sales teams engage regularly with our customers and Labour Standards Policy.
We mandate that our distributors and the healthcare professionals who prescribe our products.
and certain vendors undergo training on our policies and To support them we publish educational materials, run specialist procedures and agree to permit us to audit their practices and training programmes and operate a number of call centres.
compliance in accordance with our policies and procedures.
Specifically in relation to specialist training, our Deeside-based R&D team regularly host training sessions for clinicians which focus on advanced dressing technologies, negative wound pressure therapy, ostomy care and continence care products and infection prevention technologies.
In 2017 over 160 clinicians participated in these events and provided valuable feedback to our innovation and marketing teams.
In addition, our Ostomy Care franchise hosts Nurse Advisory Boards on a bi-annual basis in its key markets during which latest developments and practices are shared and specialist stoma nurses provide insight and feedback about our products.
Further information about how we sell and distribute our products is included on page 38 and 39.
Further information about how we work responsibly with our partners is included in our Corporate Responsibility Report, which is available on our website, www.
ConvaTec Group Plc 21 Annual Report and Accounts 2017
