Governance GOVERNANCE NOMINATION COMMITTEE NOMINATION COMMITTEE COMMITTEE DISCUSSIONS IN 2017 Stuart Chambers The committee met five times during 2017.
Discussions Chairman, Nomination Committee at the meetings covered the responsibilities outlined above with a particular focus on Board recruitment and committee membership.
The process used for Board recruitment is described on page 73 of this Report and the results of the evaluation of the committee are on page 74.
The committee also considered the composition of the COMMITTEE MEMBERS Board and its committees, the leadership needs of the See pages 65-67 for biographies and Board experience details organisation, and recommended that the Board support the election or re-election of each of the directors standing Sir John Parker Chairman resigned 31 October 2017 at the AGM in 2017.
The length of tenure of non-executive Stuart Chambers Chairman appointed 1 September 2017, directors was taken into account when considering Chairman from 1 November 2017 supporting their re-election, to ensure they remain Byron Grote independent and recognising the need to progressively Sir Philip Hampton refresh the Board.
Changes to committee membership Anne Stevens were recommended to the Board and the appropriate Jack Thompson appointed 25 July 2017 committee following the appointment of Nolitha Fakude and Ian Ashby as non-executive directors.
ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES Agreeing a skills and experience matrix for all directors with the approval of the Board to identify and address any skills gaps when recruiting new directors.
Making recommendations as to the composition of the Board and its committees and the balance between the executive directors and non-executive directors in order to maintain a diverse Board with the appropriate mix of skills, experience, independence and knowledge.
With the assistance of external search consultants, identifying and reviewing, in detail, potential candidates available in the market and agreeing a longlist of candidates for each directorship.
Following further discussion and research, deciding upon a shortlist of candidates for interview.
Committee members interview the shortlisted candidates and make a recommendation to the Board.
Ensuring that the Human Resources function of the Group regularly reviews and updates the succession plans for the directors and senior managers.
These are presented to the Board by the chief executive in the absence of other executive directors and discussed.
The committees terms of reference are available to view online.
For more information, visit www.
com aboutus governance Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 79
