247149 RIT R&A pp023-pp038 26 02 2018 11:10 Page 23 | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Corporate Governance Report Introduction JRCM.
Lord Rothschild retains chairmanship of the JRCM The Directors present the Companys Corporate Investment Committee.
This structure of permanent Governance Report.
This describes its principal committees, together with the delegation of day-to-day governance bodies, their composition, purpose and management to the Executive Committee of JRCM, are operation within the context of the Principles of the UK considered by the Board as appropriate for a selfCorporate Governance Code the Code of the UK managed investment trust and its shareholders on an Financial Reporting Council FRC, which can be viewed ongoing basis.
The Terms of Reference of each of the at www.
A new version of the Code was permanent committees may be viewed at introduced in April 2016, effective for the Companys www.
As Chairman of the Board, Lord Rothschild is responsible Leadership for its leadership and its effectiveness in dealing with the The Company is headed by its Board of Directors the matters reserved for its decision with adequate time for Board which is collectively responsible for setting the consideration.
This includes ensuring a culture of Companys long-term strategic aims, and its ongoing openness and debate and that Directors are properly business and investment strategies.
The schedule of briefed on issues arising at Board meetings.
He is also matters reserved for the Board may be viewed on the responsible for ensuring effective communication with website, www.
The day-to-day management shareholders, making Directors aware of any concerns of the business is delegated to the Executive Committee raised by shareholders and for facilitating the contribution of JRCM, the Companys subsidiary and manager, led by of the non-executive Directors.
The Audit and Risk Committee The Board currently comprises eight Directors, the The Audit and Risk Committee Report is shown on majority of which are determined by the Board to be pages 28 to 30. independent.
The Board comprises six independent nonThe main features of the Companys internal controls and executives, one non-independent and non-executive risk management are described in the Audit and Risk Director and one executive Director.
This balance is Committee Report on page 29 and in Principal Risks & intended to limit the scope for an individual, or a small Viability on pages 14 to 17. group of individuals, to dominate the Boards decision making.
The Conflicts Committee The Conflicts Committee meets at least once a year on a Lord Rothschild is both Chairman of the Board and an formal, scheduled basis and on other occasions as and executive Director.
The Company has in place a structure when required.
The Committee is chaired by The Duke of of five permanent committees which are designed to Wellington and is comprised of independent Directors.
devolve responsibility and control of certain key areas of The Committees principal responsibilities cover the Board responsibility away from the Chairman.
Four of monitoring of arrangements with parties related to Lord these committees are comprised entirely of independent Rothschild or any other Director as described in note 19, non-executive Directors.
Independent non-executive to ensure that any conflicts of interest are avoided, or Directors also comprise a majority of the Nominations managed appropriately.
Such arrangements include Committee, chaired by Lord Rothschild.
Furthermore, co-investments and related party transactions.
pursuant to an investment management agreement, day-to-day management of the Company is delegated to The current members of the five permanent Board committees are as follows: Audit and Risk Committee Conflicts Committee Nominations Committee John Cornish Chairman The Duke of Wellington Chairman Lord Rothschild Chairman Mike Power John Cornish Michael Marks Amy Stirling Michael Marks The Duke of Wellington Remuneration Committee Valuation Committee The Duke of Wellington Chairman John Cornish Chairman John Cornish Philippe Costeletos Michael Marks Mike Power Amy Stirling RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2017 23 247149 RIT R&A pp023-pp038 26 02 2018 11:10 Page 24 Corporate Governance Report The Nominations Committee independence was confirmed after very careful consideration The Nominations Committee comprises three Directors, by the full Board and taking into account the following: two of whom are independent non-executives with the Neither Michael Marks nor John Cornish have been third being Lord Rothschild, the Chairman of the an employee of the Group: Committee.
The Committee meets at least twice each year and on additional occasions as required.
It is responsible for Michael Marks does not receive any remuneration the process of the appointment of new Directors to the from the Group other than his fees as a Director: Board, and other matters set out in its Terms of Reference John Cornish does not receive any remuneration from including overall Board composition, succession planning, the Group other than his fees as a Director Trustee: and the annual performance evaluation of the Board, its and committees and the Directors.
During the year it considered and recommended the appointment of a Director and There are no relationships or circumstances likely to changes in the membership of Board Committees.
affect the judgement of either Michael Marks or John Cornish, who both continue to challenge objectively The Committee is mindful of Board balance and diversity and robustly question management.
when considering appointments to the Board.
Neither open advertising nor external search consultancies have been The Remuneration Committee used for non-executive Director appointments, as the The Directors Remuneration Report is shown on Board and Nominations Committee typically utilise their pages 31 to 38. broad range of business contacts to identify candidates on The Valuation Committee the basis of their potential contribution to the Company.
The Valuation Committee comprises four Directors, all of In accordance with the Code, the Committee considered whom are independent.
Philippe Costeletos was the proposed re-elections of John Cornish, Michael Marks appointed to the Committee on 16 November 2017. and The Duke of Wellington after rigorous reviews, as The Committee, chaired by John Cornish, meets at least they have served as Directors for more than six years.
twice each year and additionally as may be required.
Its In addition, both Michael Marks and John Cornish have principal responsibility is to review the Companys direct served as Directors for more than nine years and their private and other investments to ensure that they are presented in the annual and half-yearly accounts at fair value.
Board and Committee Attendance The Board and Committee attendance of the Directors at meetings during the year is shown below.
In each case the number of meetings attended is shown first, followed by the number of meetings that the Director was eligible to attend.
Board Audit & Risk Conflicts Nominations Remuneration Valuation Number of meetings held during the year 57 12 22 Chairman Lord Rothschild 5 5 2 2 Non-executive Directors John Cornish 5 5 7 7 1 1 2 2 2 2 1 Philippe Costeletos 1 1 1 1 2 Jean Laurent-Bellue 4 5 Michael Marks 5 5 1 1 2 2 2 2 Mike Power 5 5 6 7 2 2 Hannah Rothschild 5 5 Amy Stirling 4 5 7 7 2 2 The Duke of Wellington 5 5 1 1 2 2 2 2 3 Mike Wilson 3 5 3 3 1 1 1 Appointed as a Director on 20 July 2017.
2 Retired as a Director on 22 December 2017.
3 Retired as a Director on 19 October 2017.
24 Report and Accounts December 2017 RIT Capital Partners plc 247149 RIT R&A pp023-pp038 26 02 2018 11:10 Page 25 | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Corporate Governance Report Effectiveness All Directors other than those who are retiring stand for Many of the Directors have held senior positions at re-election annually, subject of course to continued prominent investment banks, asset management satisfactory performance.
Accordingly, neither the companies or audit firms specialising in the asset Nominations Committee nor the Board consider that it management industry.
In addition, there are Directors would be in the best interests of the Company for with considerable experience beyond these areas, non-executive Directors to be appointed for specified including Government and general commercial terms.
The re-election of Directors at the forthcoming organisations.
The biographies of the Directors and Annual General Meeting AGM is therefore executive management on pages 19 to 22 demonstrate a recommended by the Board.
strength of experience in the areas required to oversee Accountability and implement the Companys strategic, investment and The Board, acting where appropriate through the Audit operational aims.
and Risk Committee, is responsible for determining the As described above, the process for the appointment of nature and extent of the principal risks it is willing to take new Directors to the Board is the responsibility of the in achieving its strategic objectives.
It is also responsible Nominations Committee, as is their induction and for maintaining sound risk management and internal ensuring on an ongoing basis that each Director is able to control systems, for setting corporate reporting, risk allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge their management and internal control principles and for responsibilities effectively.
maintaining an appropriate relationship with the Companys auditors.
These areas are further described in JRCM provided relevant and timely information on the the Audit and Risk Committee Report on pages 28 to 30. financial and regulatory developments during 2017 in the papers provided for Board and Committee meetings, Relations with Shareholders including MiFID II, PRIIPs and the Senior Managers and The Board ensures that an ongoing dialogue with Certification Regime.
principal shareholders and analysts is maintained, based on a mutual understanding of the Companys objectives.
The Board annually undertakes a formal and rigorous Questions from other shareholders are responded to evaluation of its performance, its committees and promptly.
The 2017 annual performance evaluation was led by Michael Marks, the Senior JRCM regularly reports to the Board on its shareholder Independent Director.
The results were evaluated and and analyst meetings to ensure that the members of the considered by the Board and separately by the nonBoard understand the views of shareholders about the executive Directors in a meeting without the Chairman or Company.
Following this review, all All shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM and Directors performance was considered to be ask questions of the Directors and management.
The next external evaluation is scheduled for 2018.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2017 25 247149 RIT R&A pp023-pp038 26 02 2018 11:10 Page 26 Corporate Governance Report Compliance with the Code The Company has complied with all relevant provisions of the Code during the year, save as follows: Code provision Explanation Non-executive Directors should be appointed for specified As all Directors stand for re-election annually, subject to terms.
continued satisfactory performance, neither the Nominations Committee nor the Board consider that it would be in the best interests of the Company for nonexecutive Directors to be appointed for specified terms.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate The Directors are responsible for preparing the Report accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain and Accounts in accordance with applicable law and the Group and Parent Companys transactions and regulations.
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and Parent Company and Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial enable them to ensure that the financial statements and statements for each financial year.
Under that law the the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Directors have prepared the Group and Parent Company Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial financial statements in accordance with International statements, Article 4 of IAS Regulation.
Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs.
Under company law the The Directors are also responsible for safeguarding the Directors must not approve the financial statements assets of the Group and Parent Company, and hence for unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection view of the state of affairs, and of the profit or loss of the of fraud and other irregularities.
Group and Parent Company for that period.
In preparing The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and these financial statements, the Directors are required to: integrity of the Parent Companys website.
Legislation in select suitable accounting policies and then apply the United Kingdom governing the preparation and them consistently: dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union have been followed for both the The Directors consider that the Report and Accounts Group and Company financial statements, subject to taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable any material departures disclosed and explained in and provides the information necessary for shareholders the financial statements: to assess the Group and Parent Companys position, performance, business model and strategy.
make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and Parent Company will continue in business.
26 Report and Accounts December 2017 RIT Capital Partners plc 247149 RIT R&A pp023-pp038 26 02 2018 11:10 Page 27 | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Corporate Governance Report Each of the Directors, whose names and responsibilities are listed in the Corporate Governance Report confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: the Parent Company financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit for the Company: the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and the Strategic Report contains a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
By Order of the Board Jonathan Kestenbaum Chief Operating Officer J. Rothschild Capital Management Limited RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2017 27
