GREENCOAT U K W I N D Audit Committee Report During the year, the Audit Committee comprised 2017 to the date of this report, the Audit Committee Shonaid Jemmett-Page Chairman, William Rickett has had regular contact and meetings with the C. B. Dan Badger and Martin McAdam.
The AIC Code Investment Manager, the Administrator and the has a requirement that at least one member of the Auditor.
These meetings and discussions focused on, Audit Committee should have recent and relevant but were not limited to: financial experience and the Audit Committee as a a detailed analysis of the Companys quarterly whole shall have competence relevant to the sector.
NAVs: The Board is satisfied that the Audit Committee is properly constituted in these respects.
The reviewing the updated risk matrix of the qualications and experience of all Audit Committee Company: members are disclosed on pages 22 to 24 of this report.
reviewing the Companys corporate governance framework: The Audit Committee operates within clearly dened terms of reference which were reviewed during the reviewing the internal controls framework for the financial year and approved by the Board, and include Company, the Administrator and the Investment all matters indicated by Disclosure Guidance and Manager, considering the need for a separate Transparency Rule 7.1 and the AIC Code and are internal audit function: available for inspection on the Companys website: considering any incidents of internal control failure www.
or fraud and the Companys response: Audit Committee meetings are scheduled at considering the ongoing assessment of the appropriate times in the reporting and auditing cycle.
Company as a going concern: The Chairman, other Directors and third parties may be invited to attend meetings as and when deemed considering the principal risks and period of appropriate.
assessment for the longer term viability of the Company: Summary of the Role and Responsibilities of the Audit Committee monitoring the ongoing appropriateness of the The duties of the Audit Committee include reviewing Companys status as an investment entity under the Companys quarterly NAV, half-yearly report, IFRS 10, in particular following an acquisition: Annual Report and financial statements and any formal announcements relating to the Companys financial monitoring compliance with AIFMD, the AIC code performance.
and other regulatory and governance frameworks: The Audit Committee is the forum through which the reviewing and approving the audit plan in relation external Auditor reports to the Board and is to the audit of the Companys Annual Report and responsible for reviewing the terms of appointment of financial statements: the Auditor, together with their remuneration.
On an monitoring compliance with the Companys policy ongoing basis, the Audit Committee is responsible for on the provision of non-audit services by the reviewing the objectivity of the Auditor along with the Auditor: and effectiveness of the audit and the terms under which the Auditor is engaged to perform non-audit services.
reviewing the effectiveness, resources, qualications The Audit Committee is also responsible for reviewing and independence of the Auditor.
the Companys corporate governance framework, system of internal controls and risk management, Financial Reporting ensuring they are suitable for an investment company.
The primary role of the Audit Committee in relation to financial reporting is to review with the Investment The Audit Committee reports its findings to the Board, Manager, the Administrator and the Auditor the identifying any matters on which it considers that appropriateness of the half-yearly report and Annual action or improvement is needed, and make Report and financial statements, concentrating on, recommendations on the steps to be taken.
amongst other matters: Overview the quality and acceptability of accounting policies During the year, the Audit Committees discussions and practices: have been broad ranging.
In addition to the 6 formally convened Audit Committee meetings from 1 January 35 Greencoat UK Wind PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2017 Audit Committee Report continued Financial Reporting continued noting that there were no significant issues reported.
The Audit Committee discussed the review with the the clarity of the disclosures and compliance with audit engagement partner on 19 October 2017. financial reporting standards and relevant financial and governance reporting requirements: Assessment of the Carrying Value of Investments amendments to legislation and corporate The Groups accounting policy is to designate governance reporting requirements and accounting investments at fair value through profit or loss.
treatment of new transactions in the year: Therefore, the most significant risk in the Groups financial statements is whether its investments are fairly the impact of new and amended accounting valued due to the uncertainty involved in determining standards on the Companys financial statements: the investment valuations.
There is also an inherent risk of management override as the Investment Managers whether the Audit Committee believes that proper fee is calculated based on NAV as disclosed in note 3 and appropriate processes and procedures have to the financial statements.
The Investment Manager been followed in the preparation of the half-yearly is responsible for calculating the NAV with the report and Annual Report and financial statements: assistance of the Administrator, prior to approval by the Board.
consideration and recommending to the Board for approval of the contents of the annual financial On a quarterly basis, the Investment Manager provides statements and reviewing the Auditors report a detailed analysis of the NAV highlighting any thereon including consideration of whether the movements and assumption changes from the financial statements are overall fair, balanced and previous quarters NAV.
This analysis and the rationale understandable: for any changes made is considered and challenged by the Chairman of the Audit Committee and material areas in which significant judgements subsequently approved by the Board.
The Audit have been applied or there has been discussion Committee has satisfied itself that the key estimates with the Auditor: and and assumptions used in the valuation model are any correspondence from regulators in relation to appropriate and that the investments have been fairly the Companys financial reporting.
The key estimates and assumptions include the useful life of the assets, the discount factors, the level BDO LLP attended 3 of the 6 formal Audit Committee of wind resource, the rate of ination, the price at meetings held during the period from 1 January 2017 which the power and associated benets can be sold to the date of this report.
The Audit Committee has and the amount of electricity the assets are expected also held private meetings with the Auditor to provide to produce.
additional opportunities for open dialogue and feedback.
Matters typically discussed include the Internal Control Auditors assessment of the transparency and The Audit Committee has established a set of ongoing openness of interactions with the Investment Manager processes designed to meet the particular needs of the and the Administrator, conrmation that there has Company in managing the risks to which it is exposed.
been no restriction in scope placed on them, the independence of their audit and how they have The process is one whereby the Investment Manager exercised professional scepticism.
has identied the key risks to which the Company is exposed, and recorded them on a risk matrix together significant Issues with the controls employed to mitigate these risks.
A The Audit Committee discussed the planning, conduct residual risk rating has been applied to each risk.
The and conclusions of the external audit as it proceeded.
Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the risk At the Audit Committee meeting in advance of the matrix and associated controls before recommending year end, the Audit Committee discussed and to the Board for consideration and approval, approved the Auditors audit plan.
The Audit challenging the Investment Managers assumptions to Committee identied the carrying value of investments ensure a robust internal risk management process.
as a key area of risk of misstatement in the Companys The Audit Committee formally reviewed the updated financial statements.
risk matrix in Q1 2018 and will continue to do so at In respect of the year ended 31 December 2016 the least annually.
By their nature, these procedures audit of the Company was subject to review by the provide a reasonable, but not absolute, assurance FRCs Audit Quality Review team as part of its routine against material misstatement or loss.
Regular reports programme of audit rm quality inspections.
The Audit will be provided to the Audit Committee highlighting Committee considered the review teams findings material changes to risk ratings.
36 GREENCOAT U K W I N D Audit Committee Report continued Internal Control continued also sought feedback from the Investment Manager and the Administrator on the effectiveness of the audit The Audit Committee reviewed the Groups principal process.
For this financial year, the Audit Committee risks and uncertainties as at 30 June 2017, to was satisfied that there had been appropriate focus determine that these were unchanged from those and challenge on the primary areas of audit risk and disclosed in the Companys 2016 Annual Report and assessed the quality of the audit process to be good.
remained the most likely to affect the Group in the second half of the year.
Non-Audit Services During the year, the Audit Committee discussed and Details of fees paid to BDO LLP during the year are reviewed in depth the internal controls frameworks disclosed in note 5 to the financial statements.
The in place at the Investment Manager and the Audit Committee approved these fees after a review Administrator.
Discussions were centred around 3 lines of the level and nature of work to be performed, and of defence: assurances at operational level: internal are satisfied that they are appropriate for the scope of oversight: and independent objective assurance.
The Audit Committee seeks to Administrator holds the International Standard on ensure that any non-audit services provided by the Assurance Engagements ISAE 3402 Type 2 external Auditor do not conict with their statutory certication.
This entails an independent rigorous and regulatory responsibilities, as well as their examination and testing of their controls and independence, before giving written approval prior to processes.
The Audit Committee was satisfied that BDO LLP had adequate safeguards in place and The Audit Committee concluded that these that provision of these non-audit services did not frameworks were appropriate for the identication, provide threats to the Auditors independence.
assessment, management and monitoring of financial and regulatory risks, with particular regard to the The Audit Committee has a policy regarding the protection of the interests of the Companys provision of non-audit services by the external Auditor shareholders.
which precludes the external Auditor from providing any of the prohibited non-audit services as listed in Internal Audit Article 5 of the EU Directive Regulation EU No The Audit Committee continues to review the need for 537 2014.
The Audit Committee monitors the Groups an internal audit function and has decided that the expenditure on non-audit services provided by the systems, processes and procedures employed by the Companys Auditor who should only be engaged for Company, Investment Manager and Administrator, non-audit services where they are deemed to be the including their own internal controls and procedures, most commercially viable supplier and prior approval provide sufficient assurance that an appropriate level of the Audit Committee has been sought.
of risk management and internal control is maintained.
Independence In addition to this, the Companys external Depositary provides cash monitoring, asset verication and The Audit Committee is required to consider the oversight services to the Company.
independence of the external Auditor.
In fullling this requirement, the Audit Committee has considered a The Audit Committee has therefore concluded that report from BDO LLP describing its arrangements to shareholders investments and the Companys assets are identify, report and manage any conict of interest and adequately safeguarded and an internal audit function the extent of non-audit services provided by them.
specic to the Company is considered unnecessary.
The Audit Committee has concluded that it considers The Audit Committee is available on request to meet BDO LLP to be independent of the Company and that investors in relation to the Companys financial the provision of the non-audit services described reporting and internal controls.
above is not a threat to the objectivity and independence of the conduct of the audit.
External Auditor Effectiveness of the Audit Process Re-appointment The Audit Committee assessed the effectiveness of the BDO LLP has been the Companys Auditor from its audit process by considering BDO LLPs fullment of incorporation on 4 December 2012.
The Auditor is the agreed audit plan through the reporting presented required to rotate the audit partner responsible for the to the Audit Committee by BDO LLP and the Group audit every 5 years.
A new lead partner was discussions at the Audit Committee meeting, which appointed in 2015 and therefore the lead partner will highlighted the major issues that arose during the be required to rotate after the completion of the 2019 course of the audit.
In addition, the Audit Committee year end audit.
37 Greencoat UK Wind PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2017 Audit Committee Report continued Re-appointment continued Annual General Meeting The external audit contract is required to be put to The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be present tender at least every 10 years.
The Audit Committee at the Companys AGM to answer questions on the shall give advance notice of any retendering plans Audit Committees activity and matters within the within the Annual Report.
The Audit Committee has scope of the Audit Committees responsibilities.
considered the re-appointment of the Auditor and decided not to put the provision of the external audit out to tender at this time.
As described above, the Audit Committee reviewed the effectiveness and independence of the Auditor and remains satisfied that the Auditor provides effective independent challenge to the Board, the Investment Manager and the Shonaid Jemmett-Page Administrator.
The Audit Committee will continue to Chairman of the Audit Committee monitor the performance of the Auditor on an annual basis and will consider their independence and 25 February 2018 objectivity, taking account of appropriate guidelines.
The Audit Committee has therefore recommended to the Board that BDO LLP be proposed for reappointment as the Companys Auditor at the AGM of the Company.
