GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE AUDIT COMMITTEE FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE Byron Grote A key requirement of our financial statements is for the Chairman, Audit Committee report to be fair, balanced and understandable.
The Audit Committee and the Board are satisfied that the Annual Report and Accounts meet this requirement, as appropriate weight has been given to both positive and negative developments in the year.
In justifying this statement, the Audit Committee has considered the robust process which operates in creating COMMITTEE MEMBERS the Annual Report and Accounts, including: See pages 65-67 for biographies and Board experience details clear guidance and instruction is provided to all contributors Byron Grote Chairman Nolitha Fakude appointed 25 April 2017 revisions to regulatory requirements are provided to Sir Philip Hampton contributors and monitored on an ongoing basis Jim Rutherford reviewing the use and disclosure of Alternative Anne Stevens Performance Measures, taking into account feedback from the Financial Reporting Council FRC following the ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES FRCs review of the Groups disclosures for the year ended 2017 Monitoring the integrity of the annual and interim financial statements.
early-warning meetings are conducted between business unit management and the auditor in advance of the Making recommendations to the Board concerning the year-end reporting process adoption of the annual and interim financial statements.
a thorough process of review, evaluation and verification Overseeing the Groups relations with the external auditor.
of the inputs from business units is undertaken to ensure Reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups accuracy and consistency risk management and internal control mechanisms.
external advisers provide advice to management and the Approving the terms of reference of the internal audit Audit Committee on best practice with regard to creation function and assessing its effectiveness.
of the Annual Report and Accounts Approving the internal audit plan and reviewing regular a meeting of the Audit Committee was held in February reports from the head of internal audit on effectiveness 2018 to review and approve the draft 2017 Annual Report of the internal control system.
and Accounts in advance of the final sign-off by the Board.
This review included the critical accounting Receiving reports from management on the principal risks judgements explained in the notes to the consolidated of the Group.
Details of the principal risks are contained on financial statements pages 42-45.
Overseeing completion of the Viability Statement.
the Audit Committee considered the conclusions of the external auditor over the key audit risks that contributed Overseeing implementation of the Groups Code of to their audit opinion, specifically impairments, taxation, Conduct.
special items and remeasurements, and corporate The committees terms of reference are available to asset transactions.
For more information, visit www.
com aboutus governance COMMITTEE DISCUSSIONS IN 2017 Throughout the course of 2017, the Audit Committee paid particular attention to the valuation of assets, tax matters, the Groups liquidity position and reinstatement of the dividend.
The committee oversaw the introduction of the new Code of Conduct and reviewed the system of internal control and risk management.
An evaluation of the committee was undertaken, the results of which are described on page 74.
The Audit Committee held four meetings in 2017, covering the key topics set out on the following pages.
80 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 Governance SIGNIFICANT ISSUES CONSIDERED BY THE AUDIT COMMITTEE IN RELATION TO THE GROUPS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS RESPONSE OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Impairment and impairment reversals of assets The committee exercises oversight over the impairment review process, The value of mining operations is sensitive to a range of characteristics including the identification of impairment and impairment reversal unique to each asset.
Management is required to apply judgement in the indicators, the review of changes in the valuation of cash generating units estimation of Ore Reserves, and price and production forecasts which and associated sensitivity analysis.
During 2017, the most significant drive cash flow projections.
assets considered were the following: Sishen The Sishen mine was impaired by $0.5 billion in 2015, following a reduction in the Groups long-term iron ore price forecast.
The committee considered whether recent improvements in the near-term pricing outlook and operating performance at the mine justified an impairment reversal, taking into account the sensitivity analysis presented by management.
While the valuation is sensitive to changes in key assumptions, significant downside changes to the base case assumptions are required to remove all headroom.
The committee therefore concluded that a full reversal of the impairment recorded in 2015 should be recognised at the December 2017 year end.
Minas-Rio The valuation of Minas-Rio continues to be in line with the carrying value, but is subject to uncertainty in relation to licensing as well as being highly sensitive to changes in pricing assumptions.
The committee considered the status of the licensing process for the operation and the scenarios presented by management.
It was concluded that an impairment should not be recorded at Minas-Rio as the valuation was at break-even following receipt of the Step 3 installation licence in January 2018.
El Soldado El Soldado was fully impaired in 2016, following suspension of operations due to licensing uncertainty.
Following receipt of the mining permit, operations resumed in April 2017, resulting in an impairment reversal of $194 million in the Groups 2017 interim results.
Moranbah-Grosvenor Moranbah-Grosvenor was impaired by $1.25 billion in 2016, as a result of a reduction in the Groups expected long-term metallurgical coal prices.
The Grosvenor operation encountered mixed operational results during 2017.
The committee concluded that, while recent performance was promising, a sustained period of strong performance would be necessary before an impairment reversal would be considered.
OTHER ISSUES CONSIDERED BY THE AUDIT COMMITTEE IN RELATION TO THE GROUPS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS RESPONSE OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Reinstatement of the dividend The committee reviewed the proposal for timing and method of Reviewing managements recommendation to the Board that the reinstatement of the dividend, in particular the payout ratio driven dividend be reinstated at the 2017 interim results announcement, based dividend policy based on 40% of underlying earnings.
on a payout ratio driven dividend policy.
Following discussion, the committee endorsed the proposal to adopt the new policy and to pay an interim dividend for 2017, for final approval by the Board.
Legal matters At 30 June 2017, a charge of $101 million was recognised in respect of A provision is recognised where, based on the Groups legal views and, the consolidated class action certification application filed in South Africa in some cases, independent advice, it is considered probable that an on behalf of former mineworkers and dependants of deceased outflow of resources will be required to settle a present obligation that mineworkers who allegedly contracted silicosis or tuberculosis as a can be measured reliably.
This requires the exercise of judgement.
result of working for various gold mining companies, including some in which Anglo American South Africa AASA was a shareholder and to The committee was updated by the Groups general counsel on the status which AASA provided services.
of legal matters over the course of the year.
Whilst a final settlement had not yet been reached between the parties and the outcome of discussions remained uncertain, the committee approved the recognition of a provision based on the status of negotiations.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 81 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE OTHER ISSUES CONSIDERED BY THE AUDIT COMMITTEE IN RELATION TO THE GROUPS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS RESPONSE OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Special items and remeasurements The committee reviewed each of the items classified as special items or The Groups criteria for recognising a special item or remeasurement remeasurements in the financial statements, and the related disclosures, involves the application of judgement in determining whether an to ensure that the separate disclosure of these items was appropriate.
item, due to its size or nature, should be separately disclosed in the income statement.
New accounting standards The committee reviewed managements impact assessment of the The impact of new accounting standards, and any elections made in their adoption of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and IFRS 15 Revenue from application, involves judgement to ensure their adoption is managed contracts with customers, both of which become effective in 2018 appropriately.
but are not expected to have a material impact on the Group.
The committee also received an update on progress in the implementation of IFRS 16 Leases which will become effective in 2019.
Going concern basis of accounting in preparing the The committee assessed the forecast levels of net debt, headroom on financial statements existing borrowing facilities and compliance with debt covenants.
This The ability of the Group to continue as a going concern depends upon analysis covered a range of downside sensitivities, including the impact continued access to sufficient financing facilities.
Judgement is required of lower commodity prices and higher costs.
in the estimation of future cash flows and compliance with debt covenants in future years.
Retirement benefits The committee reviewed the changes in assumptions behind the The ability of the Group to recover surpluses within pension schemes calculations of the asset and liability positions of the Groups pension and involves judgement.
The estimation of retirement benefits requires medical plans.
In addition, the committee reviewed the adequacy of the judgement over the estimation of scheme assets and liabilities.
Areas of level of funding provided to the plans and the overall expense recognised judgement include assumptions for discount and inflation rates, returns for the year.
on assets and life expectancy.
Changes in the assumptions used would The committee assessed the appropriateness of the Groups overall affect the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
risk management approach to retirement benefits, and the Groups ability to recover surpluses within schemes in the UK and South Africa.
Provision for restoration, rehabilitation and The committee oversees the periodic update to estimates of environmental costs environmental and decommissioning liabilities which are based on the The estimation of environmental restoration and decommissioning work of external consultants and internal experts.
It reviews the changes liabilities is inherently uncertain given the long time periods over which in assumptions and drivers of movements in the amounts provided on the these expenditures will be incurred, and the potential for changes in balance sheet.
regulatory frameworks and industry practices over time.
Taxation The Group head of tax provided the committee with an update on The Groups tax affairs are governed by complex domestic tax tax matters, including the status of tax audits, the current global tax legislations, international tax treaties between countries and the environment and the ongoing entity simplification programme.
interpretation of both by tax authorities and courts.
Given the many The committee discussed the recoverability of the Groups deferred uncertainties that could arise from these factors, judgement is often tax assets, and uncertain tax provisions.
required in determining the tax that is due.
The committee were presented with the Tax Strategy for approval prior to publication on the Anglo American website as required under Schedule 19 of the Finance Act 2016.
82 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 Governance OTHER ISSUES CONSIDERED BY THE AUDIT COMMITTEE RESPONSE OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Viability Statement The committee reviewed the time period over which the assessment The Viability Statement, and the underlying process to analyse various is made, along with the scenarios that are analysed, the potential scenarios that support the development of the Viability Statement, are financial consequences and assumptions made in the preparation of found on pages 40-45. the statement.
The committee concluded that the scenarios analysed were sufficiently severe but plausible and the time period of the Viability Statement was appropriate given the alignment with the budgeting and strategy process.
Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves statements The committee reviewed the significant year-on-year changes, satisfying The year-on-year changes to Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves for itself that appropriate explanations existed.
The committee also operations and projects across the Group.
discussed issues and improvements in the process to measure Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves including adoption of a new software platform and updated guidelines.
Internal audit work The committee received reports on the results of internal audit work, Reviewing the results of internal audit work and the 2018 plan.
satisfying itself that the 2017 plan was on track, and discussed areas where control improvement opportunities were identified.
The committee reviewed the progress in completion of agreed management actions.
The committee reviewed the proposed 2018 internal audit plan, assessing whether the plan addressed the key areas of risk for the business units and Group.
The committee approved the plan having discussed the scope of work and its relationship to the Groups risks.
Risk management The committee assessed the Groups risk profile, in particular the The Groups risk profile and the process by which risks are identified principal risks see pages 42-45.
The committee discussed the key risks, and assessed.
the mitigation plans in place and the appropriate executive management responsibilities.
The committee also considered the process by which the risk profile is generated, the changes in risk definitions and how the risks aligned with the Groups risk appetite.
Following discussion and challenge, the risk profile was approved.
Code of Conduct The committee reviewed the implementation plan for the new Code of The implementation of the Code of Conduct and specific actions to Conduct that was rolled out across the Group in 2017.
The committee mitigate risk of bribery and corruption.
received updates on the progress with implementation and sought assurance that implementation would be continued beyond the initial communication to employees.
The committee reviewed and approved the work to embed the Code of Conduct in recruitment, induction, performance management and employee development programmes.
The committee also assessed the work being conducted to mitigate the risk of bribery and corruption.
Specifically, the committee reviewed work to assess risk from use of intermediaries, approving plans to strengthen risk mitigation in this area.
The committee approved work plans associated with the Groups anti-bribery and corruption programme for 2018.
Various risk matters The committee reviewed work to mitigate cyber risk, data protection The committee oversees the implementation of work to mitigate risk, plus marketing and trading risks, during the course of 2017.
The a variety of key risks.
committee evaluated the work being performed, progress made and provided challenge to satisfy itself that these risks were being adequately managed.
External audit The committee received the results of the interim work of the external Reviewing the results of extended audit work and the 2017 year-end plan.
auditor in the July meeting and approved the preliminary planning report for the 2017 year-end audit, having reviewed the audit approach, materiality levels and audit risks.
The final audit plan and fee for the audit were approved at the December meeting.
Throughout the year, the committee sought input from the auditor on all significant accounting matters and the judgements made by management.
In February 2018, the committee reviewed the output of the external audit work that contributed to the auditors opinion.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 83
