Strategic report DIRECTORS REPORT Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information Committee Key Committee Chair shown in green A Audit Committee Board of directors Ri Board Risk Committee V Brand, Values and Conduct Committee N G overnance and Nomination Committee C B oard Financial Crime Risk Committee R Remuneration Committee Appointed: October 2016 and Career: Jos began his career as an September 2016 to join Standard Group Chairman in December 2016 economist and as a member of the Chartered PLC.
He was the Financial faculty at Stanford University, before Counsellor and the Director of the Experience: Jos has substantive spending 25 years at the Central Monetary and Capital Markets experience in the international Bank of Spain, where he rose to be Department and was responsible for regulatory arena and has exceptional the Deputy Governor.
Jos has held the oversight and direction of the understanding of the economic and many other board and advisory IMFs monetary and financial sector political dynamics of our markets positions including Chair of Spains work.
He was the IMFs chief and of global trade, and a deep and Deposit Guarantee Fund, Chair of the spokesman on financial matters, broad network of decision-makers in International Relations Committee at including global financial stability.
the jurisdictions in our footprint.
the European Central Bank, member During his tenure at the IMF, Jos of the Economic and Financial was a member of the Plenary and Jos Vials 63 Committee of the European Union, Steering Committee of the Financial Group Chairman and Chair of the Working Group on Stability Board, playing a key role in Institutional Investors at the Bank for the reform of international financial International Settlements.
the International Monetary Fund IMF N Committees: in 2009 and stepped down in Appointed: June 2015 Career: Bill began his career with JP Bank of England to complete an Morgan, where he went on to independent review of the banks Experience: Bill is a career banker become one of its top five most liquidity operations.
In 2011, Bill with signi cant frontline global senior executives and later co-chief founded Renshaw Bay, an alternative banking experience and a proven executive of cer at the investment asset management rm, where he track record of leadership and bank from 2004 until he stepped was chairman and CEO.
Bill was invited to down on appointment to the experience of working in emerging be a committee member of the Standard Chartered PLC Board.
markets and a proven record in Independent Commission on Bill was previously a non-executive spotting and nurturing talent.
Banking, established in 2010, to director of Pension Insurance External appointments: Bill is an recommend ways to improve Corporation plc and RIT Capital independent non-executive director competition and financial stability in Partners plc.
He received a CBE Bill Winters, CBE 56 of Novartis International AG.
Group Chief Executive as an advisor to the Parliamentary Bill Winters also sits on the Commission on Banking Standards Management Team and was asked by the Court of the Appointed: July 2014 Career: Andy was finance director at a position he held for nine years.
East Midlands Electricity plc prior to As Group Chief Financial Of cer Experience: Andy has a strong joining Vodafone in 1999 as financial at Standard Chartered, Andy is finance background and deep director for Vodafone Limited, the UK responsible for Finance, Corporate experience of managing complex operating company.
Andy was later Treasury, Group Corporate international businesses across appointed financial director for Development, Group Investor dynamic and changing markets.
Vodafones Northern Europe, Middle Relations, Property and Supply External appointments: Andy is a East and Africa region, and later Chain Management functions.
non-executive director at Marks and the chief financial of cer of Verizon Spencer Group plc and a member Wireless in the US.
He was a of the Business Forum on Tax and member of the board of Competitiveness.
representatives of the Verizon Andy Halford 58 Wireless Partnership.
Andy was Andy Halford also sits on the Group Chief Financial Of cer appointed chief financial of cer Management Team of Vodafone Group plc in 2005, Appointed: January 2014 and serves on the boards of various ABSA Group in South Africa and of Deputy Chairman in December 2016 entities within its network.
He also served as chief executive Experience: Naguib has signi cant Career: Naguib began his career of cer of JP Morgan Cazenove.
at Salomon Brothers in 1986 and Naguib is a former non-executive went on to hold senior positions at External appointments: Naguib director of NHS England and served Robert Fleming, Barclays, JP Morgan is Chairman of Rothesay Life, a as a senior advisor to Her Majestys Cazenove and Lazard.
Over the specialist pensions insurer, a Revenue and Customs and to the course of 12 years at Barclays, member of the investment committee Financial Services Authority in Naguib served as group finance of the Wellcome Trust and a member the UK.
director and vice-chairman and in of the Finance Committee of the A Ri R N C various business leadership positions Committees: Oxford University Press.
Naguib in wealth management, institutional Naguib Kheraj 53 spends a substantial amount of his asset management and investment Deputy Chairman time as a senior advisor to the Aga banking.
Naguib was also a Barclays Khan Development Network and nominated non-executive director of 47 DIRECTORS REPORT Board of directors Appointed: January 2016 Career: David spent his career in executive of cer and director in 2002. the financial services industry, living He implemented a strategy of growth Experience: David has signi cant and working across Asia for 37 years, and led the bank through a period of global and corporate, investment for both Citibank and OCBC Bank.
David stepped and retail banking experience, He joined Citibank in 1976 as a down as chief executive of cer in strong risk management credentials management trainee and went on to 2012 but remained as a nonand an in-depth knowledge of hold a number of Asia-based senior executive director on the board of Asian markets.
management roles, including chief OCBC Bank, before leaving the External appointments: David executive of cer of Citibank India and group in 2014. is a non-executive director of managing director and marketing Ri A N C Committees: GasLog Ltd. manager at Citibank Japan, before David is also a member of the Combined leaving Citibank in 2002.
David joined US Operations Risk Committee of David Conner 69 OCBC Bank in Singapore as chief Standard Chartered Bank Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed: September 2013 and Enterprise Company Ltd, a Capgemini UK plc and chief Senior Independent Director in government-backed company executive of cer of technology February 2018 established to help inspire and services for North West Europe.
prepare young people for the Christine was previously a trustee Experience: Christine has strong world of work.
of MacIntyre Care and was a business leadership, finance, non-executive director of Ladbrokes accounting and technology Career: Christine held a number Coral Group plc before stepping experience.
of senior positions at Coopers & down in May 2017.
Lybrand and was corporate External appointments: R A V N C development director of Ronson plc Committees: Christine is chair of Capgemini UK before joining Capgemini in 1997, plc, sits on the board of The Prince of where she held a variety of roles Wales Business in the Community including chief financial of cer for Christine Hodgson 53 and is chair of The Careers & Senior Independent Director Appointed: April 2015 Thomson Financial in 1994, established charities.
In 2010, she becoming managing director of the was appointed as Save the Childrens Experience: Jasmine has signi cant Electronic Settlements Group.
After first international chief executive business leadership experience as completing the Stanford Executive of cer, where she led the merger of well as first-hand experience of Program, Jasmine set up one of 14 separate organisations into one operating across our markets.
Oxfams first regional of ces, management line of 15,000 people External appointments: Jasmine managing nine country operations across seven regions and 60 is chief executive of London First in West Africa, later becoming countries, while aligning the and a non-executive director of international director responsible for federation behind a single mission BT Group plc.
Jasmine stepped Jasmine joined Save the Children in down from Save the Children in Career: Jasmine began her career 2005, where she was responsible December 2015. in international marketing in the Jasmine Whitbread 54 for revitalising one of the UKs most V R N technology sector and joined Committees: Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed: April 2015 Career: Gay spent over 30 years 2005 to 2008, Gay held a number working within the financial services of roles at Citibank, including head Experience: Gay has extensive industry, the international capital of governance, Citi Alternative banking and financial services markets and with the financial Investments, EMEA, before joining experience with signi cant regulator.
Gay spent seven years Barclays Capital where she was vice commercial and UK regulatory with the Financial Services Authority chair of investment banking and and governance experience.
from 1998 to 2005, where she was investment management.
She was External appointments: director of markets division, capital previously a non-executive director Gay is a non-executive director of markets sector leader, with at Aviva plc and the London Stock ConocoPhillips and Bank Itau BBA responsibility for establishing a Exchange Group plc.
She received International plc and is deputy chair market-facing division for the an OBE for services to financial of the Financial Reporting Council.
supervision of market infrastructure, services and diversity in 2016.
Gay Huey Evans, OBE 63 oversight of market conduct and C Ri Committees: Independent Non-Executive Director developing markets policy.
From Appointed: January 2013 Career: Om had a career spanning in his appointment as chairman 38 years with the State Bank of India of the State Bank Group until he Experience: Om has extensive SBI, Indias largest commercial stepped down in 2011.
Om was commercial and retail banking bank, where he held a number of chairman of the Indian Banks experience, financial services and roles beginning with the lead bank Association and was previously an leadership acumen, with deep department, which pioneered independent non-executive director knowledge and experience of India, financial inclusion.
He led the project of Oil and Natural Gas Corporation.
one of our largest markets.
team that pioneered SBIs technology Ri V Committees: External appointments: Om is an initiative in the 1990s, undertook independent non-executive director assignments at SBIs Washington of Hindustan Unilever Ltd, Tata and London of ces and held general Consultancy Services, Tata Steel Ltd, management roles between 2004 Om Bhatt 66 Tata Motors and Chairman of and 2006, becoming managing Independent Non-Executive Director Greenko Energy Holdings.
director of SBI in 2006, culminating Standard Chartered 48 Annual Report 2017 Strategic report DIRECTORS REPORT Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information Appointed: January 2013 Fellow and Council Member of R Committees: the Hong Kong Management Experience: Louis has a wide Association.
breadth of knowledge and experience of financial services, Career: Louis was a global partner particularly in a Greater China of McKinsey & Company and a context.
leader in its Asia Paci c financial institutions practice prior to joining External appointments: Louis is Ping An Insurance Group in 2000. managing partner of Boyu Capital Louis worked in several senior roles Advisory Co, a China-focused private at Ping An, including chief financial equity investment rm, independent of cer, before becoming group non-executive director of Fubon president in 2003 and executive Dr Louis Cheung 54 Financial Holding Company and a director from 2006 to 2011.
Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed: July 2014 Career: From 1988 to 2000, Byron corporate business activities, from worked across BP in a variety of 2012 to 2013 with responsibility for Experience: Byron has broad and commercial, operational and the groups integrated supply and deep commercial, financial and executive roles.
He was appointed trading activities, alternative energy, international experience.
as chief executive of BP Chemicals shipping and technology.
Byron was External appointments: Byron and a managing director of BP plc in a non-executive director at Unilever is a non-executive director of Anglo 2000 and had regional group-level plc and Unilever NV before stepping American plc, Tesco PLC and is accountability for BPs activities in down in 2015. deputy chairman of the supervisory Asia from 2001 to 2006.
Byron was A R Committees: board at Akzo Nobel NV.
He is also chief financial of cer of BP plc from a member of the European Audit 2002 until 2011, subsequently serving Committee Leadership Network.
as BPs executive vice president, Dr Byron Grote 69 Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed: January 2010 Experts Leaders Panel on Water and minister of finance, foreign affairs and Disaster, chair of the Water Advisory industry and trade before serving as Experience: Dr Han is a Group at the Asian Development prime minister from 2008 to 2009. distinguished economist and has Bank and co-chair of the International He also served as Korean a strong geopolitical background, Finance Forum of China.
Dr Han is ambassador to the US, chief of staff with valuable knowledge of Asia non-executive director at Doosan to the president, president of the and its economies.
Infracore Co Ltd and Senior Advisor 56th Session of the United Nations External appointments: Dr Han with the Kim & Chang law rm UN General Assembly, special sits on a number of advisory boards in Korea.
envoy of the UN Secretary-General and is currently the UN Secretaryon Climate Change and chairman of Career: Dr Han is a former Prime Generals special envoy for Disaster the 2009 Organisation for Economic Minister of the Republic of Korea.
Risk Reduction and Water, special Cooperation and Development He has a distinguished political, Dr Han Seung-soo, KBE 81 advisor to the High Level Panel on Ministerial Council Meeting.
diplomatic and administrative career, Independent Non-Executive Director Water co-convened by the UN and V serving as deputy prime minister and Committees: World Bank, chair of the High-Level Appointed: November 2017 and chair positions at a range to 2006.
She returned to the World of global institutions, including Bank in 2007, serving as a Managing Experience: Ngozi has signi cant charitable foundations, nonDirector until 2011, when she was geopolitical, economic, risk and governmental organisations and appointed to the role of Minister of development experience and inter-governmental organisations.
Finance and Coordinating Minister of expertise at a governmental and Ngozi is a member of the G20 Economy in the Nigerian government, intergovernmental level.
Eminent Persons Group reviewing a position she held until 2015.
External appointments: Ngozi Global Financial Governance and During her time in government she holds a number of prestigious is an ambassador of the Open spearheaded Nigerias successful international advisory positions Government Partnership.
programme to obtain debt relief and including Lazard and the Asian is credited with developing reforms Career: A development economist, Infrastructure Investment Bank.
She that helped improve governmental Ngozi spent 25 years working at the Dr Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala 63 is Chair of GAVI, the Global Alliance transparency to stabilise and grow World Bank in various positions.
After Independent Non-Executive Director for Vaccines and Immunisations.
leaving in 2003, she served as the addition she holds advisory panel V Finance Minister of Nigeria from 2003 Committees: Appointed: Liz was appointed Standard Chartered Bank Tanzania, Group Company Secretary in a position she held until October January 2016.
Liz joined Standard Chartered in 2008, initially within Group Compliance, focused on regulatory risk and regulatory relationships, before being appointed as Group Head of Public Affairs, responsible for coordinating the Groups policies and positioning on all political and regulatory matters.
In 2013, she was Liz Lloyd, CBE 46 appointed Chief Executive Of cer of Group Company Secretary 49
