DIRECTORS REPORT Management Team Management Team Bill Winters, CBE 56 Andy Halford 58 Group Chief Executive Group Chief Financial Of cer Appointed: Tracy was appointed Human Resources, Corporate Affairs 2013 and became Regional CEO CEO, Europe and Americas in and Brand and Marketing.
In her role Europe & Americas in October 2015.
October 2015. as CEO Europe and Americas she External appointments: Tracy is is responsible for the Corporate & Career: Tracy joined Standard an independent non-executive Institutional Banking, Private and Chartered in 1985 and has held a director of Sky plc and sits on the Retail Banking businesses in the US, number of roles in Retail, Commercial board of England Netball.
She is Latin America, UK, Jersey, Germany, and Corporate Banking, in addition to also a director of City UK.
Group functions, both in the UK and in Hong Kong.
From 2013 until 2015, Tracy was appointed as a Director of Tracy Clarke 51 Tracy led a broad portfolio including Standard Chartered Bank in January Regional CEO, Europe & Legal and Compliance, Americas Appointed: Ben was appointed positions spanning corporate, External appointments: Ben is a Regional CEO, Greater China & commercial and retail banking in the member of the Financial Services North Asia on 1 October 2015 UK and Hong Kong.
During 2008 to Development Council, sits on the and CEO, Retail Banking on 2014, he was the CEO of Standard Exchange Fund Advisory Committee 30 November 2017.
Chartered Bank Hong Kong Ltd. and is a member of the General Ben was previously a board member Committee of the Hong Kong Career: Ben was previously CEO for of the Hong Kong Airport Authority, General Chamber of Commerce.
He joined the Hong Kong Hospital Authority Standard Chartered in 1992 and has and a Council Member of the Hong Benjamin Hung 53 held a number of senior management Kong University.
Regional CEO, Greater China & North Asia and CEO Retail Banking Appointed: Anna was appointed Career: Anna joined Standard External appointments: None.
CEO, Commercial & Private Banking Chartered as Group Head of Strategy on 1 October 2015 and is leading and Corporate Development in on the restructure of an expanded January 2012.
Prior to this she was Commercial Clients business and a partner at McKinsey & Companys the build out of the Private Bank.
Banking Practice in its Global Anna took on the additional role of Banking Practice and is a recognised Regional CEO, ASEAN & South Asia expert in banking strategy.
Prior in November 2016. to McKinsey she ran a financial Anna Marrs 44 information and technology Regional CEO, ASEAN & South company, having started her career Asia and CEO, Commercial & with a hedge fund in New York.
Private Banking Appointed: Sunil was appointed the Head of Corporate Banking in External appointments: None.
Regional CEO, Africa & Middle East UAE, Head of Originations and Client on 1 October 2015.
Prior to this role, Coverage in Singapore, Global Head Sunil was Regional CEO, South Asia.
Small and Medium Enterprises and New Ventures in Singapore and Career: Sunil has nearly 30 years Chief Executive Of cer of Standard of banking experience in diverse Chartered Bank Taiwan Ltd. Before markets and has been with Standard joining Standard Chartered in 1998, Chartered for almost 20 years, Sunil held various banking positions Sunil Kaushal 52 holding senior roles across the at a number of leading international Wholesale and Consumer Bank.
Regional CEO, Africa & financial institutions.
Sunil has rich experience across the MiddleEast Groups footprint, having served as Standard Chartered 50 Annual Report 2017 Strategic report DIRECTORS REPORT Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information Appointed: Simon joined the Group in 1989 and held a number of External appointments: Simon as CEO, Corporate & Institutional senior roles there, including deputy is a member of the advisory board Banking in April 2016. chairman and chief executive of cer, of the Lee Kong Chian School Middle East and North Africa: chief of Business.
Career: Simon was previously executive of cer, Korea: and head of group managing director and chief Corporate and Investment Banking, executive of Global Commercial Singapore.
He has signi cant Banking at HSBC.
He has extensive experience in the areas of corporate experience across our markets and finance, corporate banking and client segments.
Simon joined HSBC Simon Cooper 50 transaction banking.
CEO, Corporate & InstitutionalBanking Appointed: Judy Hsu was 18 years at Citibank where she External appointments: Judy is a appointed CEO Singapore in October held various leadership roles in its member of The Institute of Banking 2015 and was appointed CEO Consumer Banking Business in Asia.
and Finance Council and sits on Singapore and ASEAN Markets Her last role in Citibank was Regional the Statutory Board of Workforce Malaysia, Vietnam, Thailand and Head of Retail Bank for Asia Paci c Singapore.
Rep Of ces in October 2017. and Country Business Manager for International Personal Banking in Career: Judy joined Standard Singapore.
Chartered in December 2009 as the Global Head of Wealth Management Judy Hsu 54 and led the strategic advancement CEO, Singapore and ASEAN of the Banks wealth management Markets Malaysia, Vietnam, business.
Prior to this, Judy spent Thailand and Rep Of ces Appointed: Mark was appointed as Career: Before joining Standard Other roles at HSBC included chief Group Chief Risk Of cer and a Chartered, Mark was the chief risk operating of cer, Global Corporate & Director of Standard Chartered Bank of cer Europe, Middle East and Institutional Banking and he has in January 2016.
Mark is responsible Africa and global head, Wholesale worked in London and Hong Kong.
for managing Credit, Market and Credit and Traded Risk for HSBC.
Operational Risk across the Group He had a long and successful career and ensuring the broader risk at HSBC, having joined Midland framework is effective.
He also Bank as a graduate trainee prior to has responsibility for the Groups its acquisition by HSBC.
Group Chief Risk Of cer Appointed: David joined the Group Career: David has held various External appointments: David is in September 2013 as Group General senior roles in the US Government, a member of the board of directors Counsel, advising the Board and the including as US Attorney for the of Guiding Eyes for the Blind.
Court of the Bank on all material legal District of Connecticut and as matters.
He oversees Standard Associate Counsel to the President.
Chartereds Legal function, Group He has extensive experience ghting Corporate Secretariat and Shared financial crime and a track record Investigative Services.
David also of forming and supporting serves as Chairman of Seeing is public-private partnerships.
David Fein 57 Believing, the Groups agship Group General Counsel philanthropic effort dedicated to eliminating avoidable blindness.
Appointed: Michael was appointed Career: An industry award winner, External appointments: None.
Group Chief Information Of cer when Michael joined from Daimler AG he joined Standard Chartered in where he was most recently vice July 2015. president and CIO with responsibility for the smooth operation of all Daimler systems and the management of IT projects globally.
He has held various CIO roles within the Daimler group and has Dr Michael Gorriz 57 spent many years working across Group Chief Information Of cer our footprint.
51 DIRECTORS REPORT Management Team Management Team continued Appointed: Doris was appointed Career: Doris joined the Group in External appointments: None.
Group Chief Operating Of cer in March 2007, and has served as the October 2015, supporting the Group Group Head of Market Risk and the Chief Executive in fide ning and Chief Operating Of cer for Wholesale executing the business strategy, Banking.
Doris started her career at reinforcing exemplary control and Dresdner Bank in Frankfurt.
She held governance, ensuring strategic several market risk leadership roles in functional alignment and enabling Frankfurt, Tokyo and London, before ef cient business growth.
taking over global responsibility Doris Honold 51 for Dresdner Kleinworts market Group Chief Operating Of cer risk function.
Appointed: Tracey was appointed FSA and more recently the FCA, PRA from September 2015 until June Group Head of Corporate, Public and including Director, Supervision 2016.
Tracey received a CBE in 2016 Regulatory Affairs in March 2017 and and Authorisations and Director, for services to financial consumers assumed responsibility for Brand Enforcement and Financial Crime.
Tracey was appointed to the Board External appointments: Tracey is of the FCA in April 2013 before being Career: Tracey joined the Group a board member of UK Finance and appointed acting Chief Executive of in March 2017 from the Financial an Honorary Professor at the Centre the FCA.
She was also a member Conduct Authority FCA.
She joined for Commercial Law Studies, Queen of the Financial Policy Committee the Financial Services Authority FSA Mary University of London.
Tracey McDermott, CBE 48 of the Bank of England and a in 2001 and went on to hold a Group Head of Corporate, Non-Executive Director of the number of senior roles at the Public and Regulatory Affairs Appointed: Pam was appointed as for the management of the Groups External appointments: Pam Group Head, Human Resources in balance sheet.
In 2014, she became is a lay member of The Royal April 2016.
Group Business Head, Regions Veterinary College Ethics and working closely with the Global Welfare Committee.
Career: Pam joined the Group in Business Heads and Regional CEOs.
1991 and has held a number of She then took on the role of interim key roles across the organisation Group Chief Risk Of cer from July including Group Head of Corporate 2015 to February 2016 before Affairs, Group Head of Internal Audit, assuming the role of Group Head, Group Head of ALM and Group Pam Walkden 57 Human Resources.
Treasurer, where she was responsible Group Head, Human Resources Standard Chartered 52 Annual Report 2017
