DIRECTORS REPORT Corporate governance Board effectiveness The evaluation of the Board and committee effectiveness was conducted in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and the PRAs expectations.
The Governance and Nomination Committee had oversight of the process.
It was facilitated by F on Hague of Independent Board Evaluation IBE.
Neither F on Hague nor IBE has any other connection with Standard Chartered.
Board and committee effectiveness review process Conducted tender process: A longlist of Agreed action plan: Following the Board make an even contribution: and enhancing seven providers was drawn up, each discussion an action plan for 2017 18 was linkages between the Board and its having built a solid reputation in the market agreed.
Action plans for each committee committees.
Each were subsequently discussed and agreed rm was sent a Request for Proposal after by the committee chairs Committees which a formal assessment process was Shared findings with PRA: A summary The Boards six committees were also undertaken by a panel made up of the of the findings were shared with the PRA observed as part of the review and feedback Group Chairman, the Deputy Chairman provided to the committee chairs.
The and the Group Company Secretary, Observations from the committees were highly regarded in the resulting in IBE being selected.
feedback and viewed as effective in ful lling effectiveness review Brief and Board observation: A their remits.
A copy of the final report was At the time of the review Jos Vials had comprehensive brief was provided to IBE made available to committee members.
been the Chairman for four months and by the Chairman and the assessment had chaired only two meetings.
The review team observed the Board and its six was intended to provide a baseline of committees in February and March.
performance against which the Boards Access to Board and committee papers Action plan 2017 18 progress could be measured over the was provided Create even more space for regular coming years.
strategic discussion One-to-one interviews: The IBE The broad message from the directors assessment team conducted detailed Hold a learning and development was that the Board had undergone some interviews with every Board member and a session for committee chairs in order considerable change over the past three number of senior management, external to share good practice and enhance years and the appointment of Jos as advisors, brokers, auditor, regulators and their overall effectiveness, setting the Chairman was seen favourably by the shareholders right tone for open discussion directors who regarded the Boards direction Evaluation and report compiled: The Invite local subsidiary independent of travel as very positive.
The induction report was compiled by the assessment non-executive directors to attend programme received by directors on joining team, based on the views gathered by parts of the Group Board committee the Board was highly rated for being those interviewed and observations from meetings when in country comprehensive and offering access to every the Board and committee meetings part of the business and to any member of Ensure the overseas Board Discussion with the Board and senior management.
programmes continue to provide Committee Chairs: The draft suf cient time for effective interaction However, there was an appreciation that conclusions were discussed with the with a range of stakeholders, including there was more to do before the Board Chairman and subsequently with the local management, clients, colleagues reached optimal performance.
This included: whole Board at which F on Hague was and regulators increasing time for strategic discussion and present.
Following the Board discussion, focus: standing back suf ciently to see the Ensure that Board papers consistently feedback on the committee reports were broad issues and the greatest priorities: set out all options for the Board to discussed with each of the relevant ensuring all existing and new members have provide constructive challenge committee Chairs before being shared suf cient development and opportunity to more widely with the committee members External effectiveness review in 2017 February March March April April May May May June Brief and Board One-to-one Evaluation and Shared findings Discussion with Agreed action plan observation interviews report with PRA the Board and An action plan for Brief provided Detailed interviews Initial report compiled Summary of findings Committee Chairs 2017 18 was agreed with Board and other shared with the PRA and shared with Draft conclusions Observation of Board stakeholders the Board discussed with and committees Chairman Access to papers Board discussion Standard Chartered 60 Annual Report 2017 Strategic report DIRECTORS REPORT Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information is independent, the Board considers each Directors performance Chairmans performance individual against the criteria set out in the In addition to the Board and Committee The Senior Independent Director met with UK Corporate Governance Code, the Hong effectiveness reviews Jos Vials met the independent non-executive directors, Kong Listing Rules and also considers their with each of the directors during 2017 to at a private meeting without the Chairman contribution and conduct at Board meetings, evaluate their individual performance.
The present, to evaluate the Chairmans including how they exercise judgement and performance reviews are used as the basis performance, taking into account the views independent thinking.
for recommending the re-election of directors of the executive directors.
The feedback was In line with the Code, Dr Hans reby shareholders and to assist the Chairman collated and consolidated feedback was appointment was subject to particular in assessing whether each director continues given to Jos Vials.
review and scrutiny, given he has served to contribute effectively and demonstrate on the Board for more than six years.
their commitment to the role, including time Independence of directors The Board is satis ed that Dr Han and each commitment for board and committee The Chairman is committed to ensuring of its non-executive directors bring robust, meetings and other duties.
that the Board is comprised of a majority independent oversight.
All of the directors of independent non-executive directors.
In will stand for re election at the 2018 AGM determining whether a non-executive director with the support of the Board.
Engagement with investors Bill Winters and Andy Halford are the agencies with country chief executives and Our approach primary spokespeople for the Group and chief financial of cers leading on subsidiary We aim to deliver robust returns and throughout the year engaged extensively ratings.
In 2017, management met with debt long-term sustainable value for our with existing and potential investors during investors across Europe, North America shareholders.
Trusted and open relationships individual and group meetings either on and Asia and maintained a regular dialogue with our investors are important to us and roadshows or at investor conferences.
In with the rating agencies.
It is important that we believe strengthened by ensuring we addition, each member of the Management the Group, as an active issuer of senior consistently and openly seek feedback.
Team responsible for a client segment or unsecured and non-equity capital maintains geographic region has met with investors The Chairman and other Board directors regular contact with debt investors to ensure to promote greater awareness and maintain direct contact with investors and continued appetite for the Groups credit.
understanding of the strategy in their advisory voting bodies and receive regular The Groups credit ratings are an important respective areas as well as receive investor updates from the Investor Relations team part of the external perception of our financial feedback rsthand.
including reports on market and investor strength and creditworthiness.
Further information can be viewed at Institutional shareholders During the year we maintained a www.
com programme comprehensive programme of engagement with investors and other key stakeholders, The Group maintains a diverse, high quality Retail shareholders programme including investor advisory bodies and credit and predominantly institutional shareholder rating agencies and provided updates on The Group Company Secretary oversees base.
The Investor Relations team has progress made to secure our foundations communication with retail shareholders.
primary responsibility for managing day-toand the steps being taken to reposition the Our AGM held on 3 May 2017 was attended day communications with these shareholders Group for improved returns.
In 2017, we met and provides support to the Chairman, by all of the directors and provided an with over 284 separate institutions in 769 opportunity for them to meet with existing Group Chief Executive, Group Chief investor meetings across 11 of our markets.
retail shareholders, hear their views and Financial Of cer, other Board members respond to their questions.
The Chairs of the and senior management in conducting a Jos has spent a signi cant portion of his Audit, Remuneration and Governance and comprehensive engagement programme.
first full year as Chairman engaging with Nomination Committees were available to shareholders representing more than All presentation material and webcast transcripts answer questions.
It was well-attended and 50 per cent of the share register, including are made available on the Groups website and all of the proposed resolutions were passed hosting 13 of them at his annual governance can be viewed at www.
com with shareholder support for each ranging event.
Christine Hodgson, Chair of the from 86.78 to 99.99 per cent.
Remuneration Committee also spent a Debt investor programme signi cant amount of time during the The results of the voting on each resolution at the Our Treasury team has primary responsibility year engaging shareholders on 2017 AGM can be viewed at www.
for managing the Groups relationships with debt investors and the three major rating What we did in 2017 February March April May June August September October November December 2016 1 Roadshow Q1 Interim AGM 1 Conference 2017 Half 5 Conferences Chairmans Q3 Interim 2 Conferences Full year management year results governance management 3 Conferences 1 Conference 6 Roadshows 1 Roadshow results statement event statement 6 Roadshows 1 Seminar 6 Roadshows 1 Conference 2 Roadshows 3 Conferences 1 Seminar 61 DIRECTORS REPORT Corporate governance Of cer, Group Head of Internal Audit, Throughout the year, the Board received Board committees Group Head, Compliance, lead audit regular updates from the committee chairs The Board places signi cant reliance on its partner of the Groups statutory auditor on each of the committees activities and committees by delegating a broad range of and the Group Company Secretary also areas of focus together with minutes of responsibilities and issues to them.
It therefore participated in the call.
It provided the their meetings with the exception of the remains crucial that effective linkages are in opportunity to share, amongst other Governance and Nomination Committee.
place between the committees and the Board things, the Committees primary areas In addition to the Board Risk Committees as a whole, not least as it is impracticable of focus during the previous 12 months, update the Group Chief Risk Of cer also for all independent non-executive directors the Committees focus in respect to the provided formal risk reporting to the Board to be members of all of the committees.
2016 annual accounts and its priorities This year saw the first Global Chairmens Mechanisms are in place to facilitate these and areas of focus for the year ahead Conference take place in Dubai.
It was linkages, including ensuring that there are The Chairs of the Board Financial Crime hosted by Jos and focused on no gaps or unnecessary duplications Risk Committee and Board Risk strengthening the linkages between between the remit of each committee Committee jointly hosted an annual call the Group Board and its subsidiaries.
and overlapping membership between with the chairs of the subsidiary board risk However, it also explored improving Board committees.
committees, and for where the Groups linkages and sharing knowledge between In addition the committees strive to ensure subsidiaries do not have a risk committee, the Groups committees, particularly the that appropriate linkages are in place the chairs of their board audit committees.
Audit and Risk Committees and the with the subsidiary board committees.
The Group Chairman, Group Chief Risk subsidiary committees.
More detail about This is achieved in a variety of ways: Of cer and Group Company Secretary the format of the conference and the topics also participated in the call.
It provided the discussed is set out below During the year the Audit Committee held opportunity for both Chairs to share the an annual call hosted by the Audit Committee main areas of focus for both Committees Chair and attended by the chairs of over the previous 12 months and the subsidiary audit committees.
The Group priorities for the year ahead Chairman, Deputy Group Chief Financial Strengthening the linkages between the Board and its subsidiaries Global Chairmens Conference Jos Vials hosted the Groups first Global Chairmens Conference around A session on best practice sharing and the effectiveness of linkages the November Board meeting in Dubai.
It was an opportunity for the Board between the Board and Committees.
This included contributions from and the Management Team to hear directly from the Groups subsidiary the Group Company Secretary, the Group Audit Committee Chair, Chairmen and independent directors on a range of issues important to the Group Risk Committee Chair, the Standard Chartered Bank them, with the aim of jointly developing initiatives that will lead to the Singapore Audit Committee Chair and the Standard Chartered Bank strengthening of linkages between the Board and its subsidiaries.
Uganda Chairman The conference was highly interactive and consisted of a series of The Chairs of Standard Chartered Bank Malaysia, Kenya and Hong presentations and panel sessions on a range of topics including: Kong gave perspectives of serving and chairing a subsidiary board: the Global Head of Digital Banking provided an update on the roll out An update on the Groups strategy and progress in its execution from of the Groups digital initiatives the Group Chief Executive Of cer There was also a panel discussion facilitated by the Regional CEO A presentation on transforming our culture which included a summary for ASEAN and South Asia on the Groups frontier risks of the My Voice global employee survey from the Group Head, Human Resources and insights from the Chair of the Brand, Values and Conduct Committee and the Chairmen of Standard Chartered Bank Cameroon and Cote dIvoire Standard Chartered 62 Annual Report 2017
