82 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 I Corporate Governance Report Nomination Committee Report Membership and meetings Meetings attended held in 1 Independent 2017 Committee Chair 2 Glen Moreno Yes on 9 9 appointment Committee members We continue to focus on the composition, skills and Norman McLuskie Yes 9 9 experience of the Board.
Chair succession has been a key 3 Colin Keogh Yes 7 9 focus for the Committee during 2017.
4 Marilyn Spearing Yes 1 2 Glen Moreno Chair, Nomination Committee Geeta Gopalan Yes 9 9 5 Gordon McCallum No 6 8 Eva Eisenschimmel Yes 9 9 6 Darren Pope Yes 8 8 7 Amy Stirling No 0 0 1 Number of meetings held during the period the member held office.
2 Norman McLuskie acted as Chair for all discussions in relation to Chair succession.
3 Colin Keogh was unable to attend two ad hoc meetings held on short notice due to a conflict with external appointments.
4 Marilyn Spearing retired from the Committee on 3 May 2017 and was unable to attend the final Committee meeting of her tenure due to a conflict with an external appointment.
5 Gordon McCallum retired from the Committee on 31 October 2017 and was unable to attend two prior meetings held on short notice.
6 Darren Pope joined the Committee on 1 March 2017.
7 Amy Stirling joined the Committee on 20 December 2017.
Chairs overview Succession planning and the composition of the Board and its Committees were a key focus during 2017.
In July 2017, I confirmed my retirement from the Board in 2018 to return home to the USA.
I considered it the right time, with the completion of my three year term due in January 2018, for the business to appoint a new Chair to oversee delivery of the next phase of Virgin Moneys strategy.
As announced on 15 February 2018, I will be retiring from the Board on 31 March 2018 and Irene Dorner will succeed me as Chair on 1April 2018.
I am grateful to Norman McLuskie, our Senior Independent Director SID, for leading such a rigorous process for the Nomination Committee to appoint my successor.
An overview of the recruitment process undertaken by the Committee is provided on page 83.
As highlighted in my Chairs Statement, there have been a number of changes to the Board in 2017.
Eva Eisenschimmel and Darren Pope joined the Board as Independent Non-Executive Directors in January and March 2017 respectively, and Marilyn Spearing retired from the Board in May 2017.
Peter Bole joined the Board as Executive Director in July 2017 and Amy Stirling joined the Board in December 2017 as the Virgin Nominee Director, replacing Gordon McCallum following his retirement from the Board in October 2017.
As part of our medium-term Committee succession planning, a number of Committee Chair changes have also been made.
On the Committees recommendation, Norman McLuskie became Chair of the Remuneration Committee in May 2017: Darren Pope succeeded Norman as Chair of the Audit Committee in July 2017 and Geeta Gopalan succeeded Colin Keogh as Chair of the Board Risk Committee in January 2018 and Colin Keogh became Chair of VMUTM in June 2017.
The Committee will continue to keep under review the structure, size and composition of the Board and its Committees and to make appropriate recommendations to the Board.
Governance Risk Management Report Strategic Report Financial Results Financial Statements Other Information Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 83 I During 2018, the Committee will commission an  evaluation of the Board and Committees effectiveness, led by the new Chair.
This will offer an independent view of the Boards effectiveness building upon the progress made against the recommendations and priorities from the 2017 internal Board effectiveness review.
Glen Moreno Chair, Nomination Committee 26 February 2018 The key activities of the Committee during the year Committee purpose and responsibilities are summarised below.
Full details of the Committees The purpose of the Committee is to keep the Boards responsibilities are set out in the Committee terms of composition, skills, experience, knowledge, independence reference which were updated during the year in accordance and succession arrangements under review and to review with best practice and can be found on the website at the succession plans for the Executive.
makes recommendations to the Board to ensure that the Groups arrangements are consistent with good corporate During the year the Committee met its key objectives and governance standards.
The Committees role also extends carried out its responsibilities effectively, as confirmed by the to appointments to the boards of the Groups material annual effectiveness review.
More details on the Committee subsidiaries, including the Bank.
evaluation can be found on pages 78 to 79.
Chair recruitment In 2017, Glen Moreno indicated his intention to retire from the Board in 2018.
A process to recruit and appoint a new Chair commenced.
The search was undertaken by the Committee and led by myself as the SID.
The Chief Executive was fully involved in the process although the decision rested with the Committee.
Heidrick & Struggles JCA Group JCA was appointed to support the search on the basis of their strength and depth of experience in Chair and Chief Executive searches and their overall market reputation.
Aside from assisting with recruitment, JCA has no other connection with the Group.
The specification for the role was agreed by myself, in conjunction with the Chief Executive and Committee members.
The Committee and individual Committee representatives had a number of discussions with JCA to scope out the key skills, experience, characteristics and requirements for the role.
Key attributes for the position included retail banking or financial services experience, strong corporate governance and or chair experience, cultural fit and strong stakeholder skills.
A structured timetable was adopted for the process and regular Committee discussions and updates held throughout.
From a detailed understanding of our requirements and specification for the role, JCA conducted extensive research analysing the market and put together an extensive range of potential candidates for the Committee to consider.
After much debate this was narrowed down to a shortlist for interview.
These candidates were interviewed by JCA and further due diligence carried out.
Shortlisted candidates then met initially with myself and the Chief Executive and also, to ensure consistency, the same Committee members as those involved in the initial discussions with JCA.
The Chairs involvement in the search was limited to meeting the shortlisted candidates, as part of their due diligence.
On 25 October 2017, in response to media speculation, we announced that we were in advanced discussions with Irene Dorner.
On 15 February 2018, following receipt of regulatory approval, we were delighted to announce Irenes appointment as Chair Elect with effect from 1 March 2018.
Irene will become Chair and Chair of the Nomination Committee on 1 April 2018.
Irene was an ideal match to our requirements with strong and extensive retail banking experience, gathered over 30 years with HSBC.
Further detail is included in Irenes biography on page 68.
We believe Irene is an excellent cultural fit for Virgin Money and we are confident she has the attributes to lead the Board and support the Chief Executive and the Executive as they deliver the next phase of Virgin Moneys strategy.
84 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 I Corporate Governance Report Nomination Committee Report A comprehensive and structured induction process is under way to ensure Irene has a thorough understanding of our business, the market environment and our stakeholders prior to taking up her appointment as Chair.
Further detail on her induction will be provided in our 2018 Annual Report and Accounts.
Norman McLuskie Senior Independent Director Eva Eisenschimmel and Darren Pope can be found on page 95 Committee composition, skills and of the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts.
The changes take experience into account the need to refresh the intake of Non-Executive To ensure a broad representation of independent views, Directors to bring new and diverse perspectives to the Board including perspectives from each of the Committees, and decision-making and ensure appropriate succession membership of the Committee comprises the Board Chair, all planning for the Committees.
Robust and comprehensive Independent Non-Executive Directors and the Virgin Nominee handover processes, as required by the Senior Managers and Director.
The Chief Executive, the Virgin Nominee Director Certification Regime, were undertaken for each Committee and, if required, the People Director attend meetings by Chair transition.
The Chair is responsible for developing a succession plan How the Committee spent its time in 2017 in relation to the Chief Executive, who is in turn primarily responsible for developing and maintaining a succession plan Board and Executive succession for key leadership positions in the Executive.
The Committee Approach considers the adequacy of such succession arrangements.
The Committee recognises that good succession planning To support the continued development of the business, contributes to the delivery of the Groups strategy by ensuring the Executive was strengthened by the appointment of the desired mix of skills and experience of Board members Ken Donald to the role of Corporate Development Director now and in the future.
Just as importantly, internal talent on 1 July 2017. needs to be recognised and nurtured within Executive and management levels across the Group.
The Groups annual The Board is well placed to meet the challenges and talent and capability reviews and leadership programmes opportunities ahead, and the Committee and the Board are allow the Group to identify talent and have the right satisfied that the Executive is staffed appropriately.
The succession plans and development programmes in place Committee will continue to ensure that succession planning to ensure the Group creates opportunities for current and remains under review.
Effectiveness Process Details of the 2017 Board Effectiveness Review, overseen The Committee supports the Chair in keeping the composition by the Committee, and key recommendations are set out of the Board and its Committees under regular review on pages 78 to 79.
The Committee will monitor the Boards and in leading the appointment process for nominations progress against the agreed roadmap in 2018. to the Board.
Independence and time commitments Following the review undertaken by the Chair in 2016 of The independence of the Non-Executive Directors and the Board tenure, succession planning and an assessment of election or re-election of Directors and their suitability to the collective technical and governance skills required from continue in office, were reviewed.
As in 2016, a rigorous the Non-Executive Directors to support the future business independence review was undertaken in respect of Norman strategy, the Committee oversaw the Board and Committee McLuskie and Colin Keogh, given that both have just Chair changes that were approved in 2016, and set out on completed the eighth year of their tenure.
Further information on the process for appointing Governance Risk Management Report Strategic Report Financial Results Financial Statements Other Information Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 85 I In assessing independence, the Committee did not rely In respect of gender diversity, the Committee approved a solely on the Code criteria but considered whether the revised objective for a balanced Board with representation Non-Executive Director was demonstrably independent and of either gender making up no less than 33% one in three free of relationships and other circumstances that could of the Board.
In addition, the Group has a stated goal that by affect their judgement.
Based on its assessment for 2017, 2020 the Boards gender balance should be 50 50.
Female the Committee is satisfied that, throughout the year, Colin representation on the Board was 40% at 31 December 2017: Keogh, Norman McLuskie, Geeta Gopalan, Eva Eisenschimmel this will increase to 50% representation on the appointment and Darren Pope remained independent as to both character of Irene Dorner to, and Glen Morenos retirement from, and judgement.
Amy Stirling is not considered to be independent due to her The Group supports the Women in Finance Charter and the relationship with Virgin.
Patrick McCall is also not considered Parker Review Beyond One by 21 recommendation that to be independent since he was appointed to the Board as the FTSE 100 and 250 company boards should have at least representative director of VEL pursuant to the Virgin Money one director which makes the Board composition ethnically Trade Mark Licence Agreement.
The Board currently meets this minimum recommendation.
The Committee reviewed the roles, including capabilities and time commitments, of the Chair, SID, Non-Executive Directors, Please see pages 14 to 15 and 22 to 23 of the Strategic Chief Executive and CFO, considering amongst other matters, Report for details of the Groups approach to diversity and the impact of limits placed by CRD IV on the number of inclusion initiatives which includes statistics on Board and directorships that can be held by the Directors, and found Executive diversity.
The Committee is recommending the re-election of all Directors who served during 2017 and who wish to continue to serve, together with the election of Peter Bole, Amy Stirling and Irene Dorner to shareholders at the 2018 AGM.
Diversity The Board places great emphasis on ensuring that its members reflect diversity in its broadest sense.
As set out in the Board approved Diversity Policy available at virginmoney.
com virgin investor-relations the Groups aim is to nurture a skilled, committed and diverse workforce where every individual, regardless of background, can share the Groups purpose, reach their potential and be rewarded appropriately for their contribution to the Groups success.
Whilst all Board appointments are made on merit, a diverse combination of demographics, skills, experience, knowledge and background on the Board is important in providing a range of perspectives, insights and challenge needed to support good decision-making.
During the course of the year, the Board reviewed the Groups performance against the Board approved Diversity Policy which sets out the approach to diversity for each of the main boards within the Group.
Information on Board composition as at 31 December 2017 is included on page 65.
