Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Governance Leadership The Board considers that its primary role is to provide leadership to the group, to set the groups long-term strategic objectives and to develop robust corporate governance and risk management practices.
The Board has the ultimate responsibility The Board reviews the terms of reference for There is significant focus on the risk culture in for ensuring that the group is managed itself and its committees annually and these the organisation which is overseen by the risk effectively and in the best interests of the were last updated in December 2017. advisory committee on behalf of the Board.
shareholders, customers, employees and The risk advisory committee considers the The Boards terms of reference and other stakeholders including regulators.
groups risk appetite, the nature and extent those of each of its committees can The Board operates within a formal schedule of the risks facing the group, including the be found on the groups website at of matters reserved to it.
This schedule is framework to mitigate such risks and notifies www.
reviewed and updated on a regular basis.
the Board of changes to the status and The Board meets regularly and provides control of risks across the group.
The Board delegates specific powers for direction, oversight and detailed review and some matters to its principal committees Following the realignment of the roles challenge to the businesses.
The outputs from and responsibilities of the risk advisory each committee meeting are reported to Specific key decisions and matters reserved committee, the risk advisory group has been the Board by each committee chairman to for the Board are set out below: disbanded.
Along with the group interim ensure the Board maintains the necessary CRO, the managing directors and chief risk Strategy and management: oversight.
More detail on the committees officers of each Division continue to attend and their work is described in the Financial reporting and controls: the risk advisory committee meetings which committees sections in this report.
focuses on the risks inherent in each of Structure and capital: the Divisions, particularly those relating to Following the unexpected changes to Oversight of regulatory compliance and regulation and conduct, reflecting the ever the Board in 2017, the membership of all internal control: changing regulatory environment in which the Board committees was reconstituted Corporate governance: the group operates.
From 2018 the risk in March and again in November 2017. advisory committee will be known as the The changes to the committees are set Remuneration: group risk committee GRC.
Approval of communications to shareholders: and Board membership and other appointments.
Governance framework Risk advisory committee See pages 80 to 84 formore information.
Audit committee See pages 85 to 90 Executive Group formore information.
committee Board Nomination committee See pages 91 to 95 formore information.
Chairman Remuneration committee Executive See pages 118 to 119 director Executive committee formore information.
Non-executive Comprises the two executive directors of the Board, the group director interim CRO, the General Counsel and Company Secretary, Company the divisional managing directors and is chaired bythe Chief Secretary Disclosure Committee Executive Officer.
TheDeputy Company Secretary is secretary to the committee.
The committee deals with matters relating tothegeneral running of the group.
Management 70 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Governance In addition, the group has detailed corporate taken and any actions from the meetings During 2017 the Board has devoted policies which are explained on page 81 are documented.
Regular meetings are significant time to considering: of this report and which are periodically scheduled up to a year in advance and reviewed and refreshed when and where any director unable to attend is given the Group strategy: required.
On a day-to-day basis, the divisions opportunity to comment on the papers when Business and financial performance: and the corporate office have responsibility circulated before the meeting.
Meetings are for the implementation of the corporate structured so that appropriate time is Capital and liquidity adequacy: policies and the Board is responsible for the devoted to all agenda items.
In addition to Regulatory issues and developments: general oversight of this process.
these scheduled meetings, ad hoc Board Corporate governance structure: meetings are held outside the published Detailed reports on the activities of the risk Information security: cycle where circumstances require for advisory committee, audit committee and example, to approve appointments to the The control environment: nomination committee are set out in this Board, any material transactions, the signing Project and IT investment: and report on pages 80, 85 and 91 respectively.
of the financial report and accounts or the The revision of the groups approval of regulatory submissions.
Details of the work of the remuneration riskmanagement and committee, the composition of which governance framework.
is set out in the table below, together Executive committee with the annual statement from the At each Board meeting remuneration committee chairman, the At the end of 2017, the group reconstituted Discussion: remuneration policy and the annual report the executive committee to provide a more Chief Executive Officers report: on remuneration, are set out in the directors integrated approach to managing the group remuneration report, on pages 102 to 126. and to enhance the information flows and Finance Directors report: controls between the group and its Divisions.
Divisional managing directors Meetings and attendance operational reports: The executive committee performed the management function and supervision of the Capital and liquidity matters: In light of the challenges the business faced group and is chaired by the Chief Executive Treasury matters: in 2017, the Board met more frequently than Officer and directed by the Board and by Legal and company secretarial matters: anticipated.
The Board held 23 meetings in other officers to whom the management the year which was significantly higher than Risk and regulatory matters: function is properly delegated by the Chief originally scheduled.
The Deputy Company Board committee matters: attendance at the Board meetings is set out Secretary is secretary to the committee.
Investor relations and shareholder in the table below.
feedback: and The Board holds meetings at regular intervals Corporate affairs.
at which the groups financial and business Review: performance is reviewed, along with risk, Minutes of previous meetings: compliance, IT, human resources and strategic matters.
There is a comprehensive Minutes of the meetings of the executive committee: and Board pack and agenda which is circulated beforehand to allow directors adequate Implementation of actions agreed at opportunity to consider the matters previous meetings.
Detailed minutes are Member attendance at Board and committee meetings in 2017 Audit Nomination Remuneration Risk advisory Percentage Board committee committee committee committee attended Total number of meetings 23 4 5 8 4 1 Manjit Wolstenholme 17 17 2 2 4 4 100% 2 Peter Crook 6 6 100% Andrew Fisher 21 23 91% 3 Malcolm Le May 22 23 3 4 5 5 6 6 0 1 92% Rob Anderson 22 23 5 5 8 8 1 1 97% 4 Alison Halsey 3 3 1 1 1 1 3 3 1 1 100% 5 5 Stuart Sinclair 22 23 3 4 5 5 4 4 4 4 95% 6 Andrea Blance 18 20 3 3 4 4 6 6 3 3 94% 7 David Sear 21 23 3 3 4 4 3 3 94% John Straw 20 23 4 4 3 3 90% 1 Manjit Wolstenholmes attendance up until she sadly passed away on 5 Stuart Sinclair stepped down from the remuneration committee as part of the 23 November 2017. reconstitution of the committees in March 2017.
2 Peter Crooks attendance up until he resigned on 21 August 2017.
6 Andrea Blances attendance from appointment as a non-executive director on 1 March2017.
Andrea Blance was appointed as chairman of the audit committee on 3 Malcolm Le May stepped down from the risk advisory committee following the 12 May2017 and chairman of the remuneration committee on 27 November 2017. reconstitution of the committees which took place in March 2017.
He then became Interim Executive Chairman on 24 November 2017 and as a result stepped down 7 David Sear stepped down from the Board on 26 January 2018. aschairman of the remuneration committee.
4 Alison Halseys attendance up until she did not offer herself for reappointment asanon-executive director at the 2017 AGM on 12 May 2017.
71 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Governance Leadership continued Board composition Key Board discussions and July continued actions in 2017 Progress of the appointment January ofagroup CRO: Presentation on the key features Review of a revised corporate Chairman of the corporate responsibility governance structure: and Executive report: and Approval of the groups internal director capital adequacy assessment Presentation by the group Head Non-executive process ICAAP.
ofTax on the group tax strategy director and current issues.
September Company Secretary February Update from the Interim CCD project accelerate Executive Chairman on the Prior to 22 August 2017, the Board comprised of a progress review: meeting held with the FCA on the non-executive Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, group home credit turnaround plan: Finance Director and six non-executive directors.
Discussion surrounding the After 22 August 2017, the Board comprised of an Interim pending FCA investigation into Update on discussions with Executive Chairman, group Finance Director and six thesale of ROP in Vanquis: theFCA and the PRA regarding non-executive directors.
ROP: and Review of the draft preliminary Following the death of Manjit Wolstenholme on 23 November results announcement: Approval of the PwC terms 2017 the Board comprised of an Interim Executive Chairman, ofreference in relation to work to Review of the Annual Report and group Finance Director and five non-executive directors.
becarried out on the home credit Financial Statements 2016: On 2 February 2018, the Board comprised of an interim business plan.
Recommendation for the final non-executive Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, group October dividend payment: and Finance Director and three non-executives.
Board Changes Approval of the revised Board Review of the draft IMS: On 1 January 2017, John Straw and David Sear were committee composition.
Approval, in principle, of the May home credit turnaround plan:and On 1 March 2017, Andrea Blance was appointed as non-executive director.
Review of PwCs Home Credit Review of the Interim Management Business Plan Support report.
On 12 May 2017, Alison Halsey resigned as a Statement IMS : and non-executive director.
November Review of the governance reports On 22 August 2017, Manjit Wolstenholme was appointed from IVIS, ISS and PIRC.
This appointment came to Approval of Board and leadership an endon 23 November 2017 as a result of her death.
June changes and discussion On 24 November 2017, Malcolm Le May was appointed of disclosure obligations asinterim executive Chairman.
Discussion surrounding the CCD following the untimely death of Trading Update and profit warning Manjit Wolstenholme: On the 27 November 2017, Stuart Sinclair was appointed on 22 June 2017: as Senior Independent Director, Andrea Blance was Update on the ongoing FCA appointed as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Progress on the appointment investigation into ROP: and and Malcolm Le May was appointed as Chairman of the ofagroup CRO: Discussion surrounding capital Nomination Committee.
Recommendation for the interim and liquidity matters.
On 26 January 2018, David Sear stepped down from dividend payment: the Board.
December Approval of the Revised 2017 On 2 February 2018, Malcolm Le May was appointed Budget Update: and ChiefExecutive Officer, Stuart Sinclair was appointed interim Discussion surrounding the non-executive Chairman and Andrea Blance was appointed Moneybarn FCA investigation: Presentation from Herbert Smith Senior Independent Director.
Freehills on the FCA investigation Update on the ongoing FCA into the sale of the ROP product.
Appointments to the Board are the responsibility of the full investigation into ROP: Board, on the recommendation of the nomination committee.
July Discussion surrounding capital On joining the Board, non-executive directors receive a formal and liquidity matters: appointment letter, which identifies the time commitment Approval of the interim expected of them.
The terms and conditions of appointment Discussion around the revised dividend payment: of non-executive directors and service contracts of executive group governance structure: and directors are available to shareholders for inspection at the Update from the CEO with regard Approval of the appointment of groups registered office during normal business hours.
to the meeting held with the Andrea Blance as non-executive FCA on the authorisation status Sector experience director to the board of The of CCD: 3 Mentoring Foundation.
1 Financial services 56% 1 2 Retail 11% 2 3 Other 33% 72 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Governance From 22 August 2017, Manjit Wolstenholme, as the executive Chairman, took on the additional duties of the Chief Executive Officer up until her untimely death on 23 November 2017.
On 24 November 2017, Malcolm Le May stepped in to be interim executive Chairman and took on those additional duties as set out below: Chairs the Board, the nomination committee, the risk advisory Stuart Sinclair was appointed as interim non-executive Chairman on Interim committeeand the AGM.
2February2018after relinquishing his position as senior independent Chairman directoron1 February 2018 but retaining the chairmanship of the risk Sets the Board meeting agendas with the Chief Executive Officer advisorycommittee.
Stuart Sinclair was considered by the Board to be andCompany Secretary to ensure that they are aligned with strategic independent on appointment.
objectives and that the Board devotes its time and attention to therightmatters.
Malcolm Le May was appointed as Interim Executive Chairman on 24November2017 and having stepped down from the role on 2 February 2018, Encourages and promotes critical discussion and ensures dissenting assumed the role of CEO.
views can be freely expressed and discussed within the decision makingprocess.
Manjit Wolstenholme was the non-executive Chairman until 21 August 2017, when she assumed the role of Interim Executive Chairman upon Peter Crooks Ensures Board decisions are taken on a sound and well-informed basis.
resignation as CEO until her untimely death on 23 November 2017.
Facilitates and encourages active engagement and appropriate challengeby all directors.
Ensures the Board receives timely and relevant information and is kept advised of key developments.
Responsible for the day-to-day management, leadership and direction On 24 November 2017, Malcolm Le May took on these duties and that Chief ofthe group and the executive management team in accordance with ofthe Interim Executive Chairman until his formal appointment as CEO on Executive thestrategy and long-term objectives approved by the Board.
Chairs the group executive committee and makes decisions on matters On 22 August 2017 Manjit Wolstenholme took on these duties until her affecting the operation, performance and strategy of the groups deathon23 November 2017. businesses, with the exception of those matters reserved to the Board.
Peter Crook held the position of CEO until his resignation on 21 August 2017.
Responsible for overseeing the delivery of the corporate responsibility agenda of the group.
Responsible for all matters affecting the performance of the group.
Andrew Fisher, group Finance Director, is a member of the reconstituted Executive executive committee which deals with matters relating to the running of the directors Responsible for implementation of strategy, policies, budgets and the group other than those reserved to the Board andthe other committees.
financial performance of the group in a manner consistent with the group strategy, risk appetite and other procedures approved by the Board.
Provide specialist knowledge and experience to the Board.
Responsible for the successful leadership and management of the risk and finance functions across the group.
Provide independent and constructive challenge.
The non-executive directors have a wide range of recent and relevant financial Nonservices, corporate governance, retail consumer and digital experience.
executive Provide governance through participation in and chairmanship of the directors Board committees.
They are appointed for fixed periods of three years, subject to confirmation by shareholders.
This three-year period may be extended for a further Provide an external focus to the Boards discussions, particularly with three years and, in exceptional cases, further extended, subject to annual regard to strategy and business development.
Their letters of appointment may be inspected Monitor and review the performance of the executive directors.
at the companys registered office or can be obtained on request from the Bring experience and knowledge from other sectors which is of CompanySecretary.
David Sear and John Straw were both appointed as non-executive directors on 1 January 2017 and Andrea Blance was appointed as non-executive director on 1 March 2017.
All were appointed on an initial term of three years, for which all received shareholder approval at the 2017 AGM.
David Sear stepped down from the Board in January 2018.
Rob Andersons current term has been extended to 31 December 2018 and so he will be seeking re-election at the AGM on 9 May 2018.
Alison Halsey was a non-executive director up to the 2017 AGM.
Meets with shareholders if they have any concerns which contact Andrea Blance took over the role of senior independent director from Senior throughthe normal channels has failed to resolve or is inappropriate.
Independent Director Acts as a sounding board for the other directors and confidant for Stuart Sinclair took over the role of senior independent director from theChairman.
SID Is a conduit, as required, for the views of the other non-executive directorson the performance of the Chairman.
All directors are able to consult with Ken Mullen as the Company Company Secretary, who is also secretary to all of the Board committees, with the Secretary Ensures the information sent to the Board is fit for purpose and facilitates exceptionof theexecutive committee and the disclosure committee.
TheDeputy CompanySecretary is the secretary to both the executive and Provides comprehensive practical legal support and guidance to disclosurecommittees.
directors, both as individuals and collectively.
There is also a formal procedure by which any director may take independent Provides support for the Chairman and the non-executive directors in professional advice relating to the performance of any aspect of their duties maintaining the highest standards of probity and corporate governance.
atthe companys expense, which is facilitated by the Company Secretary.
Responsible for communicating with shareholders, as appropriate, and The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for ensuring that due regard is paid to their interests.
