DIRECTORS REPORT Corporate governance Board Financial Crime Risk Committee As a global trade bank, Standard Chartered stands on the frontline of the ght against financial crime The words financial crime do not do justice to the real-world, human impacts of this Committee composition issue.
What they mean is how, through money laundering and terrorist finance, the Scheduled meetings financial system can act as the lifeblood of some of todays most damaging crimes: G Huey Evans, OBE Chair 4 4 from human traf cking to terrorism, the drug trade to corruption.
D P Conner 4 4 As a global trade bank, Standard Chartered stands on the frontline of the ght against C M Hodgson 4 4 financial crime.
It is our ambition to make the financial system a more hostile and N Kheraj 4 4 unforgiving environment for criminals and terrorists by working in common cause with Directors who stepped down during 2017 others who have a stake in the solution.
That is imperative to protect our clients, the communities in which we operate and ultimately the integrity of the financial system.
J M Whitbread stepped down on 30 September 2017 3 3 The Group recognises that, at times, its past efforts to prevent financial crime fell short.
External advisor members This is a continual journey, and in April 2017, the New York State Department of Financial B H Khoo 4 4 Services noted that the Group has made substantial progress towards remediating Sir Iain Lobban 4 4 past issues, and that the Group remains fully committed to nishing the job.
F Townsend 4 4 In discharging its responsibilities, the Committee has overseen the progress being External advisor members who stepped made by the Group in meeting the objectives of its strategic, multi-year remediation down during 2017 programmes: the US Supervisory Remediation Programme and the Financial Crime Risk L Campos stepped down on 30 March 2017 1 1 Mitigation Programme which spans all of the Groups geographies and business areas.
Other attendees at Committee meetings in 2017 included: Group Chairman: Group Chief Executive: At the same time, the financial crime landscape is continuing to evolve rapidly.
That is Group Chief Risk Of cer: Group Head of Internal Audit: why over the past year the Committees role has shifted from one focused primarily on Group General Counsel: Global Head, Financial Crime oversight of remediation activities to include a bigger role in threat assessment and Compliance: Group Head Compliance: Group Company preparedness.
It is in that context that we have discussed the Groups leading efforts Secretary to ght cyberfinancial crime, as well as wider threats that the financial system faces.
As part of, and in addition to, each scheduled Committee I am pleased to say that the Groups work is making an impact.
In 2017, the Group has meeting, the Committee has private members-only identi ed and prevented criminal activity in a number of threat areas: intercepting monies meetings.
derived from cyber-attacks, identifying networks of accounts suspected of human The Committees membership is comprised of four traf cking for the sex industry, likely terror funding posing as charitable efforts, and independent non-executive directors and three thwarting attempts to breach sanctions requirements.
independent external advisor members who are neither directors nor employees of the Group but who provide We have discussed how the Group responds to these threats, in a sustainable way.
a valuable external perspective and have extensive We support the work of the Group to continue to enhance systems, processes and experience in counter-terrorism, cyber security and technology, and how the Group works in partnership with clients, law enforcers and international security.
Details on the independent regulators.
Central to this effort is the continuing importance of employee engagement non-executive directors can be found in their biographies with regard to the seriousness of financial crime risk and ensuring that they are on pages 47 to 49. empowered to make the right decisions, appropriately supported by training and specialist expertise.
Committee responsibilities The Committee provides oversight of the effectiveness of When I travelled to Hong Kong, the US and Pakistan this year, I saw up close the the Groups policies, procedures, systems, controls and awareness of the issues and how we are seeking to embed a meaningful response into assurance arrangements designed to identify, assess, the operations and mindset of the Group.
It is clear to me that everyone in the Group has manage, monitor and prevent and or detect money a important contribution to make.
laundering, non-compliance with sanctions, bribery, corruption and tax crime by third parties.
Finally, I would like to thank Lazaro Campos, and Jasmine Whitbread, who both stepped down from the Committee during the year, for their valuable contributions to the The Committee has written terms of reference that Committees work.
com termsofreference Gay Huey Evans, OBE Chair of the Board Financial Crime Risk Committee Standard Chartered 80 Annual Report 2017 Strategic report DIRECTORS REPORT Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information Activities in the year Financial Crime Exercised ongoing oversight of the Groups Financial Crime Risk Mitigation Programme FCRMP, which is a Risk Mitigation Group-wide initiative to identify and embed best practices in the eld of financial crime compliance Programme Discussed and challenged progress reports as to the status of the FCRMP and discussed the findings of the independent testing that has been undertaken on the FCRMP Discussed an update from the Group Chief Information Of cer on the FCRMP technology project deliverables US Supervisory Exercised oversight of the activity required to comply with the requirements of the US Deferred Prosecution Remediation Agreements DPAs and enhance its sanctions compliance programme.
More information about the DPAs can Programme be found in note 26 on page 259 Assessment of Discussed updates on potential emerging threats, and major initiatives financial crime risks Discussed reports on the financial crime risks faced by the Group across a number of the Groups client segments and geographies and sought and received assurance on the actions taken and being taken to strengthen controls in relation to these risks in a number of the Groups markets Financial crime risk Discussed Group Internal Audits view on the Groups control environment relating to Financial Crime Risk.
Such control environment discussions include the grading of audit reports across the Financial Crime Compliance Risk themes, gaps and fide ciencies that have been identi ed and sought and received assurance concerning managements response and resulting management actions Discussed the continuing importance of employee engagement with regard to the seriousness of financial crime risk and how this can be embedded in a sustainable way as part of business as usual Financial crime Discussed the Financial Crime Compliance Global Threat Assessment, prepared by management to identify future threats and evaluate the most signi cant financial crime threats faced by the Group, and to develop a set of key recommendations in response to these threats, to be implemented through 2017 and 2018 The Financial Crime Compliance Global Threat Assessment recognises that Financial Crime is a Principal Risk and will be used to identify the most effective response by the Group, as required under the Enterprise Risk Management Framework.
Group Risk Considered, discussed and recommended to the Board the Groups Risk Appetite Statements in relation to Appetite Statement financial crime risk in relation to Reviewed metrics to measure against financial crime Risk Appetite financial crime Financial crime The ability of employees to disclose genuine concerns, including breaches of regulatory requirements, is essential to compliance the maintenance of the Groups values.
The principles and requirements relating to Speaking Up are detailed in the speaking up Group Speaking Up Policy and, speci cally for Financial Crime, the Group Anti-Money Laundering and Counter Terrorist Financing Policy.
Received and discussed a report on escalations relating to Financial Crime.
One route for Financial Crime Speaking Up escalations is through Suspicious Activity Reports SARs.
The number of SARs demonstrates a good level of employee awareness regarding the need to raise concerns Further details of the Groups Speaking Up programme can be found on page 68.
Client Tax Discussed an update on the client tax fraud evasion frameworks and the steps that the Group has taken in Fraud Evasion preparation for the UK Corporate Offence of failing to prevent tax evasion that is included on the Criminal Finances Frameworks Bill 2016 Financial Crime Discussed a report from management on the findings of an external review of Financial Crime Compliance Compliance resourcing commissioned by management to identify ways to improve financial crime compliance effectiveness Resourcing and ef ciency Financial Crime Received updates on signi cant financial crime compliance-related matters Compliance Related Matters Financial crime Received updates on the principal partnerships in which the Group participates that aim to protect the integrity of compliance the global financial system and improve the effectiveness of the contributions of financial institutions to ghting information sharing financial crime initiatives 81 DIRECTORS REPORT Corporate governance included the need for the Committee to Hong Kong related issues with the Head Information provided to the continue to focus on the Groups overall of Financial Crime Compliance, Greater Committee strategic aim with regard to Financial Crime China and North Asia and Private Banking Regular reports and updates are provided Compliance whilst avoiding getting caught offshore tax compliance to the Committee by the Global Head of up in too much detail.
The independent non-executive Committee Financial Crime Compliance, the Group members also attended the Groups Global General Counsel and the Group Head of Ongoing training and Chairmens Conference held in Dubai.
The Global Head of Financial development Further details of the Conference can be Crime Compliance also makes regular Committee members have ongoing training found on page 62. reports to the Committee in his capacity as and development programmes which in the Groups Money Laundering Reporting The Committee advisor members 2017, included: Of cer.
participated in the Corresponding Banking An overview of the Groups surveillance Academy hosted by the Group in Dubai and Two of the four Committee meetings in 2017 systems enhancements joined in a panel discussion concerning the were held as part of the overseas Board visits evolving collaboration between banks and to Hong Kong and Singapore.
Holding A discussion with the Head, Financial law enforcement agencies and the US Committee meetings as part of the overseas Crime Compliance, Americas on Cyber regulatory environment.
Board visits enable the Committee members Financial Intelligence to engage with local management and local Financial Crime Compliance in and Financial Crime Compliance teams outside challenges facing the Greater China and of formal Committee meetings.
North Asia region from the point of view of frontline employees Committee effectiveness review Financial Crime Compliance regional In 2017, an externally facilitated Committee overview with the Head of Financial Crime effectiveness review was undertaken as Compliance, Greater China and North Asia part of the externally facilitated Board effectiveness review.
The broad message Financial Crime Compliance Regional was that the Committee has made signi cant Management discussion covering progress and is ful lling its remit with diligence governance, people and conduct risk and due process.
The themes arising institutions, regulators and law enforcement for example, intercepting monies derived FOCUS ON more closely, it can create a meaningful from spear phishing, identi cation of Financial Crime shift in the way we disrupt financial crime.
networks of accounts suspected of money The Group also continues to support and mule activity and human traf cking for the Compliance Information engage with a number of industry bodies: sex industry, likely terror funding posing as such as the Wolfsberg Group, the US Bank charitable efforts, thwarted attempts to Sharing Initiatives Secrecy Act Advisory Group and the breach sanctions requirements, and the Association of Certi ed Anti-Money attempted movement of monies believed The Financial Crime Compliance Laundering Specialists.
to be derived from corruption.
Information Sharing partnerships that the Group participates in bring together multiple For the third consecutive year, the Group parties from the public and private sectors has received a FinCEN Law Enforcement such as regulators, law enforcement Award recognition letter for its contributions and other global banks with the aim of to signi cant criminal prosecutions.
The developing a collaborative approach to Group also identi ed and prevented tackling money laundering.
The Group criminal activity in a number of threat areas: believes that by aligning financial Standard Chartered 82 Annual Report 2017
