86 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 I Corporate Governance Report Audit Committee Report Membership and meetings Meetings attended held in 1 Independent 2017 Committee Chair 2 Norman McLuskie to July 2017 Yes 7 7 3 Darren Pope from July 2017 Yes 5 5 Committee members It is the Audit Committees role to review the integrity of the financial statements.
A key focus for the Committee during Colin Keogh Yes 7 7 2017 has been oversight of key accounting judgements and Geeta Gopalan Yes 7 7 the preparations for IFRS 9 implementation.
Eva Eisenschimmel Yes 7 7 Darren Pope 4 Marilyn Spearing Yes 2 2 Chair, Audit Committee 1 Number of meetings held during the period the member held office.
2 Norman McLuskie remains a member of the Committee following handover of the Chair to Darren Pope.
3 Darren Pope joined the Committee on 1 March 2017 and was appointed as Chair of the Committee on 21 July 2017.
4 Marilyn Spearing retired from the Committee on 3 May 2017, on her retirement from the Board.
Chairs overview Having succeeded Norman McLuskie as Chair of the Committee in July 2017, I would like to take this opportunity to thank him for his strong leadership as Chair, his consideration and insight in achieving a smooth transition process and his continuing contribution as a Committee member.
I would also like to thank the other Committee members for their contribution and challenge throughout the year.
I am pleased to report that, throughout 2017, the Committee continued to focus on its key objectives: overseeing financial reporting, internal controls, whistleblowing, and internal and external audit, as well as specific attention on IFRS 9.
Oversight of financial reporting requires an assessment of key accounting judgements and related disclosures.
Effective Interest Rate EIR accounting methodology and the underlying assumptions, including expected customer behaviour, have remained a key area of focus.
The Committee has carefully reviewed and challenged all accounting judgements, as well as ensuring appropriate disclosures have been made that reflect the underlying potential volatility of the EIR method.
The Committee also oversaw the IFRS 9 programme delivery, approving the methodology, policies and assumptions that drive the final calculations.
Oversight of the Internal Audit function is also a key aspect of the Committees role.
This has included monitoring of the control framework with particular focus on the Information Technology IT control framework and completion of all final recommendations arising from the External Quality Assurance Review EQAR undertaken in late 2015.
The Committee also oversaw the appointment of a transitional Internal Audit Director and is progressing the recruitment of a permanent replacement.
During the year a team from the Financial Reporting Council FRC undertook an Audit Quality Review AQR inspection of PwCs audit of the Groups 2016 financial statements.
The Committee satisfied itself that all improvements identified have now been actioned.
Darren Pope Chair, Audit Committee 26 February 2018 Governance Strategic Report Financial Results Risk Management Report Financial Statements Other Information Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 87 I Relevant members of the Executive, the Internal Audit Committee purpose and responsibilities Director and external auditors attend Committee meetings by The purpose of the Committee is to monitor and review the invitation.
During the year, the Committee held a number of Groups financial reporting arrangements, the effectiveness private Committee sessions, including with the external audit of its internal controls and risk management framework, its team without Executives present and with each of the Chief internal and external audit processes and its whistleblowing Executive, CFO and the Internal Audit Director.
The Committee reports to the Board on its activities and makes recommendations, all of which have been accepted during the year.
The key activities of the Committee are set out below and full details of the Committees responsibilities are detailed in the Committee terms of reference which can be found at virginmoney.
The Committee refreshed its terms of reference in November 2017 to reflect industry guidance on best practice.
In 2017, the Committee met its objectives and carried out its responsibilities effectively, as confirmed by the annual effectiveness review detailed on pages 78 to 79.
Committee composition, skills and experience The Committee acts independently of management.
This ensures that the interests of shareholders are properly protected in relation to financial reporting and internal control.
The Committee now comprises five Independent NonExecutive Directors.
Eva Eisenschimmel became a member of the Committee on 25 January 2017.
Darren Pope joined the Committee on 1 March 2017 and, on 21 July 2017, as part of the medium term succession plan, took over as Committee Chair from Norman McLuskie who is currently in his ninth year as a Non-Executive Director.
Mr McLuskie remains a member of the Committee.
Marilyn Spearing retired from the Committee on 3 May 2017, following her retirement from the Board.
Each Committee member has extensive experience of banking and financial services, and therefore, as a whole, the Committee has recent and relevant competence in the financial sector.
The Chair is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Certified Accountants and has significant financial experience in the UK listed environment, including formerly as a CFO of a listed bank, enabling him to fulfil the role of Audit Committee Chair for the purposes of the Code.
88 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 I Corporate Governance Report Audit Committee Report How the Committee spent its time in 2017 Financial reporting During 2017, the Committee considered the following key financial issues and judgements in relation to the Groups financial statements and disclosures, with input from management and the external auditors: Key issues judgements in financial reporting Audit Committee review and conclusions Effective interest rate EIR The Committee had a number of detailed sessions to review EIR Interest earned on loans and receivables is recognised using the EIR methodology and understand the judgements applied by management, method.
including expected future customer behaviours.
The application of the EIR method of accounting is judgemental and EIR accounting for unsecured lending remains an area of significant requires management to make a number of assumptions.
During the year, the Committee reviewed managements view of the current and future expected cash flows and the appropriate modelling period.
This was supported by an independent external assessment and report.
The Committee concluded that the accounting approach remains appropriate and will be monitored on an ongoing basis.
Given the potential future volatility that may be driven by the accounting approach, particular attention has been given to the disclosures relating to EIR which are set out in the Financial Results section and in note 1.10 to the financial statements.
Allowance for impairment losses on loans and receivables The Committee considered and challenged the provisioning Determining the appropriateness of impairment losses is judgemental methodology applied by management and the level of provisions.
The and requires the Group to make a number of assumptions.
Committee considered the calibration of model parameters in the light of economic indicators including house price movements and underlying book performance.
Consideration was also given to the appropriateness and use of post model adjustments, which reflect managements view of the risks in the portfolio not adequately covered by the models due to historically benign macro-economic factors.
The Committee was satisfied that the impairment provisions, including managements judgements, were appropriate.
The disclosures relating to impairment provisions are set out in note 1.10 to the financial statements.
Capitalisation and impairment of intangible assets Over the course of 2017 a wide range of change projects was delivered Determining the appropriateness of costs that qualify for recognition including a number with significant capital spend, in particular in as intangible assets requires management judgement.
Management is relation to digital development, fraud and cyber-crime.
also required to make ongoing assessments of whether any assets are As in prior years, the Committee has considered and is satisfied with impaired.
the appropriateness of the accounting recognition of these investment costs, including that those costs qualify for recognition as intangible assets in line with the criteria prescribed by accounting standards.
The Committee considered managements reviews for indicators of impairment and oversaw the impairment of a previous software development in light of the strategic decision to consolidate activity within the digital banking programme.
No assets were identified as impaired through reviews for indicators of impairment.
The disclosures relating to the movement in intangible asset balances during the year are set out in note 1.10 to the financial statements.
Governance Risk Management Report Strategic Report Financial Results Financial Statements Other Information Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 89 I Key issues judgements in financial reporting Audit Committee review and conclusions Fair value of financial assets and liabilities The Committee spent time understanding and assessing judgements The Group uses estimates and judgements in the calculation of fair applied including the use of appropriate market rates and, following values for assets and liabilities where not all inputs to calculations review, agreed with managements judgement regarding the are observable in the market, or where there are factors specific to an calculation of fair values.
individual instrument that impact fair values.
The Committee also reviewed the accounting treatment for the gains on disposal of assets, including treasury instruments and the sale of Vocalink shares.
The Committee was satisfied that the accounting treatment was appropriate.
The disclosures relating to fair value are set out in note 1.10 to the financial statements.
IFRS 9 Implementation and disclosure The Committee had a number of detailed briefing sessions to IFRS 9 is a significant accounting development which came into effect understand the requirements of this new standard.
The standard introduces new accounting policies analysis was conducted to ascertain the changes required and to aid and judgements with the key changes relating to the calculation of the development of the implementation plan which was reviewed and impairment of financial assets on an expected credit loss basis.
The Committee also considered the model methodology, accounting assumptions and financial reporting and approved the accounting policies which will be adopted on implementation of IFRS 9.
The disclosures relating to the impact of adoption of IFRS 9 are set out in note 37 a to the financial statements.
Going concern and viability The Committee reviewed and challenged the going concern and The Board is required to confirm whether it has a reasonable viability assessment undertaken by management.
The assessment was expectation that the Company and the Group will be able to based on the Groups capital, funding and strategic plans and included continue to operate and meet their liabilities as they fall due for a consideration of the principal and emerging risks set out on pages 36 to specified period.
39, which could impact the performance of the Group and the liquidity and capital projections over the period.
Based on a combination of strong capital and liquidity forecasts, the Committee advised the Board that it was satisfied with the viability statement, and that three years was a suitable period of review.
Further details of the viability assessment can be found on pages 120 and 129.
Fair, balanced and understandable The Committee reviewed the Annual Report and Accounts and The Group must ensure that the Annual Report and Accounts are fair, challenged management on the presentation of financial and nonbalanced and understandable and provide the information necessary financial information.
for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, The Committee considered managements own assessment of business model and strategy.
compliance with alternative performance measures guidelines and the fair, balanced and understandable requirements.
The Committee concluded that, based on the information provided by management and in its judgement, the Annual Report and Accounts, when taken as a whole, were fair, balanced and understandable.
Internal control and risk management Details of the internal control and risk management systems continued focus on the IT control environment in light of the in relation to the financial reporting processes are given within increased threat from cyber-crime, incorporating an interim the Corporate Governance Report on page 81 and the Risk audit of the IT control environment by PwC which identified Management Report on pages 126 to 188.
Specific matters potential improvements in certain areas.
that the Committee considered during the year included: The Committee is satisfied that internal controls over financial the effectiveness of systems for internal control, financial reporting and risk management systems were appropriately reporting and risk management, including a review of all designed and operating effectively.
material financial, operational and compliance controls: the major findings of internal reviews into control weaknesses, fraud or misconduct and managements response alongside any control deficiencies identified: and 90 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 I Corporate Governance Report Audit Committee Report Internal audit External auditors In monitoring the activity, role and effectiveness of The Committee oversaw the relationship with the external the Internal Audit function and its audit programme, auditors.
It approved the interim and annual audit plan and the Committee: negotiated and agreed the scope of the auditors engagement including remuneration, reviewed their audit findings and oversaw the ongoing process of succession for the Internal considered managements responses to such findings and Audit Director following the departure of the previous role recommendations.
This resulted in the appointment of an Interim Internal Audit Director in January 2018, pending The Committee concluded that it was satisfied with recruitment of a permanent Internal Audit Director.
The the auditors performance and recommends their reInterim Internal Audit Director has been seconded from appointment by shareholders at the 2018 AGM for the year Deloitte, where he is Head of the Financial Services Internal ending 31 December 2018.
The Committee believes the Audit Practice: independence and objectivity of the external auditors and the effectiveness of the audit process remain strong.
oversaw completion of the action plan to address observations from the EQAR of the Internal Audit function carried out in The Committee also considered the continued effectiveness 2015 by Deloitte: of the audit process and the external auditors performance during the period by means of a questionnaire seeking approved the annual audit plan and budget and monitored feedback from Committee members and senior management progress against the plan throughout the year, confirming on technical competence, strategic knowledge, quality that appropriate resources and capability were in place to control, communication, independence and objectivity.
execute the plan effectively, and considered Internal Audit to This found the external auditors and the audit process to be have sufficient standing in the Group: both robust and effective.
Areas for development included refreshed the Internal Audit Charter: and provision of greater benchmarking against peer approaches and industry best practice.
considered the major findings of Internal Audit and managements responses.
During the year a team from the FRC undertook an AQR inspection of PwCs audit of the Groups 2016 financial Whistleblowing statements.
On completion of its review in January 2018, the The Committee continued to receive and consider reports FRC wrote to the Committee Chair and provided a copy of its from Internal Audit on the Groups whistleblowing final report.
The Committee discussed the contents of the arrangements including summaries of reported cases.
report and the actions arising from the review findings with The Committee was satisfied with the action taken, with PwC at the January 2018 Committee meeting.
The Committee the reports having been considered and approved by the was satisfied that PwC has taken all necessary actions to Boards whistleblowing champion, the Committee Chair.
address the FRC review findings as part of its audit of the 2017 The Committee also reviewed the Whistleblowing Policy and financial statements.
The Chair will meet with the FRC in 2018 concluded that the policy and procedures in place comply with to discuss the AQR findings.
the PRA and FCA policy statements on whistleblowing.
During 2018 the Committee will oversee further enhancements to the Groups whistleblowing arrangements including improving profile and ease of access.
Governance Strategic Report Financial Results Risk Management Report Financial Statements Other Information Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 91 I External auditors independence and remuneration for The total amount paid to the external auditors in 2017 non-audit services was 1.6 million of which 0.3 million related to non-audit Both the Board and the external auditors have safeguards services.
In 2016 the total paid to the external auditors in place to protect the independence and objectivity of the was 1.2 million of which 0.3 million related to non-audit external auditors.
A robust policy is in place to regulate the services.
Details of the payments for audit and non-audit use of the auditors for non-audit services which: services provided in 2017 is shown in note 6 to the financial statements.
details the nature of work that the external auditors may not undertake and sets a limit 25,000 under which permissible External auditors tenure non-audit work may be undertaken without prior permission A formal audit tender process was conducted in 2015, with from the Committee.
All other non-audit services are subject PwC appointed as external auditors at the AGM in 2016.
The to prior approval by the Committee: external audit contract will be put out to tender at least every ten years.
The Committee is satisfied that the Company has determines that the overall fee level for non-audit services will complied with the provisions of the Statutory Audit Services continue to be monitored by the Committee and should not for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory exceed 70% of the average audit fee over the prior three year Use of Competitor Tender Processes and Audit Committee period: and Responsibilities Order 2014, during the financial year under includes restrictions on the employment of the external review and up to the date of this report.
auditors former staff to preserve further the independence of Regulatory change the external auditors.
The Committee also monitored emerging regulation and In some cases, the external auditors may be selected over legislation, assessed the impact on the business and oversaw another service provider for a particular engagement due to the development of models, policies and procedures to their detailed knowledge and understanding of the business.
Compliance with IFRS 9 was a key area of focus with As an example, in 2017, the Committee considered proposals the Committee holding sessions with the Group finance that PwC be selected to provide non-audit services in relation team and the external auditors to review and discuss the to the assurance work concerning the implementation of requirements of IFRS 9 and the implementation plan to meet IFRS 9 and in the development of the Groups Covered Bond the Groups obligations under the revised standard.
PwC was considered to be optimal for the role, due to the value and operational synergies brought by its understanding of the Groups systems, processes and personnel.
The provision of the service for these programmes was not considered to have a material effect on the audited financial information nor to impede the auditors independence or objectivity, due to the precise scope of the work.
The Committee is satisfied that the Group was compliant during the year with both the Code and the FRCs Ethical and Auditing Standards in respect of the scope and maximum permitted level of fees incurred for non-audit services provided by PwC.
Where non-audit work is performed by PwC, both the Group and PwC ensure adherence to robust processes to prevent the objectivity and independence of the auditors from being compromised.
