Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Governance Risk advisory committee Role and responsibilities The primary role of the RAC now the GRC is to ensure that the senior management within the Divisions implement and monitor an effective risk management framework which aligns to the overall corporate strategy of the group.
To enhance this approach, the managing directors and chief risk officers from each Division regularly attend and contribute to the RAC Meetings.
The RACs principal areas of responsibility areas follows: Recommending and endorsing an overall conduct risk appetite, culture and tone, prior to approval by the Board: Monitoring the effectiveness of the divisions in establishing and maintaining risk management frameworks, policies and procedures: Carrying out an assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: I am pleased to present the report of the Reviewing the groups capability to risk advisory committee RAC in what identify and manage new risk types, and keeping under review the effectiveness has been a testing year for the group.
of the groups internal control and risk management systems in conjunction with Stuart Sinclair the audit committee: Risk advisory committee chairman Reviewing the groups identification of current and forward-looking risk exposures: Reviewing the groups business continuity plans: The following report explains in detail the aligned to take more responsibility for risk Notifying the Board of any changes in the extent to which the RAC has discharged oversight and will be known as the group risk status and control of risks: and its responsibilities and highlights key committee GRC.
The committees terms matters discussed by the RAC in 2017. of reference have also been enhanced and Reviewing and approving the: i ICAAP, Risk management in the group has been strengthened to ensure that the Board and including the stress testing and capital structured such that each of the divisions, the GRC in future have the ability to provide allocation approach: ii Internal Liquidity Vanquis Bank, CCD and Moneybarn, oversight and challenge to the group and Adequacy Assessment Process ILAAP : largely maintain and manage their own risk its divisions on the ongoing development and iii recovery and resolution plan RRP committee, risk management framework, and embedding of the revised governance adopted by Vanquis Bank on an individual risk appetite statements, risk monitoring and risk management framework, culture and consolidated basis for submission to andreporting structure.
The group has also for the first the Board for final approval.
time created a group Chief Risk Officer CRO looked to provide over-arching direction role and appointed an interim group CRO and guidance to the Divisions in the tobegin working closely with the Board and implementation and development of its senior management in developing a wider each of the individual risk management governance and risk approach.
However, recent events have demonstrated that the practice of allowing The environment in which the group each of the divisions relative autonomy operates continues to evolve and I believe in the management of risk, has not been that the GRC, supported by the interim group .
CRO, will be better placed to carry out its With this in mind, the group has decided duties more effectively in not just overseeing to engage in a full review of its approach to the development, embedding and testing governance, risk management and culture of the new management approach, but to throughout the organisation and develop review the groups inherent and emerging a more integrated strategy.
As part of risks and to embed a more appropriate this review, the committee has been rerisk culture.
80 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Governance The 2017 risk management framework is set out in the chart below Statement on internal controls Monthly management accounts Monthly management accounts are prepared comparing actual trading results by division to the Board approved budget and the prior year.
Regulatory capital levels, funding, liquidity and economic trends are also reported monthly.
A rolling forecast of the full-year outturn is produced as part of the management accounts.
Management accounts are distributed to the executive directors and senior management team on a monthly basis and Biannual budget process aredistributed to the Board for each Board meeting.
In December each year, the Board approves detailed budgets and cash flow forecasts for the year ahead.
It also approves outline projections for The Board the subsequent four years.
An update Corporate policies to thebudget is approved in June Reviews the risk management eachyear.
The Board requires the divisions framework annually to ensure and the corporate office to that it remains fit for purpose operate in accordance with the and complies with relevant corporate policies and to certify laws and regulations including Treasury committee compliance on a biannual basis.
A quarterly group treasury committee, This includes confirmation of chaired by the group Finance Director compliance and any suggestions and attended by divisional finance for improvements.
This ensures directors, the group treasurer, head that the process remains dynamic of group tax, and the group financial and that the divisions and controller ensures that there is active corporate office are operating at management of the financial risks and the highest level.
The corporate that liquidity, market, counterparty policies were last updated in Risk advisory committee and prudential regulatory risks are December 2016.
Chaired by a non-executive managed within Board approved appetites.
director of the Board, it is responsible for ensuring that there is an appropriate risk management framework embedded across the group.
Finance forum Internal audit Regularly reviews the adequacy A quarterly finance forum, chaired of internal controls including by the group Finance Director and financial, operational and attended by divisional finance directors compliance controls and reports and senior finance management to the risk advisory group, risk including the heads of tax, audit, advisory committee and audit treasury and risk, reviews and provides committee.
An annual programme oversight of the key financial matters of work which targets and reports ofthe group.
on higher-risk areas is carried out by the group Internal Audit Whistleblowing function.
The operation of internal financial controls is monitored Whistleblowing policies are in place in each of by regular management the groups Divisions.
The group is committed reviews, including arequirement to the highest standards of quality, honesty, for each division tocertify openness and accountability and employees are compliance quarterly.
Additional encouraged to raise genuine concerns under comfort is also gained from the these policies either by contacting a manager externalaudit.
or telephoning a dedicated external helpline in confidence.
During 2017, this external helpline was operational throughout the group and Divisional boards procedures are in place to ensure issues raised are addressed in a confidential manner.
The The divisional boards and their Company Secretary is required to report to the committees are responsible for audit committee in December each year on managing the divisional risks the integrity of these procedures, the state of and preparing divisional risk ongoing investigations and conclusions reached.
registers for review by the risk advisory group who report to During 2017, six complaints were received, the RAC.
Three lines of defence model compared to four during 2016.
All complaints made via the external helpline were thoroughly First line investigated and dealt with in accordance with the appropriate internal procedures.
Second line Third line 81 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Governance Risk advisory committee continued Risk management is the process of d reaffirmed a clear purpose, vision, mission Recent developments identifying, quantifying and managing the and set of values which are centred firmly principal risks that the group faces, including on our customer centric approach: Given the events of the last year, the group those arising from market disruption has appointed an interim group CRO for e created a central view of all regulatory and evolving regulatory requirements.
the first time who will work closely with the interactions which the Board will Under the UK regulatory regime, both Board and the Chief Executive Officer to monitor closely to ensure consistency CCD and Moneybarn are regulated by help develop further the groups capability with the culture, direction and risk the FCA.
Moneybarn is fully authorised to oversee group level risk as well as appetite set by the Board, reflecting the and CCD currently operates under an governance and culture and will ensure that greater importance being placed on key interim permission and is awaiting full FCA effective management of risk is a key focus regulatory relationships: and authorisation.
Vanquis Bank is authorised ofthe group.
by the PRA and regulated by both the FCA f reviewed the effectiveness of the and the PRA.
Both CCD and Moneybarn have The group is committed to operating an group risk committee formerly the Approved Persons for controlled functions effective risk and governance framework that RAC and made a number of changes incompliance with the FCAs approved aims to be consistent and commensurate and improvements to enhance persons regime whilst Vanquis Bank has with the nature, complexity and risk profile its effectiveness.
Senior Managers for Senior Manager of its businesses and is responsive to both The risk advisory group has historically Functions in compliance with the Senior internal and external events.
To address assisted the RAC with monitoring the risk Managers Regime which was introduced certain historical issues with the groups risk management systems across the group and in 2016.
As Provident Financial plc is a management policies and to seek to ensure for ensuring that an effective and consistent holding company, there are no Approved that the group operates in a more efficient risk management framework was operated Persons or senior managers at Board level, and effective manner, the group has: across the group.
The risk advisory group has and therefore historically the groups risk a completed an initial review of its historically also reviewed and updated the management framework has always been governance arrangements, including the groups risk registers quarterly.
Each Division organised such that each of Vanquis Bank, framework, terms of reference of each has been represented by the attendance of CCD and Moneybarn each a Division and of the Board committees and processes the divisional CROs and divisional managing together the Divisions independently undertaken at meetings and identified directors.
The risk advisory group has now maintain and manage their respective where enhancements and change are been disbanded and the newly established risk management, including their risk required.
As part of this review, the cross divisional risk forum is in place for management policies.
In seeking to improve groups intention is to create a governance Divisions and group executives to discuss the connection between the Divisions and risk development plan including and share views and concerns on key risks and the Board and to provide oversight defined deliverables which will continue facing the group.
It is intended that any new non-executive directors sit on theboards to improve the overall governance risks or key developments will be escalated ofeach of the Divisions.
arrangements and risk management either through the new cross divisional As a result of the group structure, primary frameworks across the group: risk forum or by the managing directors responsibility for conduct risk management directly to the group executive committee.
b reconstituted the group executive in particular, and risk management in Conduct risks as they face each Division are committee to provide a more general, with respect to the requirements addressed at divisional level through their integrated approach to managing the ofboth the FCA and the PRA lies at divisional respective risk management frameworks group including its governance and level.
The Divisions each have in place risk and a more consolidated view of group risks risk management and to enhance management frameworks the Divisional is being developed at the GRC.
The cross the information flows and controls Frameworks, which are developed and divisional risk forum will be attended by risk between the group and the Divisions.
The group has professionals from across the group, with a Historically executive risk management provided broad direction to ensure a view to enhance, realign and monitor group at group level has been monitored and degree of consistency, and has overseen governance and risk management systems managed by the risk advisory group which the implementation of the Divisional and frameworks throughout the group.
has now been disbanded in favour of a Frameworks.
However, recent events have group risk forum to be led by the interim demonstrated that although the groups group CRO supported by the group intentions have been good in operating an executive commitee: oversight role and allowing the Divisions to have a high level of autonomy, risk c began the process of establishing a management across the group has not been new Board committee, to be chaired by consistently aligned, resulting in the groups one of the new non-executive directors risk management not being as effective which will focus on the customer, culture as intended.
and ethics and will help drive changes in behaviours and attitudes across the group: 82 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Governance Annual statement by the Committee calendar in 2017 Members chairman of the risk advisory Stuart Sinclair January committee Chairman Malcolm Le May Given the current position of the group Reviewed and considered the risk Member up to 1 March 2017 and the failings identified last year, we will appetite statements across the group: leverage the interim group CRO to champion Manjit Wolstenholme Reviewed and approved the updated the interests of the customer internally and Member up to 24 November 2017 risk management framework: thereby begin to transform the nature of John Straw Reviewed and approved the group our interactions with regulators and provide Member from 1 March 2017 risk appetite update and recalibration greater consistency and coordination across to budget: our regulated businesses.
The interim group Alison Halsey CRO will maintain an involvement in all Member up to 12 May 2017 Reviewed and approved the risk regulatory interactions across the group so advisory committee terms of reference: Robert Anderson as to ensure consistency with the culture, Member up to 1 March 2017 Considered the performance direction and risk appetite set by the Board.
andeffectiveness of the annual Andrea Blance We will seek to carefully balance the benefits risk advisory committee following Member from 1 March 2017 and advantages of any changes with the externalreview: and costs and risks involved, in light of the need David Sear Reviewed an update on the Repayment to continue to grow our businesses and Member from 1 March 2017 Option Plan ROP.
adapt to the changing external environment.
to26 January 2018 May Secretary At each meeting, Ken Mullen Reviewed and considered the output thecommittee: from the risk review of Vanquis Bank: Composition of the committee Reviewed and confirmed the overall risk Reviewed and discussed the cyber risk management status of the group: Other mandatory attendees at the update across the group: RACmeetings in 2017, as reflected in Reviewed and confirmed the key Reviewed and endorsed the ICAAP the terms of reference were: the former group risks: approach and methodology, prior ChiefExecutive Officer, Peter Crook toapproval by the Board: and up to the 21 August 2017, the group Reviewed and confirmed the risk appetite Finance Director, Andrew Fisher: the Reviewed and approved the ILAAP status across the group: group Director of Corporate Strategy, forVanquis Bank.
Reviewed and confirmed the quarterly David Merrett: the Head of group Internal July internal audit opinion on risk management Audit, David Mortlock: and the managing reporting: and directors and chief risk officers of each Division to discuss, inter alia, conduct Reviewed and discussed an extended Reviewed minutes and actions from prior risk and related governance issues.
cyber risk update across the group: meetings, and of the risk advisory group.
The interim group CRO is also required to Reviewed and considered the deep dive be in attendance at all meetings.
Statement on internal controls risk schedule of work: Considered the key issues raised by Allocation of time Under the Code, the Board also has a the chairman in relation to the home responsibility to maintain sound risk 1 S etting group risk management 10% credit accelerate programme and the management and internal control systems deployment of first and second line 2 S etting overall risk appetite 5% across the group.
To manage risk and ensure oversight throughout CCD: and compliance with regulatory obligations 3 A ssessing outcomes against Reviewed and endorsed the ICAAP, the Board sets the overall risk appetites riskappetite 25% including a review of the Vanquis Bank of the group and seeks to ensure that 4 Assessing risk management Recovery and Resolution Plan RRP prior the Divisions and corporate centre have effectiveness 20% to approval to the Board.
designed, implemented and maintained effective and appropriate risk appetites, risk 5 Overseeing management actions 25% October management frameworks and processes 6 Approving ICAAP, ILAAP and RRP 15% of their own, consistent with those set by Reviewed and considered a further the group.
The Divisions and corporate update in relation to cyber risk across centre where appropriate have day-tothe group: day responsibility for risk management.
1 6 Given recent events, it is clear that the group Further reviewed the Vanquis Bank 2 oversight and divisional implementation RRP:and of risk management described above has Reviewed and considered the output proven less effective than intended, resulting 5 3 from the persistent bad debt deep in the changes made to date, and expected dive review.
to be made in the future as described below, reflecting a more active role at group level.
4 83 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Governance Risk advisory committee continued As part of the groups framework it operates Priorities for 2018 a three lines of defence model of risk management.
The first line of defence Given that the current group risk management framework has proven to consists of operational identification, beless than effective, the Board understands that changes need to be made, assessment and management of risk.
andthefollowing specific changes are in the process of being made and The directors of the corporate office and of implemented asa priority throughout 2018 and beyond.
each of the Divisions own the risks and it is the risk owners who are accountable within The groups interim CRO has begun the process of working on a new, more the group for the ongoing assessment and centralised, operating model which will require a small, more specialised risk team management of these risks in the first line.
to be recruited who can provide more informed and independent challenge over keygroup and divisional risks.
As part of the proposed new operating model, The second line of defence consists of thegroup will aim to achieve the following in the coming year: independent review and challenge of first line actions against established risk appetites.
In each Division, risk and compliance functions constitute the second line of Review and enhance group risk capability with the interim group CRO defence and are responsible for adherence leadingthedesign and implementation of the governance and risk to risk appetites and providing independent managementchanges which are required, to improve group cohesion in a review and challenge to the first line.
waythatensures key risksare effectively managed: The third line of defence consists of independent assurance.
At the group and divisional level, the group Internal Audit Develop a revised group risk appetite which will be simpler, clearer and function constitutes the third line of defence broaderinits coverage, underpinned by a significantly enhanced metric and is responsible for providing independent onabalanced scorecard reporting basis: assurance in connection with the identification, assessment and management of risk and maintenance of appropriate controls.
The work of the group Internal Revise the group risk framework so that it expands its risk coverage and Audit team is subject to review by the audit providesabetter basis for integrating the groups approach to risk, whilst committee established by the Board.
simplifying the messages across the group and its Divisions to improve embeddingthe approach in the groups operations: Effectiveness The committee formally considers its Revise the group policy framework to ensure that the most important effectiveness on an annual basis, and a policyrequirements are set more clearly by the Board, are more user review was undertaken in 2017 as part friendly,  around risk appetite metrics: of the external Board and committee evaluation process carried out by Lintstock.
Each director was able to comment and rate various aspects of the committees Enhance the groups approach to risk and ensure that group and divisional role by responding to a series of questions riskappetites, policies and frameworks are more aligned but still locally relating to the performance of the applicablewhilst not compromising regulatory requirementsor duplicating committee contained in the questionnaire.
workforthe divisional risk functions: On the basis of the evaluation undertaken in 2017, compared to the results last year, several areas of the risk advisory committee evaluation were identified Revisit the vision, values and key risks of the group and embed a significantly more and rated as inadequate by respondents.
customer focused organisation, with specific and demonstrable changes: and The committee has recognised that improvements are needed to ensure that the key risks to the business are identified, Create a central view of all regulatory interactions which the Board managed and adequately reported upon, willmonitorclosely going forward.
providing the committee with a 360-degree risk perspective.
Stuart Sinclair Risk advisory committee chairman 27 February 2018 84
