Strategic report DIRECTORS REPORT Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information Board Risk Committee Good risk management is not static but responds to internal and external pressures and is intrinsically linked to strategy The Committees role is to exercise oversight on behalf of the Board of Group-wide Committee composition risks, and to provide assurance to the Board that the overall framework for complying Scheduled Meetings Ad-hoc with the Risk Management Principles and the Board approved Risk Appetite Statement is operating effectively.
8 8 1 1 D P Conner Chair 1 7 8 0 1 We recognise that good risk management is not static but responds to internal and O P Bhatt external pressures and is intrinsically linked to strategy.
The Committee has discharged G Huey Evans, OBE 8 8 1 1 its responsibilities through receiving a combination of routine and regulatory reporting, N Kheraj 8 8 1 1 requesting reports on speci c matters from management and ensuring that the 1 Om Bhatt was unable to attend one scheduled meeting and management information to the Committee is not just data but also provides analysis one ad hoc meeting due to travel commitments and enables the Committee to have deeper discussions.
Other attendees at Committee meetings in 2017 As evidenced by declining impairments, the quality of the Groups loan portfolio has included: Group Chairman: Group Chief Executive: improved.
However, some segments of the portfolio remain under stress and we have Group Chief Financial Of cer: Group Chief Risk Of cer: sought and received assurance that management continues actively to manage those Group Head of Internal Audit: Group General Counsel: Group Treasurer: Group Statutory Auditors: Group segments particularly given the unpredictable nature of the external environment.
Company Secretary Given high pro le cyber security breaches and the rising level of cyber threat across As part of, and in addition to, each scheduled Committee many industries, the Committee has increased its focus on the steps being taken by meetings, the Committee had private members-only the Group to improve its defences, create stronger control frameworks and improve meetings.
The Committees membership is comprised of Through its work the Committee has considered and challenged whether there are any independent non-executive directors who have a deep gaps in risk coverage and sought and received assurance concerning the mitigating and broad experience of banking and the risk factors action being taken to address any such gaps.
We have examined the effectiveness of affecting the Group.
Details of their experience can be the Groups risk management and how risk management has responded to internal and found on pages 47 to 49. external pressures.
Committee responsibilities We have also discussed the progress that has been made on embedding a stronger The Committee is responsible for the oversight and risk culture across the Group.
Among other ways, this was covered in the Committees review of prudential risk.
It reviews the Groups overall review and discussion of a revised Enterprise Risk Management Framework to be Risk Appetite Statement and makes recommendations implemented in 2018, discussions on operational risk events and consideration of Group thereon to the Board.
Its responsibilities also include Internal Audit reports.
More details of the Groups approach to risk management and the reviewing the appropriateness and effectiveness of the Groups risk management systems, considering the revised Enterprise Risk Management Framework are provided on page 160 and the implications of material regulatory change proposals, Groups risk pro le on page 122. reviews reports on principal risks to the Groups The following pages provide an overview of the Committees activities during the year.
business and ensuring effective due diligence on material acquisitions and disposals.
In the few instances where it does not have primary oversight for a given type of risk, the Committee interacts closely with other board committees where the remit of these other committees clearly cover risk related matters.
For example, the Audit Committee has oversight of David Conner the Groups internal financial controls and regulatory Chair of the Board Risk Committee compliance: the Board Financial Crime Risk Committee has oversight of the responsibilities in relation to financial crime compliance matters: and the Brand, Values and Conduct Committee has oversight of the processes by which reputational risk is managed.
The Committee has written terms of reference that can be viewed at www.
com termsofreference 69 DIRECTORS REPORT Corporate governance The Groups Enterprise Risk Management and develop management processes FOCUS ON Framework provides the architecture which clearly integrate risk consideration Enterprise Risk for the overall management of all risks.
The Groups The Groups Code of Conduct sets the Principal Risk Types are risks which are Management Framework standards for individual behaviour.
inherent to the Groups business and strategy and these have been formally In 2017, the Group embarked on a key The Committees responsibilities include fide ned in the Groups Enterprise Risk initiative to build out the Enterprise Risk reviewing the appropriateness and Management Framework.
As part of this effectiveness of the Groups Enterprise Risk initiative, a revised Enterprise Risk Management Framework.
In assessing the Further details of the Management Framework for effectiveness of risk management, the Groups risk management implementation in 2018 was discussed approach are set out Committee has considered the Groups on pages 33 and 120 by the Committee.
This Framework will risk culture.
facilitate more dynamic risk identi cation Activities in the year Risk Appetite Paid attention to and challenged the formulation of the Groups Risk Appetite Statement in order to assure itself that it is effective in setting appropriate boundaries in respect of Principal Risk Types Considered and recommended to the Board for approval the Groups Risk Appetite Statement.
Conduct, Compliance, Financial Crime and Information and Cyber Security were elevated to Principal Risk Types.
The scope of Country Cross Border risk has been broadened to cover Country Risk and Pension risk is now a risk sub-type of Market risk.
Strategy risk has been integrated as part of the overall Enterprise Risk Management Framework and Capital and Liquidity risk has been consolidated as one Principal Risk Type Monitored actual exposures relative to Risk Appetite limits utilising regular risk information reports provided by management Tracked a wide range of risk metrics that are periodically reported to the Committtee Further details of the Groups Risk Appetite are set out on page 161.
Principal Risk Types The Committees review of the Groups Principal Risk Types included deeper discussions on the following topics: Operational risk: The approach to operational risk appetite aims to control operational losses financial and reputational so that they do not cause material damage to the Groups franchise.
The Committee: Reviewed and recommended to the Board the revisions to the Operational Risk Appetite and revised risk description for Signi cant Business Interruption and received updates on Operational Risk Events requiring root cause reviews including trend analysis and themes Undertook an Operational Risk Deep Dive which enabled a discussion of the Groups Operational Risk pro le, continuing risk and emerging risks Discussed the application of the Operational Risk Framework to the Groups Corporate Finance business and proposed enhancements including embedding the Groups conduct framework Discussed Property risk in the context of issues arising and signi cant activities concerning the potential for damage to or loss of physical assets and potential for loss or damage relating to health and safety or physical security Capital and Liquidity risk: Considered and discussed the Groups capital and liquidity position and the regulatory environment including the approval of the Groups Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process in order to satisfy itself that the Groups approach to capital planning is comprehensive, rigorous and consistent with both the current regulatory requirements and the likely anticipated outlook and the Groups Individual Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process which considers the Groups liquidity position, its framework and whether suf cient liquidity resources are being maintained to meet liabilities as they fall due Considered and approved a request from management that the Risk Appetite set by the Board for 2017 for Liquidity Coverage Ratio be temporarily tightened Further details concerning the Groups Liquidity Coverage Ratio is set out on page 151 and details concerning Capital are set out on page 183. Credit risk: Discussed the key findings from the credit and assurance reviews undertaken during the year and the proposals to widen the remit of the of the Enterprise Risk Review function Country risk: Discussed an overview of Groups Nigeria business and portfolio and the key risks following the economic slowdown and subsequent subdued recovery Standard Chartered 70 Annual Report 2017 Strategic report DIRECTORS REPORT Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information Activities in the year continued Principal Risk Types Information and Cyber Security The Committee received updates on the Groups Information and Cyber continued Security programme and discussed: Key initiatives being undertaken to enhance the Groups security posture The regulatory and compliance landscape Internal and external cyber risk associated events and the cyber risk landscape facing the financial services industry Sir Iain Lobban, who is one of the external advisor members of the Board Financial Crime Risk Committee and an independent advisor to the PLC Board on cyber and security threats, joined the Committee meetings for these discussions together with the Group Chief Information Of cer and the Chief Information Security Of cer.
Reputational risk: Whilst the Brand, Values and Conduct Committee is responsible for providing oversight of the processes by which the Group identi es and manages reputational risk, the Committee discussed the reputational risk management approach that has been developed and designed to drive consistency in risk assessment.
A separate bi-annual report to the Brand, Values and Conduct Committee provides Group Internal Audits perspective on culture, conduct and reputational risk management.
Stress testing Provided oversight and challenge for stress testing scenario design and test execution and reviewed the outcomes of the Bank of England Stress Test comprising an Annual Cyclical Scenario and Biennial Exploratory Scenario which the Group, along with the other largest UK banks, was required to undertake Encouraged management to use the stress test results to enhance business decisions in order to improve capital ef ciencies and risk management Further details of stress testing are set out on page 162.
Internal controls Discussed reports from the Group Head of Internal Audit that provide summaries of Group Internal Audits appraisals of controls across key risks subject to the Committees oversight, together with key risk issues identi ed by Group Internal Audits work and management actions put in place to address the findings The Audit Committee, Board Financial Crime Risk Committee and the Brand, Values and Conduct Committee discuss separate reports from the Group Head of Internal Audit on Group Internal Audits appraisal of controls across key risk types subject to each Committees oversight.
Collectively the reports received by these Committees provide assurance that there are effective internal controls within the Group.
Remuneration Considered advice provided by the Group Chief Risk Of cer to the Remuneration Committee concerning the risk as a risk factors to be taken into account by the Remuneration Committee in determining the incentive structure for the management Group Chief Executive, the executive directors and such other senior executives as appropriate.
Such advice assists tool the Remuneration Committee in its assessment as to whether the Groups remuneration policy, practices and procedures are consistent with and promote sound and effective risk management and do not encourage risk-taking that exceeds the level of tolerated risk of the Group.
Further details concerning the Groups approach to using remuneration as a risk management tool are set out in the Directors remuneration report.
Deeper discussions In discharging its responsibilities, the Committee has requested and held deeper discussions on the following topics: into speci c topics Principal Finance: Reviewed and discussed the key process and controls enhancements in the Groups Principal Finance business and considered an analysis of the Principal Finance business portfolio in relation to declining valuations Aviation Finance: Reviewed and discussed the Groups Aviation Finance Operating Lease and Debt portfolios, the strategy for the business, key risks and the steps being taken to address past challenges and developments in the market environment Derivatives in the Retail Business: Discussed an overview of the Groups Wealth Management structured product business and sales governance approach together with the Groups client exposures to structured products Funds Transfer Pricing: Discussed enhancements to the Groups Funds Transfer Pricing policy Internal Ratings Based IRB Portfolios Models Status and Performance: Discussed a report concerning the performance of the Groups IRB models and key model developments Risk Based Review of the Groups investment in China Bohai Bank: A risk based review discussion that included an evaluation as to whether such risks were industry speci c and determined whether there were any substantial concerns which warranted potential management actions Sensitivity to a strengthening United States Dollar USD and rising US interest rates: Received managements view on the key economic and sensitivities to the USD and increasing US interest rates and discussed the resulting key areas of vulnerabilities and opportunities for the Group Brexit Governance: Received an overview of the capital cost and bene ts including financial projections and details of the proposed governance structure and control framework of the Groups new German subsidiary Financial Markets Strategy, Risk Management and Controls: Discussed the strategy, associated controls and the end-to-end process for derivatives 71 DIRECTORS REPORT Corporate governance Risk information provided to Committee Chair engagement Interaction with regulators the Committee David has also met with the Chief Information As Committee Chair, David meets periodically Security Of cer and when visiting the Groups with one of the Groups UK lead regulators, The Committee is authorised to investigate markets, has met with the Regional Chief the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA.
or seek any information relating to an activity Risk Of cer, Europe and Americas, the In addition, and on an annual basis, the within its Terms of Reference and receives Regional Chief Risk Of cer, Africa and Middle Committee meets with the PRA without regular reports on risk management and East and the Chief Risk Of cer of PT Bank members of management being present.
tracks a wide range of risk metrics through a Permata Tbk.
David and Byron Grote also The purpose of such meetings is to enable a risk information report.
This report provides met with the Regional Chief Risk Of cer of discussion between the Committee and the an overview of the Groups risk pro le against Greater China and North Asia in Hong Kong.
PRA concerning prudential focused topics.
the Groups Risk Appetite Statement.
The David has also met with the Head of Group Chief Risk Of cers report covers the Operational Risk, the Global Head, Risk macroeconomic environment, geopolitical Risk function resourcing Review function and the Treasurer.
As outlook, material disclosures and ongoing The Committee has sought and received Committee Chair, David also participated in risks.
The Committee also receives a assurance that the risk function is adequately the Groups Global Chairmens Conference.
Treasurers report which covers market resourced to perform its function effectively.
The Conference was held in Dubai and developments, liquidity, capital, recovery The Committees discussions included the attendees included the Groups subsidiary and resolution planning together with rating risk functions overall structure, key changes chairmen.
David was one of the panellists for agency updates.
to the function in 2017 and the key areas the discussion on subsidiary and PLC The Committee has the authority to request of focus for 2018, including the delivery of linkages for audit and risk committees and and receive relevant information consistent ef ciency and effectiveness improvement discussed key risk themes and the operation with the requirements of BCBS239 that will initiatives, managing attrition and engaging of the Committee in 2017 and looking forward allow the Committee to ful l its governance talent, succession planning and building into 2018.
David encouraged subsidiary risk mandate relating to risks to which the greater diversity of gender and experience.
committees to ensure business heads were Group is exposed, and alert senior present at Committee meetings to take management when risk reports do not Committee effectiveness review ownership during the presentation of risk meet its requirements.
Further details of the Global In 2017, an externally facilitated Committee Chairmens Conference can be found effectiveness review was undertaken as Risk management disclosures on page 62 of this report.
part of the externally facilitated Board effectiveness review.
The broad message The Committee has reviewed the risk Interaction between Board was that the Committee is viewed as being disclosures in the Annual Report and probing and effective and the Board Accounts and the Half Year Report and has committees on risk related members have con dence that the also reviewed and approved the disclosures issues Committee is managing risk in a sensible regarding the work of the Committee.
In the few instances where it does not have and diligent manner.
There were two main primary oversight for a given type of risk, the themes arising from the review.
The first Interaction with the Group Chief Committee interacts closely with other board concerned the need for the Committee to Risk Of cer committees where the remit of these other strike the right balance in Committee As Committee Chair, David Conner meets committees clearly covers risk related discussions and requests for management individually with the Group Chief Risk Of cer matters.
For example, the Audit Committee information so as to avoid blurring the line and the Committee has also met privately has oversight of the Groups internal financial between management responsibilities and with the Group Chief Risk Of cer without controls and regulatory compliance: the the Committees ability to exercise oversight other members of management being Board Financial Crime Risk Committee has in accordance with its terms of reference.
These meetings allow open oversight of the responsibilities in relation to The second theme concerned the need discussion of any matters relating to financial crime compliance matters: and the for reports to the Committee to avoid issues arising from the Committees Brand, Values and Conduct Committee has lengthy narratives.
oversight of the mechanisms by which Ongoing training and reputational risk is managed.
The interaction assists the Committee in ensuring that it is development Interaction with management well informed on discussions held, and the Committee members have ongoing training The Committee is mindful of the need to close collaboration of the committee chairs and development programmes which over hold management directly accountable helps to ensure that there are no gaps and the course of the year included training on: when issues have arisen and have been any potential for unnecessary duplication is reported by the Group Chief Risk Of cer.
As part of the strengthening of these Cross Border Country Risk Senior management has attended linkages and ongoing development, the Chair The Groups Stress Testing project Committee meetings for deeper of the Remuneration Committee, Christine development discussions in such instances.
Hodgson attended one of the Committee meetings in 2017.
An independent assessment of the Groups Information and Security maturity aimed at providing an independent perspective of the Groups ability to adapt to the evolving Information Cyber Security threat landscape and risk Standard Chartered 72 Annual Report 2017 Strategic report DIRECTORS REPORT Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information Brand, Values and Conduct Committee Conduct is considered by the Committee as a cornerstone of our culture The focus of the Committee this year continued with strengthening the Groups culture Committee composition understanding where we are today, where we aspire to be, what needs to change Scheduled meetings and how we can best measure progress.
Ongoing diagnosis of our culture included examining the results of our employee engagement survey, as well as other industry J M Whitbread Chair 4 4 standard tools and measures.
Setting out where we want to be began with exploring O P Bhatt 4 4 and af rming the Groups purpose Driving commerce and prosperity through our Dr Han Seung-soo, KBE 4 4 unique diversity.
C M Hodgson 4 4 The Committee considered our brand promise as integrally linked to culture.
We Dr N Okonjo-Iweala reviewed in-depth and country-speci c studies, to reveal what our clients and employees appointed on 1 November 2017 1 1 expect from us, as we strive to strengthen our client focus and performance culture.
Considering these inputs and in light of the Groups strategy, the Committee was Directors who stepped down during 2017 well-positioned to review the new valued behaviours we expect throughout the Group.
Dr K M Campbell We then assessed the implementation plan for this refreshed direction, debated and stepped down on 26 July 2017 2 2 agreed a set of metrics that will help us assess the progress the Group is making in line Other attendees at Committee meetings in 2017 with this direction over time.
included: Group Chairman: Group Chief Executive: Group Head, Human Resources: Group Head Conduct is considered by the Committee as a cornerstone of our culture.
Conduct has Corporate, Public and Regulatory Affairs and Group also continued as a focus of attention in its own right, with an ongoing assessment Company Secretary of how the Groups Conduct agenda is being reinforced and communicated to all The Chair of the Board Risk Committee attended one of employees.
This year, we have noted the signi cant efforts by senior leaders to set the the Committee meetings in 2017. tone from the top and lead by example.
In the year ahead, the Committee expects to Details of the Committee members experience can be review a detailed set of metrics speci cally focused on conduct, to complement the found on pages 47 to 49. wider metrics we examine on culture.
The Committee has also focused its attention to how the Group identi es and manages Committee responsibilities reputational risk.
In line with our brand promise, Here for good, we sought and received The Committee has responsibility for reviewing the the assurance on how the Groups Position Statements which guide our approach to Groups brand, culture, valued behaviours and conduct, providing financial services to clients who operate in sensitive business sectors or face as well as the processes by which the Group identi es speci c issues align to the Groups Risk Appetite.
We discussed how reputational risk and manages reputational risk, sustainability priorities and the approach to main government and regulatory reporting to the Committee could be enhanced, in order for a comprehensive overview relationships.
of the reputational risk landscape to be fully considered.
The Committee has written terms of reference that The Committee bene ted from insightful exchanges with local management in Hong can be viewed at www.
com termsofreference Kong and Singapore, as part of overseas Board visits.
A valuable perspective was also provided by the Group Head of Internal Audit, who attends two Committee meetings each year, to provide appropriate assurance on culture, conduct and reputational risk management.
The Committees focus on the Groups culture, brand, valued behaviours, conduct, reputational risk management and sustainability priorities will continue in 2018, as well as the practice of receiving market insights and additional perspective on matters within the Committees remit.
I would like to thank Kurt Campbell, who stepped down in the year, for his contribution to the Committee and welcome Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, who joined the Committee on 1 November 2017.
Ngozi brings a wealth of experience on geo-political, economic and sustainability matters, which will be of value to our work in the year ahead.
Jasmine Whitbread Chair of the Brand, Values and Conduct Committee 73 DIRECTORS REPORT Corporate governance Activities in the year Brand and culture Discussed the progress being made on the review of brand and culture, as an integrated programme of work, details of which are set out below.
setting out the various workstreams FOCUS ON The Committee reviewed the global results underway with clear timelines and from the 2017 employee engagement Culture and valued responsible persons.
The Committee survey and corresponding areas of focus reviewed and provided input on cultural for teams and managers.
A deeper analysis behaviours metrics which have been developed was undertaken into the UK speci c survey and enhanced signi cantly, to ensure a 2017 has been a dynamic year for the findings, alongside the Banking Standards comprehensive and balanced overview.
The Regional CEO of Europe and Americas Focus was placed on reviewing the Groups The Groups purpose Driving commerce attended this discussion to provide context.
purpose, with the Committee counselling and prosperity through our unique diversity that it needed to be aspirational, enduring, was launched in September and new resonate with stakeholders and be valued behaviours were fide ned to support the Groups desired brand and culture.
inextricably linked to the Groups strategy.
The Committee discussed progress reports The valued behaviours were also reviewed on how cultural change is embedding and emphasis was placed on the need for throughout the Group: and received regular these to resonate well with employees and status updates on the overall plan of work translate easily into expected behaviours.
Brand refresh, The Committee reviewed: marketing plan The Groups 2017 marketing plan and con rmed its support of the focus to enhance the client value proposition and Group and deepen client relationships.
As part of this, the Committee was keen to understand how the Groups thought sponsorships leadership initiatives are being developed, given these differentiate the Group and provide value to clients The Groups sponsorship portfolio, including the Liverpool Football Club sponsorship, and encouraged that consideration be given as to how this sponsorship can be constantly leveraged to ensure maximum bene t for the Group The creative concepts for the Groups brand refresh, considering how these align to the work underway on brand and culture.
The Committee counselled on the importance of the brand refresh being authentic, differentiating, enduring and aligned to how the Group wishes to be regarded by clients and other stakeholders Conduct The Committee reviewed: How conduct is being embedded throughout the Groups three lines of defence, the first line countries, businesses and functions : the second line Compliance and the third line GIA Received updates on: The Groups Conduct Management Framework, proposed conduct metrics, the Group Conduct Management policy and conduct training guidance materials The steps being taken to transition the management of conduct risk from a programme of work to a sustainable model Reviewed and provided feedback on: The refreshed Group Code of Conduct the Code.
As part of this, the Committee noted the communication programme which would emphasise individual and management accountability: and was assured to see the high re-commitment rate to the Code.
Further details on the Code can be found on page 40 Reputational risk Reviewed the processes by which the Group manages reputational risk in an effective and transparent manner, management consistent with the Board approved Group Risk Appetite Statement and: Received status reports on enhancements to the Groups approach including the reputational risk policy and framework, risk measurement and reporting, Risk Appetite, stress testing, governance, resources and training Sought and received assurance on how the Groups Position Statements are aligned to the Groups Risk Appetite Discussed how reporting on reputational risk management could be enhanced to ensure that a comprehensive overview of the Groups reputational risk pro le is received Standard Chartered 74 Annual Report 2017 Strategic report DIRECTORS REPORT Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information Activities in the year continued Sustainability Reviewed a number of matters under the Groups Sustainability agenda including: The Groups approach to environmental and social risk management, which included the work underway to refresh the Groups Position Statements.
The Committee welcomed the review being undertaken by management to ensure that the topics and sectors being covered by the Position Statements are aligned to the Groups business portfolio and are re ective of the Groups Risk Appetite The risk acceptance parameters drafted to accompany the Groups refreshed Palm Oil Position Statement The Groups community expenditure for the full year 2016, noting that the level of Employee Volunteering EV engagement remained high, comprising 40 per cent of the Groups expenditure in 2016.
Further details on EV can be found on page 41 Received updates on: Climate change, palm oil and human rights, noting the Groups position and how this compares with peers Developments within the Groups community strategy to ensure that it aligns with the Groups purpose, re ects the Groups strategy, engages employees and resonates with clients and other stakeholders Government and Reviewed the Groups approach to its main government and regulatory relationships across our key markets, regulatory focusing on the quality of these relationships and engagement in place relationships Provided input on the areas of priority for 2018 Received an update on resources in place to manage these relationships Acknowledged that given the Groups diverse geographic footprint, there are typically a number of supervisory matters or investigations ongoing at any time Market insights Market insights received during overseas Board visits to Hong Kong and Singapore included: and additional An informal discussion between the Committee and members of the Hong Kong management team to discuss perspective brand, culture and reputation.
This discussion brought the matters of brand and culture to life from a country perspective and provided useful context for the Committees deliberations The provision of context from the Singapore CEO on brand and culture in Singapore, including an update on the various initiatives underway to drive cultural change.
The Committee was supportive of the steps being taken to promote a strong service culture in Singapore The Group Head of Internal Audit provided context on GIAs work in relation to culture, conduct and reputational risk management Jasmine also met with the Head of Diversity Committee effectiveness review Committee chair engagement and Inclusion D&I to provide input to the In 2017, the effectiveness of the Committee Outside of the formal Committee meetings, Groups refreshed D&I strategy.
One-to-one was assessed as part of the externally Jasmine had various interactions and meetings were then organised with each facilitated Board effectiveness review.
engagement with management and Committee member and the Head of D&I It was acknowledged that the Committee is employees across the Group.
In particular, so that additional perspectives and insights operating effectively and some suggestions Jasmine participated in the Groups Global on D&I could be obtained and discussed.
were made to enhance effectiveness.
This Conference D&I will be discussed by the Committee in These suggestions included the need for the was held in Dubai and attendees included the early 2018.
Committee to provide more communication Groups subsidiary chairmen.
Jasmine was to non-Committee members on the activities one of the panellists for the discussion on of the Committee: and to ensure that the culture.
She shared her experience of the Committees remit is not too broad.
These Committees role in reviewing the Groups suggestions will be kept under review by purpose and how the Board sets the tone the Committee.
for culture and conduct from the top.
