Governance Strategic Report Financial Results Risk Management Report Financial Statements Other Information Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 71 I Corporate Governance Report This report sets out Virgin Moneys approach to governance in practice, the work of the Board and its Committees and explains how the Group applied the principles of the Code during 2017.
Leadership Purpose and responsibilities The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of Virgin Money.
It achieves this by setting the strategy and overseeing delivery against it.
It establishes the culture, values and standards of the Group, managing risk, monitoring financial performance and reporting and ensuring that appropriate and effective succession planning arrangements and remuneration policies are in place.
The role of the Directors and Company Secretary Set out below are the key roles and responsibilities of the Chair, other Board members and the Company Secretary.
There is a clear division of responsibility at the head of the Group.
The Chair has overall responsibility for the leadership of the Board while the Chief Executive leads the business.
Chair Chief Executive The Chair has overall responsibility for the leadership of the Board and The Chief Executive leads the Group on a day-to-day basis in all areas promotion of the highest standards of corporate governance.
The Chair affecting the operations, performance and strategy of the Groups sets the Boards agenda to ensure focus on the right matters.
The Chair business with the exception of those matters reserved to the Board.
plans Board and Executive succession and appointments in conjunction The Chief Executive provides leadership and direction to senior with the Nomination Committee and ensures effective communication management and co-ordinates all activities to implement the Groups with shareholders.
The Chair leads the development of the Groups strategy and to manage the business in accordance with risk appetite.
culture by the Board as a whole.
The Chief Executive has responsibility for overseeing the adoption of the Groups culture in the day-to-day management of the Group.
Non-Executive Directors Senior Independent Director The Non-Executive Directors help to develop and set the Groups The Senior Independent Director SID acts as a sounding board for the strategy.
They provide constructive challenge, participate actively Chair and Executive Directors on Board and shareholder matters and in the decision-making process and scrutinise the performance of is a conduit, as required, for the views of the other Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors provide entrepreneurial conducts the Chairs annual performance review and is available to leadership of the Group within a framework of prudent and effective shareholders as required.
controls, satisfy themselves as to the integrity of financial information and systems of risk management and determine appropriate levels of remuneration of the Executive Directors via the Remuneration Committee.
Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary The Chief Financial Officer CFO is responsible for the financial The Company Secretary provides practical support to the Directors management of the Group and the day-to-day management of the with particular emphasis on supporting the Non-Executive Directors in balance sheet including ensuring the business remains well capitalised.
maintaining appropriate standards of probity and corporate governance The CFO ensures that the Group delivers statutory reporting obligations, and providing advice to Directors on the discharge of their duties.
The meets regulatory capital and liquidity requirements and identifies Company Secretary is responsible for facilitating communications with opportunities to improve the commercial performance of the business shareholders as appropriate.
within the agreed risk appetite.
72 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 I Corporate Governance Report Board and governance structure #PBSE #PBSE $IBJS MFO.
"PSFOP #PBSE $PNNJUUFFT ""VEJU $PNNJUUFF PNJOBUJPO ""VEJU $PNNJUUFF 3FNVOFSBUJPO $PNNJUUFF 3FNVOFSBUJPO #PBSE 3JTL 3JTL $PNNJUUFF $PNNJUUFF $PNNJUUFF $PNNJUUFF $IBJS %BSSFO 1PQF $IBJS PSNBO."
D-VTLJF 1MFBTF TFF QBHF $IBJS FFUB PQBMBO PO &YFDVUJWF %JSFDUPS PO &YFDVUJWF %JSFDUPS 1MFBTF TFF QBHF 1MFBTF TFF QBHF 1MFBTF TFF QBHF PO &YFDVUJWF %JSFDUPS &YFDVUJWF $PNNJUUFFT 3JTL.
"BOBHFNFOU $PNNJUUFF ""TTFU BOEJBCJMJUZ $PNNJUUFF $IJFG &YFDVUJWF BZOF ""OOF BEIJB $IBJS $IJFG 3JTL 0DFS $IBJS $IJFG 'JOBODJBM 0DFS."
BOBHFT UIF CVTJOFTT PG UIF SPVQ JO BDDPSEBODF XJUI UIF TUSBUFHZ EFOUJFT BOE SFDPNNFOET SJTL BQQFUJUF NBOBHFT SJTL 3FTQPOTJCMF GPS NBOBHFNFOU BOE NPOJUPSJOH BOE MPOH UFSN PCKFDUJWFT BQQSPWFE CZ UIF #PBSE XJUIJO BHSFFE MJNJUT NPOJUPST LFZ SJTL FYQPTVSFT PG MJRVJEJUZ GVOEJOH DBQJUBM BOE BTTFU BOE MJBCJMJUZ JO SFMBUJPO UP SJTL TUSBUFHZ BOE SFDPNNFOET UIF BQQSPBDI NBOBHFNFOU XJUIJO BHSFFE UP NBOBHJOH BMM UZQFT PG SJTL SJTL BQQFUJUF BOE QPMJDZ &YFDVUJWF BOE &YFDVUJWF $PNNJUUFFT.
BOBHFNFOU $PNNJUUFFT 1MFBTF TFF QBHFT BOE GPS B MJTU PG UIF &YFDVUJWF BOE GPS UIF LFZ &YFDVUJWF $PNNJUUFFT 0QFSBUJPOBM 3JTL $POEVDU 3JTL $SFEJU 3JTL 5SFBTVSZ 3JTL BOE$PNQMJBODF $PNNJUUFF $PNNJUUFF $PNNJUUFF Board authority Each Board Committee comprises Independent NonThe Board authority sets out the matters reserved to the Executive Directors.
The Nomination Committee also O BEEJUJPO UIFSF JT B #PBSE PNJOBUJPO $PNNJUUFF Board.
This includes decisions concerning the strategy and comprises the Board Chair and the Virgin Nominee Director.
FFUB PQBMBO XBT BQQPJOUFE $IBJS PG UIF 3JTL $PNNJUUFF XJUI FFDU GSPN BOVBSZ 1SJPS UP UIBU UIF $PNNJUUFF XBT DIBJSFE CZ $PMJO, FPHI long-term objectives of the Group, capital and financial Each Committee Chair reports to the Board on the activities budgets, significant contracts and transactions, and various of the Committee.
The Terms of Reference for each Board statutory and regulatory approvals.
The Board authority Committee can be found at virginmoney.
com virgin delegates responsibility for day-to-day leadership of the investor-relations.
business to the Chief Executive and sets out the basis Group entity governance for delegation of authorities from the Board to Board The Groups banking business of residential mortgages, Committees.
The Chief Executive delegates aspects of their savings and credit cards is conducted through Virgin Money own authority, as permitted under the corporate governance plc Bank which is regulated by the Financial Conduct framework, to members of the Executive and the Executive Authority FCA and Prudential Regulation Authority PRA.
As well as regularly discussing business performance, the Executive Committees meet monthly to The composition of the board of the Bank replicates that consider key business matters.
Certain Executive Committees of the Company, save for the following: the Virgin Nominee meet more frequently as required.
Director and the VEL Nominee Director are not members of the board of the Bank and the Chief Risk Officer CRO is an Details of Board reserved matters can be found at additional Executive Director.
The Group has two FCA regulated subsidiaries, Virgin Money The role of the Board Committees Unit Trust Managers Limited VMUTM and Virgin Money The Board is supported by its Committees which make Personal Financial Service Limited VMPFS which carry recommendations to the Board on matters delegated to them, out the Groups financial services business of investments, in particular in relation to internal control, risk management, insurance and other ancillary financial services.
Two of the financial reporting, governance, succession planning and Companys Non-Executive Directors and each of the Banks remuneration matters.
The current Board Committees are Executive Directors are on the VMUTM board.
board is made up of the Banks Executive Directors.
Governance Strategic Report Financial Results Risk Management Report Financial Statements Other Information Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 73 I Virgin Money Giving Limited VMG is a not-for-profit to a minimum of 36 days per year and may be expected to company within the Group and the vehicle for Virgin Moneys relinquish other appointments to ensure that they can meet charity fundraising and donations website.
VMG has two the time commitments of their role.
The Chair is committed to Independent Non-Executive Directors on its board, one of this being their primary role, limiting their other commitments whom is Chair.
to ensure they can spend as much time as the role requires.
The time devoted to the Groups business by the NonThe Virgin Money Foundation The Foundation is an Executive Directors is in reality significantly more than the independent charity which awards grants aimed at tackling minimum requirements.
In 2017 the SID devoted additional social and economic disadvantage and the sustainable time to their role in leading the Chair succession process.
The Foundation is managed and controlled by a board of independent Trustees.
Executive Directors must seek authorisation from the Board before accepting any additional responsibilities or external The Board appointments, and are restricted to holding no more than Board size two Non-Executive Director roles excluding roles with bodies The Board is of sufficient size and composition to reflect a not for commercial purposes.
At 31 December 2017, the broad range of views and perspectives whilst allowing all Executive Directors were compliant with this requirement and Directors to participate effectively in meetings.
continue to be at the date of this report.
The number and quality of Independent Non-Executive Conflicts of interest Directors on the Board facilitates effective challenge to the The Directors must avoid any situation which might give Executive.
As at 31 December 2017, the Board comprised two rise to a conflict between their personal interests and those Executive Directors, seven Non-Executive Directors five of of the Group.
Prior to appointment, potential conflicts of whom are considered to be independent and the Chair, who interest are disclosed and assessed to ensure that there are no was independent on appointment.
Details on Board changes matters that would prevent the incoming Director from taking in the year and up to the date of this report are included in the the appointment.
Directors are responsible for notifying the Chair and the Further details on independence, succession planning and Company Secretary as soon as they become aware of any the appointment process are set out in the Nomination potential or actual conflicts.
In addition, changes to the commitments of all Directors Executive Director service agreements and Non-Executive are reported to the Board and a register of conflicts is Director terms of appointment regularly reviewed by the Chair to ensure the authorisation The Chair is appointed for an initial three year term which may remains appropriate.
be terminated on six months notice by either the Chair or the If any potential conflict arises, the relevant Director will Company.
The Non-Executive Directors are appointed for a excuse themselves from any meeting or discussions where the twelve month term and each of the Non-Executive Directors potential conflict is considered, and all relevant material will may have their appointment terminated in accordance with be restricted.
All potential conflicts authorised by the Board the Articles of Association of the Company, their letters of are recorded in a register of Directors Conflicts of Interest.
appointment or statute at any time without compensation.
The Groups conflict procedures will be revisited in early 2018 The service agreements of the Chief Executive and CFO are in light of the forthcoming Financial Services Banking Reform terminable by either the Company or the individual giving Act 2013 ring-fencing.
At one Board meeting the VEL Nominee Director excused All Directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
himself from discussions in relation to the Virgin Money The service agreements and letters of appointment of all Trademark Licence Agreement due to a potential conflict Directors are available for inspection by shareholders at the of interest as a result of Virgin Enterprises Limited Companys registered office.
VEL being a related party as detailed in note 35 to the Time commitments Financial Statements.
Each Non-Executive Director is required to devote such time as is necessary for the effective discharge of their duties 74 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 I Corporate Governance Report Diversity policy inclusion, including its consideration in Board appointments, Diversity and inclusion are strategic priorities for the Group.
is set out in the Nomination Committee Report on page 85 and Information on the Groups approach to diversity and the Strategic Report on pages 14 to 15 and 22 to 23.
Key Board focus in 2017 The following table provides an overview of the key matters considered by the Board in 2017: Financial Strategy and customer focus Culture and value Approval of 2018 budget Review of progress against the Groups Enhanced monitoring of conduct including strategy customer outcomes Approval of financial results and presentations Approval of four-year strategic and funding Monitoring of culture and values, including plans oversight of staff survey results Approval of dividends Oversight of Capital Markets Update Oversight of the social enterprise agenda Approval of the Internal Liquidity Adequacy and community priorities Assessment Process ILAAP Consideration of potential acquisition opportunities and strategic initiatives Oversight of the capital base Oversight of the Virgin Money digital bank Approval of funding issuances strategy Oversight of implementation of IFRS 9 Review of credit risk and customer behaviour metrics Risk management Governance and shareholders Regulatory Approval of risk appetite and risk Review of Board and Committee structure Overseeing the implementation of measures to management framework and composition ensure compliance with: Approval of the Internal Capital Adequacy Review of the corporate governance Ring-fencing structural reform Assessment Process ICAAP framework Recovery and resolution Review of aggregate risk exposures, risk Overseeing Board and Executive succession Senior Managers and Certification Regime return and emerging risks planning and appointment GDPR, PSD2 open banking Review of internal control systems Overseeing Board effectiveness and Chair MREL and other regulatory changes performance reviews Approval of stress test results Receiving Investor Relations updates Oversight of operational resilience including including oversight of investor reporting monitoring cyber resilience Approval of AGM Notice of Meeting Oversight of key partnership relationships Governance Strategic Report Financial Results Risk Management Report Financial Statements Other Information Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 75 I How does the Board consider stakeholder views?
The Board understands the importance of its stakeholders to the business.
The Board: The Board: Monitored customer satisfaction, retention, Monitored colleague engagement outcome including complaints metrics Monitored progress against the diversity and inclusion Oversaw the broadening of the customer strategy to create a diverse Board and workforce proposition e. g. SME and digital bank plans Reviewed talent, capabilty, succession and Oversaw the rigorous programme of customer development programmes listening and operational improvements Listened to colleagues through office and store visits Further detail on how Virgin Money delivered and attended annual colleague awards ceremony for its customers is included on page 20 Further detail on how Virgin Money delivered for its colleagues is included on page 22 Customers Colleagues The Board: Received regular reports on the performance of mortgage intermediary partnerships The Board: Virgin including the optimisation of operational Oversaw the delivery of the Groups Money improvements Corporate Community strategy Community Monitored strategic and outsourcing Partners Monitored progress against the Groups EBO partnerships, including the new partnership environmental strategy to manage and reduce with Virgin Atlantic environmental impacts Oversaw the development of the Groups Further detail on how Virgin Money delivered Company policies and approach to anti-bribery, human for the Community is included on page 26 & Shareholders rights and modern slavery Further detail on how Virgin Money delivered for its corporate partners is included on page 24 The Board: Oversaw the delivery of the strategy Engaged with the shareholders on a regular and ad hoc basis, through results briefings, the Capital Markets Update, individual investor meetings, roadshows and its Annual General Meeting AGM Further detail on how Virgin Money delivered for the Company and its shareholders is included on page 80 76 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 I Corporate Governance Report are structured to allow adequate time for discussion, in Board agenda and attendance particular of strategic matters and any other matters which Setting the Board agenda the Non-Executive Directors wish to raise.
The Chair is responsible for setting the Board agenda.
Prior to each Board meeting, the Chair reviews the agenda and time Board meetings and activity in 2017 allocation with the Company Secretary and discusses key The following timeline provides an overview of the Board items of business with the Chief Executive.
"BZ VOF VMZ ""VH 4FQU 0DU PW %FD GVMM ZFBS ""."
BMG ZFBS 2 SFTVMUT SFTVMUT BOE OBM SFTVMUT BOE 2 SFTVMUT EJWJEFOE EJWJEFOE Site visits Key Deep dives included: Mortgage Lab B Credit cards Board meeting including site visits Mortgage Operations Treasury BD Board meeting and deep dive Virgin Money digital bank Contact Centre BS Board meeting and strategy discussion Colleague Survey results Security Operations RB Results Board Meeting Colleague Awards Ceremony IFRS 9 CB CEO Briefing Call Gosforth Office ILAAP ICAAP Edinburgh Office Board Strategy Review During 2017, the Board spent considerable time discussing the investment required for the core business and the new initiatives.
The strategic review included the external Further detail can be found on pages 30 to 39. environment, 2018 budget and the four year financial plans.
Further The Board also spent time considering updates received from the detail on the Groups strategy is set out on pages 18 to 19.
Board Committees on the Groups strategy including funding and The Board assessed the opportunities and challenges presented by capital plans and organisational design changes to align to the future the macro-economic, market and regulatory developments.
included risk appetite to ensure Virgin Moneys lending discipline The Boards key focus during these discussions was to ensure the continues to support asset quality and delivery of sustainable returns refreshed strategy provides a strong platform for long-term success through the cycle: funding plans: assessment of the impact of of business whilst also enabling the continued delivery of innovative regulatory change of Open Banking, PSD2 and ring-fencing: and the products and outstanding service to customers.
Governance Strategic Report Financial Results Risk Management Report Financial Statements Other Information Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 77 I Attendance at meetings Cyber resilience In 2017, a total of 17 Board meetings were held consisting of: It remains Virgin Moneys goal to be consistently one of 13 that were scheduled including four which approved release the safest banks in the UK.
The Board continues to play an of the financial results and four ad hoc meetings which were important role in overseeing the Groups cyber resilience project and strategy related.
Where a Director is unable approach and the level of investment in cyber security.
to attend a meeting, they have the opportunity to review Geeta Gopalan is the Boards accountable Non-Executive any papers and provide comments to the Chair, who then Director responsible for leading focus on cyber security endeavours to represent the Directors views at the meeting.
The attendance of Directors at Board and Committee The Board provides robust challenge and scrutiny to meetings during the year is set out below.
The number of ensure that the Group is adequately mitigating the meetings held during the period that the Director held office is threats it faces.
Virgin Moneys cyber resilience strategy shown in brackets.
The Chair attends all Committee meetings is reviewed by the Board on an annual basis with specific at the invitation of the Committee Chairs.
detailed reporting on progress provided regularly.
The review takes into account the latest cyber threat intelligence assessment.
This ensures that the strategy remains fit for purpose to combat the potential cyber threats the Group may face, as well as remaining aligned to the overall business objectives of the Group.
Board Board Remuneration Nomination Risk Audit Virgin Money Holdings UK plc meetings Committee Committee Committee Committee Directors who served during 2017 Glen Moreno 17 17 9 9 Norman McLuskie 17 17 4 4 9 9 5 5 7 7 1 Colin Keogh 15 17 7 9 5 5 7 7 2 Marilyn Spearing 5 6 2 2 1 2 2 2 2 2 Geeta Gopalan 17 17 4 4 9 9 5 5 7 7 3 Eva Eisenschimmel 17 17 3 3 9 9 5 5 7 7 4 Darren Pope 13 13 2 2 8 8 3 3 5 5 5 Gordon McCallum 10 13 6 8 Patrick McCall 17 17 Jayne-Anne Gadhia CBE 17 17 6 Peter Bole 7 7 7 Amy Stirling 0 0 1 Colin Keogh was unable to attend two ad hoc Board and Nomination Committee meetings held on short notice due to a conflict with external appointments.
2 Marilyn Spearing retired from the Board on 3 May 2017 and was unable to attend the final Board and Nomination Committee meetings of her tenure due to a conflict with external appointments.
3 Eva Eisenschimmel was appointed to the Board on 25 January 2017.
4 Darren Pope was appointed to the Board on 1 March 2017.
5 Gordon McCallum resigned from the Board on 31 October 2017 and was unable to attend three Board and two Nomination Committee meetings held on short notice.
6 Peter Bole was appointed to the Board on 25 July 2017.
7 Amy Stirling was appointed to the Board on 20 December 2017.
78 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 I Corporate Governance Report The review of Committee performance also included an Board effectiveness assessment of whether each Committee had met its required Skills and experience of the Board responsibilities.
As illustrated by the Board biographies on pages 66 to 68, the Non-Executive Directors have a broad range of skills and The Chair met with each Non-Executive Director in early 2018 experience.
During 2017, the skills of the Board were enhanced to discuss their contributions and effectiveness, and reported by the appointment of Eva Eisenschimmel who brings to the Nomination Committee on the output.
The Chair extensive experience as a brand and marketing professional also conducted the Chief Executives annual performance and Darren Pope who provides significant financial and retail appraisal.
This activity supported the annual review of Board banking experience as well as transformational project composition and recommendations on Director election experience.
Additionally, Amy Stirling adds financial and re-election to be put to the shareholders at the 2018 AGM.
In management experience from a range of sectors and brings parallel, the SID assessed the Chairs performance, seeking specific expertise in accounting, tax and treasury matters.
input from the other Directors.
Annual effectiveness reviews Key themes were then collated together with the output The 2017 internal Board effectiveness review, led by the Chair from the Directors individual performance reviews and with support from the Company Secretary, took the form of presented to the Nomination Committee in February 2018 and interviews with each Board member and key stakeholders discussed separately at the respective Committee meetings from across the business in December 2017 and January 2018. as appropriate.
This was followed by a full discussion by the The review sought the Directors views on a range of topics Board, reviewing what had worked well within the year and including the mix of skills, experience, independence and focus areas for 2018. knowledge on the Board and Committees, Board culture and In line with best practice, the Group will undertake its next dynamics, the quality of information provided to the Board, externally facilitated review of Board effectiveness in 2018. the effectiveness of Committees including composition and This exercise will serve as an invaluable tool for the new member contribution and how they are connected with the Chair providing independent insight on the Board and its Board and the quality of discussion including areas of depth effectiveness as well as informing and supporting future of engagement and clarity of the decision-making process.
The review also assessed and sought views on the progress against the key recommendations and priorities identified in the 2016 effectiveness review.
Governance Strategic Report Financial Results Risk Management Report Financial Statements Other Information Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 79 I A summary of the key findings and recommendations are set out below: Key conclusions from 2017 Board Effectiveness Review Board composition, Board culture, dynamics and contribution Board succession planning will remain a key focus for 2018 and A well balanced and diverse Board in terms of skills, experience beyond, led by the new Chair: and and independence: strengthened further by the 4 new Board Comprehensive review of Executive talent, capability and appointments: succession plans to ensure aligned to current and future strategy.
Board culture of mutual trust and respect, open communication, Board basics: Board support, forward agenda and quality of commitment, improved challenge and support by all members: information and Continued high quality of Board information, with transparent Use of a variety of Board forums continues to work well.
information flow: Board focus and depth of engagement Increased efficiency in Board processes and meetings: Good balance between strategic, operational and governance Continued focus required on the forward agendas: and matters achieved in 2017, although will this remain an area of 2018 Board schedule to accommodate increased time for Board ongoing focus: discussion.
Significant Board interaction and engagement on strategy, Board Committees threats and opportunities and risk appetite: Effective and well-balanced Board Committees, with a good mix Increased focus on external landscape market environment, of skills and experience: strengthened by the new Non-Executive competition, regulatory agenda, concluding a series of Board Director appointments: briefings further detail on page 76 : Open and constructive contribution, engagement and challenge: Significant focus in 2017 on funding, capital and liquidity as part Successful transition of new Committee Chairs: and of strategic planning, ICAAP and ILAAP processes with the risk Continued focus in 2018 required on Committee forward agenda to remain a key focus for 2018 and beyond: and agendas, and opportunities for improved Committee reporting.
Increased line one reporting and representation at Committees planned for 2018 to enhance the Boards assessment of risk and prioritisation of critical issues.
Board succession and leadership to ensure that talent development and succession planning are aligned with the current and future strategy Significant focus and progress focus in 2017 on Board leadership and succession matters.
Highlights included four Directors joining the Board, together with a rigorous Chair search process leading to the appointment of Irene Dorner as Chair Elect: Board induction The Chair, facilitated by the Company Secretary, ensures that all a detailed programme across Risk and Finance focusing on: Directors receive a full induction tailored to their individual needs risk appetite and profile, culture and framework, compliance with regard to their specific role and experience.
This ensures that and conduct risk, financial analysis and controls, capital, stress Directors are able to make an informed contribution based on an testing, liquidity, recovery and resolution planning and regulatory understanding of the Groups business model and the challenges it developments: faces.
an overview of the Legal and People functions, including the people and remuneration strategies and Remuneration Code During 2017 and up to the date of this report Darren Pope, Eva requirements: and Eisenschimmel and Amy Stirlings induction processes comprised: meet and greet sessions with the Board, Executive and senior a business introduction including a strategy overview containing management to understand the Groups culture along with visits business risks and opportunities: to the Groups various sites including some stores and lounges.
an introduction to operations, products, the customer and the competitive environment, along with a view of future product strategy: an overview of the Groups approach to governance, including training on the responsibilities of a Director in a listed company and the impact of the Senior Managers Regime on Non-Executive Directors: 80 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 I Corporate Governance Report through whom the Chair and other Non-Executive Directors Training are kept up to date during the year with the views of Virgin.
Professional development and training The Chair is responsible for the training and professional The Chair and Chief Executive have an ongoing dialogue with development of Board members.
The training programme, the Virgin Nominee Director throughout the course of the delivered throughout the year, comprises both formal and year.
Gordon McCallum retired as the Virgin Nominee Director informal sessions on current or emerging issues.
Tailored in October 2017 and the Group welcomed Amy Stirling in his sessions on specific business topics are a key component of place in December 2017. the programme.
The Company Secretary maintains a training The Company has complied with the terms of the Relationship and development log for each Director.
Agreement and, so far as the Company is aware, the Site visits also play an important role by helping to connect independence provisions contained in the Relationship Directors with the business, colleagues and customers needs.
Agreement have been complied with by Virgin and Directors are also invited to attend courses, management its associates.
meetings and one-to-one meetings with Executives.
Investor relations and contact Shareholder Stakeholder engagement and The Investor Relations Director has primary responsibility for relationships managing and developing the Groups external relationships Details of how Virgin Money considers stakeholder views are with shareholders, potential investors and analysts.
These included on page 75. communications are effected through a combination of briefings to analysts and institutional investors, individual In respect of shareholders, the Board recognises the need for discussions with shareholders and potential investors, a programme of engagement which offers all shareholders regulatory announcements, press releases and updates on the opportunities to receive information directly and to enable Groups website.
them to share their views with the Board.
The Board receives reports from the Investor Relations Controlling shareholder Director.
This ensures that the Board are informed of During 2017 the Groups controlling shareholder for the significant market developments, share price performance purposes of the Listing Rules was Virgin.
Details of Virgins and changes in the shareholder base.
shareholding can be found on page 123.
The Company is party to a Relationship Agreement with Virgin.
The principal In 2017, the Group engaged with corporate shareholders and purpose of the Relationship Agreement is to ensure that the potential investors on an individual basis through investor Group is capable of carrying on its business independently presentations and attendance at investor conferences.
The Relationship Agreement Additionally, the Chair hosted meetings with some of the provides for the appointment of a nominee director by Virgin Groups largest institutional shareholders focused on the 2017 Shareholder engagement January to March April to June Publication of the ARA Q1 trading statement Analyst briefings AGM held Publication of AGM Notice and voting materials Dividend final Ad hoc proactive and reactive shareholder engagement Ad hoc proactive and reactive shareholder via Chief Executive, CFO, and Remuneration Committee Chair engagement via Chief Executive, CFO and Chair July to September Half year results October to December Analyst briefings Dividend interim Q3 statement Corporate governance meetings with Capital Markets Update institutional shareholders Ad hoc proactive and reactive shareholder Ad hoc proactive and reactive shareholder engagement engagement via Chief Executive, CFO and Chair via Chief Executive, CFO and Chair Governance Strategic Report Financial Results Risk Management Report Financial Statements Other Information Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 81 I Groups corporate governance arrangements.
The meetings Financial Services Sector, it is the intention that the function were structured to allow for an open dialogue and discussion will be subject to an independent external assessment on the matters of importance to institutional shareholders every five years.
including strategy, Board composition and succession.
In establishing and reviewing the system of internal control, The Group will maintain an active dialogue with shareholders, the Directors consider the nature and extent of the risks potential investors and analysts to discuss the performance of facing the Group, the likelihood of a risk event occurring and the Group, its strategy and new developments in 2018. the potential financial impact of failure.
A system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the Company Secretary and retail shareholders risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
It therefore can The Company Secretary oversees communications with provide only reasonable but not absolute assurance against individual retail investors.
the risk of material mis-statement or loss.
The Groups registrar, Equiniti Limited, provides a dedicated The policies supporting the Groups risk management shareholder online and telephone dealing service to assist framework define minimum standards for controls for all shareholders in managing their investments.
Internal control Business areas and support functions assess on a quarterly The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal basis the internal controls in place to address all material risk control.
The system is designed to facilitate effective and exposures across all risk classes.
This review considers the efficient operations and to ensure the quality of internal effectiveness of these material controls, including financial, and external reporting and compliance with applicable laws operational and compliance controls.
Further information on risk control and management is set out The Group uses a Three Lines of Defence model.
Further in the Risk Management Report.
detail can be found on page 127.
Statement of compliance The Directors and Executive are committed to maintaining a UK Corporate Governance Code robust control framework as the foundation for the delivery The 2016 version of the Code, which can be accessed at of effective risk management.
uk, applied to the Groups 2017 financial year.
The their responsibilities in relation to the Groups systems of Directors have considered the contents and recommendations risk management and internal control and for reviewing their of the Code and confirm that throughout the year the Group effectiveness and conducted a review covering internal audit has applied the main principles and complied with the reports, risk assurance reports and an overall analysis of the provisions of the Code.
risk management framework during the year.
The Group looks forward to the publication of the outcome of In 2017, the Group completed its action plan to address all the FRCs consultation on changes to the Code.
recommendations from the Deloitte LLP External Quality Assurance Review of the Groups Internal Audit function Committee reports produced in 2015 and referred to in the 2016 Corporate The following pages contain reports from each of the Governance Report.
In line with the Chartered Institute of Boards Committees with the report from the Remuneration Internal Auditors Guidance on Effective Internal Audit in the Committee included in the Directors Remuneration Report.
