Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Governance Nomination committee The role of the committee General The primary function of the committee is to monitor the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity on the Board and make recommendations for change, as appropriate, to the Board.
The terms of reference of the committee can be found on the groups website at www.
In order to fulfil its role, the committee: Regularly reviews the structure, size and composition including skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of the Board, and makes recommendations to the Board for any changes to its composition to ensure itremains appropriately refreshed: Fully considers the succession planning requirements for directors and the senior management teams in the corporate office, This year our main focus has been the recruitment taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the company, and the of a new Chief Executive Officer CEO.
skills and expertise needed on the Board This process concluded with Malcolm Le Mays in the future: Keeps under review the leadership appointment as CEO on 2 February 2018 needs of the group, to ensure it remains and I have taken over the chairmanship of the competitive in the marketplace: nomination committee in an interim capacity until Evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity on the Board such time that a new Chairman joins the Board.
before any appointments are made and prepares a description of the role and identifies the capabilities required for a particular appointment.
The committee The committee also considered and recommended considers candidates on merit and against for approval the appointment of an interim group objective criteria with due regard to the benefits of diversity, including gender: Chief Risk Officer CRO.
Identifies and nominates to the Board candidates to fill Board vacancies: and The committee has also given consideration Periodically reviews and considers the performance and effectiveness of the to the need to enhance the Board and its skills and committee through the results of the Board and committee performance has subsequently recommended the appointment evaluation process.
of two new non-executive directors in2018.
Stuart Sinclair Interim Non-executive Chairman 91 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Governance Nomination committee continued Annual statement by the Committee calendar in 2017 Members chairman of the nomination Manjit Wolstenholme January committee Member until 23 November 2017 Alison Halsey I am pleased to present to you the report Recommended to the Board the Member until 12 May 2017 of the work of the nomination committee appointment of Andrea Blance as during a challenging 2017.
We have again non-executive director with effect from Malcolm Le May been active in monitoring the succession 1 March 2017 and chairman of the audit Chairman until 2 February 2018 planning processes in place across the committee with effect from 12 May 2017.
Andrea Blance group for senior positions.
The committee Member from 1 March 2017 September also completed a detailed review of the composition of the Board, which considered Rob Anderson the knowledge and skills required to Received an update on the recruitment Member from 2 March 2009 effectively implement the group strategy process for the CEO and group Stuart Sinclair and the output from previous Board interim CRO.
Chairman from 2 February 2018 and committee evaluation processes.
November This evaluation process identified that the David Sear skills, knowledge and expertise currently on Member from 1 March 2017 the Board is somewhat depleted due in part Following the appointment of Malcolm until26 January 2018 to the resignation of Peter Crook and the Le May as Interim Executive Chairman, untimely death of Manjit Wolstenholme, and John Straw the committee: this has resulted in the group considering Member from 1 March 2017 Recommended to the Board the the potential recruitment of two further Secretary: appointment of Stuart Sinclair as senior non-executive directors to the Board.
independent director: Ken Mullen Recommended to the Board the Composition of the committee appointment of Andrea Blance as chair ofthe remuneration committee: and The nomination committee was chaired by Manjit Wolstenholme up until her Recommended to the Board the untimely death on 23 November 2017. appointment of Malcolm Le May to Following his appointment as Interim become chairman of the nomination Executive Chairman, Malcolm Le May was committee, and he was authorised to appointed as chairman of the committee lead the ongoing process to appoint on 27 November 2017 to 1 February 2018. a new Chief Executive Officer of All non-executive directors are members the company.
The CEO December attends meetings by invitation.
The role of the CEO as an attendee, is to provide a better understanding of the strategic issues Received an update on the recruitment facing the group and the current skills and process for the CEO: experience of the senior management Recommended the appointment of the teams in the Divisions and the corporate interim group CRO: office.
The committee meets at least twice a year, or as required.
There were also regular Recommended to the Board that it updates between meetings on the progress should seek to recruit at least two new on the recruitment of the new CEO.
additional non-executive directors: Identified the need to recruit a group Allocation of time Human Resources Director: 1 Succession planning 20% Recommended to the Board the re-appointment of Stuart Sinclair 2 Leadership 30% as a member of the remuneration 3 Recruitment 40% committee in addition to his role as senior independent director and his 4 Performance and effectiveness 10% existing role as chairman of the risk advisory committee: 4 1 Noted the process for the performance and effectiveness review of the nomination committee: Reviewed an update on the group 3 2 succession planning exercise: and Reviewed the group Diversity Policy.
92 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Governance toensure that our executive pipeline exceeds Board composition 33% by 2020.
This has included investing in atalent development programme to support The Board Overall senior management succession planning by improving our 1 diversity performance and strengthening the 1 Male 78% 1 Male 71% pipeline for senior management leadership 2 Female 22% 2 Female 29% roles.
This will, in the first instance, enable us to improve the gender diversity of the divisional Boards.
2 2 In support of our policy on equality, diversity and inclusion, we will continue to operate in accordance with the following principles and initiatives: 1 1 We will consider candidates for appointment as non-executive 1 Male composition of the Board increased to 87.5% and the female composition decreased to 12.5% as a result directors from a wider pool, including ofthedeath of Manjit Wolstenholme.
those with little or no listed company Board experience: management positions should be based Diversity We will only engage executive search firms on merit.
The Board nevertheless remains who have signed up to the Voluntary Code committed to strengthening the pipeline of Our approach to diversity at all levels in the of Conduct for Executive Search Firms senior female executives and is satisfied that group is set out in our corporate policy on which promotes gender diversity and best there are no barriers to women succeeding equality, diversity and inclusion.
The group practice for corporate Board searches: at the highest levels within the group.
believes that diversity amongst directors For more information about the Boards We will ensure the Board evaluation helps contribute towards a high performing composition, see page 72. process includes an assessment of the and effective Board.
The Board, through the Boards diversity including gender: and nomination committee, strives to recruit The nomination committee and the group as directors from different backgrounds, a whole is committed to increasing diversity Where possible, each time a member of with diverse experience, perspectives, across all group operations and supporting asenior management team or a director personalities, skills and knowledge.
In the the development and promotion of talented is recruited, at least one of the shortlisted case of non-executive directors, the individuals, regardless of gender, nationality candidates will be female.
selection process is designed to ensure or ethnic background.
We continue to there is independence of mind given the support the voluntary Lord Davies Women The nomination committee will review the specific responsibilities of the non-executive on Boards target of having 33% female corporate policy on equality, diversity and directors on the Board.
The nomination representation on the Board by 2020. inclusion and any action plans that support committee, however, continues to believe We also support the Hampton-Alexander this policy at least once a year.
that appointments to the Board and to senior Review and are committed to taking action Directors Board tenure as at 28 February 2018 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Totals Rob Anderson 9 years Andrea Blance 11 months Peter Crook 11 years 5 months Andrew Fisher 11 years 9 months Alison Halsey 3 years 5 months 3 years 9 months Malcolm Le May 2 months 1 month 1 year 1 month David Sear 5 years 5 months Stuart Sinclair 2 months 1 months John Straw 1 year 2 months 6 years 4 months Manjit Wolstensholme 3 years 8 months 3 months Manjit Wolstensholme: Non-executive Chairman Non-executive director Interim Executive Chairman Malcolm Le May: Chief Executive Ocer Interim Executive Chairman Senior Independent Director Stuart Sinclair: Interim non-executive Chairman Senior Independent Director Non-executive director 93 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Governance Nomination committee continued Succession planning 2017 Key achievements: Succession planning and personal The appointment of Malcolm Le May as Interim Executive Chairman, in addition development for the executive directors to the recommendation to the Board of his appointment as chairman of the and senior management teams across the nomination committee: group are kept under regular review by the committee.
Secured and appointed Rick Hunkin for the role of interim group CRO: Below Board level, succession planning Reviewed the group senior management succession plan and talent review updates, within the Divisions safeguards the pipeline which were used in assessing internal candidates for the position of CEO: of talented individuals within the group Recommended to the Board the appointment of Stuart Sinclair as Senior Independent who are capable and have the potential Director in addition to becoming a member of the remuneration committee: and to succeed the executive directors and other members of the senior management Recommended to the Board the appointment of Andrea Blance as chairman of the team in the short, medium and long term.
The committee also monitors candidates externally to ensure that the Board is continuously refreshed and strengthened Independence and in any areas of perceived weakness.
reappointment to the Board The committee intends to support the groups diversity policy within its succession planning activities by continuing to ensure The composition of our Board is reviewed that the level of female representation within annually by the nomination committee to the senior management teams across the ensure that there is an effective balance of group is maintained and, where possible, skills, experience and knowledge.
improved during the course of 2018 whilst Having undertaken a review of the skills, ensuring that the right level of knowledge, experience and knowledge of the Board, the skills and experience is maintained.
nomination committee considered that the The nomination committee will continue performance of each director proposed for its work of ensuring there are appropriate re-election was effective and demonstrated succession plans in place across the group a strong commitment to their role.
The and a suitable mix of skills and experience nomination committee was satisfied that amongst both the executive and noneach of Stuart Sinclair, Andrea Blance, executive directors.
The committee keeps Rob Anderson and John Straw remained under review a detailed succession plan independent for the purposes of the criteria for the executive directors, the Chairman set out in the Code.
and the most senior management within All six members of the Board will be seeking the Divisions.
reappointment by the shareholders at the In 2017, the committee enlisted the services 2018 AGM.
of the Human Resources Director of Vanquis Bank, to help assist in the further Chief Executive Officer development of the pipeline of high calibre recruitment talent.
A succession planning review of the group was subsequently conducted, As a result of the resignation of the groups with the exception of the CCD which was CEO in August 2017, the group engaged postponed due to the ongoing impacts of the Zygos Partners to facilitate an exhaustive implementation of the new target operating recruitment process which identified both model within Home Credit.
The resulting potential internal and external candidates for succession planning report was presented to the role.
The recruitment process concluded the nomination committee for discussion in with Malcolm Le May being appointed as CEO December 2017.
The report focused on the on 2 February 2018.
Zygos Partners had no following objectives: other connection with the group.
The recruitment process is underway for a new Chairman and two new non-executive directors.
94 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Governance To provide an overview of the leadership Priorities for 2018 strengths and areas of development amongst the senior population: The evaluation of the participants against a new leadership expectations criteria The appointment of a Chairman.
tobuild a consistent culture and behaviour, designed to enable consistent evaluation and development across the group: The appointment of a permanent group Chief Risk Officer.
To engage senior leaders in a co-ordinated evaluation and development across the group: The recruitment process of two new non-executive directors.
To benchmark potential external talent forkey group succession roles: and To develop a talent pipeline that will The appointment of a group Human Resources Director.
enhance the groups diversity and talent plan.
The outcomes of the report identified that Continue to focus on clear succession planning the leadership at group level required  needs of key roles, enhancement, and it was agreed that the full particularlyatgroup level.
report would be considered further once all the succession planning sessions had been concluded in early 2018.
Conduct a formal refresh of the Board Effectiveness and skills reviews.
The committee has also been kept informed of the other proposed senior management promotions during 2017 which have been made to help broaden and strengthen the Continue to work towards having a better mix of diversity and skills divisional senior management teams.
byachieving the target of 33% female representation on the Board The committee continues to ensure that  and its direct reports.
adequate succession planning is in place for the executive directors and senior management teams across the group.
company and to retain the fees from that Policy on Board appointments Succession planning will remain a key appointment provided that the Board ongoing focus of the committee in 2018 considers that this will not adversely affect The Boards policy on other directorships is and beyond.
their executive responsibilities to the designed to ensure that all directors remain company: and able to discharge their responsibilities to In the case of the non-executive directors, the company.
The Board would not permit an executive the committee has agreed that additional director to take on the chairmanship of a skills are required on the Board and that to The letters of appointment of the nonFTSE 100 company.
ensure that the Board composition retains executive directors state that any proposed an appropriately balanced range of skills, appointment to the board of another Any request for an exception to this policy is experience and technical ability, 2018 will company will require the prior approval of considered on its merits and determined by see the committee oversee the recruitment the Board.
The companys policy is that a the Board.
process of at least an additional two nonnon-executive director should have sufficient executive directors with experience in the time to fulfil his her duties to the company, Effectiveness sub-prime consumer credit sector to assist in including, where appropriate, chairing achieving the groups objectives and strategy a committee.
At its meeting held on 23 January 2018, the in an ever changing regulatory environment.
Board formally considered the effectiveness The Board will consider all requests for of the nomination committee in 2017. permission to accept other directorships Each director was able to comment and carefully, subject to the following principles: rate various aspects of the committees A non-executive director would not be role by responding to a series of questions expected to hold more than four other relating to the performance of the committee material non-executive directorships: contained in the questionnaire.
On the basis of the evaluation which was undertaken, If a non-executive director holds an the overall view was that the committee was executive role in a FTSE 350 company, working effectively.
they would not be expected to hold more than two other material nonexecutive directorships: Stuart Sinclair In line with the Code, an executive Interim non-executive Chairman director will be permitted to hold one 27 February 2018 non-executive directorship in a FTSE 100 95
