92 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 I Corporate Governance Report B Bo oa ar rd R d Ri is sk C k Co om mm mi it tt te ee R e Re ep po or rt t Membership and meetings Meetings attended held in 1 Independent 2017 Committee Chair Geeta Gopalan from January 2018 Yes 5 5 2 Colin Keogh to January 2018 Yes 5 5 Committee members The Committee continues to focus on strong risk management culture as a fundamental part of Norman McLuskie Yes 5 5 achieving our strategic objectives.
3 Eva Eisenschimmel Yes 5 5 4 Geeta Gopalan Darren Pope Yes 3 3 Chair, Board Risk Committee 5 Marilyn Spearing Yes 2 2 1 Number of meetings held during the period the member held office.
2 Colin Keogh remains a Committee member following handover of the Chair to Geeta Gopalan.
3 Eva Eisenschimmel joined the Committee on 25 January 2017.
4 Darren Pope joined the Committee on 1 March 2017.
5 Marilyn Spearing retired from the Committee on 3 May 2017, on her retirement from the Board.
Chairs overview Having last month succeeded Colin Keogh as Chair of the Committee, I would like to take this opportunity to thank Colin for his strong leadership and judgement and I look forward to his continuing contribution as a Committee member.
During 2017, the Board Risk Committee assisted the Board in consideration of all aspects of risk management across the Group, balancing its agenda between existing and emerging risks.
The Committee has exercised close oversight of the Groups asset quality and retail credit risk performance, including detailed discussion on credit card quality and performance with respect to customer behaviour and margins.
Whilst the UK economy and housing market remained resilient in 2017, the Committee introduced enhanced monitoring of the macro-economic environment and customer behaviour, to ensure early identification of any emerging risks in these areas.
Through the strategic planning round, the Committee supported the work of the Board in re-assessing the Groups risk appetite, capital and liquidity adequacy and associated stress and scenario testing.
This included oversight of the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP and the Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process ILAAP.
This also included a review of wholesale funding maturity transformation and refinancing risk.
The Committee has monitored the Groups risk management and governance framework continuing to build on the good progress reported last year around managing risks relating to IT systems, cyber security and financial crime.
The Committee has also maintained its emphasis on conduct risk, including the monitoring of outsourcing arrangements and oversight of key strategic programmes, with enhanced reporting on customer outcomes.
Focus has also been on maintaining the Groups risk culture and values throughout the Group, including reviewing and supporting key policy changes and oversight of the risk adjustment elements of Executive incentive schemes.
Finally, the Group continues to operate in a regulatory environment which is subject to considerable change and another key area of activity for the Committee has been the monitoring of ongoing developments including the Financial Services Banking Reform Act ring-fencing, Open Banking, the Second Payment Services Directive PSD2 and General Data Protection Regulation GDPR.
Geeta Gopalan Chair, Board Risk Committee 26 February 2018 Governance Strategic Report Financial Results Risk Management Report Financial Statements Other Information Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 93 I services and risk management, with particular expertise in Committee purpose and responsibilities operational resilience, IT systems, payments, digital and cyber.
The purpose of the Committee is to monitor and review the Groups compliance with the Board approved risk appetite In addition to relevant members of the Executive, the Internal and risk management framework, and to ensure that the risk Audit Director attends the meetings, by invitation, so that culture is embedded throughout the Group.
attendees from all three lines of defence are represented.
The external auditors also attend meetings as appropriate This includes carrying out the annual review of risk appetite and by invitation.
During the year, the Committee held alongside the strategic plan to reflect the Groups latest private sessions with the Chief Risk Officer without other commercial, economic and regulatory views, and considering Executives present.
the statements and risk appetite metrics under each category of identified risk.
The Committee has oversight of balance Significant risks considered by the sheet risks, including the adequacy of liquidity and capital.
Committee The Committee monitors the Groups risk management Further details of the Groups principal risks can be found in framework, including policies and methodologies, overseeing the Risk Overview on pages 36 to 39. proposed changes and any actions arising from material How the Committee spent its time in 2017 breaches.
Details of the Groups approach to risk management Over the course of the year, the Committee considered a wide can be found on pages 126 to 188. range of risks facing the Group, both existing and emerging, The Committee reports to the Board on its activities and across all key areas of risk management.
As part of the review, makes recommendations, all of which have been accepted certain risks were identified which required further detailed during the year.
Full details of the Committees responsibilities consideration.
A summary of these matters is set out below are set out in the Committee terms of reference which were and includes the key considerations and conclusions of updated during the year in accordance with best practice the Committee.
and can be found on the website at virginmoney.
com virgin In respect of the Groups approach to risk management, the investor-relations.
Committee also reviewed the capability, resources, remit The Committee is pleased to report that, during the year, and authority levels of the risk function.
The Committee the Committee met its objectives and carried out its concluded that the risk function was adequately resourced responsibilities effectively, as confirmed by the annual and continued to be sufficiently independent with appropriate effectiveness review.
More details on the Committee authority and standing within the Group.
evaluation can be found on pages 78 to 79.
Retail credit risk Committee composition, skills and The Committee monitored retail credit risk performance against the Groups risk appetite metrics and policies.
The experience Committee introduced external early warning and key The Committee now comprises five Independent Nonperformance indicators in response to the changing macroExecutive Directors who have a wealth of risk management economic outlook and increasing consumer indebtedness in experience across various industries including strong the UK market as a whole.
The Committee also considered the representation in retail banking and financial services.
The risk of adverse change in customer behaviour and its potential Committee Chair is also a member of the Audit Committee.
resultant impact on impairment losses.
Whilst the Group is Eva Eisenschimmel and Darren Pope became members of the not exposed to the unsecured personal loan or motor finance Committee on 25 January 2017 and 1 March 2017 respectively.
market, the Committee monitored the quality of the Groups Marilyn Spearing retired from the Committee on 3 May 2017, credit card lending which has remained strong.
In response following her retirement from the Board.
to the changing macroeconomic outlook, the Committee As part of the medium term succession plan, and following oversaw further tightening of lending criteria in the first half an orderly transition, Geeta Gopalan took over as the Chair of 2017.
This will remain an area of focus in 2018. in January 2018.
Colin Keogh, who is in his eighth year as a Non-Executive Director, remains a member of the Committee.
Geeta has been a member of the Committee since June 2015 and has a strong background and experience in financial 94 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 I Corporate Governance Report Board Risk Committee Report Market risk Funding and liquidity risk The Committee monitored and reviewed monthly interest The Group Treasurer provided regular updates on balance rate risk positions against risk appetite metrics and policies.
The Committee challenged the current Additional scenario planning and stress testing was also and forecast funding and liquidity positions, and considered undertaken to inform the Groups strategic planning and reports on funding sources including retail deposits, TFS, assist in the management of capital at risk driven by base RMBS and the establishment of a Covered Bonds programme rate changes.
to ensure a prudent mix is maintained within risk appetite and policy limits.
This included a particular focus on maturity Operational risk transformation and refinancing risk of maturing funding Regular updates across all aspects of operational risk were schemes, and review of the funding plans carefully structured considered by the Committee, including financial crime, to avoid undue refinancing risk.
incident management, outsourcing management and security infrastructure.
The Committee continued to oversee the Capital delivery of the Group information security programme with The Committee considered the quality of the capital base a particular focus on cyber resilience strategy to mitigate and the projected capital resources to ensure that the Group the threat of cyber-attack.
In particular, the Committee was complies with current regulatory capital requirements, is pleased to note the progress made in the year to improve within the risk appetite set by the Board and is well positioned financial crime capability.
The Committee reviewed and challenged managements development of scenario planning Conduct risk and compliance and stress testing as part of its assessment of the regulatory The Committee considered reports on the proactive capital requirements and preparation of the ICAAP and identification and resolution of conduct related activity.
In Recovery and Resolution Plan RRP.
Further details on stress addition, the Committee considered developments in the testing can be found within the Risk Management Report on Groups conduct culture and reports on complaints and page 129.
The Committee concluded that the Groups capital product governance.
The Committee also monitored risks remained well above minimum regulatory requirements and inherent in major outsource arrangements and received within the risk appetite set by the Board.
regular updates on their performance and resilience.
Where deficiencies in operation and or performance were identified, Emerging risks the Committee increased the focus to ensure resolution Emerging risks are those which have the potential to increase was prioritised.
Compliance matters were also monitored, in significance and affect the performance of the Group.
including the oversight of the FCAs Client Asset Sourcebook Further details can be found in the Risk Management Report CASS regulatory attestation exercises and CASS remediation on pages 130 to 131. in the investment business.
The Committee oversaw the Groups contingency planning Strategic and financial risk designed to respond to and mitigate the impact of adverse The Committee undertook a review of the risks inherent in macro-economic conditions.
the strategic plan and provided input and support on their Risks arising from the implementation of Financial Services mitigation and management.
The quality of lending and credit Banking Reform Act 2013 which will require the ring-fencing concentration risk is reviewed regularly against risk appetite of retail banking operations have also been considered, metrics and challenged by the Committee.
The quality of ensuring forward planning is undertaken to address any new lending, the credit performance of the portfolio and risk anticipated risks in implementation and compliance.
adjusted returns were reviewed by the Committee resulting The Committee concluded that it was satisfied with the in it recommending changes to Group policy or risk appetite implementation to ensure compliance by January 2019. to manage exposures and balance risk reward in these areas.
Minimum Requirement for Own Funds and Eligible Liabilities The Committee also introduced additional monitoring of the MREL will be phased in by January 2022.
The Committee performance against the assumed behaviours of the credit monitored the Groups approach and the guidance was card portfolio as that book matures.
fully reflected in the strategic planning process with the Committees input.
