Strategic report DIRECTORS REPORT Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information Corporate governance Board and committee structure Audit Committee Read more Oversight and review of financial, audit, internal financial on page 63 control and nonfinancial crime issues.
Standard Chartered PLC Board Risk Committee Read more Oversight and review of principal risks including credit, market, The Board is collectively responsible for on page 69 capital and liquidity, operational, country, reputational, compliance, conduct, the long-term success of the Group and information and cyber security and financial crime risks.
for ensuring leadership within a framework of effective controls.
The Board sets the Brand, Values and Conduct Committee strategic direction of the Group, approves Read more Oversight of the Groups brand, culture, values, conduct, the strategy and takes the appropriate on page 73 government and regulatory relations, sustainability priorities and action to ensure that the Group is suitably processes for managing reputational risk.
resourced to achieve its strategic aspirations.
The Board considers the impact of its decisions and its responsibilities to all of the Groups Governance and Nomination Committee Read more stakeholders, including the Groups Oversight and review of the Board and executive succession, on page 76 employees, shareholders, regulators, overall Board effectiveness and corporate governance issues.
clients, suppliers, the environment and the communities in which it operates.
Read more Board Financial Crime Risk Committee on page 80 Oversight and review of all financial crime compliance matters.
Remuneration Committee Read more on page 83 Oversight and review of remuneration, share plans and other incentives.
Group Chief Executive Management Team Responsible for the management of all aspects of The Management Team comprises the Group Chief Executive and the the Groups businesses, developing the strategy Group Chief Financial Of cer: four regional CEOs: client segment CEOs: in conjunction with the Chairman and the Board, and our global function heads.
It has responsibility for executing and leading its implementation.
Details of the Groups Management Team can be found on pages 50 to 52.
The Governance and Nomination Committee, Matters reserved for the Code compliance in keeping with the provisions of the UK decision of the Board and Corporate Governance Code, is chaired The UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 delegated authorities by the Group Chairman.
the Code and the Hong Kong Corporate The Board discharges some of its Governance Code contained in Appendix 14 All the Board committees are comprised of the Hong Kong Listing Rules HK Code are responsibilities directly and delegates certain of independent non-executive directors the standards against which we measured other responsibilities to its committees to and play an important role in supporting ourselves in 2017. assist it in carrying out its function of ensuring the Board.
In addition to comprising four independent oversight and stewardship.
The directors are pleased to con rm that independent non-executive directors, the Standard Chartered PLC the Company The Board also delegates authority for the Board Financial Crime Risk Committees complied with all of the provisions set out in the operational management of the Groups membership includes three independent Code and the HK Code for the year under review.
business to the Group Chief Executive for external advisor members.
In 2017 Sir Iain further delegation by him in respect of Throughout this corporate governance report Lobban was appointed to act as an matters that are necessary for the effective we have provided an insight of how corporate independent advisor to the Board and its governance operates within the Group and our day-to-day running and management of the committees on cyber security and cyber application of the principles set out in the Code business.
The Board holds the Group Chief threat management.
Executive accountable in discharging his delegated responsibilities.
The Group con rms that it has adopted a code The full schedule of matters reserved for the of conduct regarding directors securities Board, along with written terms of reference A clear schedule of matters reserved for for the Boards committees can be viewed at transactions on terms no less exacting than the Board and terms of reference for each sc.
com termsofreference required by Appendix 10 of the Hong Kong of its committees are reviewed annually Listing Rules.
Having made speci c enquiry of all against industry best practice and corporate directors, the Group con rms that all directors have complied with the required standards of governance provisions and guidance, the adopted code of conduct.
including the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA Supervisory Statement on Board Copies of the Code and the Hong Kong Responsibilities.
Corporate Governance Code can be found at frc.
hk respectively 53 DIRECTORS REPORT Corporate governance Board composition, roles and attendance in 2017 Attendance AGM Scheduled Ad hoc Responsibilities Chairman 8 8 1 1 Responsible for leading the Board, the development of J Vials the Groups culture and ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role.
Promotes high standards of integrity and governance across the Group and ensures effective communication between the Board, management, shareholders and wider stakeholders.
Deputy Chairman 8 8 1 1 Provides support and guidance to the Chairman as N Kheraj required and, in coordination with the Chairman, acts as an ambassador for the Board and Group in its relationships with governments, regulators, employees, and clients.
Deputises for the Chairman at Board, general shareholder, or other meetings when the Chairman is unable to attend.
Executive directors Group Chief Executive 8 8 1 1 Responsible for the management of all aspects of the W T Winters Groups businesses, developing the strategy in conjunction with the Chairman and the Board and leading its implementation.
Group Chief Financial Of cer 8 8 1 1 Responsible for Finance, Corporate Treasury, Group A N Halford Corporate Development, Group Investor Relations, Property and Supply Chain Management functions.
Independent non-executive directors C M Hodgson 8 8 1 1 Senior Independent Director : Provides a sounding board for the Chairman and discusses concerns that are unable to be resolved through the normal channels or where such contact would be inappropriate with shareholders and other stakeholders.
Chairs the Governance and Nomination Committee when considering succession of the Chairman.
Provide an independent perspective and constructive O P Bhatt 8 8 1 1 challenge, and monitor the performance and delivery of Dr L Cheung 8 8 1 1 the strategy within the risk appetite and controls set by the Board.
D P Conner 8 8 1 1 Dr B E Grote 8 8 1 1 Dr Han Seung-soo, KBE 8 8 1 1 G Huey Evans, OBE 8 8 1 1 Dr N Okonjo-Iweala appointed 1 November 2017 N A 2 2 1 1 J M Whitbread 8 8 1 1 Directors who stepped down during 2017 Dr K M Campbell stepped down 26 July 2017 4 4 N A As Senior Independent Director, Christine Hodgson is available to shareholders if they have concerns that cannot be resolved through the normal channels or where such contact would be inappropriate.
She may be contacted via the Group Company Secretary at 1 Basinghall Avenue, London EC2V 5DD.
In 2017, the Group held one general meeting, our Annual General Meeting, on 3 May 2017, which was attended by all of the directors.
All directors were proposed for annual re election and all were successfully re elected.
The roles of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive are quite distinct from one another and are clearly fide ned in detailed role descriptions which can be viewed at sc.
com roledescriptions Standard Chartered 54 Annual Report 2017 Strategic report DIRECTORS REPORT Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information Management Team and or external advisors.
The Group Chief Executive and Group Board meetings Generally, members of the Management Chief Financial Of cer comment on current Team and other senior executives are invited trading, business performance, the market, To enable the Board to use its time most to attend part of the meetings to ensure employees and regulatory and external effectively, it maintains a scheduled effective interaction with the Board.
During developments at each meeting, and present programme of meetings and a rolling agenda.
the year, the Chairman met privately with comparative data and client insight.
In There is suf cient exibility in the programme the Senior Independent Director and the addition, the Group Chief Risk Of cer for speci c items to be added to any independent non-executive directors on a periodically attends meetings to update particular agenda to ensure that the Board number of occasions to assess their views the Board on the key risks.
can focus on the key matters at the and discuss matters arising.
The Board also schedules a Detail of the key activities considered by the Board in 2017 is set out on page 56.
Some of these items number of informal sessions and interactions, Performance against delivery of the agreed were considered at each meeting and others which allows Board members to discuss key financial priorities is reviewed at every reviewed periodically throughout the year areas of the business, strategy and the meeting with particular reference to the external environment with members of the detailed Group management accounts.
To the extent applicable, information required by paragraphs 13 2 c, d, f, h and i of Schedule 7 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 is available in Other disclosures on pages 107 to 114 In 2017, the Board held eight scheduled and one ad hoc meeting, including four meetings held outside the UK in Hong Kong, New York, Singapore and Dubai.
HONG NEW KONG YORK SINGAPORE DUBAI 2017 January February March April May June July August September October November December Ad hoc meeting AGM Board activities in 2017 The key activities considered by the Board during 2017 are set out on page 56.
The Board recognises the value of maintaining close relationships with its stakeholders and the importance of these relationships in delivering the strategy and the Groups purpose.
The Groups key stakeholders and their differing perspectives were identi ed and taken into account as part of the Boards strategy and five-year corporate plan discussions in November.
These discussions centred not only on delivering increased value for shareholders but also assessed the impact on the Groups wider stakeholders.
Details of the Groups key wider stakeholders and the value of the strategy for them is set out below.
Delivering value for shareholders and wider stakeholders Our regulators perspective Robust capital base strong liquidity position Standards for conduct Our shareholders perspective Strong performance Increased income, pro t and return on investment Driving commerce Our employees perspective & prosperity through Fair and competitive remuneration our unique diversity Engaged and diverse workforce Our communities perspective and the environment Positive social and economic contributions Strong community outreach and sustainability programme Our clients perspective Differentiated products, preferred bank Digitally enabled and positive experience 55 DIRECTORS REPORT Corporate governance Board activities in 2017 Group strategy Noted the Groups submission to the Received an update on the impact of the Banking Standards Boards 2017 Senior Managers Regime on the Group Reviewed and approved the five-year Assessment and the implementation of its requirements corporate plan, as a basis for preparation of the 2018 budget Received an update on progress in Approved changes to the Board Diversity executing an integrated talent and Policy Discussed progress of the costs and succession management plan across investment initiatives and programmes Received Board committee updates on the Group key areas of focus Reviewed and scrutinised the strategic and Reviewed the Groups People Strategy operational performance of the business and its key priorities External environment across client segments, product groups Received internal and external brie ngs and regions, which included details of their Discussed the results of the My Voice and input across a range of topics, priorities, progress and opportunities employee engagement survey, the including: Groups talent pool and leadership Monitored and assessed the strength of development programmes the macroeconomic and financial the Groups capital and liquidity positions environment in the UK Endorsed the refresh of the Groups Code Received regular corporate development of Conduct Chinas economic outlook and political updates reform landscape Received an annual report on the Groups Reviewed the Groups corporate structure Speaking Up Programme US economic and political issues and Monitored the delivery of the IT and overview of US and global markets Operations strategy for the Group Budget and performance oversight UAE economic and political themes Approved the Groups 2018 budget Risk management Discussed the opportunities to capitalise Monitored the Groups financial Received regular risk reports from the on Chinas Belt and Road initiative performance Group Chief Risk Of cer Considered the evolving macroeconomic Noted that management had made Reviewed and approved changes to the headwinds and tailwinds and the impact presentations to the Bank of England in Groups Risk Appetite so as to align to the on financial performance respect of the 2017 stress test submission Principal Risk Types as recommended by Considered the competitive and market the Board Risk Committee Approved the full year and half year results position across the Groups footprint and considered the key internal and Approved the Enterprise Risk Management external factors in determining payment Framework as recommended by the Shareholder and stakeholder of a final and interim dividend Board Risk Committee relationships Engaged with investors, held meetings Considered the identi ed cyber risks Governance with brokers, discussed the views of and discussed the Groups approach to Approved the appointment of Ngozi institutional shareholders and responded cyber risk management and the Boards Okonjo-Iweala as an independent to retail shareholders questions at the responsibilities in a cyber crisis.
This non-executive director included speci c input and guidance on Annual General Meeting Reviewed and approved the Groups cyber threats facing the banking industry Some Board members as part of their Modern Slavery Statement and received from the Boards independent external overseas travel participated in community assurance in respect to the appropriate advisor on cyber security and cyber threat engagement activities and projects controls management Engaged with the PRA on the findings Approved the separation of the Deputy Approved a signi cant new accounting of the 2017 Periodic Summary Meeting Chairman and Senior Independent policy, IFRS 9 on recommendation of the Letter Director roles and the subsequent Audit Committee appointment of Christine Hodgson as Engaged with the Financial Conduct Reviewed the Groups levels of insurance Senior Independent Director Authority FCA on the findings and cover, noted the renewal process and assessment of the Group following Considered the Groups contingency plans approved the renewal of the Groups the completion of the 2016 Firm around the UK withdrawal from the EU and insurance policies Evaluation Letter approved the establishment of a subsidiary People, culture and values based in Germany Engaged with key clients and regulators Discussed progress on a review and Monetary Authority of Singapore and Reviewed the process undertaken by the refresh of the Groups brand and Hong Hong Monetary Authority as part Audit Committee to tender the Groups culture, including a focus on the new of the Board overseas visits statutory auditor and on recommendation purpose statement of the Committee, approved the Discussed periodic updates from Investor appointment of EY to take effect for the Reviewed and approved the refreshed Relations which included receiving updates year ending 31 December 2020 Group valued behaviours to support the on the share price, performance metrics Groups new purpose and investor and analyst sentiment Noted progress against the 2016 17 Board effectiveness action plan and Noted regulatory developments, discussed the observations and themes throughout the year including in respect arising from the 2017 Board and to the ongoing investigations conducted Committee effectiveness review and by certain US authorities approved the 2017 18 action plan Standard Chartered 56 Annual Report 2017 Strategic report DIRECTORS REPORT Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information Board and independently throughout our employees, communities, regulators, Visits across our markets markets.
These trips are invaluable as a way shareholders, subsidiary board members The Groups culture of transparency and for the independent non-executive directors and other stakeholder groups throughout openness ensures that independent to gain an on-the-ground understanding our network.
non-executive directors have wide-ranging of the opportunities and risks we face and The external advisor members to the Board access to management and information to validate the Group strategy.
In addition which assists in maintaining high levels of Financial Crime Risk Committee joined the the overseas Board meetings and adjoining engagement and oversight.
The exposure Board on a number of the overseas Board engagement programmes provide a our independent non-executive directors meeting programmes, held in Hong Kong, signi cant opportunity for the Board to meet have to the Group is in part demonstrated New York, Singapore and Dubai.
with the Groups senior management, clients, through the visits that they make both as a Independent non-executive directors, Board Financial Crime Risk Committee external advisor members and Group Chairmans visits to our markets in 2017 Greater China & North Asia Destination Visits Beijing, China 3 Hong Kong 15 Seoul, Korea 4 Shanghai, China 4 Tokyo, Japan 1 Taipei, Taiwan 1 Europe & Greater China Americas & North Asia Africa & Europe & Americas Middle East Destination Visits ASEAN & Bogot, Colombia 1 South Asia Brasilia, Brazil 1 Stanley, Falkland Islands 1 Frankfurt, Germany 1 Saint Helier, Jersey 1 New York, US 15 So Paulo, Brazil 1 Africa & Middle East ASEAN & South Asia Destination Visits Destination Visits Amman, Jordan 1 Jakarta, Indonesia 2 Dubai, UAE 14 Karachi, Pakistan 2 Accra, Ghana 2 Islamabad, Pakistan 1 Manama, Bahrain 1 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 1 Lagos, Nigeria 2 Singapore 14 57 DIRECTORS REPORT Corporate governance Before committing to an additional External directorships and Time commitment appointment, directors con rm the existence other business interests Our independent non-executive directors of any potential or actual con icts: that the commit suf cient time in discharging their Board members hold external directorships role will not breach their limit as set out by the responsibilities.
In general, we estimate that and other outside business interests.
We PRA: and provide the necessary assurance each independent non-executive director recognise the bene ts that greater that the appointment will not adversely spent approximately 35 to 50 days on boardroom exposure provides our directors.
impact their ability to continue to ful l their Board-related duties, and considerably However, we closely monitor the number of role as a director of the Group.
The Boards more for those who chair or are members directorships our directors take on to satisfy executive directors are permitted to hold of multiple committees.
ourselves that any appointment will not only one non-executive directorship.
Of our adversely impact their role at Standard executive directors, Andy Halford is a Chartered and that all of our Board members non-executive director of Marks and Spencer are compliant with the PRA requirements and Group plc, listed on the FTSE 100, and other shareholder advisory groups guidance Bill Winters is a non-executive director on over-boarding.
These requirements of Novartis International AG, listed on impose a limit on the number of directorships SIX Swiss Exchange.
both executive and independent nonexecutive directors are permitted to hold.
Details of the directors external directorships can be found in their biographies on pages 47 to 49.
Director induction All directors receive a full, formal and tailored related procedures and best practice.
Secretary also provides support throughout induction on joining the Board to ensure that Each induction is facilitated through a series the induction process.
The induction they are provided with the knowledge and of in-depth group and one-to-one brie ng programmes are usually completed within material to add value from an early stage.
All sessions in the UK and across our markets.
the first six to nine months of a directors inductions are supplemented with a detailed These sessions include meetings with senior appointment.
The programmes are handbook, which includes information on a management, clients, major shareholders, regularly reviewed and take into account broad range of matters relating to the role of regulators, colleagues and other stakeholders directors feedback to ensure they are being a director on a UK board, as well as as well as involvement in local social continually improved.
detail of applicable legislation, regulation and responsibility activities.
The Group Company DIRECTOR INDUCTION Jos Vials Jos Vials induction began in October 2016, following his appointment to the Board as Chairman designate, with a well-managed two month handover period from outgoing Chairman, Sir John Peace.
Joss formal induction programme, the detail of which was shared in last years report, was extensive and tailored to maximise his knowledge and understanding of multiple subject matters.
It included a combination of face-to-face meetings with, and brie ngs from senior management across the client segments, product groups, regional businesses and functions, as well as numerous meetings with shareholders and other stakeholders.
Jos travelled extensively around our markets during 2017, where he was able to gain an on-the-ground understanding of the market, the business, our colleagues and wider stakeholders.
Jos completed his formal programme of induction in the Jos Vials | Group Chairman summer, and is now highly engaged and focused on his ongoing development.
contribution to the Board remains wellSupport is provided to the directors by the Ongoing development plans informed and up to date.
In addition the Group Company Secretary and the Group Training and development of our directors committee members received speci c Corporate Secretariat team.
Directors also does not end following their induction.
training relevant to the work of their have access to independent professional Ongoing and continual development of our committee, for details of these topics advice at the Groups expense where they directors is crucial to ensure that the Board see the relevant committee pages.
judge it necessary to discharge their remains highly engaged, effective and well responsibilities as directors.
Directors formal ongoing training took the informed.
In addition, mandatory training form of refresher training on their statutory and ongoing engagement plans are a key duties as a director of a UK and Hong Kong element of each directors t and proper listed company, with a particular focus on assessment as required under the Senior identifying and managing con icts of interest: Managers Regime.
During the year, all an update on UK regulatory and governance directors received a combination of responsibilities and obligations.
The table on mandatory training, brie ngs, presentations, page 59 gives further detail on who received guest speakers and papers on a range of additional brie ngs.
subjects to ensure that each directors Standard Chartered 58 Annual Report 2017 Strategic report DIRECTORS REPORT Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information Directors induction and ongoing development in 2017 Chinas US economic Visits to our economic and political Directors markets and Macroeconomic outlook & issues & duties and meetings and financial political and overview of UAE economic Induction regulatory with local environment reform US and global and political 1 2 2 2 2 training updates management in the UK landscape markets themes J Vials W T Winters A N Halford O P Bhatt Dr K M Campbell stepped down 26 July 2017 Dr L Cheung D P Conner Dr B E Grote Dr Han Seung-soo, KBE C M Hodgson G Huey Evans, OBE N Kheraj Dr N Okonjo-Iweala appointed 1 November 2017 J M Whitbread 1.
Applicable to directors who received induction training during 2017 2.
These brie ngs took the form of a combination of presentations, Board dinners and discussions Director attended the session Director did not attend the session but received the update by circulation of papers Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, who joined the Board in progress: the Group global structure: our key DIRECTOR INDUCTION November 2017, has an extensive and thorough markets: current performance: risk management induction plan which was shared with her ahead framework: our colleagues and stakeholders: Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala of her appointment.
Ngozi began her induction our unique history, culture and values: detail on with a day in London ahead of her first Board signi cant legal matters: and detail on the meeting, where she had a number of meetings regulatory and legislative framework in which the Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala | Independent with executive directors, the Group Company Group operates, including the UK and Hong Non-Executive Director Secretary, external Counsel and senior Kong corporate governance regimes and the management from a range of Group functions.
obligations of being a director of a UK and Hong These sessions were focused on providing Kong listed company.
context and understanding of the key agenda Ngozis induction has been designed to ensure items for discussion at the overseas Board she is provided with the necessary context to meeting in early November.
contribute to the work of the Brand, Values and Ngozis induction was tailored to complement her Conduct Committee.
This programme is currently signi cant experience in the areas of geopolitics, underway and it is anticipated that Ngozi will economics, risk and development, whilst also complete her formal induction programme within focusing on those aspects which are new to her, the first six to nine months of her appointment.
including the Groups strategy and execution 59
