Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information strategy: approving major investments, acquisitions and divestments: Leadership the oversight of risk and the setting of the Groups risk appetite: and reviewing the Groups governance framework.
A copy of the matters reserved for the board is available on Rio Tintos website.
The board delegates some of its responsibilities to the board committees, Role of the board and details of how the committees have fullled these responsibilities on behalf of the board are included within this report.
Copies of the Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited have a common board of directors.
committee terms of reference are available on the website.
The board and The directors are collectively responsible for the stewardship and its committees have rolling annual agendas with items for discussion.
long-term success of the Group.
Through the independent oversight of The agendas for board and committee meetings are prepared by the management, they are accountable to shareholders for the performance respective chairs, with the assistance of the Group company secretary.
In performing this duty, the board recognises its wider responsibility to the interests of employees, customers, suppliers and Responsibility for day-to-day management of the business is delegated other stakeholders.
The board must also consider the impacts of the to the chief executive and through him to other members of the Executive Groups operations on communities and the environment, as well as the Committee under a Group delegation of authority framework.
A number desirability of maintaining a reputation for high standards of business of management committees support the chief executive in the conduct.
The principal role of the board is to provide leadership within a performance of his duties.
framework of prudent and effective controls that enables risk to be The structure and role of the board and management committees are set assessed and managed.
In addition, a dedicated sub-committee of the board has been A formal schedule of matters reserved for the board has been established established to consider issues regarding the Groups ongoing by the board.
This covers areas such as: setting the Groups purpose and investigations.
strategic vision: monitoring the performance of delivery of the approved Governance structure Board of directors Audit Nominations Remuneration Sustainability Chairmans Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Reviews the boards Oversees remuneration Oversees processes Monitors decisions Acts on behalf of composition and policy and practices and strategies and processes the board between makes with the aim that these designed to manage designed to ensure scheduled meetings recommendations to reward fairly and Health, Safety, the integrity of and ensures that the board accordingly, responsibly with a Security, Environment financial reporting, the business of the and reviews proposals clear link to corporate and Community and sound systems of board and its for appointments and individual Social Performance internal control and committees is to the Executive performance, having HSSEC risks and risk management.
Monitors regard to legal achieve compliance non-executive and requirements and with HSSEC and aligned with executive succession sound corporate responsibilities and management.
Chief executive Executive Investment Risk Management Ore Reserves Disclosure Closure Steering Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Responsible for the Reviews proposals on Oversees the Oversees the Oversees the process Responsible for delivery of strategy investments, management and identication of inside and controls designed as approved by the acquisitions and mitigation of the standards and control information and its to manage the procedures in the ore board, annual plans disposals.
Authority principal risks that public disclosure, material risks related and commercial to approve capital could materially reserves estimation including processes to rehabilitation, objectives.
Manages decisions within impact the Groups and disclosure process to ensure such closure and legacy the financial and delegated authority business objectives and ensuring that these disclosure is accurate operations.
operational limits, and otherwise and exceed its risk are effective in meeting and timely.
performance of the recommends matters tolerances.
for approval to the board regulatory requirements.
Board committees Management committees 56 56 riotinto.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves and operations Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Additional information Key roles and responsibilities The board currently comprises a non-executive chairman, two executive directors and eight independent non-executive directors.
The board is advised and supported by the Group company secretary.
Their key roles and responsibilities are set out below: Chairman Chief executive Chief financial officer Responsible for leadership and the overall Leads the executive team in the day-to-day Responsible for financial planning, reporting effectiveness of the board.
management of the Group within the and analysis.
authority delegated by the board.
Presents and reports historical and forecast Executes the Group strategy, as approved by financial information.
Promotes a culture of openness and debate.
Sets the target capital structure for the Group Ensures the board receives accurate, clear Develops and proposes Group strategy, and oversees its implementation.
annual plans and commercial objectives to Ensures adherence to a robust capital Ensures effective implementation of the the board.
allocation decision framework, including the boards decisions and strategy.
Advises on executive and senior management Evaluation and Investment Committee Ensures effective communication by the succession planning and development, and processes.
recommends candidates to the board.
Responsible for corporate development Chairs the Nominations Committee and leads Manages the Groups risk profile and ensures activity.
the process for board appointments.
that appropriate internal controls are in place.
Sets and implements Group tax strategy.
Leads the annual performance evaluation Sets an example and communicates the Manages investor relations.
process for the board, its committees and expectations of the board on culture, values individual directors.
and behaviour to the Groups employees.
Senior independent director Non-executive directors Group company secretary Provides a sounding board for the chairman.
Constructively challenge and help develop Advises the board, through the chairman, on proposals on strategy.
Serves as an intermediary for other directors when necessary.
Scrutinise the performance of management Supports the chairman in designing the board and monitor the reporting of performance.
Available to shareholders if they have concerns which they have been unable to Bring independent judgment to the boards Ensures good information flows and that resolve through the normal channels.
deliberations, taking into account the views of members of the board are comfortable with shareholders and other stakeholders.
the amount, quality and timeliness of Liaises with major shareholders to ensure that information they receive.
their views are being considered.
Determine appropriate levels of remuneration of executive directors.
Facilitates directors training and induction.
Leads the process for the appointment of a new chairman.
Uphold high standards of integrity and Develops and supports the annual probity.
performance evaluation process of the board.
Leads the board in evaluating the chairmans performance.
Directors attendance at board and committee meetings during 2017 Annual Chairmans Audit Nominations Remuneration Sustainability general a b a a a a a a Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee meetings Jan du Plessis 9 9 7 7 9 9 16 16 2 2 Jean-Sbastien Jacques 9 9 16 16 2 2 Chris Lynch 9 9 16 16 2 2 c Robert Brown 4 4 2 2 4 4 1 2 Megan Clark 9 9 7 7 9 9 5 5 2 2 d David Constable 8 8 6 6 3 3 2 2 e Ann Godbehere 9 9 6 6 7 7 4 4 1 2 f Simon Henry 6 6 4 4 3 4 2 2 d Sam Laidlaw 8 8 6 6 3 3 2 2 c Anne Lauvergeon 3 4 3 4 2 3 1 2 Michael LEstrange 9 9 7 7 5 5 2 2 Paul Tellier 9 9 6 6 7 7 9 9 2 2 g Simon Thompson 9 9 3 3 7 7 9 9 3 3 2 2 h John Varley 5 5 3 3 5 5 5 5 2 2 a The number of meetings attended maximum number the director could have attended.
b A number of additional ad hoc meetings of the board were held in 2017, including in relation to i the explosion at Rio Tinto Fer et Titane Site in Sorel-Tracy Canada : ii the proposed sale of Coal & Allied Industries Limited to Yancoal Australia: and iii the proposed chairman appointment.
c Stood down from the board on 4 May 2017. d Appointed to the board on 10 February 2017 and appointed to the Sustainability Committee on 1 April 2017. e Appointed to the Remuneration Committee on 26 June 2017.
Ann delegated responsibility at the Rio Tinto Limited AGM to John Varley, as an Audit Committee member, who was available to answer shareholder questions at the meeting.
f Appointed to the board and the Audit Committee on 1 April 2017. g Stood down from the Sustainability Committee and appointed to the Audit Committee on 28 July 2017. h Stood down from the board on 20 June 2017.
com 57 Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Board activity in 2017 Subject Link to strategic objectives Portfolio Approved US$500 million and US$1 billion on-market share buy-back programmes of Rio Tinto plc shares.
Reviewed sale options for Coal & Allied Industries Limited and agreed to recommend the sale to Yancoal Australia Limited to the Groups shareholders for a total consideration of US$2.69 billion.
Upon receipt of those sale proceeds, approved an additional US$2.5 billion to its ongoing share buy-back programmes through a combination of a US$1.9 billion Rio Tinto plc on-market buy-back and an A$750 million Rio Tinto Limited offmarket buy-back tender, bringing the total share buy-backs announced during 2017 to US$4 billion.
Reviewed the terms of a binding offer from Liberty House to acquire the Groups Dunkerque smelter in France for US$500 million, subject to final adjustments and consultation processes.
Approved the purchase of up to US$2.5 billion of outstanding bonds.
Reviewed and confirmed the Groups strategy at the annual two-day strategy workshop with the Executive Committee see pages 8 to 11.
Performance TM Appraised the impact of investment in AutoHaul to date and approved additional funding to complete the project.
Reviewed updates of the Groups major capital projects, including Grasberg and Resolution, as well as the Groups Exploration portfolio.
Regularly reviewed financial, operational and safety performance against KPIs.
Approved the Annual Plan for 2017 and endorsed the Groups five-year business plan for the period 2018 to 2022.
Approved the 2016 full year results and the 2017 half year results announcements.
Approved the 2016 Annual report and Form 20-F. Approved the 2016 final dividend and declared the 2017 interim dividend.
People and partners Reviewed the causes of and learnings from major safety events, including the circumstances around the fatality at the Rio Tinto Kennecott smelter in the US.
Reviewed the roll-out of the critical risk management fatality elimination programme across all Rio Tinto managed sites and reviewed safety performance of non-managed operations.
Approved an updated Group global code of conduct, The way we work, together with an updated purpose and values designed to improve employee engagement and build a high performance culture across the Group.
Further details on The way we work can be found on page 69.
Led by the senior independent director, approved the appointment of Simon Thompson as the new chairman of the Group with effect from 5 March 2018.
Approved the appointment of three new non-executive directors, David Constable, Simon Henry and Sam Laidlaw.
Reviewed the results of the March and October 2017 employee engagement surveys and the actions contemplated by management in response.
Governance Reviewed updates from the Investigations Committee on the ongoing investigations into historical issues in Mozambique and Guinea and agreed actions to be taken.
Reviewed actions taken by the Group in response to the Modern Slavery Act and approved the annual statement.
Reviewed investor feedback after the Groups 2016 full year and 2017 half year results.
Reviewed material cyber security risks for the Group and external factors and threats driving the Groups cyber security strategy.
Discussed the board performance evaluation results and agreed practices and priorities for the board for the coming year.
Considered corporate governance and regulatory developments for the UK, Australia and the US.
Approved updated terms of reference for the board committees.
Reviewed the Groups tax strategy.
Industry and discussed economic and political policy and reform, as well Site visits as foreign and social investment in Singapore.
The board regularly visits sites to update their knowledge of the Groups business and operations, to demonstrate visible leadership, and to have Pilbara region, Australia the opportunity to meet employees and other key stakeholders.
November 2017 The visit to the Groups iron ore operations in the Pilbara region enabled Saguenay, Canada the board to review the operations and strategy of recent significant June 2017 TM investments such as the Silvergrass mine and the AutoHaul rail project.
The board visited a number of sites in the  The board also visited the Operations Centre in Perth, from where region where they received operational and technical briengs, covering automated trucks and trains will be controlled and production across the risks and controls around major accident events, as well as business, region is being optimised in response to customer demand.
The visit also sales and marketing updates.
The board met with community leaders, provided an opportunity to meet the Premier of Western Australia and employees and the Canadian Minister of International Trade, discussing several members of his Cabinet to discuss the Groups long-term trade and commerce in North America and internationally.
commitment to investment in the state and to building closer ties with the local and Indigenous communities.
Singapore Commercial Centre September 2017 The board visited the Groups commercial centre in Singapore to see first-hand how the Group is building marketing and commercial capability across all product groups with the aim of maximising value from mine to market.
The board also met with the Singapore Minister for Trade and 58 58 riotinto.
