ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 METRO BANK PLC RISK OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE REPORT Attendance of the Risk Oversight Committee As at 31 December 2017, the Risk Oversight Committee comprised the following independent Non-Executive Directors: Members Meetings attended 2017 Gene Lockhart Chairman Stuart Bernau Ben Gunn Sir Michael Snyder Attended Unable to attend Gene Lockhart Aileen Gillan Letter from the Chairman Chairman of the Risk Oversight Chief Risk Officer CRO I am pleased to present this report of the Risk Oversight Committee Committee ROC.
The ROC continues to focus on overseeing risk and advising the Board, as appropriate, on the risk arising to the Bank from its continuing business activities and future risk strategy.
2017 has been a busy and successful year for Metro Bank, The Bank continues which has continued to grow in a safe and sustainable manner.
We entered our first full year of profitability, to grow in a safe and continued to surprise and delight our customers and create FANS, which led to growth in low-cost sticky deposits, and sustainable manner increased our lending book at low-risk.
During the year, we acquired a c. 600 million buy-to-let mortgage portfolio, successfully completed a 278 million capital raise in July, prepared for the introduction of IFRS 9 and have been preparing for an advanced internal ratings based AIRB approach to calculating credit risk capital requirements.
Application to adopt the AIRB approach for residential mortgages has now been submitted.
2017 in brief There are many regulatory changes on the horizon, including Policies approved or recommended ring-fenced banking legislation and the Minimum Requirement on Own Funds and Eligible Liabilities MREL.
to the Board The Committee reviews and provides an opinion on the Executive Leadership Teams plans to implement and apply these regulations.
18 During the year, we reviewed a range of policies, documents Oversight of the IFRS 9 Expected and transactions, and discharged other advisory and oversight Credit Loss models responsibilities.
I provide a verbal update to the Board and the ROC minutes are included in the next Board pack.
12 ROC members and other colleagues met the PRA on a number of occasions during the year, including a review Retail mortgage AIRB models ofour treasury and liquidity management, which was reviewed as part of the Banks received positively.
AIRB application The following sections explain the role and activities of the ROC, and how it has discharged these responsibilities, as well as setting out several key areas of activity during 2017.
7 Gene Lockhart Oversight of the ICAAP and Risk Oversight Committee Chairman ILAAP preparation 1 March 2018 59 Financial statements Governance Strategic report ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 METRO BANK PLC RISK OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED The Risk Oversight Committee in brief Operational risk The ROC is a sub-Committee of the Board.
Its specific We receive reports concerning risk and control selfresponsibilities are set out in its Terms of Reference.
assessments, information security, business continuity management and incidents.
While a number of incidents Accountable to the Board, the ROC provides leadership, were raised during 2017, our view is that the management of oversight and direction regarding the Banks risk governance these incidents and the actions taken in response was and management.
We are charged with helping the Board to proportionate and appropriate to the size and scale of the create an appropriate culture across the Bank, which incidents.
We also note that post-incident reviews were held emphasises and demonstrates the benefits of a risk-based for material incidents to capture learnings and ways to prevent approach to risk management and internal controls.
We are or mitigate any potential recurrences.
We continued to focus responsible for reviewing, challenging and recommending to on cyber risk during 2017, in response to the increased the Board the Banks risk appetite, Individual Capital Adequacy prevalence of attempted attacks against financial services Assessment Process ICAAP document, Individual Liquidity firms and others.
Adequacy Assessment ILAAP document and risk policies.
We also provide oversight of the credit risk model Compliance and conduct risk programme.
The ROC oversees risk management procedures In a constantly changing regulatory environment, the ROC is and reviews risk reports on key business areas.
In addition, we updated regularly on developments and regulatory changes advise the Audit Committee on reviews of effectiveness of the that could impact the Bank.
We receive updates on Banks risk controls, and the Nomination and Remuneration compliance and conduct risk in the areas of culture and Committees on risk weightings to be applied to the governance, product governance, customer treatment and remuneration calculations for the Executive Leadership Team.
We are also updated on how the Bank manages expressions of dissatisfaction, and on the ongoing The ROC receives regular Management Information MI compliance assurance work performed by the second line.
andreports concerning the Banks performance against risk appetite and the measures set by it and by the Board.
We Financial crime risk receive regular updates on regulatory developments, and Given the level of risk posed by financial crime to all banks, consider how these will affect plans, processes, systems our report includes management information on matters andcontrols.
including: performance against the Banks financial crime key risk indicators: compliance with customer identification and The Committee reviews and formally notes the minutes of the verification requirements for all new accounts: oversight: and Executive Risk Committee ERC and the Asset and Liability risk assessment and high risk customers.
Our report also Committee ALCO.
covers payments and customer screening, as well as updates on items of note from the Financial Crime Steering Group.
As a key part of the Banks governance framework, the ROCensures that the CRO has unfettered access to it and Treasury itsChairman.
While the primary venue for in-depth discussions on Treasury is ALCO, the Treasurers commentary is tabled at each ROC At each scheduled meeting the ROC considered the following meeting and the Treasurer is invited to attend meetings to standing items: discuss this.
The ROC also reviews Treasury policies and notes the minutes of ALCO.
Our report includes high-level MI on CRO ROC Report liquidity and interest rate risk, while we also receive specific This includes an executive summary from the CRO setting out reports on Treasury risk.
In addition, the Treasurers report items of note and assessing the Banks performance against includes updates on relevant regulatory matters.
its risk appetite and risk metrics.
It also includes specific reports on the following areas: Litigation update We note the report from the Banks Legal team regarding any Credit risk material litigation cases.
Execution of our strategy requires prudent and controlled management of credit risk.
To support this, one of the roles of Deep dives and in-depth reviews the ROC is to oversee credit underwriting and ensure that the We receive in-depth reviews on areas of emerging risk and Bank has effective processes and controls to monitor and regulatory interest throughout the year.
Topics covered during manage credit risk, including where the risk position 2017 included information security, impairment methodology associated with a particular customer or loan has and IFRS 9, and the performance of acquired mortgage deteriorated.
This ensures that lending remains within risk portfolios, including the portfolio acquired in June 2017. appetite and monitors policy exceptions.
60 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 METRO BANK PLC Area Topics Composition of the Risk Oversight Committee All four members held office throughout 2017.
All other Regulatory IFRS 9 Implementation Programme Non-Executive Directors may attend ROC meetings.
The Minimum Requirement on Own Funds CFO, CRO and CEO have standing invitations to attend as and Eligible Liabilities MREL guests, unless the Chairman of the Committee asks them to Ring-Fenced Banking Legislation excuse themselves from a particular meeting or discussion.
Bank of England Base Rate Change and Impacts Plan Other Directors and colleagues attend as guests by invitation of the Chairman to present and report on relevant topics, Money Laundering Reporting Officer withthe Deputy Company Secretary acting as Secretary to MLRO Annual Report the Committee.
AIRB Advanced Internal Ratings Based approach application to calculating credit risk AIRB application The ROCs Terms of Reference are reviewed annually and are Credit Risk Model Framework available on our website.
Credit Risk Model Policy Key areas considered by the Risk Oversight Committee Credit Risk Model Design Principles in2017 Retail Mortgage IRB Models During 2017, we received items of business including thefollowing: Treasury Risk Committee Terms of Reference Governance reviewed and recommended to Board for Area Topics Project approval Policy Policies approved by ROC: ALCO Terms of Reference for noting Commercial Lending Policy Review and approval of Treasury Dealing Arrears Management Policy Policy Residential Mortgage Lending Policy 2018 Investment Strategy for noting Sanctions Policy ILAAP document incorporating Treasury Capital and Data Policy Liquidity Policy and Contingency Funding Plan Business Continuity Policy ICAAP document including Interest Rate Impairment Policy Risk in the Banking book Market Risk Policy Retail Unsecured Finance Policy Deep dives Deep dive on cyber crime and information Private Banking Policy security Diversity and Inclusion Policy Deep dive on impairment methodology Health and Safety Policy Policies reviewed and recommended to the Board: Credit Risk Policy Responsible Lending Policy Compliance Policy Anti-Money Laundering Counter Terrorism Financing Policy Treating Customers Fairly Policy Liquidity Policy 61 Financial statements Governance Strategic report
