STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Finally, in considering going concern and the longer-term viability Accountability statement on behalf of the board, the Committee considered the impact on the Groups financial position of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the business.
These risks include uncontrollable external macroeconomic drivers and also potentially catastrophic operational events and includes consideration of the secondary and tertiary impacts of those risks.
Audit Committee report The Committee critically assessed the projections of future cash flows Dear shareholders, under different scenarios and compared these with cash balances and committed facilities available to the Group.
The Committee satisfied itself The Audit Committee fulfils an important oversight role on behalf of the that it was appropriate to recommend to the board the adoption by the Rio Tinto board, monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial reporting Group of the going concern basis of preparation for the 2017 financial and the effectiveness of both the Groups systems of internal control and statements.
The Committee also reviewed managements projections following In addition to fulfilling its normal full programme of work, this year the stress-testing of the Groups medium-term business plan in a range of Committee has focused on the audit tender, which will be formally severe but plausible scenarios in support of the boards assessment of the longer-term viability of the company.
undertaken between April and June 2018.
The applicable regulations do not permit PwC, the incumbent external auditors, to tender due to the length of their tenure.
A recommendation to the board of a new firm of external auditors is expected in mid-2018, with the expectation that they would take office following PwCs completion of the 31 December 2019 audit.
Ann Godbehere Pre-tender planning and evaluation began in 2017 and we have Audit Committee chairman developed a timetable to enable any non-audit services currently 28 February 2018 provided by the appointed firm to be transitioned to a new service provider in an orderly and considered manner.
Membership We have identified clear selection criteria, defined the roles and responsibilities of management and the Committee, scoped the services The members of the Committee who served throughout the year and to to be tendered and planned for information to be provided to the firms.
the date of this report unless otherwise stated were: We have already interviewed the prospective lead audit engagement partners in the UK and Australia from each of Deloitte, EY and KPMG.
Ann Godbehere chairman Preparations for the remainder of the process are progressing well.
Robert Brown to 4 May 2017 Simon Henry from 1 April 2017 During the course of the year, the company continued to address two Paul Tellier regulatory matters both of which have been previously disclosed and Simon Thompson from 28 July 2017 relate to historical issues, overseen by the board and supported by the John Varley to 20 June 2017 Audit Committee: Simon Thompson will retire from membership of the Committee when he In November 2016, the company announced that it had become aware becomes chairman of the board, on 5 March 2018. of email correspondence from 2011 relating to contractual payments totalling US$10.5 million made to a consultant providing advisory Each member of the Committee was, at all times, independent and free of services on the Simandou project in Guinea.
At the start of the year we any relationship that would affect their impartiality in carrying out their commissioned a major accountancy firm to undertake a control and responsibilities.
The members meet the independence requirements of the Code, the ASX Principles and the NYSE Standards.
The Committee compliance framework review of our global procurement processes.
meets the composition, operation and responsibility requirements of the The Committee has reviewed the findings of this review and, while no ASX Principles.
payment anomalies have come to light, management are implementing appropriate remedial actions to enhance controls: and The Committee is also bound by SEC requirements for audit committees financial experts, the requirements of the UK Disclosure Guidance and In October 2017, it was announced that the UKs Financial Conduct Transparency Rules DTRs in relation to audit committee composition Authority FCA had determined that the company should have and the respective recommendations of the Code and ASX Principles that undertaken an impairment review in relation to the carrying value of at least one committee member should have recent and relevant financial Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique for the 2012 interim results.
The FCA experience and qualifications.
Ann Godbehere, chairman of the determined that, if this had been done, those results would have Committee, and Simon Henry are both considered by the board to have reflected the impairment recorded six months later.
As standard recent and relevant financial experience and competence in accounting, practice, the Committee considers the carrying value of any assets as explained in their biographies on page 53. where there are indications of impairment, and all papers relating to accounting and financial reporting matters are reviewed by the Ann Godbehere has been designated as the Committees financial expert.
external auditors in the drafting process, and include commentary The other members of the Committee are, in the opinion of the board, deemed to be financially literate by virtue of their business experience.
from them as a matter of course.
This matter is also the subject of an The DTRs and Code require that the Committee as a whole has ongoing complaint by the SEC, as described elsewhere in the Strategic competence relevant to the sector in which the company operates.
Henry and Simon Thompson have extensive experience of the natural During the year, the Committee had access to a number of sources of resources sector, while the other members have gained relevant assurance, including in-house resources such as Group Internal Audit, experience of the mining sector by virtue of their experience on the board and on the Committee.
Further sectoral expertise has been obtained by Risk, Ethics & Integrity which are described later in this report and the Committee members as a result of regular site visits and through other support functions, as well as the external auditors.
As an training and development activities provided by the Group.
enhancement in 2017, the in-house resources now report on a functional basis and are combining their work into a value-added Induction for new members integrated assurance report, providing the Committee with an The two new members appointed to the Committee were provided with a overview of the performance of individual assets or product groups full but tailored induction, including meetings with senior executives across the assurance areas.
including the heads of Group Internal Audit, Risk and Ethics & Integrity, as well as the lead audit engagement partner.
com 63 Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Key responsibilities Meetings in 2017 and in the year to date The Committees main objectives are to assist the board in monitoring The Committee met six times in 2017 and attendance at these meetings decisions and processes designed to ensure the integrity of financial is shown in the table on page 57.
There were also two informal meetings reporting and sound systems of internal control and risk management.
in the UK and Australia to meet the prospective lead audit engagement partners from each of the firms invited to tender.
The Committee has met The Committees terms of reference set out its main responsibilities, twice to date in 2018.
The chairman of the board, chief financial officer, available on the website, and it carries out its business following an other senior financial managers and the heads of Group Internal Audit agreed annual cycle of meetings and topics for consideration.
The and Ethics & Integrity regularly attended the Committees meetings.
Committee is responsible for overseeing and reviewing: Other senior executives and subject matter experts attended by invitation the integrity of the financial reporting process and the financial as required.
statements, including recommending to the board the adoption of the going concern basis of preparation and consideration of the boards The external auditors attended all six Committee meetings during the longer-term viability statement, including appropriate stress testing: year.
In advance of the Committee meetings, the auditors review all internal control, including internal control over financial reporting: papers on accounting or tax matters and the audit partners brief the Committee chairman on key matters.
Private discussion sessions were the effectiveness of the risk management framework: held between PwC and the Committee without management present to the Group Internal Audit function: discuss the status of the audit and the nature of interactions with the relationship with the external auditors, with a focus on their management.
independence and objectivity and their effectiveness in performing the statutory audits, plus the procedure for the selection and appointment The Committee meets privately with the heads of Group Internal of the external auditors: and Audit and Ethics & Integrity from time to time without management the integrity and compliance programme including the Groups present and the Committee chairman has regular discussions with them.
Significant issues relating to the financial statements In carrying out its responsibilities, the Committee has full authority to There were four significant issues considered by the Committee in investigate all matters that fall within its terms of reference.
Accordingly, relation to the financial statements: the Committee may: obtain independent professional advice in the satisfaction of its duties at the cost of the Group: and have direct access to the resources of the Group as it may reasonably require, including the internal auditors, and have direct access to the external auditors.
The Committee chairman reports to the board after each meeting on the matters discussed, and the minutes of each meeting of the Committee are circulated to the board.
Significant issues considered by the Committee in relation to the financial statements How the issue was addressed by the Committee Review of carrying values of The Committee assessed managements determination of cash-generating units, review of impairment cash-generating units and triggers and consideration of potential impairment charges and reversals over the course of the year.
For impairment charges cash-generating units dependent upon major capital spend Oyu Tolgoi and those where impairment indicators were identified Argyle Diamond Mine, Rssing Uranium, Roughrider uranium assets and Grasberg, the Committee considered the key judgments made by management in relation to discount rates, forecasted commodity prices and updates to orebody estimates.
The Committee reviewed disclosures related to impairment reviews in note 6 and the impairment charges of US$0.8 billion.
Estimate of provision for The Committee reviewed the significant changes in the estimated provision for closure, restoration and closure, restoration and environmental environmental obligations by product group and legacy management.
At 31 December 2017, the Groups balance sheet included provision for close-down, restoration and environmental obligations of US$10.0 billion obligations as described in note 26.
Policy for items excluded The Committee reviewed the Groups policy for exclusion of certain items from underlying earnings and from underlying earnings confirmed the consistent application of this policy year on year.
The items excluded from underlying earnings comprised income of US$2.1 billion and expenses of US$2.0 billion.
A reconciliation of underlying earnings to net earnings is presented in note 2.
The Groups tax exposures The Committee considered managements assessment of the Groups tax exposures, including the recoverability of deferred tax assets which are uncertain due to the timing of expiry of losses in certain jurisdictions and the appropriateness of provisions for uncertain tax positions.
The Committee considered the accounting treatment of adjustments to deferred tax assets as a result of tax reforms in the US and France, and also reviewed the disclosure of the key uncertainties for the recoverability of deferred tax in Mongolia described in note 17 and reviewed with management the findings from the draft Tax Act received from the Mongolian Tax Authority in January 2018.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Aside from the matters referred to earlier in this report and its normal Use of the external auditors for non-audit services It can occasionally be more efficient or necessary to engage the external recurring workload, the Committee focused on the following key issues in auditors to provide non-audit services because of their knowledge, 2017: experience and or for reasons of confidentiality.
However, safeguarding Considering the control and compliance framework review of the the objectivity and independence of the external auditors is an overriding Groups global procurement processes undertaken by a major priority.
For this reason, the external auditors may not perform any accountancy firm and reviewing the findings and remedial actions with functions of management, undertake any work which it may later need to management: audit or rely upon in the audit or serve in an advocacy role for the Group.
Reviewing the basis for an increase in the closure provision in respect of the Gove alumina refinery and the exclusion of this from 2016 The Committee maintains a clearly defined policy for the pre-approval of underlying earnings: permitted services provided by the Groups external auditors, which Reviewing asset carrying values, cash-generating units, pension includes a financial limit on the total value of the non-audit services that valuations and other material accounting matters: can be provided.
Where a permitted non-audit service is to be provided by Monitoring developments with new and emerging accounting the external auditors and the expected fee exceeds a predetermined standards and regulatory requirements, and planning for their level, that appointment must be subject to the Groups normal tender implementation: procedures.
In exceptional circumstances, the chief financial officer is Monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and risk authorised to engage the external auditors to provide such services management systems: without going to tender, but unless the fees are clearly trivial, the Monitoring legal and tax matters and reviewing associated accounting chairman of the Committee must also give prior approval of the engagement.
provisions: and Reviewing reports from the Ore Reserves Steering Committee and At half-year and year-end, the chief financial officer and the external Closure Steering Committee.
auditors submit to the Committee a schedule of the services that were performed by PwC during the period and the fees payable.
All of the The Committee considered reports from management to assess the engagements for services provided by PwC were either within the quality and effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems.
pre-approval policies or specifically approved by the Committee.
This included the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls over financial reporting and the Groups disclosure controls and procedures in The Committee members and board are satisfied that the provision of accordance with sections 404 and 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002. non-audit services by PwC in accordance with this procedure is The Committee separately received reports from Group Internal Audit compatible with the general standard of independence for auditors and and PwC on the activities undertaken in reviewing and auditing the control the other requirements of the relevant Australian, UK and US regulations.
Fees for audit and non-audit services There was no contact during the year with the FRCs Corporate Reporting The amounts payable to the Groups auditors, PwC, were: Review team.
PwCs external audit of the 2016 financial statements was reviewed by the FRCs Audit Quality Review team and the findings of that 2017 2016 review, including PwCs proposed actions in response, have been shared US$m US$m a with the Committee.
Audit fees 14.3 13.5 In early 2018, the Committee considered, at the request of the board, Non-audit fees: b whether the draft 2017 Annual report and accounts is, taken as a whole, Assurance services 3.3 1.5 fair, balanced and understandable.
After following a robust process, the Taxation services 0.5 0.6 Committee recommended to the board that this was the case.
c All other fees 0.7 1.8 Total non-audit fees 4.5 3.9 Committee effectiveness Non-audit: audit fees in-year 31% 29% The Committee undertook a performance evaluation during the year.
Respondents completed an online questionnaire covering various aspects a Audit fees relating to statutory audits.
of the Committees performance and effectiveness, with the opportunity b Assurance services in 2017 included support in relation to divestments and preliminary to add narrative comments.
The Committee reviewed the quantitative work in support of new accounting standards, in addition to normal annual fees results and the comments received.
There were no specific issues arising associated with half-year review procedures and sustainability assurance.
c All other fees include services in connection with other corporate projects.
Relationship with the external auditors A breakdown of the categories of permitted non-audit services and the fees paid to PwC for such services is shown in note 39.
Engagement of the external auditors  LLP and  together, None of the non-audit engagements or categories of engagement were PwC are respectively the auditors of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
significant on a standalone basis, and the Committee is satisfied that the In the UK, the audit engagement partner, Paul Barkus, was appointed in aggregate effect is not significant relative to the scale of, and fees for, the 2016.
In Australia, a new audit engagement partner, Debbie Smith, has statutory audits.
been appointed for the 2017 audit.
She shadowed the previous audit engagement partner, Paul Bendall, through the 2016 year-end audit process.
The Committee is responsible for overseeing the relationship with PwC.
In this role it considered and approved the fees for the statutory audits of the financial statements and the review of the half-year accounts and also reviewed the engagement letters for the external auditors and approved these for signature.
The Committee has also assessed PwCs independence and objectivity and effectiveness in performing the statutory audit.
In the light of these assessments, the Committee recommended to the board that PwC should be proposed for reappointment, which was accepted and supported by the board.
 LLP have indicated their willingness to continue in office as auditors of Rio Tinto plc and a resolution to reappoint them as auditors of Rio Tinto plc will be proposed at the 2018 AGM.
A separate resolution will seek authority for the Audit Committee to determine the remuneration of PwC.
 will continue in office as auditors of Rio Tinto Limited.
com 65 Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information The Committee reviews the Groups risk management framework, Effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the external auditors typically twice annually, and this was most recently reviewed at the During the year, the Committee reviewed the effectiveness of PwC meeting in February 2018.
The Committee also reviews the Groups risk for the Group audit.
The evaluation, managed by the Groups financial management and internal control systems including the internal controllers, took the form of a survey comprising a range of questions financial controls on a regular basis to ensure that the company has the covering objectivity, quality and efficiency.
This was completed by relevant processes and policies in place and that they operate effectively.
individual Rio Tinto business units, a range of senior executives and The board, on the advice of the Audit Committee, has completed the members of the Committee.
The results of this survey and review were formal annual review of the effectiveness of the Groups risk management assessed by the Committee, which concluded that PwC remained and internal control systems for the period 1 January 2017 to the date of objective and independent and continued to provide an effective audit.
this report, and concluded that executive management has taken or is taking appropriate actions to remedy any failings or weaknesses identified Rio Tinto ensures independence through other means, including detailed through the operation of the framework of controls.
This review included review of all work performed by accounting firms, including those who act consideration of material financial, operational and compliance controls.
as external auditors to Group companies.
A summary is presented annually to the Committee of the fees incurred and nature of work Internal audit performed.
Group Internal Audit is an internal function which provides independent A copy of the declaration given by PwC, as the Groups external auditors, and objective assurance on the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups to the directors in relation to the auditors compliance with the systems for risk management and internal control, together with independence requirements of the Australian Corporations Act 2001 recommendations to improve the effectiveness of the relevant systems and the professional code of conduct for external auditors is set out and processes.
The function has an internal audit methodology, which is on page 211 in the financial statements.
aligned with international auditing standards set by the Institute of Internal Auditors IIA.
No person who was an officer of Rio Tinto during 2017 was a director or partner of PwC at a time when they conducted an audit of the Group.
The function operates independently of management, under a mandate approved by the Audit Committee, and has full access to all functions, Tender process for the external audit records, property and personnel of the Group.
The head of Group Internal PwC have been the external auditors since before the formation of the Audit administratively reports to the chief executive and has direct DLC structure in 1995, and their reappointment has not been subject to a communication lines with the chairs of both the Audit Committee and tender during that time.
In all recent years, the decision to propose their Sustainability Committee and regularly attends their meetings.
reappointment at the AGMs has been the subject of rigorous scrutiny by the Committee, who consider, for recommendation to the board, the A risk-based approach is used to focus assurance activities on higher risk auditors effectiveness, independence and objectivity.
areas and internal audit plans are presented annually to the Audit Committee and Sustainability Committee for approval.
These Committees As highlighted in the Committee chairmans introduction, in line with the are provided with regular updates on the implementation of the plans and relevant regulations the Committee has commenced preparations for an any material findings at their meetings and are able to refine or amend audit tender to enable an orderly transition to new auditors, who are the plans during the year.
The internal audit plan forms part of the larger expected to take office for the 2020 financial year.
This timescale will programme of integrated assurance activities, and the Audit Committee allow the appointed firm to assemble the resources necessary to deliver considers the relationship of these to the Group risk register and the the audit, including a proposed shadowing period to ensure a smooth external audit plan.
handover from PwC, and allows the Group to transfer any non-audit In support of its internal audit function, Rio Tinto utilises the services of services currently provided by that firm to another provider, such that the external service providers.
The function has a policy that addresses new auditors are free from any independence conflicts.
conflicts of interest in relation to engagements of the service provider The process is short, centralised and controlled, and will be led by the that are requested by management.
The policy complies with the IIAs Committee.
The tender will take place between April and June 2018 standards on independence.
Certain services are pre-approved under the and the preparations for this have progressed smoothly to date.
policy as they are not in conflict with the internal auditors role.
There is a The Committee expects to be able to recommend a new external auditor list of prohibited services which may not be undertaken without approval to the board in mid-2018.
of the head of Group Internal Audit, and guidance on the consideration of services which may give rise to a conflict of interest.
The Committee keeps the external audit arrangements under regular The Committee has assessed the effectiveness of the Group Internal review.
The services are being tendered on the basis of a standalone Audit function during the year.
The Committee set the internal audit plan annual external auditor appointment, with an understanding that it is for 2017, ensuring this was aligned with the Groups risks, then refreshed possible that the firm could be reappointed each year for up to 20 years.
this on a quarterly basis during the year.
It is satisfied that the quality, experience and expertise of the function is appropriate for the business The company confirms that it complied with all the provisions of the UK and that Group Internal Audit was objective and performed its role Competition and Markets Authoritys Order for the year under review.
The Committee monitored managements responses to and implementation of internal audit findings and recommendations and Risk management and internal controls believes that these supported the effective working of the function.
A description of the principal risks and uncertainties that could affect Rio Tinto including economic, environmental and social sustainability Ethics, integrity and the whistleblowing programme risks and the Groups governance framework for risk management and The head of Ethics & Integrity attended three Committee meetings during internal control can be found under the Risk management, Principal risks the year.
His reports covered the external legal and regulatory landscape, and uncertainties and Sustainable development headings within the the evolution and status of the compliance programme, completion of the Strategic report on pages 18 to 37. mandatory ethics and integrity training and reviews of the Groups Two of the Groups management committees, the Executive Committee anti-fraud activities and the monitoring of benefits, sponsorship and and the Disclosure Committee, regularly review reports related to the donations.
Importantly, each meeting included a full review of the Groups control framework to satisfy the internal control requirements of Speak-OUT whistleblowing programme.
This was the subject of a soft the Code, the ASX Principles, the NYSE Standards and section 404 of the relaunch under the strapline Talk to Peggy during the year and was Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002.
The Group Internal Audit function performs supported, at the Committees request, by enhanced feedback for reviews of the integrity and effectiveness of control activities and provides reporters.
regular reports to the Audit Committee, Sustainability Committee as well Further information on the Groups ethics and integrity work and the as management committees.
Speak-OUT whistleblowing programme can be found on page 33.
Each year, the leaders of the Groups businesses and functions complete a representation letter confirming that adequate internal controls are in place, are operating effectively and are designed to capture and evaluate failings and weaknesses, if any exist, and that action is taken promptly, as appropriate.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Internal control framework Operational risk Organisational Health, Safety, Lines of Financial risk structures and Operations Environment, Compliance risk defence Resource Services People internal controls and projects Community and Security Oversight Board and its committees Third Internal audit Group Internal Audit Framework The way we work.
operating model, delegation of authorities documents Chief executive Executive Committee Risk Management Committee Ore Reserves Global Management Plan Review Closure Disclosure Steering Benefits committees Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Investment Committee Health, Safety Growth & and Finance Finance Human Finance HQ & Central Exploration Innovation Environment LGR LGR Resources LGR Support LGR Speak-OUT Annual reporting suite certifications Executive committee & managing directors Managing Internal Control Regulatory director & Insurance over Financial energy & Subsidiary entity Competent critical risk Reporting greenhouse boards person assessments Programme gas reporting reporting Second Management Ore Reserves assurance, Local statutory & Mineral Regulatory Annual integrity reporting, accounts Resources HSE reporting certificates monitoring and reporting certifications Mandatory HSEC compliance assurance training Compliance reports and certification HSEC Governance HSEC Risk management Management Acceptable Group system use of Human Rights Treasury Employment information Closure Group policies Reserves Asset Business integrity Group Tax & electronic Inclusion and and standards & resources management Security resources diversity Data privacy Project Technical evaluation Procurement safety Antitrust eg process External safety and communications underground Iron Ore, Aluminium, Copper & Diamonds, Energy & Minerals, Growth & Innovation Line First management Group functions Legal, Governance and Risk 67 Annual report 2017 riotinto.
com 67 Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Governance processes Sustainability Committee report In 2017, the Committee met five times.
Dear shareholders, The chairman of the board: chief executive: Group executive, Health, Safety and Environment: Group executive, Corporate Relations: and other senior management regularly attend the Committees meetings.
The Sustainability Committee oversees, on behalf of the board, the management processes, standards and strategies designed to manage The Committee chairman reports to the board after each meeting on the risks associated with health, safety and asset security, environment, matters discussed, and the minutes of each meeting of the Committee community and social performance HSEC, and to achieve compliance are circulated before the board.
with our HSEC responsibilities and commitments.
This includes risks The Committee has authority and access to resources to investigate all associated with people and asset security including business resilience matters falling within its terms of reference.
excluding cyber-security, land access, closure and legacy management, human rights of communities, employees, contractors and suppliers and Activities in 2017 ensuring that Rio Tinto has no involvement in political party politics, or In 2017 the Committee: payments to political parties or individuals.
Reviewed key risks associated with HSEC, including deeper dives into The Committee ensures Rio Tintos approach is consistent with Rio Tintos the risks and controls associated with material health exposures, purpose and values, that material risks are managed effectively, and that water management, closure of legacy sites, the Groups process safety our activities contribute to local and global sustainable development.
programmes, underground safety, tailings and water storage facilities, The Committee reviews periodic reports from management that identify and the Groups partner-to-operate strategy.
the Groups material business risks within the Committees scope, and Reviewed work programmes formulated for managing HSEC matters the risk management strategies and controls applied to these risks.
and risks, and associated assurance over selected areas within the Committees scope and approved the 2017 Annual HSEC Plan.
Received updates on findings on the fatalities at the Rio Tinto Kennecott operations and also at the Groups non-managed operations.
Lessons learnt and actions taken from the 2016 fatality in the Pilbara were reviewed.
Megan Clark Reviewed the 2016 short-term incentive plan safety outcomes, and Sustainability Committee chairman the 2017 safety targets in relation to fatalities, all injury frequency 28 February 2018 rates and critical risk management.
Reviewed the 2016 Sustainable development online report and the Sustainable development sections of the 2016 Annual report.
Membership Reviewed the additional disclosures made by Rio Tinto in relation to its Members of the Committee who served throughout the year and to the resilience to climate change and the actions being taken to manage date of this report unless otherwise stated were: climate change risk.
Megan Clark chairman Evaluated the Committees performance and agreed actions.
David Constable from 1 April 2017 Sam Laidlaw from 1 April 2017 The Committees additional work during 2017 included visiting the Anne Lauvergeon to 4 May 2017 Groups aluminium smelting facility in Saguenay, Quebec, and the Pilbara Michael LEstrange operations in Western Australia, and reviewing the management of the Simon Thompson to 28 July 2017 health and safety programmes at these sites.
For further information on HSEC matters, please see the Sustainable Key responsibilities development report on pages 28 to 37 of this report.
The Committees terms of reference set out its responsibilities, and are available to view on the website.
The key responsibilities of the Committee are to: Review the Groups policies relevant to the Committees scope.
Oversee the management processes designed to ensure compliance with those policies.
Assess the adequacy of the Groups health, safety, security, environment and communities framework.
Monitor managements commitment to the behaviours required by the policies and standards within the Committees scope.
Receive reports from management on fatalities and other serious HSEC incidents within the Group, consider recommendations for improvement, and receive reports on the implementation of such recommendations.
Review suitability of, and make recommendations to the Remuneration Committee, in relation to metrics for the safety component of the short-term incentive plans for the executive team: and annually assess, and make recommendations to the Remuneration Committee in relation to, the safety performance of the executive team against those metrics.
Review and approve the proposed annual plan for independent audit and assurance projects relevant to the Committees scope.
Undertake an annual formal review of the role and responsibilities of the Committee, its organisation and effectiveness, and its terms of reference.
