STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Rio Tinto plc, via Group Secretariat and the Investor Relations teams, will Relations with stakeholders be working ahead of its 2018 AGM to ensure there is appropriate engagement with relevant shareholders ahead of the voting at the meeting to improve understanding and address any concerns surrounding this resolution.
Communication with markets and stakeholders Investor engagement Rio Tinto recognises the importance of effective and timely Rio Tinto provides shareholders with the option to receive communication with shareholders and the wider investment community.
communications from, and send communications to, the companies and To be sure that trading in its securities takes place in an informed and the share registrars electronically.
The contact details for the registrars orderly marketplace, Rio Tinto has adopted procedures to ensure are on page 258 and on our website.
compliance with its continuous disclosure obligations.
The main channels of communication with the investment community are It is Rio Tintos policy to make sure that all public reports and other through the chairman, chief executive and chief financial officer, who have documents filed, disclosed or released by the Group shall: i be accurate, regular meetings with the companies major shareholders.
The senior complete and timely: ii comply with the relevant regulatory independent director has a specific responsibility to be available to requirements: and iii comply with all continuous and other disclosure shareholders who have concerns, and where contact with the chairman, obligations under applicable listing rules or other relevant legislation.
chief executive or chief financial officer has failed to resolve their concerns, or with whom such contact is inappropriate.
The senior The Groups Disclosure Committee is responsible for determining independent director also took the opportunity to discuss chairman whether information relating to Rio Tinto may require disclosure to the succession planning with major shareholders during 2017. markets under the continuous disclosure requirements in the jurisdictions in which Rio Tinto is listed.
In accordance with its terms of reference, the The Remuneration Committee chairman also meets shareholders to discuss specific focus of the Disclosure Committee is to consider and determine remuneration issues.
The Remuneration Committee chairman met major on a timely basis whether information would, to the extent that the investors in the UK and Australia in June and July 2017, and again in information is not public and relates directly or indirectly to Rio Tinto, be October and November 2017, to discuss and obtain feedback on the likely to have a significant effect on the price of Rio Tinto securities if that Groups remuneration policy, ahead of the renewal of that policy in 2018. information was generally available.
To ensure that members of the board have an understanding of the views The members of the Committee are the chief executive: chief financial of major shareholders, a number of processes and initiatives are in place.
officer: Group company secretary: the Group executive, Group General The chief financial officer reports to the board at each meeting and Counsel: the head of Investor Relations and the Group executive, provides regular investor updates as part of this reporting.
In addition, the Corporate Relations.
head of Investor Relations reports regularly to the board, and an annual survey of major shareholders opinions is presented to the board by the Rio Tinto makes immediate disclosure unless an exemption applies Groups investor relations advisers.
requiring a delay of any information to the markets and relevant listing authorities in accordance with their rules.
All information released to the Employment policies markets is posted on the Media section of our website.
The way we work In addition to statutory documents, Rio Tintos website features Rio Tintos commitment to integrity and compliance is set out in The way information on corporate governance, and general investor information.
we work, our global code of conduct, which is available on our website.
It Annual and half-year results, as well as any major presentations, are sets out the behaviours the company expects of its people, consistent webcast and the materials are available on our website.
Presentation with Rio Tintos values: safety, teamwork, respect, integrity and material from investor seminars is also made available on our website.
Annual general meetings It is supported by a number of Group policies and standards.
These are The AGMs present an opportunity to provide a summary business adopted after wide consultation and, once adopted, are communicated globally to all the companys business units, together with related presentation: to inform shareholders of recent developments: and to give procedures, guidelines and resources to support implementation.
them the opportunity to ask questions.
Generally, the chairs of all board Management is required to adhere to these policies and standards, and committees will be available to answer questions raised by shareholders any mandated procedures, and to monitor their effectiveness.
Rio Tinto and all directors are expected to attend where possible.
In 2017, all of the policies and standards address a variety of important topics, which apply directors attended the AGMs, save for Ann Godbehere, Anne Lauvergeon to all of our managed businesses.
Where the Group does not have and Robert Brown, who were unable to attend the Rio Tinto Limited AGM.
operating responsibility for a business, Rio Tintos policies and standards Rio Tintos external auditors, PwC, attend the AGMs and are available to are communicated to our business partners.
The company makes every answer questions about the conduct of the external audit and the effort to ensure that the standards it espouses are respected at all times preparation and content of the Independent auditors report.
Any and to encourage non-managed businesses to adopt similar policies and questions received, and any answers provided ahead of the AGMs are standards of their own.
made available to shareholders, who also have the opportunity to meet informally with the directors after the meetings.
Rio Tinto employees are required to undertake training on the requirements of The way we work and various policies and standards.
The AGMs are webcast and transcripts of the chairmans and chief executives speeches are made available on the website.
Further, a Whistleblowing programme summary of the proceedings at the meetings and the results of voting on Speak-OUT is the Groups confidential and independently operated resolutions are made available as soon as is practicable after the meetings.
It offers an avenue through which employees, At the 2017 Rio Tinto plc AGM, the resolution to dis-apply pre-emption contractors, suppliers and customers of Rio Tinto managed sites can rights on up to five per cent of the companys issued share capital was report concerns, anonymously if they so choose, subject to local law.
This passed by a majority of 76.16 per cent, meaning that the vote against was can include any significant concerns about the business, or the behaviour in excess of 20 per cent.
Companies who received a vote of more than of individuals, including suspicion of violations of financial reporting, safety or environmental procedures or business integrity issues in 20 per cent against a shareholder resolution are now listed on a public register, maintained by the Investment Association.
Rio Tinto plc adhered general.
The programme features telephone and web submissions, a case to best practice in relation to the disapplication of pre-emption rights.
A management tool, and a reporting tool to allow for improved analysis of case statistics and reporting.
Rio Tinto continuously considers ways to number of institutional investors have internal policies to vote against a second five per cent resolution.
It is believed that a number of institutional promote positive awareness of SpeakOUT.
The Audit Committee receives a report on Speak-OUT activity, with the Sustainability shareholders mistakenly applied this policy in this instance, perhaps Committee receiving an annual report on Speak-OUT relating to believing that Rio Tinto was seeking a full ten per cent disapplication in sustainable development issues.
