ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 METRO BANK PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Governance framework The Board has a coherent corporate governance structure with clearly defined responsibilities and accountabilities.
These have been designed to safeguard and enhance long-term shareholder value and provide a robust framework in which to deliver our strategy.
Corporate governance structure Metro Bank Board Chief Executive Officer Remuneration Nomination Audit Risk Oversight Executive Management Committees Committee Committee Committee Committee Leadership The role of the Board The Board is responsible to our shareholders and sets our strategy for achieving long-term success.
It is also ultimately responsible for the management, governance, controls, risk management, direction and performance of the Bank.
The composition of the Board The Board currently consists of the Non-Executive Chairman, two Executive Directors the CEO and CFO and eight NonExecutive Directors.
The Company considers the Non-Executive Directors to be independent.
This is compliant with the Code, which requires that at least half of the Directors of a premium listed company should be independent and free of any business relationships that could compromise the exercise of independent and objective judgement.
The Directors skills and experience span a wide range of sectors: a skills matrix is shown below.
Each Director brings a wealth of experience and skills to bear on all aspects of the management of the Company.
Board skills Retail financial Credit Financial Governance Regulatory Retailing Accounting Leadership services risk crime experience financial incl.
audit 49 Financial statements Governance Strategic report ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 METRO BANK PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer The Board has formally documented the separate roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer andmore detail on this can be found on the Companys website metrobankonline.
Board attendance, role and responsibilities Role Meetings attended 2017 Responsibility Non-Executive Chairman Vernon leads the Board and is responsible for its effectiveness and governance.
He sets the tone for Vernon W. Hill, II the Company, including overseeing the development of the Banks business culture and standards in relation to the conduct of business and the behaviour of employees.
He is responsible for ensuring that there are strong links between the Board and management and between the Board and shareholders.
He sets the Board agenda and ensures that sufficient time is allocated to important matters, in particular those relating to our strategic direction.
He reports to the Board and is responsible for the leadership and overall effectiveness of the Board.
Chief Executive Officer Craig is responsible for the day-to-day management of our operations, for recommending our Craig Donaldson strategic direction to the Board and for implementing the strategic direction agreed by the Board.
He is supported in decision-making by the Executive Leadership Team.
Craig reports to the Chairman and to the Board directly and is responsible for all executive management matters of the Bank.
Chief Financial Officer and As Chief Financial Officer, Mike has responsibility for planning, implementing, managing and Company Secretary controlling all financial-related activities of the Company, both day-to-day and for the long term.
He is Mike Brierley responsible for managing the Banks financial position including allocation and maintenance of capital, funding and liquidity.
Mike reports to Craig and has oversight of the Treasury, Legal, Procurement and Investor Relations functions and is also responsible for producing and ensuring the integrity of the Banks financial information and regulatory reporting.
As Company Secretary, Mike is responsible for advising and supporting the Chairman and the Board on good corporate governance and best boardroom practice.
Non-Executive Directors Responsibility Senior Independent Ben Gunn is the Senior Independent Director SID.
His role is to act as a sounding board for the Director Chairman and to serve as an intermediary for Directors when necessary.
Ben Gunn The SID is also available to shareholders if they have concerns that have not been resolved through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer.
The SID will attend meetings with, and listen to the views of, major shareholders to help to develop a balanced understanding of their issues and concerns if contact with the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer is inappropriate.
The SID also acts as the conduit, as required, for the views of other Non-Executive Directors on the performance of the Chairman and conducts the Chairmans annual performance evaluation.
Independent Non-Executive Director Keith Carby Independent Non-Executive Director Gene Lockhart Independent Non-Executive Director Monique Melis The role of the Non-Executive Directors is to constructively challenge proposals on strategic Independent Non-Executive direction.
Each Non-Executive Director brings specific sector experience and knowledge to the Director Board and its Committees.
Their contributions provide independent views on matters of strategy, Stuart Bernau performance, risk and conduct.
The Non-Executive Directors were appointed for an initial two-year term but are re-elected on an annual basis Independent Non-Executive Director Sir Michael Snyder Independent Non-Executive Director Roger Farah Independent Non-Executive Director Lord Flight Appointed 21 June 2017.
50 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 METRO BANK PLC Each Director has committed to dedicate as much time as is During 2017, the key areas the Board has focused on include: necessary to the Company and the Non-Executive Directors Areas of focus letters of appointment set out that they should be prepared to dedicate at least 20 days per year to the Company.
Strategic direction Directors are expected to attend all meetings of the Board, and the Committees on which they sit, and to devote sufficient time to the Companys affairs to enable them to Cyber resilience, Risk fulfil their duties.
If Directors are unable to attend a meeting, monitoring and review their comments on papers to be considered at the meeting will be discussed in advance with the Chairman or Company Governance and Secretary so that their contribution can be included in the compliance wider Board discussion.
Matters reserved for the Board Annual and quarterly 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 C 0 9 AC The Board is responsible for setting and managing our reporting strategic direction.
The operation of the Board is documented in a formal schedule of matters reserved for its approval, Policy reviews which is reviewed annually.
These include matters relating to and updates the decisions concerning our strategic aims and long-term objectives, the structure and capital of the Group, financial reporting and controls, risk management and various Property and statutory and regulatory matters.
The Board is also store expansion responsible for effective communication with shareholders, any changes to Board or Committee membership or Investment proposals structure, and has authority to recommend the Directors and portfolio Remuneration Policy to shareholders.
The Board delegates acquisitions responsibility for day-to-day management of the business to Regulatory and the Chief Executive Officer and sets out the basis for external affairs, PSDII delegation of authorities from the Board to its Committees.
and open banking Board decisions and activity during the year Creating The Board has a schedule of regular business, financial and FANS operational matters, and each Board Committee has a schedule of reserved matters to ensure that all areas for which Capital structure the Board has responsibility are addressed and reviewed andfundraising during the year.
The Chairman, assisted by the Company Secretary, is responsible for ensuring that the Directors receive accurate Reports from the CEO, CFO and CRO are standing items on and timely information.
The Company Secretary compiles every agenda.
The Company Secretary reports on legal, theBoard and Committee papers, which are circulated to regulatory and governance matters and updates the Board Directors in advance of meetings.
The Company Secretary onany changes to their statutory duties or the regulatory also ensures that any feedback or suggestions for environment.
The Chairman of each Committee reports on improvement on Board papers is fed back to management.
the proceedings of the previous Committee meeting at the The Company Secretary provides minutes of each meeting next Board meeting.
and every Director is aware of the right to have any concernsminuted.
Senior management and advisers are invited to attend Board and Committee meetings, where appropriate, to present, contribute to discussion and advise members of the Board or its Committees on particular matters.
The involvement of senior management at Board and Committee discussions strengthens the relationship between the Board and senior management and helps to provide the Board with a greater understanding of operations and strategic direction.
51 Financial statements Governance Strategic report ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 METRO BANK PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Board Committees External Board evaluation process The Board has delegated specific responsibilities to each of First stage Second stage Third stage the Audit, Risk Oversight, Nomination and Remuneration Committees, and reports for each are set out on pages 54 to Briefing and Discussion 70.
Each Committee has written Terms of Reference setting Board with questionnaire Results the SID out its duties, authority and reporting responsibilities.
collated, Action reported and plan Copies of all the Committee Terms of Reference are evaluated agreed One-to-one available on our website metrobankonline.
Board interviews discussion with Board We keep the Terms of Reference of each Committee under continuous review to ensure they remain appropriate and Development reflect any changes in legislation, regulation or best practice.
The Company Secretary ensures that all Directors are kept They are also reviewed formally every year by the relevant abreast of changes in relevant legislation and regulations, with Committee and the Board.
Each Committee comprises the assistance of our external advisers where appropriate.
Any future changes to the Committees will be made after the review and Executive Directors take part in our appraisal procedure.
This recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
sets tangible targets against which performance is measured.
Effectiveness Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to attend seminars The skills and experience of Board members are set out on and briefings, at the Companys expense, in areas considered pages 44 and 45.
The experience and knowledge of each of to be appropriate for their own professional development, the Directors gives them the ability to constructively including governance and issues relevant to the Committees challenge strategy and to scrutinise performance.
Induction of new Directors All the Directors have been members of the Board since the Metro Bank Board and Committees Companys listing in March 2016, with the exception of Monique Melis who was appointed in June 2017.
New Directors undergo a formal induction programme upon appointment which is tailored to their existing knowledge and Financial Regulatory Risk experience.
Non-Executive Directors meet the Chairman and the Chief Executive as part of the Nomination Committees IFRS 9 Market Abuse Cyber risk selection process and then again on appointment for a accounting Regulation update thorough briefing on all relevant aspects of the Company.
judgements and Disclosure They will also meet the Company Secretary, senior impairment functions and management and any relevant advisers for briefings on their methodology procedures responsibilities as Directors and on our business, finances, Inside information risks, strategy, procedures and the markets where we operate.
PDMR dealings and notifications All Directors were advised of the time required to fulfil the role Class prior to appointment and confirmed they can make the transactions and necessary commitment.
This requirement is also included in related party their letters of appointment.
The Board is satisfied that the transactions Chairman and each of the Non-Executive Directors is able to devote sufficient time to the Companys business.
There has Risk management been no change in the Chairmans other time commitments The Board believes that effective risk management is crucial during the year.
to the Banks strategic objectives and long-term success.
The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring risk is Performance effectively managed.
Every year, the Board undertakes an evaluation of its performance and governance, as well as that of its Our approach to risk is further detailed on pages 30 to 37.
The Committees and individual Directors.
Risk Oversight Committee reviews the effectiveness of the risk management process on the Boards behalf, and its In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the approach to this can be found in the Risk Oversight Board conducted an externally facilitated evaluation in 2017.
Committee Report on pages 59 to 61.
The last external evaluation was carried out in 2014.
External appointments A competitive tender was conducted for Board Evaluation In appropriate circumstances, the Board may authorise Services, led by the Senior Independent Director, which Executive Directors to take non-executive positions in other selected Deloitte LLP to conduct the Board Evaluation in 2017. companies and organisations.
Such appointments should Deloitte LLP observed a number of strengths and identified broaden their experience, provided the time commitment some areas for improvement and the Board has agreed an does not conflict with the Directors duties to the Company.
action plan to address these areas during the course of 2018.
The appointment to such positions is subject to the prior Deloitte LLP provides certain Tax and Consulting services.
The approval of the Board.
Board Evaluation was conducted by an independent team and the Board is satisfied that the advice received has been challenging, objective and independent.
52 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 METRO BANK PLC During the year ended 31 December 2017, none of the Relations with shareholders BanksExecutive Directors held directorships in any other The Board continues to place great importance on regular quoted company.
two-way engagement with shareholders throughout the year.
Investor meetings are undertaken by the founder and Conflicts of interest Chairman, Vernon W. Hill, II, the CEO, Craig Donaldson, and At each meeting the Board considers Directors conflicts of the CFO, Mike Brierley, supported by the Director of Investor interest.
The Companys Articles of Association provide for the Relations.
During 2017, the team participated in over 180 Board to authorise any actual or potential conflicts of interest.
individual and group meetings in the US, UK and Europe, as well as presenting at various investor conferences.
The Company has a commercial relationship with InterArch, Institutional shareholders have the opportunity to meet with Inc. InterArch, a firm which is owned by Shirley Hill, the wife the Chairman and or other Non-Executive Directors to of Vernon W. Hill, II.
The Audit Committee has considered this discuss any areas of concern.
relationship and concluded that the arrangements with InterArch are on terms which are at least as beneficial to the The Investor Relations function reports to the Board on a Bank as those which could be obtained from an independent regular basis on matters including share price performance, third party.
Further details are set out in the Audit Committee changes in the shareholder register, analyst and investor Report on page 56 and in note 26 to the financial statements.
feedback and significant market updates, with the assistance of the Banks corporate brokers.
The Investor Relations team Independent professional advice is responsible for ongoing communication with shareholders, Directors have access to independent professional advice at analysts and investors.
All financial and regulatory the Companys expense.
In addition, they have access to the announcements, as well as other important business advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is announcements, are published in the Investor Relations responsible for advice on corporate governance matters to section of our website and stakeholders can subscribe to the Board.
receive news updates by email by registering online on the website: metrobankonline.
Contact Directors indemnities and insurance details for the Investor Relations and Company Secretariat are We provide Directors and Officers with appropriate insurance, available for any shareholders, analysts or investors who wish which is reviewed annually.
In addition, Directors and Officers to ask a question.
have received an indemnity from the Bank against a any liability incurred by or attaching to the Director or Officer in connection with any negligence, default, breach of duty, or breach of trust by them in relation to the Bank or any associated company: and b any other liability incurred by or attaching to the Director or Officer in the actual or purported execution and or discharge of their duties and or the exercise or purported exercise of their powers and or otherwise in relation to or in connection with their duties, powers or office other than certain excluded liabilities including to the extent that such an indemnity is not permitted by law.
Appointment and retirement of Directors The Board may appoint Directors to the Board.
Newly appointed Directors must stand for election by shareholders at the AGM following their appointment.
In accordance with the provisions of the Code, all continuing Directors of the Company will offer themselves for annual re-election at the 2018 Annual General Meeting, with the exception of Mike Brierley, who is retiring from his role as Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary in March 2018.
The Board would like to thank Mike for his significant contribution to the Banks growth over his career at Metro Bank.
Monique Melis will stand for election, this being the first Annual General Meeting following her appointment in June 2017.
Subject to Board approval, David Arden, the incoming Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary, will also stand for election at the 2018 Annual General Meeting.
Under the Articles of Association, shareholders may remove a Director before the end of his term by passing an ordinary resolution at a general meeting.
53 Financial statements Governance Strategic report
