ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 METRO BANK PLC BOARD OF DIRECTORS 1 Vernon W. Hill, II 3 Michael Brierley 5 Keith Carby N A R N Chairman and Founder Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Director Vernon was the founder and Chairman Mike was previously Chief Financial Officer Keith was formerly CEO of the Caerus of Commerce Bancorp, a start-up bank UK and Europe and Chief Risk Officer Capital Group.
He is Non-Executive established in 1973 and sold to TorontoEurope at Capital One Bank Europe.
He Chairman of both Censeo Ltd and Mill Dominion Bank in 2007 for US$8.5 billion, has also worked as Chief Financial Officer Capital Private Equity Dubai.
Keith was with US$50 billion in assets and 440 for Royal Trust Bank, Financial Controller at Joint Founder and Managing Director of branches.
Vernon is involved in banking Industrial Bank of Japan, Chief Financial J. Rothschild Assurance now St. Jamess and non-banking related businesses Officer of Gentra Limited and Director, Place.
He also founded the Financial and voluntary ventures in the US.
He Business Risk at Barclaycard.
He is a Fellow of Services Forum and was a founding is a graduate of the Wharton School the Institute of Chartered Accountants.
trustee of the 9 11 London Project.
of the University of Pennsylvania.
Vernon is Chairman of Republic 4 Stuart Bernau 6 Roger Farah A O R N First Bancorp, inc. Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Stuart has specialised in financial services Roger is Chairman of Tiffany & Co.
He 2 Craig Donaldson for over 40 years, including 13 years as a is a former Executive Vice Chairman Chief Executive Officer main Board Director of Nationwide Building of Ralph Lauren Corporation, also its Craig was previously Managing Director, Society.
He was Chairman and CEO of President and Chief Operating Officer.
Retail Products and Direct Channels, of Chelsea Building Society and has chaired Roger was previously Chairman and RBS UK.
He was also Chairman of the Retail the Council of Mortgage Lenders and the CEO of Footlocker, President and Chief Asset and Liabilities Committee and Retail Financial Services Sector Skills Council.
Operating Officer of Macys, Chairman Product Board and a member of the Retail He was Special Adviser to the Treasury and CEO of Federated Merchandising Board, Retail Risk Committee and RBS UK Select Committee from 2013 to 2015.
Services and Chairman and CEO of Richs Asset and Liabilities Committee.
Roger is a Director of on the Board of Directors at TheCityUK as Aetna and The Progressive Corporation.
Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee.
Key to Committees A Audit R Remuneration N Nomination O Risk Oversight 4 1 2 5 6 3 44 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 METRO BANK PLC 7 Lord Flight 9 Gene Lockhart 11 Sir Michael Snyder R N A O A O Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Howard was Conservative MP for Arundel Gene is a Special Adviser to General Atlantic Michael was Senior Partner of Kingston and South Downs, West Sussex, from 1997 to and Chairman and Managing General Smith between 1979 and 2016, and is now 2005, when he held Shadow posts, including Partner of MissionOG LLC.
He was President a consultant to the firm.
He has advised Shadow Chief Secretary to the Treasury.
and CEO of MasterCard Worldwide, and Government over many years, including He was a member of the Shadow Cabinet subsequently President of the Global Retail chairing the National Business Angels from 2002 to 2004.
He was appointed to Bank at Bank of America.
Prior to this, Gene Network and as a member of the Small the House of Lords in 2011.
He co-founded was the CEO of Midland Bank UK and Business Council and Small Business Guinness Flight Global Asset Management, Chairman of First Direct and Thomas Cook.
He was also founder and is Chairman of Aurora Investment Trust, Co-Chairman of the Governments Downing Four VCT and Flight and Partners, 10 Anna Monique Melis Professional and Business Services Council a Director of Investec Asset Management, Non-Executive Director and chaired the Association of Practising Edge Performance VCT, a Commissioner of Monique is a Managing Director and the Accountants.
He is Senior Partner of the Guernsey Financial Services Commission Global Head of Regulatory Consulting at Bramdean Consultants LLP and an elected and Chairman of the EIS Association.
Duff & Phelps and is a member of Duff and member of the City of London Corporation, Phelps Luxembourg Management Company which he led for five years as Chairman of 8 Alastair Ben Gunn Board.
With extensive financial services and the Policy and Resources Committee.
O Senior Independent Director regulatory experience across established Ben was Chief Executive and then Chairman and growth markets, her appointments of Friends Provident Life and Pensions Ltd have included Executive Board member at as well as a Director of Friends Provident.
Kinetic Partners and roles at: the Cayman As Chief Executive, he was responsible for Islands Regulator and Stock Exchange all aspects of the Friends Provident Groups CSX, the Financial Services Authority life and pensions activities worldwide.
More and the Securities and Futures Authority.
recently, he was the Senior Independent Director at Aviva UK and Chairman of the Audit Committee at Avelo.
7 8 9 11 10 45 Financial statements Governance Strategic report
