ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 METRO BANK PLC DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors of the Company who were in office during the Directors interests year and up to the date of signing the financial statements Details of the Directors beneficial interests are set out in the and summaries of their key skills and experience are set out annual report on remuneration on pages 70 to 79. on pages 44 to 45.
Directors indemnities and Directors and Officers Liability The Directors have pleasure in presenting their Annual Report insurance for the year ended 31 December 2017.
As set out more fully in Details regarding deeds of indemnity and Directors and the Summary of significant accounting policies within Notes Officers Liability insurance are set out in the Corporate to the financial statements, Accounting policies, this report Governance Report on page 53. for the consolidated Group has been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as Major interests in shares adopted by the EU and includes the Corporate Governance Information provided to the Group by substantial Report set out on pages 49 to 53. shareholders pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR is published via a Regulatory Information Service.
The Directors consider the Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2017, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and As at 31 December 2017, the Group has been notified under understandable and provides the information necessary for DTR 5 of the interests in its issued share capital, and these are shareholders to assess the Companys position and set out in the table below.
All such shareholders have the right performance, business model and strategy.
to vote in all circumstances at general meetings.
% of total Direct Principal activities Ordinary ordinary indirect As at 31 December 2017 shares held shares interest Our principal activities during 2017 were the provision of banking and related services.
Metro Bank is a deposit-taking Cohen Private Ventures 7,912,848 9.85 Indirect and lending institution with a focus on retail and small and Wellington medium-size commercial customers, offering consistent fair Management Group pricing and excellent customer service.
Were authorised to LLP 3,641,556 4.53 Indirect accept deposits under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, have a Consumer Credit Act licence and are members Fidelity Management and Research 6,850,023 8.53 Indirect of the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
Results and dividend There have been no notifications received in the period from The results for the year are set out in the consolidated 31 December 2017 to the date of this report.
statement of comprehensive income on page 87.
Greenhouse gas emissions No dividend was declared or paid during 2017 2016: nil.
Our energy consumption and associated greenhouse gas The Directors do not anticipate declaring a dividend in the emissions during 2017 are set out in the Strategic report on near future.
Significant events Employee involvement Further to the authority granted by shareholders at the 2017 We encourage employee involvement in the Bank.
Increasing AGM, on 26 July 2017 a further 8,020,000 new ordinary employee awareness of the financial and economic factors shares of an aggregate nominal value of 8.02 were issued at that affect us plays a major role in maintaining our customer 34.65 per share.
The issue followed the completion of a non focus.
All employees are eligible to participate in our share pre-emptive cash placing of new ordinary shares, for gross option and or share buy and share pool schemes.
The new shares were admitted for trading on the London Stock Exchange on 28 July 2017.
Diversity Were committed to employment policies which follow best Articles of Association practice, based on equal opportunities for all employees.
We The Articles of Association can be found on our website: aim for our workforce to reflect the diverse communities in metrobankonline.
which we operate and recognise that diversity is not only a key part of a responsible business strategy, but also supports a Share capital strong customer experience.
We give full and fair Our called-up share capital, together with details of shares consideration to all applications for employment.
allotted during the year, is shown in note 16 to the financial statements on page 111.
Disabled employees Applications for employment by disabled persons are always There are no restrictions on the transfer of the Companys fully considered, bearing in mind the abilities of the applicant share capital and there are no shares or stock which carry concerned.
In the event of employees becoming disabled, we specific rights with regards to control of the Company.
make every effort to ensure that their employment continues and that we provide appropriate training and support.
Our The Directors seek annual authority from shareholders to allot policy is that the training, career development and promotion new ordinary shares and to dis-apply pre-emption rights of of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical to existing shareholders in accordance with the Investment that of other employees.
46 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 METRO BANK PLC Modern slavery Listing rule disclosures We are committed to supporting the communities in which For the purposes of LR 9.8.
4CR, the information required to we operate in order to enable them to develop both socially be disclosed by LR 9.8.
4R can be found in the following and economically.
Our policy is to conduct all business in an sections of the report: appropriate manner and we have zero tolerance for modern Item Location, where applicable slavery.
The initiatives we have developed in 2017 can be Detail of long-term Remuneration Report found on page 41. incentive schemes Financial statements note 17 Our Modern Slavery Statement is available Contracts of significance Any contracts of significance at metrobankonline.
co. uk or related party transactions can be found in note 26 to the Risk management financial statements The Directors confirm that they have undertaken a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group.
We seek to manage all risks that arise from our activities.
Details of risk Corporate Governance Statement management systems and the processes in place in relation The Corporate Governance Report on pages 49 to 53 in to financial reporting, and details of risk management accordance with Rule 7.2 of the Disclosure and Transparency objectives and policies, are shown in the Risk Factors and Rules and Rule 9.8.
6 5 and 6 of the Listing Rules forms part Management Report on pages 30 to 37.
As a result of normal of this Directors Report.
business activities, we are exposed to a variety of risks and the principal risks and uncertainties that we face are shown in Statement of Directors responsibilities the Risk Factors and Management Report.
Our Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable Going concern law and regulations.
The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis, as the Directors are satisfied that the Group and Parent Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial Company have the resources to continue in business for the statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the foreseeable future.
Directors have prepared the Group and Parent Company financial statements in accordance with International Viability Statement Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the Our Viability Statement is set out on page 37.
European Union and applicable law and have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial statements on the Auditors same basis.
The auditors,  LLP, have indicated their willingness to continue in office and a resolution seeking Under company law, the Directors must not approve the to reappoint them will be proposed at the Annual General financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a Meeting.
The Audit Committee will be conducting an audit true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the tender in 2018 and more details of this can be found on Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that page57.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: Political donations select suitable accounting policies and then apply We made no political donations in the year ending themconsistently: 31 December 2017 2016: nil.
make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: Research and development state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European We have an ongoing commitment to make banking more Union have been followed, subject to any material convenient for customers, and in 2017 we continued to invest departures disclosed and explained in the financial in systems, procedures, products and services.
As a result, we statements: and have capitalised 70 million of intangible assets.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Post balance sheet events Company and the Group will continue in business.
A summary of the key post balance sheet events is set out in note 31 to the financial statements on page 131.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain Annual General Meeting ourtransactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy Details of this years AGM can be found in the Shareholder atanytime the financial position of the Company and the Information section on page 137.
Group, and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They Future developments arealso responsible for safeguarding our assets and taking Our business and future plans are reviewed in the Chairmans reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud Statement, CEO statement and the Strategic report.
47 Financial statements Governance Strategic report ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 METRO BANK PLC DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and Statement of disclosure of information to auditors integrity of the information included on our website.
Each Director in office at the date of this Report, and whose Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and name is listed on pages 44 and 45, confirms that to the best dissemination of financial statements may differ from of his knowledge: legislation in other jurisdictions.
there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and Directors statement pursuant to the disclosure and has taken all the reasonable steps that he ought to have transparency rules taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are audit information and to establish that the Companys listedon pages 44 and 45, confirm that, to the best of auditors are aware of the information.
theirknowledge: the financial statements, which have been prepared in The confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial Companies Act 2006. position and profit or loss of the Group taken as a whole:and The Directors Report comprising pages 46 to 48 has the Strategic report contained in the Annual Report beenapproved by the Board of Directors and signed includes a fair review of the development and performance on its behalf by of the business and the position of the Group taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and Mike Brierley uncertainties that it faces.
Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary 1 March 2018 48
