STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Simone Niven Executive Committee BA Comms, age 47 Simone was appointed Corporate Relations Group executive in January 2017.
She joined Rio Tinto in 2008 and has accountability for the Groups reputation and corporate relations areas external affairs, Bold Baatar communities, media, reputation and employee communications.
Simone also has responsibility for the leadership of the country and MBA Business Administration, age 44 regional office teams, including Africa, Australia, Canada, China, the Bold was appointed chief executive, Energy & Minerals in November European Union, India, Japan, the UK and the US.
Prior to joining Rio Tinto, 2016.
He was previously a member of the Rio Tinto Iron Ore Executive she spent over 15 years working in senior roles at some of the worlds Committee, as managing director, Iron Ore Sales and Marketing and head largest companies across many continents, including Vodafone, the of Rio Tintos Marine business.
Bold joined Rio Tinto in May 2013 as United Technologies group, Smiths Group plc and Smith & Nephew plc in president of Copper International Operations.
Prior to joining the Group, a range of corporate relations fields.
he held executive positions with a diversified investment management business and a local gold mining company in Mongolia.
Until 2009, Bold Philip Richards spent 11 years as an investment banker with JP Morgan in New York and MA Jurisprudence, age 62 London.
Philip was appointed Group executive, Group General Counsel, in March He was the chairman of the Mongolian Stock Exchange from 2010 to 2017.
Previously he was with Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer, where he 2012, chairman of the Mongolian Mining Association from 2012 to 2014 was a senior partner specialising in corporate law.
Philip has extensive and served as a non-executive director on the board of Southgobi experience in governance, corporate advisory and transactional work.
Freshfields, he established and led the financial institutions group for Alfredo Barrios many years, advising on a number of significant transactions in that and other sectors.
Philip also spent four years as managing partner of PhD Energy Economics, BSc Physics, MSc Management, age 52 Freshfields Italian offices in Milan and Rome.
Alfredo was appointed chief executive, Aluminium, in 2014.
He joined Rio Tinto after a wide-ranging career in leadership positions with BP plc.
Philip read jurisprudence at Lincoln College, Oxford, before joining His most recent role was executive director and executive vice president, Freshfields in 1978.
Downstream, at TNK-BP, based in Moscow, where he was directly Chris Salisbury responsible for the refining, trading, supply, logistics, and marketing BEng Metallurgical, FAICD, age 51 businesses.
Alfredo has held board positions in a number of companies, including CLH Chris was appointed chief executive, Iron Ore in July 2016.
Prior to this, Spain from 2007 to 2011 where he was chairman of the Audit he was appointed acting chief executive of the Copper & Coal group in Committee, and OAO NGK Slavneft Russia from 2012 until 2013.
He March 2016, overseeing its operations and projects globally.
Chris was was president of the Spanish National Oil Industry Association AOP from previously chief operating officer, Coal, with accountability for strategy, 2009 until 2011. project development, operations and logistics for Rio Tintos coal mines in New South Wales, Queensland and South Africa.
Chris joined Rio Tinto in Joanne Farrell 1988, with experience spanning bauxite, alumina refining, aluminium BSc Psychology and Economics, Graduate Diploma Management, smelting, coal, port logistics and uranium.
age 60 He has served as executive and non-executive director of Energy Joanne was appointed Group executive, Health, Safety & Environment in Resources of Australia Ltd, chairman of Queensland Alumina Limited, July 2016.
She has more than 35 years experience in the mining sector, president of the Namibian Uranium Stewardship Committee, and external and is also responsible for leading Rio Tintos interaction with key chair for both the Northern Territory Minerals Council and the Australian stakeholders in Australia as managing director, Australia.
been with Rio Tinto for 30 years and brings a wealth of experience from roles across Organisational Resources, Government Affairs and Arnaud Soirat Communities.
She worked for BHP before joining Rio Tinto and prior to PhD Theoretical Physical Chemistry, age 53 that was an economist in regional development with the Government of Western Australia.
Arnaud was appointed chief executive, Copper & Diamonds in July 2016.
He has 25 years experience in the metals and mining industry and a Joanne is a director of the Perth Institute of Contemporary Art, a director of the Business Council and a member of its Economics and Competition wealth of operational and commercial experience gained in various roles, and Citizenship and Governance Committee, a specialist adviser to the working across five continents.
Male Champions of Change and a member of Chief Executive Women.
Arnaud was previously Aluminium Primary Metal president and chief executive officer, responsible for managing and improving operations and Vera Kirikova businesses globally, with a particular focus on lean manufacturing and MA Inter-cultural Communications, MBA, age 44 operational excellence.
He joined Rio Tinto in 2010 as chief operating Vera was appointed Human Resources Group executive in January 2017. officer, Primary Metal, Europe, Middle-East & Africa.
Before joining She joined Rio Tinto in 2015 as vice president, Human Resources, for the Rio Tinto, Arnaud spent 18 years in various technical and operational then Diamonds & Minerals product group and was appointed head of positions with Alcoa and Pechiney in both Australia and Europe.
Human Resources for the Group in July 2016.
She has accountability for the Groups Human Resources function, including strategy and execution.
Simon Trott Prior to joining Rio Tinto, Vera was employed by Schlumberger, where she BSc Resource Economics, age 43 worked for over 20 years in human resources, operations, marketing and Simon was appointed chief commercial officer in January 2018.
His role M&A positions in the US, Canada, UK, Russia and France.
is to oversee how Rio Tinto derives maximum value from its products and Stephen McIntosh continues to strengthen customer relationships.
Simon is accountable for MSc Geology, age 54 the global Sales & Marketing, Marine & Logistics, and Procurement organisations, supported by Market Analysis, among other functions.
Stephen was appointed Group executive, Growth & Innovation, in July 2016.
He has close to 30 years of service with the Group after joining the Simon has been with Rio Tinto for almost 18 years and has held a wide business as an exploration geologist.
Stephen has deep experience across variety of commercial, operating and business development roles across a wide range of commodities and geographies, having worked on projects a number of commodities.
In his previous role as Salt, Uranium & Borates in more than 45 countries.
In his previous role as Rio Tintos global head managing director, Simon oversaw operations and projects in Australia, of Exploration, he led teams operating in 20 countries and drove a Africa, Europe and the US.
step-change in safety improvement while delivering industry-leading discovery performance.
He has a graduate diploma in Finance & Investment FINSIA and is a graduate of the Australian Institute of Company Directors.
Stephen has been actively involved in the management, exploration, evaluation or discovery of a number of the Groups exploration Executive director members discoveries.
Jean-Sbastien Jacques and Chris Lynch were also members of the He is a fellow of the Australian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy, a fellow Executive Committee in 2017 through their positions as chief executive of the Society of Economic Geology, a member of the Australian Society and chief financial officer respectively.
Their biographies are shown on of Exploration Geophysics and a graduate of the Australian Institute of page 52.
