ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 METRO BANK PLC AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Attendance of the Audit Committee As at 31 December 2017, the Audit Committee comprised the following independent Non-Executive Directors: Members Meetings attended 2017 Stuart Bernau Chairman Gene Lockhart Keith Carby Sir Michael Snyder Attended Unable to attend Stuart Bernau Chit Ghee Yeoh Letter from the Chairman Chairman of the Audit Committee Director of Internal Audit I am pleased to present the Audit Committee report for the year ended 31 December 2017.
In its first full year as a listed company, Metro Bank has continued to grow strongly as it follows its unique businessmodel.
As such, the Audit Committee has focused on building and delivering an audit plan that works alongside the growth Focused on building model and looks forwards as well as backwards to ensure itfulfils its assurance role and understands, assesses and and delivering an audit monitors the risk facing the business.
plan that supports the It has been a busy year for the Audit Committee.
The Committee has spent a significant amount of time reviewing Banks growth model and considering the progress of the Banks project to transition to IFRS 9 and the accounting judgements which underpin this.
The Committee reviewed and recommended quarterly, half yearly and annual financial statements and shareholder announcements for approval by the Board.
It has also monitored the delivery of the 2017 Internal AuditPlan and the outcomes of the work performed and thereports issued, 2017 in brief ensuring recommendations for improvement are actioned where appropriate.
In developing the Internal Audit Plan for 2018, we have ensured inclusion of those areas which bear the Internal audit reports reviewed by greatest risk to the Bank, those which are most impacted by the Committee continued growth and areas of regulatory focus.
We have also supported the continued expansion of the Internal Audit team to meet the increased workload and we are satisfied it has 31 sufficient resource to fulfilits responsibilities.
The 2018 Internal Audit Plan was approved by the Board in Percentage of the Banks financial January 2018 following discussion at the Committee, and reporting reviewed by the they also approved the level of risk assurance contained Committee within the Plan.
I am therefore comfortable that the key risks to Metro Banks unique business model have been identified and are being monitored.
100% The Committee has reviewed and considered the contracts for services with InterArch Inc, InterArch, a related party of the Related Parties contract review Bank to provide assurance to the Board, that the contracts for services continue to be at arms length and on terms which are at least as favourable as those which could be obtained in the Oversight of IFRS 9 accounting market.
This included a review carried out by an independent judgements third party, the details of which can be foundbelow.
54 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 METRO BANK PLC During the year, the Financial Reporting Councils Audit The Audit Committee in brief Quality Review team reviewed PwCs audit of the Groups The Audit Committees key role is to review the integrity of 2016 financial statements, as part of their annual inspection of thefinancial reporting for the Bank and to oversee the audit firms.
As Chair of the Audit Committee, I held an initial effectiveness of the internal control systems and the work preparatory discussion with the review team, received a copy ofthe internal and external auditors.
of the concluding letter issued in November 2017 by the FRC, and then discussed the results of the review with our audit External audit partner at PwC.
These were also considered by the Audit Recommend the appointment, reappointment or removal Committee.
I am pleased to report that there were no Oversee the relationship, approve terms of engagement significant findings arising.
and review independence and objectivity Approve remuneration and review the supply of non-audit The Banks external auditor has been in situ since 2009.
In line services in line with policy with regulatory requirements, the Bank will commence an Meet regularly without management present external audit tender process in 2018 for completion by 2019.
Ensure the audit contract is tendered at least every ten years The Audit Committee will oversee this process and make a recommendation to the Board on the most suitable firm.
Internal audit Approve appointment or termination of the Director of In October 2017, the Financial Reporting Councils Conduct Internal Audit Committee wrote to the Bank requesting further information Monitor and review the effectiveness of the function on certain judgements and disclosures made in preparing our Review and approve the Internal Audit Charter Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December Review and assess the Internal Audit Plan and ensure that 2016, given this was our first year of reporting as a listed resources are adequate company.
The Bank and the Committee welcomed the Meet regularly with the Director of Internal Audit and ensure feedback from the Financial Reporting Council, especially access to Board given the first year of reporting as a listed group and the Review managements responsiveness to findings publication of its accounts.
The Bank provided responses in consultation with the Audit Committee and the external Financial and narrative reporting auditors.
The Committee is satisfied that the enhancements Monitor the integrity of the financial statements proposed to, and agreed with, the FRC, have been Review and report to the Board on significant financial appropriately incorporated in the 2017 Annual Report.
issues and material judgements Review and challenge accounting policies, methods used As part of my role as Chairman of the Audit Committee, to account for significant and unusual transactions, clarity Imeet at least once a month with the Director of Internal and completeness of disclosure Audit and regularly with her team.
I sit on the Risk Oversight Advise whether the Annual Report is fair, balanced and Committee and work closely with Gene Lockhart, Chairman understandable of that Committee.
I also meet monthly with the Chief Risk Officer to discuss issues in her Board report.
I have regular Whistleblowing and fraud meetings with the Chief Financial Officer and senior Review the adequacy and security of whistleblowing membersof his team to discuss the financial statements arrangements andwith the Deputy Company Secretary who acts as Review the procedures for detecting fraud and Secretary to the Committee.
I have also informed preventingbribery management that I am available to meet with the Companysshareholders on request.
Internal controls and risk management Monitor and review the adequacy and effectiveness of The Audit Committee met eight times in 2017 and, following theCompanys internal financial controls and risk each meeting, I provided a verbal update to the Board on key management systems issues and, where necessary, outlined the actions being taken Review and approve the statements in the Annual Report by management to address any issues raised.
The minutes are concerning internal controls and risk management also included in the next Board pack.
Before each Audit Committee meeting I also meet with the external audit Full details can be found on our website: partner and the Committee members have a session with the metrobankonline.
external auditors at the end of each meeting without the presence of management.
Composition of the Audit Committee The four members of the Audit Committee are all I attended regular seminars run by professional services firms independent Non-Executive Directors and bring a range of on current key issues and, where appropriate, arranged for relevant business experience.
For further details of their skills presentations to the Audit Committee and the Board.
and experience, please refer to their biographies on pages 44 Looking forward to 2018, we expect this to be another busy and 45.
At least one of the members of the Committee has and exciting year for Metro Bank.
We will ensure that the Audit recent and relevant financial experience and the Committee Committee keeps pace with the challenges presented by the as a whole has competence in the banking sector.
successful implementation of Metro Banks business model and provide the level of assurance required by the Board.
Regular attendees at the Audit Committee include the CEO, CFO, CRO, Director of Internal Audit, Group Finance Director, Stuart Bernau Financial Controller, Deputy Company Secretary and Audit Committee Chairman representatives from the external auditors, PwC.
1 March 2018 55 Financial statements Governance Strategic report ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 METRO BANK PLC AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Key areas discussed at Audit Committee meetings since In addition to the key areas opposite, the Committee reviewed 1 January 2017 the progress against the Internal Audit Plan and reviewed the detailed reports where appropriate.
At each meeting, we also Area Key topics receive an update on horizon scanning for future regulatory Policy Share Dealing Policy changes which may affect the Bank.
Modern Slavery Policy Related parties Fraud Policy Architectural design services and branding, and marketing Review of Terms of Reference and and advertising services are provided to the Bank by InterArch recommendation to Board for approval Inc. InterArch a firm owned by Shirley Hill, wife of Vernon Financial Review of Q1 results W. Hill, II, Non-Executive Chairman.
reporting 2017 half-year results, including an update of In order to ensure that the contracts for services with critical accounting judgements and estimates InterArch are materially consistent with those that could be Review of Q3 results obtained from an independent third party, the contractual 2017 full-year results, Annual Report and arrangements are subject to periodic review by the Audit Accounts, including assessment of the key Committee, using benchmarking reviews conducted by judgements and estimates, going concern and independent third parties.
The Committee has also viability report considered the disclosures that the Bank has made regarding the relationship with InterArch to ensure they are appropriate Review of 2017 external auditors reports and findings and in line with relevant reporting standards.
Tax strategy In 2017, the Committee discussed the benchmarking reviews FRC Conduct Committee corporate reporting conducted by independent third parties and evaluated the letter and Metro Bank response Banks response to the feedback and recommendations IFRS 9 Key Accounting Judgements which were reported.
The Committee also received a presentation from the InterArch team on the work undertaken Internal Review of internal audits carried out in 2017 by them over the term of the contracts.
Following Audit Review and approval of the Internal Audit consideration of these reports, we continue to believe that Charter contracts for services with InterArch are at arms length and Finalisation of the 2016 independent external are at least as beneficial as those which could be obtained in review of the Internal Audit function the market from an alternative supplier, and that the quality Review of the 2017 Internal Audit Reports and effectiveness of the service provided by InterArch to the Bank remains excellent.
Following the review, the Executive Approval of the 2018 Internal Audit Plan and Leadership Team are implementing improved controls in resourcing respect of continuous monitoring of the contracts.
External 2016 external auditors report and full-year findings Audit A new contract for branding, marketing and advertising was 2017 External Audit Plan, engagement terms signed in January 2018.
The contract for architectural design and fees services has recently been renegotiated and the Committee has taken steps to ensure that it continues to be at arms Terms of engagement for the half-year review length as part of the renegotiation process.
External auditors half-year review findings External auditors regulatory updates Fair, balanced and understandable PwC Audit Quality Review findings and In line with the Code, we considered whether the 2017 responses Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and should provide the information necessary for shareholders 2017 full-year external auditors report and toassess the Groups position, performance, business model findings and strategy.
The Committee is satisfied that the 2017 Annual Related Related party review Report meets this requirement and, in particular, that party review InterArch Inc. presentation appropriate disclosure has been included for both positive and negative developments in the year.
The process Independent review of InterArch Inc. supporting this goal included: architecture and design services and marketing The compilation of the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts contracts was managed by the Chief Financial Officer together with a Regulatory Regulatory and accounting update cross-functional team of senior managers IFRS 9 implementation progress updates Input is provided by a cross-functional team from Finance, Risk, People, Legal, Investor Relations and business lines A formal review is undertaken by the Audit Committee of the draft 2017 Annual Report and Accounts, along with a review of any issues raised in the external auditors report, inadvance of final sign-off A final review is performed by the Board of Directors 56 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 METRO BANK PLC Internal Audit The Company confirms that it has complied with the The Groups Internal Audit function plays a key role in provisions of the Competition and Markets Authoritys Order providing independent assessment and challenging for the financial year under review.
The Audit Committee approved the Internal Audit Plan and considered the results of its work.
Non-audit services We also: The Bank and PwC have safeguards in place to protect the Approved the Internal Audit Charter, which sets out the role independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
and expectations of Internal Audit Monitored the objectivity and competence of the The Bank has a policy for the provision of non-audit services InternalAudit function, and the adequacy of Internal by the external auditor.
In line with the policy, all non-audit Auditresources services provided to the Bank by the external auditor, where Monitored the delivery of the Internal Audit Plan the fee is expected to exceed a fide minimis limit, must be pre-approved by the Audit Committee subject to the The Committee was satisfied that Internal Audit had adequate guidelines and thresholds detailed in the policy.
Pre-approval resources available this year.
by the Committee must be obtained in advance of any work being carried out.
Pre-approval must be performed by the System of internal control and risk management Committee, it cannot be delegated to a member of Details of the Banks risk management framework are management.
The Committee must be provided with a provided on pages 30 to 37.
In considering the effectiveness detailed explanation of each particular service to be provided of internal controls, the Audit Committee received and to allow them to make an appropriate assessment of the discussed reports from Internal Audit and the external impact of the service on the external auditors independence.
In addition, executive management was invited to The policy further formalises within the Bank the restriction discuss the more significant issues raised by Internal Audit.
on the provision of non-audit services by the external Management action plans to resolve the issues raised are auditorwhich the FRC consider to be prohibited.
In monitored by the Audit Committee.
accordance with the FRCs Ethical Standard, the services considered prohibited include: Recommendations for improvements to internal controls by Certain tax and valuation services, consultancy and the external auditors are monitored by Internal Audit, with advisory services progress reported to the Audit Committee.
Services that involve playing any part in the management ordecision-making of the Bank External audit The design and implementation of internal control or The Audit Committee reviews and makes recommendations riskmanagement procedures related to the preparation to the Board with regard to the appointment of external orcontrol of financial information, or the design auditors, their remuneration and terms of engagement.
andimplementation of financial information technologysystems The Audit Committee is also responsible for the oversight of Services linked to the financing, capital structure and the relationship with PwC and the effectiveness of the audit investment strategy of the Bank except where assurance process.
To satisfy ourselves of the effectiveness of the over financial information, such as in the form of comfort external audit, during the year we: letters is required Carried out a review of the 2016 external audit process Certain legal services Reviewed the proposed Audit Plan in advance of the Bookkeeping and preparing accounting records and annualaudit financial statements Reviewed and approved the audit engagement terms and Payroll services and certain human resources services proposed audit fee Services related to the Banks internal audit function Reviewed the FRCs Audit Quality Inspection Report AQR on PwC published in June 2017 No significant engagements for non-audit services were Reviewed the results of the AQR inspection as noted above: carried out by the external auditor during the year.
Details of Considered the continued independence and objectivity the fees paid to the external auditor during the year can be ofPwC found in note 7 on page 98.
Reviewed and discussed the reports provided by PwC At the end of each Audit Committee meetings, members met the external auditors without management present, to discuss any relevant issues.
PwC has been the Groups auditors since the inception of the Bank in 2009.
In accordance with the requirements of the Statutory Auditors and Third Country Auditors Regulations 2016, the Committee will carry out a tender process for the external audit in 2018, for completion by 2019.
In conducting the tender process, the Committee will adhere to the FRCs guidance on audit retendering and the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016.
57 Financial statements Governance Strategic report ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 METRO BANK PLC AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Significant financial reporting areas considered by the Audit Committee in 2017 In respect of financial reporting, the Audit Committee considered the key judgements and estimates in relation to the 2017Annual Report and Accounts.
Key judgements and estimates in financial reporting Audit Committee review and conclusions Impairment of loans and advances Determining the appropriateness of loan loss provision is The Committee received and challenged reports from inherently judgemental and requires management to make management explaining the approach taken to provisioning anumber of assumptions.
and the resulting changes in the provision levels during theperiod.
Individual impairment losses on secured loans and advances are calculated based on an individual valuation of the The Committee considered key assumptions used in the underlying asset.
Collective impairment losses on loans collective model, being probability of default, the probability andadvances are calculated using a statistical model.
of this default resulting in possession and or write-off, and the subsequent loss incurred.
The Committee is satisfied that the approach taken and judgements applied were reasonable.
The Committee also specifically considered the key accounting judgments and disclosures for the transition toIFRS 9 and is satisfied that they are reasonable.
Deferred tax asset The Bank recognises a material deferred tax asset in respect The Committee considered the recognition of the DTA, in of unutilised past operating losses.
The recoverability of particular the seven-year financial plan including the timing the deferred tax asset DTA requires consideration of the over which future taxable profits are expected to be available expected future levels of taxable profit in the Group.
for the deferred tax asset to be realised.
The Committee noted that Metro Bank has generated a full year of profit in 2017 and, based on the business plans and evidence provided, agrees with the management judgement that sufficient taxable profits are expected to be available to utilise the tax losses carried forward in full and therefore the entire asset is considered to be recoverable.
Income recognition The Bank recognises interest on customer loans using the The Committee reviewed reporting which explained that the effective interest rate method.
Under this method, fees and expected lives of financial instruments are reviewed at least interest should be spread over the expected life of each annually.
Lives are determined on a portfolio basis based on instrument to create an even interest rate.
The bank does not offer products with any interest-free teaser The Committee is satisfied that management has undertaken periods.
Fees recognised within interest primarily include an appropriate review, and the judgements applied are loan arrangement fees and upfront costs of new lending reasonable.
forexample, broker commissions and valuation fees.
Judgement is required to estimate the expected lives of our loan portfolios.
