STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information directors.
The same recruitment principles are therefore applied in relation to board-level positions, whether executive or non-executive.
Effectiveness The board sets pre-dened and objective criteria for candidate selection at the outset of all recruitment exercises.
The board values diversity in its broadest sense when considering appointments to the board.
It seeks to identify and secure the best candidate available in the market against Nominations Committee report those criteria.
It has not, as yet, set any measurable objectives for the outcomes of its board diversity policy, but is cognisant that the ideal Dear shareholders, blend of diverse backgrounds will remain a priority in 2018 and beyond.
Further information on our Diversity and inclusion policy, together with The primary focus of the Committee during 2017 has been succession data on the proportion of women employees and board members as at planning at board level.
This focus has been divided between 31 December 2017 is available on page 36, along with the progress made shorter-term recommendations to support the requirements of the board in 2017 against the measurable objectives for workplace diversity as set and its committees, and longer-term succession planning for by the board.
The Committee also spent time on succession planning at the Executive Activities in 2017 Committee level and considered appointment and succession plans for The Committee met seven times in 2017 and attendance at these certain roles, such as those of the chief financial officer CFO and chief meetings is shown in the table on page 57.
During the year, the commercial ofce r CCO.
Committee invited a number of additional attendees to its meetings, The remainder of our activities during the year are summarised in the including the chief executive and the Group executive, Human Resources, report below.
to provide advice and enable the Committee to make informed decisions.
The Committee led the process which resulted in the addition of David Constable, Sam Laidlaw and Simon Henry as non-executive directors in the first half of 2017 and Moya Greene announced in February 2018.
Following their appointment as non-executive directors, the Committee recommended to the board that Simon Henry join the Audit Committee, and David Constable and Sam Laidlaw join the Sustainability Committee.
A holistic review of the committee membership, taking into account the Jan du Plessis planned retirements and appointments of board members in 2018, will Nominations Committee chairman take place later this year.
Membership and key responsibilities The process for the selection and appointment of a new chairman was The Committee comprises all of the non-executive directors and is handled by a special committee under the leadership of the senior responsible, on behalf of the board, for regularly assessing the balance of independent director.
Members of the Nominations Committee executive and non-executive directors, and the composition of the board participated in that special committee, enabling it to benefit from the in terms of skills, experience, diversity and capacity required to oversee board composition analysis and succession planning activities already the delivery of Rio Tintos strategy.
undertaken by the Nominations Committee.
The Committee monitors the nature and scope of external commitments During the year, a review was conducted of members of the Executive of existing and potential directors in relation to the independence Committee.
To reinforce the Groups focus on driving value across the provisions set out in the UK and Australian corporate governance business from mine to market, the chief executive proposed the creation regimes, requirements in relation to conicts of interest, as set out in the of a new role, a CCO based in Singapore.
The Committee considered and UK Companies Act and Australian Corporations Act, and regulation and reviewed the proposed appointment and selection process for the CCO best practice in relation to over-boarding.
On an annual basis, the Simon Trott and the new Group executive, Group General Counsel, Committee considers the re-election of directors prior to the boards Philip Richards, and approved other succession planning changes that recommendation to shareholders.
the chief executive was seeking to implement.
On behalf of the board, the Committee also reviews proposals for Performance review appointments to the Executive Committee and monitors executive succession planning.
As part of its annual evaluation exercise, the Committee set various priorities for its work in 2018, which include: The Committees terms of reference set out its main responsibilities, and are available to view on the Rio Tinto website.
Focusing in detail on a succession plan for the next CFO: Spending more time with the chief executive on succession plans for Approach to recruitment the Executive Committee: The Committee develops, and agrees in advance, the desired proles of While the chief executive is still relatively new in role, initial planning potential candidates for board membership.
It oversees the recruitment for his eventual succession and den ing succession planning for that process, ensuring it is formal and rigorous, including constructing role in an emergency: and shortlists, comprising candidates from diverse backgrounds, and Ensuring that diversity and inclusion are addressed as a priority.
conducting appropriate background and reference checks.
Following a final review of short-listed candidates, the Committee makes Overall board and committee composition recommendations to the board on the appointment of new board The Committee confirms there are no matters in relation to directors members.
The Committee engaged Egon Zehnder International EZI as an external recruitment consultant to conduct searches and executive independence or conicts of interest that are required to be disclosed in this report.
While a number of the non-executive directors have evaluations.
EZI also conducts searches for senior management positions within the Group and are signatories to the Voluntary Code of Conduct on appointments to the boards of other listed or traded companies, the gender diversity and best practice.
Committee is satisfied that each directo r has sufficient time to devote to their role and is not over-boarded.
Diversity Building on its previous work, the Committee agreed that the priorities for Rio Tinto has a Group-wide policy, which the board fully endorses, on how board succession in 2018 are to: i identify an executive director to diversity in all its forms can be protected and promoted when recruiting succeed Chris Lynch as CFO: ii continue the refreshment and employees.
Diversity in board composition is an important driver of a broadening of the membership of the Audit Committee: and iii consider boards effectiveness, as it helps promote a breadth of perspective among the gender, ethnic and geographical diversity of the board.
com 59 Production, reserves and operations Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Additional information Leadership attributes: Will uphold the ethics, values and culture of Chairman succession planning Rio Tinto and ensure that the inclusive and cohesive culture of the The process to appoint the new chairman was initially led by Rio Tinto board endures.
Possesses the character, confidence, independence senior independent director, John Varley and, subsequently, by Ann and emotional intelligence to ensure authority with the board and the Godbehere, with the support of external consultants, Egon Zehnder Executive Committee.
Provides support and advice to the chief International.
The board established a special committee of selected non-executive Interviews of shortlisted candidates were held by the special committee directors, chaired by the senior independent director, to assist the board and other board members.
At the end of the process, the full board by managing the succession planning process.
In this regard, the special other than Simon Thompson unanimously approved the appointment of committee was authorised to act in place of the Nominations Committee.
Simon Thompson as chairman with effect from 5 March 2018.
The special committee gave regular briengs to the full board on its What Simon brings to the role: progress and consulted the chief executive throughout the process.
Board experience: Simon has chaired two FTSE companies: 3i and The committee considered the specic business experience and Tullow Oil.
His experience as a non-executive director includes serving leadership qualities that they were looking for in a new chairman, which on the boards of AngloGold Ashanti, Rusal and Newmont Mining included: Corporation.
Business and sector experience: Simon has over 20 years experience Board experience: Has served on the board of a major listed company working globally in the mining and metals industry.
He held a number as a chairman or non-executive director and who is familiar with, and of senior positions at Anglo American group, including executive sensitive to, the chairman role in the UK Corporate Governance director of Anglo American plc and chief executive of the Base Metals context or equivalent.
Business and sector experience: Has led large, complex Leadership attributes: Simon has worked with many of the leading multinational businesses, preferably ones that are capital intensive, international NGOs operating in the natural resources area as a result long cycle and safety focused.
Operational experience, including of his work on tax transparency while chairman of Tullow Oil and his managing physical risk.
Able to build relationships with stakeholders, membership of the IFC Advisory Panel on Business and Sustainability.
particularly in Australia, Asia and Canada.
Strong track record with He is vice president of the Institute of Business Ethics, which promotes institutional shareholders.
high standards of integrity and corporate governance in business.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Induction and training Induction plan On joining Rio Tinto, all non-executive directors receive a full, formal During my first year at Rio Tinto, I have received a full and induction programme, delivered over a number of months, that is tailored tailored induction programme to the Group.
In this period, I met to their specific requirements and takes into account their prospective with members of the Executive Committee and other key committee responsibilities.
The aim is to provide a deep understanding of functional management.
Rio Tintos business, operations and organisation, as well as the central functions and governance environment.
In 2017, tailored programmes As a member of the Sustainability Committee, I received detailed were provided to Simon Henry, a non-executive director and Audit briefings from relevant members of the Executive Committee on Committee member, and Sam Laidlaw and David Constable, each a nonhealth, safety and environment priorities: how the Groups executive director and Sustainability Committee member.
The partner-to-operate strategy informs our engagement with programme included detailed briefings with key senior product groups communities, suppliers and customers: and the operational and functional management.
environment at certain of our key assets and businesses.
All directors are expected to commit to continuing their development The site visits to the Saguenay and the Pilbara regions also during their tenure, and this is facilitated by: i a combination of site provided an opportunity to gain a deeper understanding of some visits: ii internal business and operational briefings provided in or around of the Groups largest operations and a heightened awareness of scheduled board and committee meetings: iii updates from Group the real risk of major accident events and what controls are functions, such as investor relations, tax, treasury, policy and corporate needed to be in place to prevent them.
affairs and human resources: and iv external training programmes.
In addition, the Group company secretary provides regular updates on Prior to joining the Group, I was also provided with a suite of corporate governance developments in the UK, Australia and the US.
online reference materials, including recent financial and strategic documents and board papers, analyst presentations and In 2018, the Group company secretary will join the chairman in meeting risk and controls reports, which enabled me to gain a greater with each non-executive director to discuss their work with the board and understanding of Rio Tintos business and the activities of the to agree individual development goals and training programmes.
David Constable Non-executive director and member of the Sustainability Committee Board skills, experience and diversity In leading a large global mining and metals company, the board aims to evolve its membership by seeking non-executive directors with diverse and complementary skills and experience.
The board recognises that the evolution of the mix of skills and diversity gender and nationality is a long-term process and it weighs the various factors relevant to board balance and diversity when vacancies arise.
The key collective skills and experience relevant for the board, as determined by the board on the recommendation of the Nominations Committee, are set out below.
Capital projects Experience working in an industry with projects involving large-scale capital outlays and long-term investment horizons.
Executive leadership Sustainable success in business at a senior executive level.
Financial Proficiency in financial accounting and reporting, corporate finance and internal financial controls, corporate funding, and the associated risks.
Global Experience in multiple global locations, exposed to a range of political, cultural, regulatory and business environments.
Governance Commitment to the highest standard of governance, including experience with a major organisation that demonstrates rigorous governance standards.
Government relations geopolitical Interaction with government and regulators and involvement in public policy decisions.
Health, safety and environment Familiarity with issues associated with workplace health and safety, environment and social responsibility, and communities.
Marketing Senior executive experience in marketing, and development of product and or customer management strategies.
Mining Senior executive experience in a large mining organisation involved in the discovery, acquisition, development and marketing of natural resources.
Remuneration Understanding of the link between strategy, performance and remuneration outcomes.
Risk management Experience in developing an asset or business portfolio over the long term that remains resilient to systemic risk, and establishing risk management frameworks, setting risk appetite and overseeing organisational risk culture.
Strategy Proven ability in developing and implementing successful strategies, including appropriately probing and challenging management on the delivery of agreed strategic objectives.
Technology A strong understanding of technology and innovation, and the development and implementation of initiatives to enhance production.
com 61 Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information The chairman is responsible for the assessment of each individual Performance evaluation non-executive directors performance and contribution.
In addition to the A formal and rigorous annual review of the performance of the board, its review by Lintstock, the chairman met with each non-executive director to committees, the chairman and individual directors is carried out, with the review their performance and training needs.
results used to drive continuous development of individual directors and The non-executive directors, led by the senior independent director, are improvement in the effectiveness of the board.
responsible for the performance evaluation of the chairman.
Lintstock In 2017, the board engaged Lintstock to undertake an externally provided a report to the senior independent director who, in turn, met facilitated evaluation, which covered the following topics: board with the chairman to provide feedback based on the report and input from composition, expertise and dynamics: management of meetings and individual directors.
board support: strategic oversight: risk management: personal The performance of Executive Committee members, including executive development: and priorities for change.
Lintstock is a specialist corporate directors, is continually evaluated as part of the Groups performance advisory rm with no other connection to Rio Tinto.
Further details are set out in the Remuneration report The results of the board and committee evaluations were discussed by on pages 84 to 87. the board and each respective committee and a series of action points A summary of key areas of focus for the coming year is highlighted below: were agreed.
2016 topic 2017 progress Further action The rating of the composition of the board was positive Work continues to enhance board diversity, in terms of gender, ethnicity, Board composition overall.
The new appointments were commented on geographical representation and balance of skills and experience.
Moya favourably having achieved an improved balance of Greenes appointment to the board was announced on 15 February 2018. financial and operational experience.
Strategic The involvement of the board in the formulation of strategy Strategic themes will be reviewed by the board more regularly on an oversight was rated highly, and the boards oversight of the ongoing basis, instead of focusing on strategy at the annual two-day implementation of strategy was positively rated.
Risk While positive overall, the boards oversight of the Groups While risk is addressed effectively at committee level, more time will be management principal risks could be enhanced by a more regular and spent by the board dening more precisely the boards risk appetite in deeper engagement, and suggestions were made for relation to key financial and operational areas.
The board will also improvement in this area.
undertake regular deep dives on particular risk themes.
Stakeholders The rating of the boards understanding of major investors The board will seek to establish mechanisms in 2018 to gather the was positive overall.
However, it was acknowledged that views of the workforce and report on how they were taken into account in more focus could be placed in relation to customers and decision-making.
Focus will be given to the Commercial organisation to employees.
gain a better understanding of customers and suppliers.
Independence Board re-election and board composition It is important that each non-executive director brings an independent Directors are accountable to shareholders.
Each director is subject to perspective to the boards deliberations.
On behalf of the board, the election by shareholders at the first AGMs after their appointment and Nominations Committee assesses the independence of each then is required to seek re-election at each years AGMs.
non-executive director against an independence framework combining In planning the composition of the non-executive part of the board, a the requirements of the Code, the ASX Principles and NYSE Standards.
balance must be struck between retaining a collective understanding of The board is satisfied that all of its non-executive directors are the company and its business with a progressive refreshing of the boards independent in character and judgment and are free from any composition.
The tenure of the current non-executive directors including relationships material or otherwise or circumstances that could create a the chairman is shown in the chart below: conict of interest.
Although Paul Tellier has served as a non-executive Non-executive director tenure director for more than nine years, the board does not believe his independence has been compromised by this tenure.
Paul Tellier will not Years Number of directors be seeking re-election at the 2018 AGMs.
0-3 3 A particularly rigorous independence review was conducted for Ann Godbehere, as she has served on the board for more than six years.
This review concluded that she was free from any conicts of interest, 3-6 3 continued to ask searching and pertinent questions on a wide range of topics and continued to bring her extensive experience to bear in board deliberations, which was supported by the board evaluation process.
6-9 1 The Nominations Committee believes that Ann continues to demonstrate independence and has therefore recommended that she stands for re-election at the 2018 AGMs.
9 2 Jan du Plessis was considered independent at the time of his appointment There are currently nine non-executive directors on the board.
as chairman under the Code and, in the boards view, he continues to satisfy the tests for independence under the ASX Principles and NYSE Standards.
In the boards view, Simon Thompson will be considered independent on appointment as chairman under the Code, and will satisfy the tests for independence under the ASX Principles and NYSE Standards.
