ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 METRO BANK PLC NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Attendance at the Nomination Committee As at 31 December 2017, the Nomination Committee comprised the following independent Non-Executive Directors and also the Chairman, Vernon W. Hill, II: Members Meetings attended 2017 Lord Flight Chairman Vernon W. Hill, II Keith Carby Roger Farah Attended Unable to attend Lord Flight Danielle Harmer Letter from the Chairman Chairman of the Nomination Chief People Officer I am pleased to share my report of the Nomination Committee Committee for 2017.
During the year, we focused on succession planning and met a number of Non-Executive Director candidates.
As a result, we oversaw the appointment of a new Non-Executive Director, Monique Melis, and also a new Chief Financial The Nomination Officer, David Arden.
Monique brings with her significant experience in financial Committee is focused services, regulation and compliance.
She was introduced as asuitable candidate by one of the existing members of the on identifying new talent Board.
We followed a rigorous process for her appointment which included interviews with the Chairman and several for the Board Board members, alongside detailed referencing and due diligence.
Following this, we made a recommendation for her appointment to the Board, and we are delighted to welcome her to the team.
David, a seasoned CFO, joins the Company in March 2018 when Mike Brierley retires.
Mike is one of the two founding 2017 in brief Metro Bank Executive Directors.
We will be sorry to see him leave and wish him well for the future.
The search firm Non-Executive Directors considered Alderbrooke Group, itself a customer of Metro Bank, helped us identify and recruit our new CFO, and we are looking to be independent.
forward to David joining us.
We continue to identify Non-Executive Director candidates in 100% our quest to progressively strengthen and refresh the Board.
Average tenure of Non-Executive Directors in years.
5.7 Non-Executive Director appointments during the year 1 62 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 METRO BANK PLC Board composition, independence and time commitments The Nomination Committee in brief We reviewed the skills, experience, independence and The Nomination Committee leads the process for identifying knowledge of the Board during 2017.
This process helps us and making nomination recommendations to the Board.
Its understand which areas we may want to focus on when duties include: recruiting future Board members, as well as the likely future Regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition composition of our Board.
including skills, knowledge, independence, experience and diversity of the Board, and making recommendations to The Committee is satisfied that all of the Non-Executive the Board as required.
Directors remain independent and free of relationships and Considering succession planning for Directors and other other circumstances that could affect their judgement and senior executives, taking into account the challenges and ability to offer robust challenge while providing the support opportunities facing the Company, and the skills and that also forms part of their role.
expertise needed on the Board in the future.
Taking responsibility for identifying and nominating The Board carried out an externally facilitated evaluation candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise, during 2017.
More details on this can be found in the for the approval of the Board.
Corporate Governance Statement on page 52.
Considering Board candidates on merit and against objective criteria and with due regard for the benefits of Diversity diversity, taking care that appointees have time available to We understand the merits of a diverse organisation and Board devote to the position.
and one of our top priorities is to use diverse long lists in Reviewing the results of the Board performance evaluation order to identify candidates for Board roles.
We have retained process relating to the Board composition.
the services of Audeliss, a search firm, to support us in sourcing candidates for Non-Executive Director roles in the Full details can be found on our website: future.
Diversity is central to Audelisss approach and we are metrobankonline.
delighted to be working with them.
Audeliss has no connection to Metro Bank.
Composition of the Nomination Committee In addition to the members set out on page 62 Craig We do not have any specific targets in relation to Board Donaldson CEO attends meetings by invitation while the diversity and any appointments are made on merit as we seek Chief People Officer, Danielle Harmer, acts as the Secretary individuals who will add significant value.
However, we are tothe Committee and provides support to the Committee committed to building a strong Board which is diverse in Chairman and the Committee as needed.
Following each meeting the Chairman provided a verbal Lord Flight update to the Board.
The Committee minutes are also Nomination Committee Chairman included in future Board papers.
1 March 2018 Key areas discussed at Nomination Committee in 2017 Area Discussion Board The composition and diversity of composition and Board membership succession Board tenure and independence The appointment of a new Chief Financial Officer The appointment of a new NonExecutive Director The Board succession plan and the skills and experience of the Board as a group Review of proposed Non-Executive Director candidates 2017 Hampton-Alexander data report 63 Financial statements Governance Strategic report
