Corporate Governance All Directors are collectively responsible Report for the success of the Group.
Corporate governance Leadership and responsibilities The CEO is responsible to the Board for the We have prepared this Annual Report The roles of Chairman and CEO are split.
management, development and performance with reference to the UK Corporate Leif Johansson, our Non-Executive Chairman, of our business for those matters for which he Governance Code published by the is responsible for leadership of the Board.
has been delegated authority from the Board.
UK Financial Reporting Council FRC in April 2016.
This Corporate Governance Our CEO, Pascal Soriot, leads the SET Although the CEO retains full responsibility for Report together with other sections and has executive responsibility for running the authority delegated to him by the Board, of this Annual Report describes how our business.
The Board comprises 10 he has established, and chairs, the SET, which we apply the main principles of good Non-Executive Directors, including the is the vehicle through which he exercises that governance in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have complied Chairman, and two Executive Directors authority in respect of our business.
throughout the accounting period with the CEO, Pascal Soriot, and the CFO, Marc the provisions of the UK Corporate Dunoyer.
Its responsibilities are set out in the The roles of the Board, Board Committees, Governance Code, which is available Corporate Governance Overview on page 87.
Chairman and CEO are documented, on the FRCs website, www.
as are the Boards reserved powers and Rudy Markham, who joined the Board delegated authorities.
as a Non-Executive Director in 2008, was appointed as our senior independent Operation of the Board Non-Executive Director in April 2015.
The Board discharges its responsibilities The role of the senior independent as set out in the Corporate Governance Non-Executive Director is to serve as Overview on page 87 through a programme a sounding board for the Chairman and of meetings that includes regular reviews of as an intermediary for the other Directors financial performance and critical business when necessary.
The senior independent issues, and the formal annual strategy review Non-Executive Director is also available day.
The Board also aims to ensure that to shareholders if they have concerns a good dialogue with our shareholders that contact through the normal channels is maintained and that their issues and of Chairman or Executive Directors has concerns are understood and considered.
failed to resolve, or for which such contact is inappropriate.
The Board held six meetings in 2017, including its usual annual strategy review.
Five took As shown in the Corporate Governance place in London, UK and one at AstraZeneca Overview, there are four principal Board facilities in Sweden.
The Board is currently Committees.
The membership and work scheduled to meet six times in 2018 and of these Committees is described on the will meet at such other times as may be following pages.
In addition, there may from required to conduct business.
time to time be constituted ad hoc Board Committees for specific projects or tasks.
As part of the business of each Board meeting, the CEO typically submits a In these cases, the scope and responsibilities progress report, giving details of business of the Committee are documented.
The Board performance and progress against the goals provides adequate resources to enable each the Board has approved.
To ensure that the Committee to undertake its duties.
Board has good visibility of the key operating decisions of the business, members of the Reserved matters and delegation SET attend Board meetings regularly and of authority Board members meet other senior executives The Board maintains and periodically throughout the year.
The Board also reviews a list of matters that are reserved receives accounting and other management to, and can only be approved by, the Board.
information about our resources, and These include: the appointment, termination presentations from internal and external and remuneration of any Director: approval speakers on legal, governance and regulatory of the annual budget: approval of any item developments.
At the end of Board meetings, of fixed capital expenditure or any proposal the Non-Executive Directors meet without for the acquisition or disposal of an the Executive Directors present to review investment or business which exceeds and discuss any matters that have arisen $150 million: the raising of capital or loans during the meeting and or such other matters by the Company subject to certain as may appear to the Non-Executive Directors exceptions : the giving of any guarantee to be relevant in properly discharging their in respect of any borrowing of the Company: duty to act independently.
T he membership of the Board at and allotting shares of the Company.
31 December 2017 and information The matters that have not been expressly about individual Directors is reserved to the Board are delegated by contained in the Board of Directors section on pages 88 and 89. the Board to its Committees or the CEO.
92 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Principal matters considered by the Board in 2017 Board effectiveness Appointments to the Board, succession planning and diversity Area of focus Strategic priority The Nomination and Governance Committee and, where appropriate, the full Board, Strategic matters The Groups overall strategy, including its long-range plan regularly review the composition of the and annual budget Board and the status of succession to both senior executive management and Board-level The Groups capital structure, including financing needs positions.
Directors have regular contact with, andstrategy and access to, succession candidates for senior executive management positions.
Requests for approval of business development transactions The Nomination and Governance Committee of a size requiring Board approval section on page 96 provides information about the appointment process for new Dividend decisions Directors.
Newly appointed Directors are provided with comprehensive information Operational Executive management reports, including business performance about the Group and their role as Nonmatters reports, R&D pipeline updates and the results of key clinical trials Executive Directors.
They also typically participate in tailored induction programmes Quarterly results announcements that take account of their individual skills and experience.
Progress with construction of the Groups new strategic R&Dcentre and global corporate headquarters at Cambridge Diversity Biomedical Campus in the UK Diversity is integrated across our new Code of Ethics and associated workforce policy, Stakeholders Employee gender data and we promote a culture of diversity, respect, and equal opportunity, where individual success depends only on personal ability Sustainability matters and contribution.
We strive to treat our employees with fairness, integrity, honesty, Visits to R&D and Operations sites in Sweden and a review of courtesy, consideration, respect, and dignity, theCompanys Nordic Baltic business regardless of gender, race, nationality, age, sexual orientation, or other forms of diversity.
Governance, Reports from Board Committees assurance and The Board is provided each year with a risk management comprehensive overview of the AstraZeneca Routine succession planning for SET and Board-level roles workforce, covering a wide range of metrics and measures including trends around gender diversity, leadership ethnic diversity Risks arising from Brexit and mitigation plans and age profile.
Year-end governance and assurance reports More specifically, the Board views gender, nationality and cultural diversity among Board members as important considerations The Groups viability and risk appetite statements when reviewing its composition.
The Board recognises, in particular, the importance The annual review of the performance of the Board, of gender diversity.
Currently, 50% of the itsCommittees and individual Directors Companys Non-Executive Directors are women and women make up 42% of the Private discussion time for Non-Executive Directors only full Board.
Key Considering diversity in a wider sense, the Board aims to maintain a balance in terms of Achieve Scientific Leadership the range of experience and skills of individual Return to Growth Board members, which includes relevant international business, pharmaceutical Be a Great Place to Work industry and financial experience, as well Achieve Group Financial Targets as appropriate scientific and regulatory knowledge.
The biographies of Board members set out on pages 88 and 89 give more information about current Directors in this respect.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Corporate Governance Report 93 Corporate Governance Report continued Although it has not set any objectives applying However, the Board believes that he has On occasions when a Director is unavoidably specifically to the composition of the Board brought, and continues to bring, considerable absent from a Board or Board Committee within a formal policy, the Board intends to business experience and makes a valuable meeting, for example where a meeting clashes continue with its current approach to diversity contribution to the work of the Board.
In April with their other commitments, they still receive in all its aspects, while at the same time 2010, he was appointed as a member of the and review the papers for the meeting and seeking Board members of the highest Science Committee, reflecting his interest typically provide verbal or written input ahead calibre, and with the necessary experience in innovation and R&D, knowledge of the of the meeting, usually through the Chairman and skills to meet the needs of the Company history of the Company and its scientific of the Board or the Chairman of the relevant and its shareholders.
Rather than adopting heritage and culture, and his broad Board Committee, so that their views are quotas or other similar objectives, the Board experience of other industries and made known and considered at the meeting.
prefers to adopt a more flexible approach businesses in which innovation and R&D Given the nature of the business to be focused on appointing on merit while having are important determinants of success.
conducted, some Board meetings are due regard to the benefits that can be gained convened at short notice, which can make it from diversity.
This approach has yielded Conflicts of interest difficult for some Directors to attend due to successful results women make up 42% of The Articles enable the Directors to authorise prior commitments.
the Board, which comfortably exceeds the any situation in which a Director has an target of 33% set out in the report from Lord interest that conflicts or has the potential to Information and support Davies published in October 2015.
Information conflict with the Companys interests and The Company Secretary is responsible to about our approach to diversity in the which would otherwise be a breach of the the Chairman for ensuring that all Board organisation below Board level can be Directors duty, under Section 175 of the and Board Committee meetings are properly found in Employees from page 35.
The Board has a formal conducted, that the Directors receive system in place for Directors to declare such appropriate information prior to meetings to Independence of the Non-Executive Directors situations to be considered for authorisation enable them to make an effective contribution, During 2017, the Board considered the by those Directors who have no interest in the and that governance requirements are independence of each Non-Executive matter being considered.
In deciding whether considered and implemented.
Director for the purposes of the UK Corporate to authorise a situation, the non-conflicted Governance Code and the corporate Directors must act in the way they consider, The Company maintained Directors and governance listing standards of the NYSE in good faith, would be most likely to promote Officers Liability Insurance cover throughout Listing Standards.
With the exception of the success of the Company, and they may 2017.
The Directors are also able to obtain Marcus Wallenberg, the Board considers impose limits or conditions when giving the independent legal advice at the expense that all of the Non-Executive Directors are authorisation, or subsequently, if they think of the Company, as necessary, in their independent.
The Board noted that, as of this is appropriate.
Situations considered capacity as Directors.
September 2017, Rudy Markham had served by the Board and authorisations given are on the Board for nine years but determined recorded in the Board minutes and in a The Company has entered into a deed of that he remains independent in character and register of conflicts maintained by the indemnity in favour of each Board member judgement, as evidenced by the way in which Company Secretary, and are reviewed since 2006.
These deeds of indemnity are still he discharges his duties as a Board and annually by the Board.
The Board believes in force and provide that the Company shall Board Committee member, and as senior that this system operates effectively.
indemnify the Directors to the fullest extent independent Non-Executive Director.
permitted by law and the Articles, in respect Time commitment of all losses arising out of, or in connection Leif Johansson was considered by the Board Our expectation is that Non-Executive with, the execution of their powers, duties and to be independent upon his appointment Directors should be prepared to commit responsibilities as Directors of the Company as Chairman.
In accordance with the UK 15 days a year, as an absolute minimum, or any of its subsidiaries.
This is in line with Corporate Governance Code, the test of to the Groups business.
In practice, Board current market practice and helps us attract independence is not appropriate in relation members time commitment exceeds this and retain high quality, skilled Directors.
to the Chairman after his appointment.
minimum expectation when all the work that they undertake for the Group is considered, Re-election of Directors Marcus Wallenberg was appointed as a particularly in the case of the Chairman of In accordance with Article 66 of the Articles, Director of Astra in May 1989 and subsequently the Board and the Chairmen of the Board all Directors retire at each AGM and may offer became a Director of the Company in 1999.
As well as their work in relation themselves for re-election by shareholders.
He is a Non-Executive Director of Investor AB, to formal Board and Board Committee Accordingly, all of the Directors will retire at which has a 4.07% interest in the issued share meetings, the Non-Executive Directors the AGM in May 2018.
The Notice of AGM capital of the Company as at 2 February 2018. also commit time throughout the year to will give details of those Directors seeking Mr Wallenberg, Investor AB and a number meetings and telephone calls with various re-election.
of Wallenberg charitable foundations are levels of executive management, visits connected.
For these reasons, the Board to AstraZenecas sites throughout the does not believe that he can be determined world and, for new Non-Executive Directors, independent under the UK Corporate induction sessions and site visits.
94 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Board performance evaluation 2017 Overview 2017 Outcomes During the year, the Board conducted the Main areas covered: Main conclusions and recommendations: Overall conclusion annual evaluation of its own performance Board composition The Board operates effectively and in The reviews of the and that of its Committees and individual and dynamics a manner that encourages open and Boards Committees Directors.
The 2017 evaluation was Board meeting frank discussion.
did not raise any management The Board valued the positive significant problems facilitated by Lintstock Ltd Lintstock, and support contributions of the new members that and concluded that a London-based corporate advisory firm Board Committees had been appointed during the year and the Committees are that provides objective and independent Board oversight noted the importance of sharing, and so operating effectively.
counsel to leading European companies.
Risk management retaining, corporate memory through In respect of the 2017 and internal control the period of change.
annual performance Lintstock supplies software and services Succession planning The Board identified certain areas that evaluation it was to the Company Secretarys team for Board and human resource could be enhanced, including provision concluded that each evaluation questionnaires and for the management of further opportunities to visit and Director continues management of insider lists but has no other Priorities for 2018 learn from different AstraZeneca teams to perform effectively and sites to help build a balanced and to demonstrate commercial relationship with the Company.
understanding of the business, commitment to his or Based on Board members responses to a the use of informal meetings between her role.
web-based questionnaire covering a wide Board members to focus on talent range of topics and on interviews carried management, and ensuring succession planning activities for business critical out by Linstock with each Board member, roles were undertaken proactively Lintstock prepared a report, which was with opportunities for all Board discussed by the Board at its meeting in members to input.
February 2018 and was also used by the Chairman as the basis for individual conversations with each Board member Chairman evaluation The 2017 evaluation also included a review of the performance of the Chairman by the other Directors, prior to the full Board discussion.
led by the senior independent Non-Executive Director and absent the Chairman.
The Board intends to continue to comply No significant issues needed to be addressed.
The excellent quality of the Chairmans leadership with the UK Corporate Governance Code of the Board was noted, as were the good relationships between him and key stakeholders.
guidance that the evaluation should be externally facilitated at least every three years and expects to commission the next Actions against prior year recommendations externally facilitated review in 2020.
2016 evaluation 2017 actions taken Director training As part of each Directors individual Maintain and further The recruitment of four new Non-Executive Directors in 2017 Philip discussion with the Chairman, his or improve the diversity Broadley, Nazneen Rahman, Sheri McCoy and Deborah DiSanzo of the Board has improved the diversity of the Board in several aspects.
her contribution to the work of the Board and personal development needs were Reports back to the full Board from the Nomination and Governance Maintain and further considered.
Directors training needs are met Committee have been given greater prominence on Board meeting agendas improve full Board by a combination of internal presentations and the practice of inviting all Board members to attend meetings of the oversight of succession and updates and external speaker planning for Committee, should they wish to do so, has been continued during 2017. presentations as part of Board and Board Board-level roles Committee meetings: specific training sessions on particular topics, where Provide more opportunities Progress has been made by using presentations in Board meetings, for Board members to meet site visits and Board lunches and dinners as opportunities to expose Board required: and the opportunity for Directors senior employees having members to potential succession candidates.
For example, the Board to attend external courses at the Companys the potential to progress to visited two of the Companys main sites in Sweden during 2017 and held cost, should they wish to do so.
the most senior executive small-group meetings with high-potential employees there, and members roles in the Company of the Audit Committee met employees during their visits to the Companys sites in the UK, Germany and Brazil.
Maintain the right balance As the Companys pipeline of new medicines has matured and several of Board time for R&D new drugs have achieved regulatory approval and been launched, matters on the one hand, with others in the pre-launch phase, the balance of Board time has and commercial and naturally evolved to include a better balance between R&D and commercial operations matters on matters.
The Board is due to review Operations manufacturing and supply the other at a Board meeting in 2018.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Corporate Governance Report 95 Corporate Governance Report continued Accountability Relations with shareholders the UK Corporate Governance Code, details Risk management and internal control In our quarterly, half-yearly and annual financial of proxy voting by shareholders, including The Board has overall responsibility for and business reporting to shareholders and votes withheld, are given at the AGM and are our system of internal controls and risk other interested parties, we aim to present a posted on our website following the AGM.
management policies and has an ongoing balanced and understandable assessment of responsibility for reviewing their effectiveness.
our strategy, financial position and prospects.
Nomination and Governance Committee During 2017, the Directors continued to review We make information about the Group The Nomination and Governance Committees the effectiveness of our system of controls, available to shareholders through a range role is to recommend to the Board any new risk management and high level internal of media, including our corporate website, Board appointments and to consider, more control processes.
com, which contains a broadly, succession plans at Board level.
an assessment of internal controls and, in wide range of data of interest to institutional It reviews the composition of the Board using particular, financial, operational and compliance and private investors.
We consider our website a matrix that records the skills and experience controls, and risk management and their to be an important means of communication of current Board members, comparing this effectiveness, supported by management with our shareholders.
with the skills and experience it believes are assurance of the maintenance of controls appropriate to the Companys overall business reports from Internal Audit Services, as well as The Company has been authorised and strategic needs, both now and in the external auditor on matters identified in the by shareholders to place shareholder the future.
Any decisions relating to the course of its statutory audit work.
During the communications such as the Notice of AGM appointment of Directors are made by the year, a number of internal control weaknesses and this Annual Report on the corporate entire Board based on the merits of the were reported relating to a new IT system website in lieu of sending paper copies to candidates and the relevance of their implemented in January 2017 used to shareholders unless specifically requested.
background and experience, measured manage customer deduction programmes in While recognising and respecting that some against objective criteria, with care taken the US and over the completeness of reports shareholders may have different preferences to ensure that appointees have enough time used to validate the adequacy of supporting about how they receive information from to devote to our business.
documentation and approval of manual journals.
us, we will continue to promote the benefits These were remediated in-year with validation of electronic communication given the The Nomination and Governance Committee testing performed to ensure operational advantages that this has over traditional also advises the Board periodically on effectiveness.
Across the wider internal paper-based communications, both in terms significant developments in corporate control environment, a large number of design of the configurability and accessibility of the governance and the Companys compliance improvements have been implemented to information provided and the consequent cost with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
further strengthen, enhance and fide-risk savings and reduction in environmental impact.
our internal control over financial reporting.
During 2017, the members of the Nomination The system of controls is designed to manage Our Investor Relations team acts as the main and Governance Committee were Leif rather than eliminate the risk of failure to point of contact for investors throughout Johansson Chairman of the Committee, achieve business objectives and can only the year.
We have frequent discussions with Rudy Markham, Bruce Burlington until his provide reasonable not necessarily absolute current and potential shareholders on a range retirement from the Board on 31 August 2017 assurance of effective operation and of issues, including in response to individual and Graham Chipchase.
Each member is a compliance with laws and regulations.
ad hoc requests from shareholders and Non-Executive Director and considered analysts.
We also hold meetings to seek independent by the Board.
The Company The Directors believe that the Group maintains shareholders views.
Board members are Secretary acts as secretary to the Nomination an effective, embedded system of internal kept informed of any issues, and receive and Governance Committee.
controls and complies with the FRCs regular reports and presentations from guidance entitled Guidance on Risk executive management and our brokers to The Nomination and Governance Committee Management, Internal Control and Related assist them to develop an understanding of considers both planned and unplanned Financial and Business Reporting.
major shareholders views about the Group.
unanticipated succession scenarios and met five times in 2017, spending the majority More information about the ways in which we From time to time, we conduct perception of its time on succession planning for manage our business risks and describe our studies with institutional shareholders and a Non-Executive Directors with the assistance principal risks and uncertainties is set out limited number of analysts to ensure that we of the search firms MWM Consulting, Spencer in the Risk Overview from page 63 and Risk are communicating clearly with them and that Stuart and Korn Ferry and continued routine from page 210. a high-quality dialogue is being maintained.
succession planning internal and external for The results of these studies are reported to, the roles of CEO and CFO, with the assistance Remuneration and discussed by, the full Board.
As discussed of Spencer Stuart.
Korn Ferry and Spencer Information about our approach to remuneration above, the Senior independent Non-Executive Stuart periodically undertake executive search and the role and work of the Remuneration Director, Rudy Markham, is available to assignments for the Company.
Committee, is set out in the Directors shareholders if they have concerns that Remuneration Report from page 105. contact through the normal channels of The attendance record of the Nomination and Chairman, CEO and or CFO has failed to Governance Committees members is set out Policy on external appointments and resolve, or in relation to which such contact on page 87. retention of fees is inappropriate.
Subject to specific Board approval in each The Nomination and Governance Committees case, Executive Directors and other SET All shareholders, including private investors, terms of reference are available on our members may accept external appointments have an opportunity at the AGM to put website, www.
as non-executive directors of other companies, questions to members of the Board about and retain any related fees paid to them, our operation and performance.
Formal provided that such appointments are not notification of the AGM is sent to shareholders considered by the Board to prevent or reduce at least one month in advance.
All Board the ability of the executive to perform his or her members ordinarily attend the AGM to answer role within the Group to the required standard.
In line with 96 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Science Committee internal control over financial reporting and such as our quarterly results announcements The Science Committees core role is to provide to assess annually the effectiveness of such and scheduled investor relations events, assurance to the Board regarding the quality, internal control.
We have complied with and our unplanned disclosures in response competitiveness and integrity of the Groups those provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley to unforeseen events or circumstances.
R&D activities by way of meetings and dialogue Act applicable to foreign private issuers.
with our R&D leaders and other scientist Disclosure of information to auditors employees: visits to our R&D sites throughout The Board continues to believe that the The Directors who held office at the date of the world: and review and assessment of: Group has a sound corporate governance approval of this Annual Report confirm that, framework, good processes for the accurate so far as they are each aware, there is no the approaches we adopt in respect and timely reporting of its financial position relevant audit information of which the of our chosen therapy areas and results of operations, and an effective Companys auditors are unaware: and each the scientific technology and R&D and robust system of internal controls.
Director has taken all the steps that he capabilities we deploy We have established a Disclosure Committee, or she ought to have taken as a Director the decision-making processes for further details of which can be found in to make himself or herself aware of any R&D projects and programmes the Disclosure Committee section below.
relevant audit information and to establish the quality of our scientists and their career that the Companys auditors are aware of opportunities and talent development The Directors assessment of the effectiveness that information.
benchmarking against industry and of internal control over financial reporting scientific best practice, where appropriate.
is set out in the Directors Annual Report Global Compliance and Internal Audit on Internal Controls over Financial Reporting Services IA The Science Committee periodically reviews on page 128.
The role of the Global Compliance function is important bioethical issues that we face, and to help the Group achieve its strategic priorities assists in the formulation of, and agrees on We are required to disclose any significant by doing business the right way, with integrity behalf of the Board, appropriate policies in ways in which our corporate governance and high ethical standards.
Global Compliance relation to such issues.
It may also consider, practices differ from those followed by US continues to focus on ensuring the delivery from time to time, future trends in medical companies under the Listing Standards.
of an aligned approach to compliance that science and technology.
The Science In addition, we must comply fully with the addresses key risk areas across the business, Committee does not review individual R&D provisions of the Listing Standards relating including risks relating to external parties and projects but does review, on behalf of the to the composition, responsibilities and anti-bribery anti-corruption.
Our priorities Board, the R&D aspects of specific business operation of audit committees, applicable include improving compliance behaviours development or acquisition proposals and to foreign private issuers.
These provisions through effective training and communication: advises the Board on its conclusions.
incorporate the rules concerning audit monitoring compliance with our Code of Ethics committees implemented by the SEC under and supporting requirements: providing During 2017, the members of the Science the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
We have reviewed assurance that we are conducting appropriate Committee, all of whom have a knowledge the corporate governance practices required risk assessments and due diligence on third of, or an interest in, life sciences, were Bruce to be followed by US companies under parties whom we engage for services: and Burlington Chairman of the Committee the Listing Standards and our corporate ensuring that employees and external parties until his retirement from the Board on governance practices are generally consistent can raise any concerns.
Global Compliance 31 August 2017, Genevive Berger, Nazneen with those standards.
and IA work with various specialist compliance Rahman from her appointment as a Nonfunctions throughout our organisation to Executive Director on 1 June 2017 and Business organisation co-ordinate compliance activities.
As usual, the EVP, GMD: Disclosure Committee the EVP, IMED: and the EVP, MedImmune, Our disclosure policy provides a framework We take all alleged compliance breaches and participated in meetings of the Science for the handling and disclosure of inside concerns extremely seriously, and investigate Committee as co-opted members in 2017. information and other information of interest them and report the outcome of such The Vice-President, IMED Operations acts to shareholders and the investment investigations to the Audit Committee, as secretary to the Science Committee.
It also defines the role of the as appropriate.
Internal investigations The appointment of a new Chairman of Disclosure Committee.
The members of the are undertaken by staff from our Global the Science Committee is pending.
Disclosure Committee in 2017 were: the CFO, Compliance, Human Resources and or who chaired the Disclosure Committee: the Legal functions.
When necessary, external The Science Committee met twice in person in EVP, GMD who is also the Companys Chief advisers are engaged to conduct and or 2017, in London, UK and Cambridge, UK, and Medical Officer : the EVP, GPPS, Global advise on investigations.
held one other meeting by telephone to review Medical Affairs and Corporate Affairs: aspects of the Group scorecard in relation the General Counsel: the Vice-President, Serious breaches are raised with the Audit to Achieve Scientific Leadership targets.
Corporate Affairs: the Head of Investor Committee.
Where a significant breach has Relations: and the Vice-President Finance, occurred, management, in consultation with our The Science Committees terms of Group Controller.
Other senior executives Legal function, will consider whether the Group reference are available on our website, attend its meetings on an agenda-driven needs to disclose and or report the findings www.
The Deputy Company Secretary acted to a regulatory or governmental authority.
as secretary to the Disclosure Committee.
US corporate governance requirements The Disclosure Committee meets regularly Global Compliance provides direct assurance Our ADSs are traded on the NYSE and, to assist and inform the decisions of the to the Audit Committee on matters concerning accordingly, we are subject to the reporting CEO concerning inside information and compliance issues, including an analysis of and other requirements of the SEC applicable its disclosure.
Periodically, it reviews our compliance breaches.
Complementing this, to foreign private issuers.
Section 404 of the disclosure controls and procedures and its IA carries out a range of audits that include Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires companies to own operation as part of work carried out to compliance-related audits and reviews of the include in their annual report on Form 20-F enable management and the Board to assure assurance activities of other Group assurance filed with the SEC, a report by management themselves that appropriate processes are functions.
The results from these activities are stating its responsibility for establishing operating for both our planned disclosures, reported to the Audit Committee.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Corporate Governance Report 97 Corporate Governance Report continued IA is established by the Audit Committee Compliance with the Code is mandatory Subsidiaries and principal activities on behalf of the Board and acts as an and every employee receives annual training The Company is the holding company for a group independent and objective assurance function on it which they are required to complete.
of subsidiaries whose principal activities are guided by a philosophy of adding value to The Code was updated in 2017 to strengthen described in this Annual Report.
The Groups improve the operations of the Group.
The employee understanding and adherence by principal subsidiaries and their locations are scope of IAs responsibilities encompasses, outlining our commitments in simple terms given in Group Subsidiaries and Holdings in but is not limited to, the examination and and focusing on why these commitments the Financial Statements from page 190. evaluation of the adequacy and effectiveness matter.
The updated Code is comprised of of the Groups governance, risk management, our Company Values, expected behaviours Branches and countries in which the Group and internal control processes in relation to and Global Policies, and is further supported conducts business the Groups defined goals and objectives.
by requirements at the global, local and In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, business-unit level, to provide clear guidance we disclose below our subsidiary companies Internal control objectives considered by and direction to employees in carrying out that have representative or scientific IA include: their daily work.
The Code is also reviewed branches offices outside the UK: periodically and updated to take account of consistency of operations or programmes changing legal and regulatory obligations.
AstraZeneca UK Limited: Algeria scientific with established objectives and goals and office, Angola, Belarus, Chile, Costa Rica, effective performance The Code recommends that employees Croatia, Cuba, Dubai branch office, Georgia, effectiveness and efficiency of operations report possible violations to their line Ghana scientific office, Jordan, Kazakhstan, and employment of resources managers or to their local Human Resources, Romania, Russia, Saudi Arabia scientific compliance with significant policies, Legal, or Compliance partners.
The Code office, Serbia, Slovenia branch office, plans, procedures, laws and regulations also contains information on how to report Syria, Ukraine and Yemen scientific office reliability and integrity of management and possible violations through our Helpline, AstraZeneca AB: Egypt scientific office financial information processes, including which includes the AZethics telephone and Slovakia branch office the means to identify, measure, classify, lines, the AZethics website, and the Global AstraZeneca Singapore Pte Limited: and report such information Compliance email and postal addresses.
The Vietnam safeguarding of assets.
externally-operated website is available in 38 Astra Export & Trading AB: United Arab languages, and the phone lines are operable Emirates branch office.
Based on its activity, IA is responsible for in 96 countries, to facilitate reporting.
The reporting significant risk exposures and Helpline is available to both employees and Distributions to shareholders control issues identified to the Board and to external parties to report any concerns.
dividends for 2017 to senior management, including fraud risks, Reports can be made anonymously where Details of our distribution policy are set out governance issues, and other matters desired and where permitted by local law.
in the Financial Review from page 66 and needed or requested by the Audit Committee.
Anyone who raises a potential breach in Notes 22 and 23 to the Financial Statements It may also evaluate specific operations good faith is fully supported by management.
from page 171. at the request of the Audit Committee or management, as appropriate.
The majority of cases come to our attention The Companys dividend for 2017 of $2.80 through management and self-reporting, 202.5 pence, SEK 22.37 per Ordinary Share Code of Ethics which can be seen as an indication that amounts to, in aggregate, a total dividend Our Code of Ethics the Code, which is employees are comfortable in raising their payment to shareholders of $3,545 million.
available on our website, www.
concerns with line managers or local An employee share trust, AstraZeneca Share com, applies to all full-time and part-time Human Resources, Legal or Compliance, Retention Trust, waived its right to a dividend Directors, officers, employees and temporary as recommended in the Code and reinforced on the Ordinary Shares that it holds and staff, in all companies within our Group in the 2017 Code training.
In addition, in 2017, instead received a nominal dividend.
A Finance Code complements 359 reports of alleged compliance breaches the Code and applies to the CEO, the CFO, or other ethical concerns were made through A shareholders resolution was passed at the Groups principal accounting officers the Helpline, including reports made by any the 2017 AGM authorising the Company to including key Finance staff in major overseas anonymous route that could be considered purchase its own shares.
The Company did subsidiaries and all Finance function whistleblowing: in 2016 there were 320 reports.
not purchase any of its own shares in 2017. employees.
This reinforces the importance On 31 December 2017, the Company did of the integrity of the Groups Financial Other matters not hold any shares in treasury.
Statements, the reliability of the accounting Corporate governance statement under the records on which they are based and UK Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Going concern accounting basis the robustness of the relevant controls Rules DTR Information on the business environment in and processes.
The disclosures that fulfil the requirements of which AstraZeneca operates, including the a corporate governance statement under the factors underpinning the industrys future The Code is at the core of our compliance DTR can be found in this section and in other growth prospects, is included in the Strategic programme.
It has been translated into parts of this Annual Report as listed below, Report.
Details of the product portfolio of the approximately 40 languages and outlines each of which is incorporated into this section Group are contained in both the Strategic how our commitments to ethics, honesty, by reference: Report in the Therapy Area Review from page integrity and responsibility are to be realised 46 and the Directors Report.
Information on through consistent actions across all areas major shareholdings patent expiry dates for key marketed products of the business.
is included in Patent Expiries of Key Marketed Products from page 208.
Our approach to S hareholder Information from page 228. product development and our development pipeline are also covered in detail with additional information by therapy area in the Strategic Report.
98 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance The financial position of the Group, its cash make donations to political parties or External auditor flows, liquidity position and borrowing independent election candidates A resolution will be proposed at the AGM facilities are described in the Financial make donations to political organisations on 18 May 2018 for the re-appointment of Review from page 66.
In addition, Note 26 other than political parties  LLP PwC as to the Financial Statements from page 175 incur political expenditure, up to an auditor of the Company.
PwC was first includes the Groups objectives, policies and aggregate limit of $250,000.
appointed as auditor of the Company in 2017, processes for managing capital: financial risk in succession to KPMG LLP.
During 2017, management objectives: details of its financial Corporate political contributions in the US are KPMG and PwC undertook various non-audit instruments and hedging activities: and its permitted in defined circumstances under the services.
More information about this work exposures to credit, market and liquidity risk.
First Amendment of the US Constitution and and the audit and non-audit fees that we have Further details of the Groups cash balances are subject to both federal and state laws and paid are set out in Note 30 to the Financial and borrowings are included in Notes 16 and regulations.
In 2017, the Groups US legal Statements on page 189.
The external auditor 17 to the Financial Statements from page 160. entities made contributions amounting in is not engaged by AstraZeneca to carry out aggregate to $1,282,250 2016: $1,568,250 any non-audit work in respect of which it Having assessed the principal risks and other to national political organisations, state-level might, in the future, be required to express matters considered in connection with the political party committees and to campaign an audit opinion.
As explained more fully in viability statement on page 63, the Directors committees of various state candidates.
No the Audit Committee Report from page 100, consider it appropriate to adopt the going corporate donations were made at the federal the Audit Committee has established concern basis of accounting in preparing level and all contributions were made only pre-approval policies and procedures for the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
where allowed by US federal and state law.
audit and non-audit work permitted to be We publicly disclose details of our corporate carried out by the external auditor and Changes in share capital US political contributions, which can be found has carefully monitored the objectivity Changes in the Companys Ordinary Share on our website, www.
com and independence of the external auditor capital during 2017, including details of the sustainability .
throughout 2017. allotment of new shares under the Companys The annual corporate contributions budget share plans, are given in Note 22 to the is reviewed and approved by the US Directors Report Financial Statements on page 171.
Vice-President, Corporate Affairs and The Directors Report, which has been the President of our US business to ensure prepared in accordance with the requirements Directors shareholdings robust governance and oversight.
US of the Companies Act 2006, comprises the The Articles require each Director to be the citizens or individuals holding valid green following sections: beneficial owner of Ordinary Shares in the cards exercised decision making over the Company with an aggregate nominal value of contributions and the funds were not provided Chairmans Statement $125 which currently represents at least 500 or reimbursed by any non-US legal entity.
Chief Executive Officers Review shares because each Ordinary Share has a Such contributions do not constitute political Business Review nominal value of $0.25.
Such holding must be donations or political expenditure for the Therapy Area Review obtained within two months of the date of the purposes of the Companies Act 2006 Financial Review: Financial risk Directors appointment.
At 31 December 2017, and were made without any involvement management all of the Directors complied with this of persons or entities outside the US.
Corporate Governance: including the requirement and full details of each Directors Audit Committee Report and Corporate interests in shares of the Company are set Significant agreements Governance Report out in Directors interests in shares on pages There are no significant agreements to which Directors Responsibility Statement 116 and 117, along with information about the the Company is a party that take effect, alter Development Pipeline shareholding expectations of the Remuneration or terminate on a change of control of the Sustainability: supplementary information Committee in respect of Executive Directors Company following a takeover bid.
There are Shareholder Information and SET members and the Board in respect no persons with whom we have contractual of Non-Executive Directors.
or other arrangements, who are deemed by and has been approved by the Board the Directors to be essential to our business.
Political donations Neither the Company nor its subsidiaries Use of financial instruments The Board considers this Annual Report, made any EU political donations or incurred The Notes to the Financial Statements, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and any EU political expenditure in 2017 and they including Note 26 from page 175, include understandable, and provides the necessary do not intend to do so in the future in respect further information on our use of financial information for shareholders to assess of which shareholder authority is required, or instruments.
AstraZenecas position and performance, for which disclosure in this Annual Report is business model and strategy.
required, under the Companies Act 2006.
Annual General Meeting However, to enable the Company and its The Companys AGM will be held on 18 May On behalf of the Board subsidiaries to continue to support interest 2018.
The meeting place will be in London, A C N Kemp groups or lobbying organisations concerned UK.
A Notice of AGM will be sent to all Company Secretary with the review of government policy or law registered holders of Ordinary Shares and, reform without inadvertently breaching the where requested, to the beneficial holders 2 February 2018 Companies Act 2006, which defines political of shares.
donations and other political expenditure in broad terms, a resolution will be put to shareholders at the 2018 AGM, similar to that passed at the 2017 AGM, to authorise the Company and its subsidiaries to: AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Corporate Governance Report 99
