GOVERNANCE Governance report The UK Corporate Governance Code How the Board operates committed to the highest standards The Board is led by the Chairman, Sir John Kingman.
The The principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code as day-to-day management of the group is led by Nigel Wilson, published in 2016 the Code are the standards against which the Group Chief Executive.
The non-executive directors play a we measured ourselves during the year.
The information on key role in contributing to the delivery of strong organisational the following pages demonstrates how we apply the principles governance and their role is not limited to the boardroom.
The information required under Examples of some of the other activities they have undertaken Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rule 7.2.
6 can be found during the course of the year are set out on page 63. in the directors report on pages 251 to 254.
Each year, the The Board is accountable for the long-term success of the Board reviews the groups corporate governance framework company by setting the groups strategic objectives and and compliance with the Code and the table on pages 66 and monitoring performance against those objectives.
The Board 67 sets out at a high level how we have complied with each meets formally on a regular basis and, at each meeting, of the principles.
considers business performance, strategic proposals, Governance is integral to both our Board environment and acquisitions and material transactions.
The group and its organisational culture and is a key ingredient in the success of subsidiaries operate within a clearly defined delegated our business.
Our governance framework and policies support authority framework, which has been fully embedded across good decision-making thereby contributing to the success of the group.
The delegated authority framework ensures that the business over the long term.
It is the Boards responsibility there is an appropriate level of Board contribution to and to ensure we have an appropriate governance framework in oversight of key decisions and that the day-to-day business is place to continue to support our day-to-day operations and managed effectively.
The Board delegated authority framework protect the interests of our stakeholders.
consists of a clearly defined schedule of matters reserved for the Group Board.
The types of matters reserved for the Board The Board is closely monitoring the consultation currently include, amongst others, matters relating to the groups being undertaken by the Financial Reporting Council and the strategic plan, material transactions, risk appetite, and proposals for amendment to the Code.
oversight of systems of internal control and corporate The new Code is expected to be published in early summer governance policies.
Those matters which are not reserved are 2018 and will apply to accounting periods beginning on or after delegated by the Board to group level committees and to the 1 January 2019.
As has been the groups previous approach, Group CEO, who then delegates decision-making onward to the Company will endeavour to apply and report on the the Group Capital Committee, an executive decision-making updated principles of the new Code as soon as possible once forum, and his direct reports.
The Board Several changes to the Board have taken place over the course of the year.
Jeff Davies took up his appointment as Group Chief Financial Officer on 9 March 2017.
Kerrigan Procter, now Chief Executive Officer of LGC was appointed to the Board also with effect from 9 March 2017.
Their biographies are detailed on pages 56 to 57 and show the strength and depth of executive skills and experience they have brought to the Board.
Additionally, Julia Wilson took up her position as Senior Independent Director on 26 May 2017.
Mark Gregory stepped down from the Board on 9 March 2017 and both Rudy Markham and Richard Meddings stepped down from the Board on 25 May 2017.
The Board continues to focus on maintaining a well-balanced Board with the right mix of individuals who can apply their wider business knowledge and experiences to the oversight and guidance of delivery of the groups strategy within the environment in which the group operates.
62 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE How the Board spent its time in 2017 discussions on strategic proposals, acquisitions, material The Board met formally nine times during 2017 and Board transactions and group matters sub-committees were constituted on a number of occasions Board legal and governance matters in order to deal with matters arising in the ordinary course of Board members and, as appropriate, individuals from the business outside of the formal schedule of meetings.
The relevant business areas are invited to present on key items Board held one two-day and one half-day strategy events during allowing the Board the opportunity to debate and challenge on the year.
A table of individual Board member attendance at the initiatives directly with the senior management team along formal Board and Committee meetings is provided on page 67. with the executives.
The Group Board agenda is set by the Chairman and consists of the following broad discussion areas: an update from the Group Chief Executive, the Group Chief Financial Officer and each of the key business division heads on business performance and key business initiatives Key areas of focus Discussion and actions arising Strategy At its January meeting, the Board considered and approved the groups five-year business plan and 2017 budget.
This included a review of the divisional strategic objectives, initiatives and KPIs.
The Board held a half-day strategy event to discuss the groups housing strategy.
The Board held a two-day strategy event at the Chicago office to discuss progress against the groups strategic plan, the strategic direction and optionality for each of the business divisions, the risks and future opportunities for the group with a particular focus on US strategic considerations.
At each Board meeting, the Board considered corporate and material transactions to ensure that proposed transactions are aligned with the groups strategy.
The Board has early sight of pipeline initiatives.
The Board assesses the range of ongoing corporate and commercial transactions to provide Board members with full opportunity to debate and feed back to the management team.
Solvency II The Board considered and approved Internal Model Major Change applications.
Governance An externally facilitated Board evaluation took place in Q4 2017 and the Board considered the findings at the January 2018 meeting.
Detailed recommendations arising from the evaluation were developed and were subsequently approved by the Board.
The Board is regularly updated by the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary on legal matters, emerging regulation and governance changes.
Stakeholders During the year, the Board regularly considered the groups relationship with various stakeholder groups.
It discussed shareholder matters, employee engagement, customers, and the groups impact collectively on, and relationship with, wider society.
At the Boards May meeting, the companys brokers attended to present on shareholder engagement.
The Board met regularly through the year with its key regulators, the Prudential Regulation Authority and Financial Conduct Authority.
GOVERNANCE REPORT LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 63 GOVERNANCE | GOVERNANCE REPORT Strategy away days by the Group Company Secretary in providing all new directors Strategy remained a key focus for the Board throughout the with an individually tailored induction programme on joining the course of the year.
It held two separate strategy events Board.
This is tailored to the knowledge and experience of each outside the formal Board meeting schedule in 2017 a half-day individual and includes a series of meetings with members of event in May and a two-day event in October.
These events the Board and of the operational and functional leadership, provided the Board with an opportunity to reflect on the external advisers to the group, our regulators and a progress the groups strategy is making against the backdrop programme of meeting with staff.
This ensures they obtain a of the macro trends identified as the drivers of strategy, and detailed overview of the group, its business and governance also allow Board members to debate, scrutinise and review framework as well as the regulatory environment in which it performance against the strategic plan.
The Board also focuses operates.
Subsequently, all Board members receive continuing on the future and the next phase of the companys strategy.
education and development opportunities at regular intervals The agendas for the strategy events included debate and throughout the year.
discussion on strategic options involving the heads of each During the year, the development activities undertaken included: of the groups key business divisions: Legal & General Investment Management, Legal & General Retirement, one-to-one briefing sessions for non-executive directors with Legal & General Capital and Legal & General Insurance.
key members of the senior management team deep dives into our businesses and director site visits to business operations including: LGIMs US operations in Ensuring our directors have the right skills and Chicago, LGCs Housing division in Bracknell, L&G Homes experience to maintain an effective Board Factory in Leeds and LGC developments in Manchester The Board believes that continuous director training including the Salford regeneration and MediaCityUK and development is important to maximise the effectiveness of the Board.
The Chairman is assisted 2017 Board and Committee evaluations Each year, the Board considers the most appropriate method for This review was facilitated by Oliver Ziehn of Lintstock who was conducting a review of the Board and its committees performance.
engaged to undertake the review based on terms of reference agreed In deciding if an internal or external review is appropriate, the Board in advance with the Chairman.
Oliver has no other connection to the reflects on when it last completed an external review, what changes have company.
The aim of the review was to assess the effectiveness of the occurred to the composition of the Board during the course of the year Board, both as a collective unitary board, and at individual Board and any other factors that may have had an impact on the groups strategy member level, in order to implement any actions required to become during the year.
As the last external review was undertaken in 2015, the a more effective Board.
The performance of each of the Board Board was not required under the Code to undertake such a review during committees was also assessed.
the year: however, following a number of changes to the composition of The review focused in particular on the following areas: the Board in the previous 18 months, the Board determined that it would be appropriate to carry out an external independent review this year.
Board composition, expertise and dynamics strategic and performance oversight succession planning and human resource management priorities for change The review included a review of the Chairman and individual directors performance.
The review concluded that under the leadership of the new Chairman current Board dynamics represented a real strength of the company, with members bringing more relevant input and challenge.
A summary of recommendations from the review is set out opposite, together with an update on the progress made against the recommendations from the 2016 review.
64 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE Recommendations from 2017 Evolve the medium-term succession plans for non-executive and executive directors and senior management in line with the groups strategic objectives.
Against the backdrop of the UK Stewardship Code, assess how the group engages with existing and potential shareholders.
Assess how the Boards consideration of the view and requirements of employees can be enhanced.
Continue to maintain the groups focus on culture, including ensuring that the groups culture and core values are maintained as the group grows.
Assess the groups brand and the strength and opportunities of the brand.
Recommendations from 2016 review Progress against 2016 recommendations Following the further strengthening of insurance experience on the Board When considering the Board succession plan throughout the year during 2016, Board succession planning priorities will now focus on asset the Nominations Committee has continued to focus on asset management and international expertise.
There were a number of changes in the Board membership that occurred in 2016.
There have been no further changes to the Group Board since Toby Strauss appointment in January 2017.
Asset management and international expertise remain a focus for future appointments.
Continue to evolve the groups subsidiary governance framework to Henrietta Baldock was appointed as Non-Executive Chair of our reflect the groups strategic focus, including enhanced opportunities for principal operating subsidiary Legal & General Assurance Society, the Group Board to interact with the subsidiary boards and committees effective 6 March 2018.
Henrietta brings with her extensive and their independent directors.
knowledge of the financial services and insurance sector thorough her 25 years experience in investment banking.
Henrietta joins the two existing independent non-executive directors, further enhancing the strength of this board.
During the Boards visit to Chicago, the Board met the independent non-executive directors of the LGIM US business.
Build on the success of the talent development programme and 50 50 by Numerous events were held throughout the year.
The Board took part 2020 initiative and enhance Board engagement with the organisations top in a lunch reception with LGIM US employees in Chicago in October talent through business deep dives, talent dinners and regular events and the Chairman hosted his annual Chairmans Community Awards hosted by the Chairman.
at which all Board members attended.
Several Group Board dinners were also held throughout the year at which various executives and next levels of management from within the Legal & General businesses were invited to present and engage with the Group Board members.
The Group Board visited the L&G Homes office in Bracknell in December and visited the Crowthorne development where they met with the staff of L&G Homes.
The visit included a walking tour of the Bracknell Town Centre redevelopment which was led by the LGC team.
Review the director training and induction programme with a view to Directors attended a training event in March around Solvency II and enhancing in line with best practice.
all Group Board members attended various Strategy events throughout the year providing directors with further insight into business operations.
Work continues on further enhancing the director training and induction programme.
Sir John Kingman Chairman GOVERNANCE REPORT LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 65 GOVERNANCE C ommitted to the highest standards Compliance with the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code.
For the year ended 31 December 2017, we are pleased to report that we have applied the principles and complied with the provisions of the Code.
A full version of the Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Councils website: frc.
Effectiveness A1 The role of the Board B1 The composition of the Board B4 Development The Board held nine formal meetings The Nominations Committee is responsible The Board places great value on the throughout the year, with additional ad hoc for reviewing the composition of the Board inductions that are offered to new nonmeetings held in line with business needs.
A and, in making recommendations for executives and the ongoing training number of sub-committee meetings took place appointments to the Board, the Committee opportunities made available to all Board to deal with matters such as the final approval considers the balance of skills, experience members.
Over the course of the year of the interim and half-year results.
The Boards and knowledge needed in order to enhance directors have attended one-to-one briefing agenda is set by the Chairman and deals with the Board and support the company in the sessions with members of the senior those matters reserved to the Board, including execution of its strategy.
Details of the work management team as well as more formal matters relating to the groups strategic plan, risk undertaken by the Nominations Committee Board training sessions.
Further details of appetite, and systems of internal control and are set out on pages 68 and 69. the development sessions which have taken corporate governance policies.
Matters delegated place during the year are set out on page 64.
B2 Appointments to the Board to the Group Chief Executive include managing The Nominations Committee is responsible B5 Information and support the groups business in line with the strategic plan for leading the process of appointing new Procedures are in place to ensure that and approved risk appetite, and responsibility directors to the Board.
The Committee is Board members receive accurate and for the operation of the internal control framework.
committed to ensuring that all appointments timely information via a secure electronic There is a formal schedule of matters reserved are made on merit having evaluated the portal.
All directors have access to the for the Board which sets out the structure under capabilities of all potential candidates advice of the Group General Counsel and which the Board manages its responsibilities, against the requirements of the Board, with Company Secretary as well as independent providing guidance on how it discharges its due regard for the benefits of all types of professional advice at the expense of authority and manages the Boards activities.
A2 Division of responsibilities of the appointments undertaken during the B6 Evaluation The roles of the Chairman and Group Chief year can be found on page 62 and a Following the changes to Board Executive are clearly defined and the role summary of the Boards policy on diversity membership in 2017, the Board decided profiles are reviewed as part of the annual can be found on page 69. that an externally facilitated evaluation governance review undertaken by the Board.
B3 Commitment would be most appropriate and this Sir John Kingman, the Chairman, is responsible The non-executive directors letters of review was undertaken by Oliver Ziehn of for leading the Board while Nigel Wilson, Group appointment set out the time commitment Lintstock.
Sir John Kingmans performance Chief Executive, is responsible for the day-toexpected from them.
At times, this time was appraised as part of this review.
Details day management of the company within the commitment may go beyond that set out in of the evaluation and an update on the strategy set by the Board.
the letter of appointment and is therefore recommendations from the 2016 internal A3 The Chairman reviewed regularly.
External commitments, evaluation are set out on pages 64 to 65.
The Chairman sets the agendas for meetings, which may have an impact on existing time B7 Re-election manages the meeting timetable and encourages an commitments, must be agreed in advance All directors were subject to shareholder open and constructive dialogue during meetings.
In addition, the policy election or re-election at the 2017 AGM, Sir John Kingman was identified by the directors for the identification and management of with the exception of those directors who as being independent on appointment, in directors conflicts of interest is reviewed were retiring at the conclusion of the accordance with the independence criteria set on an annual basis.
All directors will be subject to out in provision B.
commitments of each of the directors are shareholder election or re-election at the included in the Board biographies on pages A4 Non-executive directors 2018 AGM.
The Chairmans commitments The Chairman encourages an open and were considered as part of his appointment constructive dialogue in the boardroom and and the Board agreed that he had no actively invites the views of all Board members.
commitments that were expected to have a The Chairman is available to the non-executive negative impact upon his time commitment directors and the non-executive directors to the Company.
This is kept under review.
regularly meet in the absence of the Executive Directors.
In addition, the Chairman and Senior Independent Director are both available to shareholders should they have any concerns they wish to raise.
66 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE 1 Board and Committee meetings attendance during 2017 Appointment Audit Nominations Remuneration Group Risk Director date Board 9 Committee 7 Committee 1 Committee 6 Committee 6 2 Sir John Kingman 24 October 2016 9 1 J Wilson 9 November 2011 8 7 1 5 N D Wilson 1 September 2009 9 3 J Davies 9 March 2017 7 M Zinkula 18 September 2012 9 C Bradley 8 December 2014 9 1 6 P Broadley 8 July 2016 9 7 1 3 6 L Knox 1 June 2016 8 7 1 6 6 3 K Procter 9 March 2017 7 4 T Strauss 1 January 2017 9 7 1 6 5 R Markham 4 October 2006 3 2 3 5 R Meddings 8 December 2014 3 4 2 3 6 M Gregory 28 January 2009 2 1.
Attendance at meetings in accordance with the formal schedule of meetings.
Attends all Audit, Remuneration and Group Risk Committee meetings as an invitee.
C. Accountability D. Remuneration E. Relations with shareholders C1 Financial and business reporting D1 The level and components E1 Dialogue with shareholders The Strategic Report, located on pages 1 to 53, of remuneration Board members take an active role in sets out the performance of the company, the The company aims to reward employees engaging with both institutional and retail business model, strategy, and the risks and fairly and its remuneration policy is shareholders, both in private meetings uncertainties relating to the companys future designed to promote the long-term success and in wider forums such as the AGM.
The directors consider the annual of the company whilst aligning the interests The Chairman aims to meet the major report and account, taken as a whole, is fair, of both the directors and shareholders.
institutional investors at least once per year balanced and understandable.
Shareholders adopted the remuneration and is available to meet other investors on policy and approved the remuneration request.
The Chairman shares feedback C2 Risk management and internal control report at the 2017 AGM.
The Directors from these meetings with the wider Board.
The Board sets the companys risk appetite remuneration policy is set out on pages A capital markets event for investors was and annually reviews the effectiveness of the 83 to 91. held in June 2017. companys risk management and internal control systems.
A description of the principal D2 Procedure E2 Constructive use of the AGM risks facing the company is set out on pages 52 The Remuneration Committee is responsible The Board values the AGM as an important and 53.
Page 51 sets out how the directors have for setting the remuneration for all executive opportunity to engage with investors.
assessed the prospects of the company, over directors.
Details of the composition and Attendees have the opportunity to ask what period they have done so and why they the work of the Remuneration Committee questions of the Board and are invited to consider that period to be appropriate the are set out in the Directors Remuneration meet the Board following the formal viability statement.
The activities of the Audit Report on pages 78 to 107. business of the meeting.
and Group Risk Committees, which assist the Board with its responsibilities in relation to financial reporting, audit matters, risk appetite setting and risk management, are set out on pages 70 to 77.
C3 Audit Committee and auditors The Audit Committee comprises four independent non-executive directors and the Board delegates a number of responsibilities to the Audit Committee, including oversight of the groups financial reporting processes, internal control system and annual review of the risk management framework, and the work undertaken by the external and internal auditors.
The Committee also supports the Boards consideration of the companys viability statement and its ability to operate as a going concern.
The Company maintains a policy in respect of the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor.
The Audit Committee chair provides regular updates to the Board on key matters discussed by the Committee.
The Audit Committees terms of reference are reviewed annually and are available on the website: legalandgeneralgroup.
COMMITTED TO THE HIGHEST STANDARDS LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 67
