54 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION OUR LEADERSHIP A STRONG TEAM Olivier Bohuon is supported inthe day-to-day management ofthe Group by a strong team ofExecutive Officers.
GRAHAM BAKER 49 GLENN WARNER 55 Chief Financial Officer President, US Joined the Board as Chief Financial Officer on Joined Smith & Nephew in June 2014 with 1 March 2017.
Graham holds an MA degree responsibility for Advanced Wound Managements in Economics from Cambridge University and global franchise strategy, marketing and product qualified as a Chartered Accountant and development, as well as its US commercial Chartered Tax Adviser with Arthur Andersen.
With effect from 1 January 2016, Glenn He is based in London, UK.
became the President of Smith & Nephews US business responsible for all the US commercial Skills and competencies business.
He is based in Fort Worth, US.
Graham has deep sector knowledge and has had extensive exposure to established and emerging Skills and experience markets which is extremely relevant to his role at Glenn has a broad-based background in Smith & Nephew.
He has a strong track record pharmaceuticals and medical products including of delivering operational excellence and has extensive international experience, having served relevant experience across major finance roles most recently as AbbVie Vice President and and geographic markets, leading large teams Corporate Officer, Strategic Initiatives, where he responsible for significant budgets.
was responsible for the development and execution of pipeline and asset management strategies.
Nationality Prior to that he was President and Officer, Japan British Commercial Operations in Abbotts international pharmaceutical business and Executive Vice President, TAP Pharmaceutical Products, Inc.
Nationality American RODRIGO BIANCHI 58 BRAD CANNON 50 President, International Markets Chief Marketing Officer Joined Smith & Nephew in July 2013 with Joined Smith & Nephew in 2012 and became responsibility for Greater China, India, Russia, Asia, President, Europe and Canada in March 2016.
Middle East and Africa, focusing on continuing our On 1 September 2017, he became Chief Marketing strong momentum in these regions.
1 January 2016, Rodrigo also became responsible, Skills and experience for the Latin American, Australian, New Zealand and Brad was most recently President, Europe and Japanese markets.
His role was further expanded Canada, where he successfully led the commercial in May 2017, when he became responsible for business in those regions.
Before that, he was oversight of the markets in Europe and Canada.
President of Global Orthopaedic Franchises, leading He is based in Dubai, UAE.
Smith & Nephews Reconstruction, Endoscopy, Skills and experience Trauma and Extremities businesses.
Prior to Smith Rodrigos experience in the healthcare industry & Nephew, Brad worked in Medtronics Spine and includes 26 years with Johnson & Johnson in Biologics division.
From 2009, he was responsible progressively senior roles.
Most recently, he was for Medtronics Spine International division and held Regional Vice President for the Medical Devices and positions heading US sales and global commercial Diagnostics division in the Mediterranean region operations.
Brad is a graduate of Washington and and prior to that President of Mitek and Ethicon, Inc. Lee University, and the Wharton School of Business He started his career at Procter & Gamble Italy.
at the University of Pennsylvania.
Nationality Nationality Italian American 55 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION OUR LEADERSHIP continued CATHY OROURKE 45 MATTHEW STOBER 50 VASANT PADMANABHAN 51 Chief Legal Officer President, Global Operations President of Research & Development Joined Smith & Nephew in February 2013 Joined Smith & Nephew in October 2015 with Joined Smith & Nephew in August 2016 and is as Assistant General Counsel Litigation & responsibility for global manufacturing, supply responsible for Research and Innovation, New Investigations and became Chief Legal Officer chain, distribution, quality assurance, regulatory Product Development, Safety Affairs, Clinical in May 2017.
Cathy heads up the Global Legal affairs, direct procurement, and manufacturing IT Affairs, Medical Device Pharmacovigilance and function and is based in Andover, US.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Prior to joining Smith & Nephew, Cathy spent Matt has more than 25 years experience Vasant brings extensive experience in R&D and 11 years of her career with Davis Polk & Wardwell in healthcare manufacturing operations for technology.
Prior to Smith & Nephew, Vasant was LLP.
Cathy earned her Juris Doctorate in Law from global companies including Merck & Co. Inc. Senior Vice President of Technical Operations Harvard University.
Most recently, he served at Thoratec Corporation, a leader in mechanical as Senior Vice President, Corporate Officer and circulatory support solutions for the treatment of Nationality member of the Executive Committee at Hospira heart failure.
In this role, he provided leadership American Pharmaceuticals.
As a senior pharmaceutical to a 600 member team, with responsibility for operations executive with extensive technical and global R&D, Program Management, Operations cross functional experience in start-up and complex and Quality.
Prior to Thoratec, Vasant had an challenging environments, Matt has led global and 18-year career at Medtronic, starting as a Staff multi-company development projects, new product Scientist and, progressing through more senior launches, critical quality-related turnarounds, roles, ultimately becoming Vice President of Product network rationalisations and organisational Development for the Implantable Defibrillator transformations.
He also has extensive experience Business.
D degree in Biomedical working directly with external regulatory bodies, Engineering from Rutgers University, USA and such as the US Food and Drug Administration.
an MBA degree from the Carlson School of Management, Minnesota.
Nationality American Nationality American CYRILLE PETIT 47 ELGA LOHLER 50 Chief Corporate Development Officer Chief Human Resources Officer and President, Global Business Joined Smith & Nephew in January 2002 and Services became Chief Human Resources Officer in December 2015.
Elga leads the Global Human Joined Smith & Nephew in May 2012 and leads Resources, Internal Communication and the Corporate Development function and from Sustainability Functions.
October 2015 the Global Business Services.
Skills and experience Prior to being appointed as Chief Human Resources Skills and experience Officer, Elga held progressively senior positions in Cyrille spent the previous 15 years of his career Human Resources at Smith & Nephew in Wound with General Electric Company, where he held Management, Operations, Corporate Functions progressively senior positions beginning with GE and Group.
Elga has more than 25 years Human Capital, GE Healthcare and ultimately as the General Resources experience.
Manager, Global Business Development of the Transportation Division.
Cyrille began his career Nationality in investment banking at BNP Paribas and then American South African Goldman Sachs.
