GOVERNANCE The composition of the Committee The Committee is composed entirely of G roup Risk Committee report independent non-executive directors.
The table below sets out its membership during the year.
Members: Toby Strauss Chair Philip Broadley Lesley Knox Rudy Markham until 25 May 2017 Julia Wilson Other attendees at Committee meetings include: the Group Chairman: Group Chief Executive: Group Chief Financial Officer: Group Chief Risk Officer: Group Chief Internal Auditor: and representatives of the external auditor,  LLP.
TOBY STRAUSS Chair of the Group Risk Committee The role of the Committee is to assist the Board in the The Group Chief Risk Officers report is supplemented with oversight of the risks to which the group may be exposed and management information on risk appetite, comparing actual to provide the Board with strategic advice in relation to current positions relative to the groups risk appetite statement: and and potential future risk exposures.
This includes reviewing the quantitative analysis of the groups exposures to financial and groups risk profile and appetite for risk, and assessing the operational risks, including risk-based capital requirements in effectiveness of the groups risk management framework.
relation to the core risks implicit in the groups businesses.
The groups approach to the management of risk is set out Group Conduct Risk Directors report in more detail on pages 48 to 51.
The Committee also receives at each meeting a report Committee activities during 2017 prepared by the Group Conduct Risk Director.
This provides The work of the Committee is supported by the Group Chief the Committee with an assessment of the overall profile of Risk Officer and Company Secretary who assist the conduct risks for the group: analysis and trends in conduct risk Committee Chairman in planning the Committees work and indicators including complaints data and the results of reviews ensuring that the Committee receives accurate and timely undertaken by the group conduct risk monitoring team: and information.
The Committee met six times during 2017. evaluation of changes in the conduct risk landscape as regulatory approaches evolve.
Group Chief Risk Ofcers report Each meeting, the Committee receives a formal report from Focused business and risk reviews the Group Chief Risk Officer.
This report brings to the Time is allocated at each Committee meeting to carry out Committees attention key factors in the operating environment focused deep dive reviews of a particular risk area.
The of the groups businesses and an assessment of the potential purpose of these reviews is to enable Committee members risks that may emerge.
The review includes analysis of risks to examine the risk profile of the core business lines and to arising from the macroeconomic outlook and conditions in consider the robustness of the frameworks in place to manage financial markets, together with geopolitical, legislative and the key risk exposures.
Committee members are invited to regulatory change risks that may impact the groups participate in setting the agenda for these deep dive reviews, businesses, and risks associated with the implementation considering both the current operating environment and of the groups business strategy.
The adjacent page gives examples of some of the key reviews that took place during 2017 and the areas of focus by the Committee.
76 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE Pricing reviews: assessments of the frameworks in our Risk-based capital model protection, pension risk transfer and lifetime mortgage The groups risk-based capital model is used to determine the business that ensure pricing reflects the risks implicit in capital requirements for the group and forms the calculation products whilst providing value for money to our customers.
engine for the Solvency II internal model.
As well as reviewing and using the output of the model in its understanding of the Brexit Contingency Planning: maintaining oversight of groups risk profile, the Committee is the focal point for model activities within LGIM to mitigate the possible loss of EU governance with specific consideration of the: passporting rights, and more broadly the resilience of investment strategies to market shocks.
key assumptions, methodologies and areas of expert Reinsurance counterparties: the approach to counterparty judgement used within the model: selection, the setting of exposure limits and the monitoring activities undertaken to independently validate the outputs of actual positions relative to key tolerances.
of the model: General Data Protection Regulation GDPR : ahead of GDPR ongoing development of the model to ensure that it reflects implementation in May 2018, assessing areas of change for the business lines and risk profile of the group: and the groups businesses.
A further readiness assessment will processes to ensure that changes applied in the model be undertaken in 2018. are undertaken in a controlled manner, and in line with Mortality and morbidity: consideration of the relative model development plans.
mortality and morbidity experience for our UK and US Own risk and solvency assessment ORSA protection businesses and developments in our approach The ORSA is an ongoing assessment of the risks to which to underwriting these risks.
Legal & General is exposed and an evaluation of the sufficiency Financial crime: an assessment of the groups profile of of capital resources to sustain the business strategy over the fraud, money laundering and bribery corruption risks and the plan horizon.
Over the course of the year the Committee proportionality of the control environment.
considered different aspects of the groups ORSA process Liquidity risk: the effectiveness of liquidity management including the review of the: processes for stressed and extreme market scenarios proposed stress tests and scenarios to be used in the frameworks.
evaluation of capital adequacy: LGIM risk management: an annual review of LGIMs profile of risks within the groups strategic plan and how operational risk management framework and global they may change over the planning period: and operating model.
groups overall capacity to bear the risks identified.
The Committee has also taken an active role in the development of the groups recovery and resolution plans, A formal ORSA report is subject to annual review by the which are being put in place in line with the UK regulatory Committee prior to formal approval of the Group Board.
requirements relating to systemically important insurers.
Risk governance Risk appetite Sound frameworks of risk management and internal control In July, as in previous years, the Committee undertook a are essential in the management of risks.
During the year, detailed review of the operation of the groups risk appetite the Committee has received updates on the continued framework and the key measures and tolerances used to development of the risk governance framework.
determine acceptable risk taking, recommending a number Risk-based remuneration of refinements to the Board.
In December, the Committee The Committee advises the Remuneration Committee on risk considered the risk profile of the groups strategic plan and matters to be considered in reviewing bonus pools.
its alignment with the groups overall risk appetite.
In addition to this aggregate view of acceptable risk taking, the Committee also considers, as part of the groups overall transaction approval process, the appetite for specific risks associated with transactions, particularly where the transaction is material in the quantum of risks being assumed or where aspects of the transaction may present risks that are relatively new to the group.
In this context during 2017, the Committee evaluated the risk profile and appetite for the larger pension risk transfer deals undertaken as well as transactions utilising risk syndication techniques.
The Committee is also responsible for recommending to the Board risk appetite levels for particular business lines.
GROUP RISK COMMITTEE REPORT LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 77
