56 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION OVERVIEW COMMITTED TO THE HIGHEST STANDARDS OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE We maintain these standards through a clear definition of our roles, continuing development and evaluation and accountability through the work of the Board Committees.
LEADERSHIP EFFECTIVENESS The Board sets the tone at the top of the Company The Board carries out its duties through: through: Regular meetings focusing on the oversight of strategy, A clear definition of the roles of the individual members risk including viability and succession planning.
An annual review into the effectiveness of the Board.
A comprehensive programme of development activities Defined processes to ensure the independence of throughout the year.
Directors and the management of conflicts of interest.
Read more about our Boards Leadership on pages 5760 Read more about our Boards Effectiveness on pages 6165 ACCOUNTABILITY REMUNERATION The Board delegates some of its detailed work to the The Remuneration Committee ensures that there Board Committees: isaformal and transparent process for determining andreporting on the pay of our Executive Directors: Each Committee meets regularly and reports back totheBoard on its activities.
The Remuneration Policy was approved by shareholders The terms of reference of each Committee may be found at the 6 April 2017 Annual General Meeting.
on the Companys website at www.
The Committee ensures that: performance measures A report from the Chairman of each Committee is included are linked to our strategic priorities: there is alignment in this Annual Report.
between executive and shareholder interests: and our arrangements are simple to understand.
Read more about our Boards Accountability on pages 6678 Read more about our Boards Remuneration on pages 79105 The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance and we comply with all the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 the Code.
The Companys American Depositary Shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE and we are therefore subject to the rules of the NYSE as well as to the US securities laws and the rules of the Securities Exchange Commission SEC applicable to foreign private issuers.
We comply with the requirements of the NYSE and SEC and have no significant differences to report between the UK and US corporate governance standards.
We shall explain in this Corporate Governance Statement and in the reports on the Audit Committee, the Nomination & Governance Committee, the Ethics & Compliance Committee and the Remuneration Committee, how we have applied the provisions and principles of the Financial Conduct Authoritys FCA Listing Rules, Disclosure & Transparency Rules DTRs and the Code throughout the year.
The Code can be found at https: www.
57 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION COMPOSITION & ROLES LEADERSHIP COMPOSITION OF BOARD AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 We believe the Boards composition gives us the necessary balance of diversity, skills experience, independence and knowledge to ensure we continue to run the business effectively and deliver sustainable growth.
Diversity Gender Years of service Ethnicity C E B A A B D A B C A B A EXECUTIVE 2 A MALE 9 A LESS THAN ONE YEAR 3 A WHITE 11 B NON-EXECUTIVE 9 B FEMALE 3 B ONE TO THREE YEARS 2 B ASIAN 1 C CHAIRMAN 1 C THREE TO SIX YEARS 4 D SIX TO NINE YEARS 2 E OVER NINE YEARS 1 The Nomination & Governance Committee uses the following matrix when considering succession planning and future Board composition toensure a balanced Board: Healthcare CEO Financial International Medical Devices Emerging market 5 members of the Board are 5 members of the Board 7 members of the Board have 5 members of the Board have 2 members of the Board have eithercurrent or recent CEOs have recent and relevant international experience different levels of experience Emerging Market experience financial experience within the Healthcare industry.
The Boards medical devices experience will be strengthened with the appointment of Roland Diggelmann UK Governance Remuneration Gender Ethnic Other 8 members of the Board have 5 members of the Board have 9 members of the Board are 11 members of the Board are Various Board members bring considerable experience Remuneration Committee male and 3 are female white and 1 is Asian ethnicity experiences in a variety of of working in a UK listed experience within a UK fields including customer focus, environment and 6 members of listed context investment markets, government the Board have experience of the affairs, digital and corporate US listed environment social responsibility CHANGES TO THE BOARD During the year to 31 December 2017 and since the year end, there were the following changes to the Board: Julie Brown retired from the Board as Chief Financial Officer on 11 January 2017.
Graham Baker joined the Board as Chief Financial Officer on 1 March 2017.
Brian Larcombe retired from the Board on 6 April 2017.
Robin Freestone was appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee, succeeding Ian Barlow on 1 March 2017.
Ian Barlow was appointed Senior Independent Director, succeeding Brian Larcombe on 6 April 2017.
Angie Risley was appointed Non-Executive Director and Member and Chairman Elect of the Remuneration Committee on 18 September 2017.
Marc Owen was appointed Non-Executive Director and Member of the Audit Committee on 1 October 2017.
He will become a Member of the Ethics & Compliance Committee on 1 March 2018.
Roland Diggelmann will join the Board as an additional Non-Executive Director and Member of the Audit Committee with effect from 1 March 2018.
58 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION RESPONSIBILITY & ACTIVITY LEADERSHIP ROLE OF DIRECTORS Whilst we all share collective responsibility for the activities of the Board, some of our roles have been defined in greater detail.
In particular, the roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer are clearly defined.
The roles of the Chairman, Non-Executive Directors, Senior Independent Director, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and the Company Secretary are defined as follows: Chairman Chief Financial Officer Building a well-balanced Board.
Supporting the Chief Executive Officer in developing and implementing the Group strategy.
Chairing Board meetings and setting Board agendas.
Leading the global finance function, developing key finance talent Ensuring effectiveness of the Board and enabling the annual and planning for succession.
Ensuring effective financial reporting, processes and controls are Encouraging constructive challenge and facilitating effective in place.
Recommending the annual budget and long-term strategic and Promoting effective Board relationships.
Ensuring appropriate induction and development programmes.
Ensuring effective two-way communication and debate with shareholders and stakeholders.
Promoting high standards of corporate governance.
Non-Executive Directors Maintaining appropriate balance between stakeholders.
Providing effective challenge to management.
Assisting in development and approval of strategy.
Serving on the Board Committees.
Chief Executive Officer Providing advice to management.
Developing and implementing Group strategy.
Recommending the annual budget and five-year strategic and financial plan.
Senior Independent Director Ensuring coherent leadership of the Group.
Chairing meetings in the absence of the Chairman.
Managing the Groups risk profile and establishing effective Acting as a sounding board for the Chairman on Boardinternal controls.
Regularly reviewing organisational structure, developing executive Acting as an intermediary for the other Directors where necessary.
team and planning for succession.
Available to shareholders and stakeholders on matters which Ensuring the Chairman and Board are kept advised and updated cannot otherwise be resolved.
Leading the annual evaluation into the Boards effectiveness.
Maintaining relationships with shareholders and advising the Leading the search for a new Chairman, if necessary.
Setting the tone at the top with regard to compliance and sustainability matters.
Company Secretary Day-to-day running of the business.
Advising the Board on matters of corporate governance.
Supporting the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors.
Point of contact for investors on matters of corporate governance.
Ensuring good governance practices at Board level and throughout the Group.
59 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION RESPONSIBILITY & ACTIVITY continued LEADERSHIP CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK The Board is responsible to shareholders for approving the strategy of the Group, for overseeing the performance of the Group and evaluating andmonitoring the management of risk.
Each member of the Board has access, collectively and individually, to the Company Secretary and is also entitled to obtain independent professionaladvice at the Companys expense, should they decide it is necessary in order to fulfil their responsibilities as Directors.
The Board delegates certain matters, as follows, to Board Committees, consisting of members of the Board: BOARD Audit Remuneration Nomination & Ethics & Ad hoc Committee Committee Governance Compliance committees Committee Committee Provides independent Determines Remuneration Ad hoc committees may be assessment of the Policy and packages for Reviews size and Reviews and monitors established to review and financial affairs of the Executive Directors and composition of the ethics and compliance, approve specific matters Company, reviews Executive Officers, having Board, succession quality and regulatory or projects.
financial statements regard to pay across planning, diversity and matters across the Group.
and controls oversight the Group.
of the risk management process and key risks, such as cyber security.
Manages use of internal and external auditors.
Read more on page 71 Read more on page 79 Read more on page 66 Read more on page 69 The Board delegates the day-to day running of the business to Olivier Bohuon, Chief Executive Officer, who is assisted in his role by the Executive Committee comprising the Executive Officers who are shown on pages 5455 and certain other senior executives.
The governance framework below outlines the Executive Committee arrangements as follows: EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Recommends and implements strategy, approves budget and three-year plan, ensures liaison between commercial and corporate functions, receives regular reports from sub-committees, reviews major investments, divestments and capital expenditure proposals and approves business development projects.
Commercial Corporate Functions Portfolio Innovation Regional leadership Functional leadership Committee Committee Board meetings meetings Recommends and implements Recommends and implements Defines portfolio allocation Regional management Functional leadership teams to strategy for global commercial strategy for corporate functions principles, reviewing and through committees to drive drive functional performance.
functions and regions, identifying and executing challenging current shape regional performance.
managing sales, marketing, new processes, systems of portfolio, identifying market access and commercial and practices to improve gaps and opportunities and strategy and identifying and operational efficiency in re-prioritising segments executing new processes, corporate functions.
systems and practices to improve operational efficiency in commercial regions.
Finance & Banking Disclosures Mergers & Group Risk Group Ethics & Committee Committee Acquisitions Committee Compliance Approves banking and Approves release of Council Reviews risk registers and risk Committee treasury matters, guarantees, communications to investors management programme.
Oversees Corporate Reviews compliance matters Group structure changes and Stock Exchanges.
Development Strategy, and country business unit or relating to mergers, monitors status of transactions function compliance reports.
and approves various stages inmerger, acquisition and disposal process.
Diversity & Inclusion Global Benefits Health, Safety & IT Governance Council Committee Environment Board Implements strategies Oversees all policies and Committee Oversees IT and to promote diversity processes relating to pensions cyber security.
Oversees health, safety and and inclusion.
60 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION RESPONSIBILITY & ACTIVITY continued LEADERSHIP INDEPENDENCE OF DIRECTORS OUTSIDE DIRECTORSHIPS We require our Non-Executive Directors to remain independent from We encourage our Executive Directors to serve as Non-Executive management so that they are able to exercise independent oversight Directors of external companies.
We believe that the work they do and effectively challenge management.
We therefore continually as Non-Executive Directors of other companies has benefits for their assess the independence of each of our Non-Executive Directors.
executive roles with the Company, giving them a fresh insight into the The Executive Directors have determined that all our Non-Executive role of a Non-Executive Director.
Olivier Bohuon is a Non-Executive Directors are independent in accordance with both UK and US Director of Shire plc and of Virbac Group.
Olivier Bohuon discussed his requirements.
None of our Non-Executive Directors or their immediate external roles with the Chairman prior to accepting these appointments families has ever had a material relationship with the Group.
None of and the Chairman was satisfied that he had the capacity for the time them receives additional remuneration apart from Directors fees, nor commitment required.
do they participate in the Groups share plans or pension schemes.
None of them serve as directors of any companies or affiliates in which RE-APPOINTMENT OF DIRECTORS any other Director is a director.
In accordance with the Code, all Directors offer themselves to shareholders for re-election annually, except those who are retiring More importantly, each of our Non-Executive Directors are prepared immediately after the Annual General Meeting.
Each Director may to question and challenge management, to request more information be removed at any time by the Board or the shareholders.
and to ask the difficult questions.
They insist on robust responses both within the Boardroom and, sometimes, between meetings.
The Chief DIRECTOR INDEMNITY ARRANGEMENTS Executive Officer is open to challenge from the Non-Executive Directors Each Director is covered by appropriate directors and officers liability and uses this positively to provide more detail and to reflect further insurance and there are also Deeds of Indemnity in place between on issues.
the Company and each Director.
These Deeds of Indemnity mean that the Company indemnifies Directors in respect of any proceedings MANAGEMENT OF CONFLICTS OF INTEREST brought by third parties against them personally in their capacity as None of our Directors or their connected persons, has any family Directors of the Company.
The Company would also fund ongoing relationship with any other Director or Officer, nor has a material interest costs in defending a legal action as they are incurred rather than after in any contract to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries are, judgement has been given.
In the event of an unsuccessful defence in or were, a party during the year or up to 22 February 2018. an action against them, individual Directors would be liable to repay the Each Director has a duty under the Companies Act 2006 to avoid a Company for any damages and to repay defence costs to the extent situation in which we have or may have a direct or indirect interest that funded by the Company.
conflicts or might conflict with the interests of the Company.
This duty is in addition to the existing duty owed to the Company to disclose to the LIAISON WITH SHAREHOLDERS Board any interest in a transaction or arrangement under consideration The Board meets with retail investors at the Annual General Meeting by the Company.
and responds to many letters and emails from shareholders throughout the year.
If any Director becomes aware of any situation which might give rise to a conflict of interest, they must, and do, inform the rest of the Board The Executive Directors also meet regularly with institutional investors immediately and the Board is then permitted under the Companys to discuss the Companys business and financial performance both at Articles of Association to authorise such conflict.
This information is the time of the announcement of results and at industry investor events.
then recorded in the Companys Register of Conflicts, together with During 2017, the Executive Directors held meetings with institutional the date on which authorisation was given.
In addition, each Director investors, including investors representing approximately 48% of the certifies on an annual basis that the information contained in the Companys share capital.
Other topics discussed included strategy, Register of Conflicts is correct.
market trends, reimbursement and regulatory changes, relevant macroeconomic and political impacts on the business and the acquisition of When the Board decides whether or not to authorise a conflict, only the Rotation Medical, Inc. Directors who have no interest in the matter are permitted to participate in the discussion and a conflict is only authorised if the Board believes that it would not have an impact on the Boards ability to promote the success of the Company in the long term.
Additionally, the Board may determine that certain limits or conditions must be imposed when giving authorisation.
No actual conflicts have been identified, which have required approval by the Board.
However, six situations have been identified which could potentially give rise to a conflict of interest and these have been duly authorised by the Board and are reviewed on an annual basis.
61 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION RESPONSIBILITY & ACTIVITY continued LEADERSHIP EFFECTIVENESS During the early part of 2017, the Chairman, Roberto Quarta, held RESPONSIBILITY OF THE BOARD 17 meetings and telephone calls with investors holding approximately The work of the Board falls into the following key areas: 22% of the Companys share capital.
They discussed a range of topics including the performance of the Company during 2016, our strategic Strategy priorities, the structure of the Board, succession planning at Board Approving the Group strategy including major changes and Executive level, diversity, the capital allocation framework and to corporate and management structure.
Approving acquisitions, mergers, disposals, capital transactions Towards the end of 2017, Joseph Papa, the Chairman of the in excess of $50 million.
Remuneration Committee, took the opportunity of introducing Angie Setting priorities for capital investment across the Group.
Risley, who will be succeeding him as Chairman of the Remuneration Approving annual budget, financial plan, five-year business plan.
Committee on 12 April 2018, to eight of our key institutional shareholders Approving major borrowings and finance and banking holding around 15% of our share capital.
They discussed the changes arrangements.
made to our remuneration policy, which were approved by shareholders at the 2017 Annual General Meeting and how the policy was being Approving changes to the size and structure of the Board and the implemented.
As well as giving shareholders the opportunity to meet appointment and removal of Directors and the Company Secretary.
Angie Risley, they also discussed the broad structure of remuneration Approving Group policies relating to sustainability, health arrangements proposed for the new Chief Executive Officer to be and safety, Code of Conduct and Code of Share Dealing and appointed following the retirement of Olivier Bohuon by the end of 2018. other matters.
At the time of these meetings, there was no specific candidate identified Approving the appointment and removal of key professional as successor to Olivier Bohuon.
They also discussed current trends and advisers.
Members of the Board are always happy to engage with investors, if they have matters they wish to raise with the non-executive team.
Performance Please contact the Company Secretary to arrange a suitable time Reviewing performance against strategy, budgets and financial to meet.
A short report on our major shareholders and any significant changes Overseeing Group operations and maintaining a sound system in their holdings since the previous meeting is reviewed at each Board of internal control.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors report back to the Determining the dividend policy and dividend recommendations.
Board following their meetings with investors.
Olivier Bohuon routinely Approving the appointment and removal of the external auditor reports on any concerns or issues that shareholders have raised with on the recommendation of the Audit Committee.
Copies of the analyst reports on the Company Approving significant changes to accounting policies or practices.
and its peers are also circulated to Directors.
Overseeing succession planning at Board and Executive PURCHASE OF ORDINARY SHARES Officer level.
In order to avoid shareholder dilution, shares allotted to employees Approving the use of the Companys shares in relation through employee share schemes are bought back on a quarterly basis to employee and executive share incentive plans on the and subsequently cancelled as stated in Note 19.2 of the accounts on recommendation of the Remuneration Committee.
62 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION RESPONSIBILITY & ACTIVITY continued EFFECTIVENESS APRIL Risk Overseeing the Groups risk management programme.
Received a review of recent acquisitions.
Regularly reviewing the risk register.
Received an update on global operations.
Overseeing risk management processes see pages 40 and 41 Reviewed the work of the Government Affairs function.
Prepared for the Annual General Meeting to be held later that day.
Shareholder communications MAY Approving preliminary announcement of annual results, the publication of the Annual Report, the half-yearly report, via voice conference the quarterly Trading Reports, the release of price sensitive Reviewed the results for the first quarter 2017 and approved the announcements and any listing particulars, circulars Q1Trading Report announcement.
JUNE Maintaining relationships and continued engagement with via voice conference shareholders.
Approved the appointment of Angie Risley as Non-Executive Director.
JULY Providing advice Using experience gained within other companies and in Hull, UK organisations to advise management both within and between Reviewed the results for the first half 2017 and approved the H1 Board meetings.
announcement, having considered managements judgement in a number of areas, and approved payment of the interim dividend.
The Schedule of Matters Reserved to the Board describes the role and Received and considered a report analysing the progress in Research responsibilities of the Board more fully and can be found on our website and Development.
Received and discussed the annual review of Group Insurances.
Discussed the strategy review agenda for September 2017.
BOARD TIMETABLE 2017 FEBRUARY SEPTEMBER Early February in Tokyo, Japan Approval of Preliminary Announcement Strategy Review Reviewed the results for the full year 2016 and the preliminary Conducted review of corporate strategy for 2018-2022. announcement and approved the final dividend to be recommended Reviewed the implications, risks and opportunities of the Medical to shareholders for approval.
Reviewed and approved the annual risk management report.
Approved the renewal of the directors and officers liability Insurance.
Received updates on the progress of certain acquisitions over the past five years.
NOVEMBER Reviewed the results of the review into the effectiveness of the Board Early November in Dubai, UAE in 2016 and agreed action points for 2017.
Approval of Q3 Trading Report Reviewed and accepted that fees paid to Non-Executive Directors Reviewed the results for the third quarter 2017 and approved the should remain unchanged.
Late February via voice conference Received a follow up from Executive Officers from the Strategy Review Approval of Financial Statements in Tokyo in September.
Reviewed and approved the Annual Report and Accounts for 2016, Received an update from Rodrigo Bianchi on the APAC EM Asia having determined that they were fair, balanced and understandable.
Pacific and Emerging Markets business.
Reviewed and approved the Notice of Annual General Meeting and Discussed the annual executive talent review.
Late November Approved the Budget for 2017 and the Strategic Plan for 2017-2021.
Approval of Budget Reviewed the Budget for 2018.
Received a review of the activities of Global Business Services.
Received updates from Glenn Warner on the US Business.
63 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION RESPONSIBILITY & ACTIVITY continued EFFECTIVENESS In addition various matters were determined by written resolution, including accepting notice of the intention to retire of Olivier Bohuon as Chief Executive Officer and authorising the execution of certain agreements.
Since the year end, we have also approved the Annual Report and Accounts for 2017 and have concluded that, taken as a whole, they are fair, balanced and understandable.
We have approved the Notice of Annual General Meeting, recommended the final dividend to shareholders and have received and discussed the report on the effectiveness of the Board in 2017.
Each meeting was preceded by a meeting between the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors and management in attendance.
Unless otherwise stated, meetings are held in London, UK.
At each meeting, we approved the minutes of the previous meetings, reviewed matters arising and received reports and updates from the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Corporate Development Officer, the Chief Legal Officer and the Company Secretary.
We also received reports from the chairmen of the Board Committees on the activities of these Committees since the previous meeting.
BOARD AND COMMITTEE ATTENDANCE Nomination & Ethics & Audit Remuneration Governance Compliance Committee Committee Committee Committee Board meetings meetings meetings meetings meetings Director Board Member since 9 meetings 7 meetings 7 meetings 8 meetings 4 meetings Roberto Quarta December 2013 9 9 6 7 8 8 Olivier Bohuon April 2011 9 9 Graham Baker 1 March 2017 7 7 Vinita Bali December 2014 7 9 6 7 4 4 Ian Barlow March 2010 9 9 7 7 6 6 4 4 Virginia Bottomley April 2012 9 9 7 7 8 8 Erik Engstrom January 2015 9 9 6 7 Robin Freestone September 2015 9 9 7 7 7 7 Michael Friedman April 2013 9 9 4 4 Joseph Papa August 2008 9 9 7 7 7 7 4 4 Marc Owen 1 October 2017 2 2 2 2 Angie Risley 18 September 2017 3 3 3 3 Brian Larcombe March 2002 3 3 3 3 3 3 2 2 1 Roberto Quarta missed one Remuneration Committee meeting call convened on short notice.
He had signified his approval of the matters being discussed to the Remuneration Committee Chairman prior to the meeting.
2 Graham Baker was appointed on 1 March 2017 and attended all his scheduled meetings to 31 December 2017.
3 Vinita Bali missed one Board call and one Remuneration Committee meeting on the same day, due to a prior commitment and one Board call convened on short notice.
In each case, she had signified her approval of the matters being discussed to the Chairman prior to the meeting.
4 Erik Engstrom missed one Audit Committee meeting in Hull, which clashed with a RELX Board meeting, for which he is the Chief Executive Officer.
5 Marc Owen was appointed on 1 October 2017 and attended all his scheduled meetings to 31 December 2017.
6 Angie Risley was appointed on 18 September 2017 and attended all her scheduled meetings to 31 December 2017.
7 Brian Larcombe retired from the Board at the Annual General Meeting on 6 April 2017.
64 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION RESPONSIBILITY & ACTIVITY continued EFFECTIVENESS BOARD EFFECTIVENESS REVIEW The Board Effectiveness Review in 2017 was internally facilitated by Ian Barlow, Senior Independent Director assisted by the Company Secretary.
The 2017 review comprised a questionnaire completed by each member of the Board.
This questionnaire focused on the progress made addressing the issues raised in previous Board Evaluations as well as looking into how the Board had handled particular topics throughout the year.
Ian Barlow then conducted individual interviews with each Board member.
He also chaired a meeting of the Non-Executive Directors specifically to discuss the performance of the Chairman.
In January 2018, he prepared a report, detailing his findings, which he shared with the Chairman.
The report was then discussed by the full Board in February 2018.
In discussion, we concluded that the Board worked well with a good breadth of skills, backgrounds and experience, which has been enhanced with the appointments during the past year.
The culture was open and collaborative: the cadence of board meetings and the administrative support was broadly welcomed and we covered most of the right topics across the annual cycle.
We did however identify some areas for further improvement as follows: Some changes could be made to the Board calendar to spread our work more efficiently and effectively throughout the year, with an even greater focus on people issues, R&D and commercial execution.
We would like to spend more time on our site visits meeting the local teams, their staff, our customers and local hospitals to give us a deeper understanding of our markets, our customers and our competition and to assist in assessing bench strength further down the Company.
Further improvements could be made to how we monitor performance against our strategic objectives, tracking development and implementation of strategy and lessons learned from our successes and shortfalls.
The areas for attention identified in the 2017 review had been addressed as follows: Actions identified Action taken Gaining a deeper understanding of why our competitors are enjoying During the year, as part of our site visits, the Board met with senior superior growth rates compared with us so that we can help management in different territories and heard about the commercial management identify, acquire and develop the resources they need challenges faced in different markets.
Part of the September Strategy to compete more effectively in our chosen markets.
Review included a focus on the different categories of customers and the pricing and reimbursement drivers which affect different business Gaining a better understanding of the changing market dynamics in in different parts of the world.
our chosen markets, focusing on identifying the different categories We positively encourage our Non-Executive Directors to spend time of customer and the pricing and reimbursement drivers which are with our sales representatives in order to experience the challenges in play, so that we can support and challenge management more they face first-hand.
effectively when they seek approval for projects to address these changing conditions.
Playing a more active role in supporting management develop robust The Board reviews detailed succession plans on an annual basis.
succession plans for senior executive positions.
The Board also meets with potential successors to members of the management team during site visits and as part of Board presentations.
During the year, Non-Executive Directors have assisted in the interview process for some senior management positions and have acted as a sounding board for the executive team, when considering succession plans in key areas.
Encouraging management to develop metrics and dashboards on Dashboards have been developed throughout the year, which are a wider range of issues beyond financial metrics, particularly in the reviewed at each Board meeting.
These dashboards track progress areas of Human Resources and R&D and ensuring that we regularly against defined metrics with both a long-term and a short-term monitor progress against these metrics.
focus aligned to our Strategic Priorities, covering a wide range of business areas, including R&D, HR, the commercial and operating organisations, M&A and legal and compliance.
The last externally facilitated Board Effectiveness Review was carried out in 2015 by Belinda Hudson of Independent Audit.
The 2018 review will also be facilitated externally.
65 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION RESPONSIBILITY & ACTIVITY continued EFFECTIVENESS November BOARD DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME Our Board Development Programme is directed to the specific needs Visit to the Companys offices in Dubai, the head office for our and interests of our Directors.
We focus the development sessions on Emerging Markets businesses.
The Board received presentations facilitating a greater awareness and understanding of our business on our businesses in Saudi Arabia, India and Chile and met with the rather than formal training in what it is to be a Director.
We value our local General Managers in these countries.
visits to the different Smith & Nephew sites around the world, where Presentation on the Emerging Markets business, including deep dives we meet with the local managers of our businesses and see the into Brazil, China and our Mid-Tier portfolio of products.
Meeting our local managers helps us to Presentation on the US business discussing the opportunities and understand the challenges they face and their plans to meet those challenges faced by our different franchises across the US.
We also take these opportunities to look at our products and in particular the new products being developed by our R&D teams.
December This direct contact with the business in the locations in which we Opportunities for our UK based Non-Executive Directors to go on the operate around the world helps us to make investment and strategic road with some of our London based sales representatives and for decisions.
Meeting our local managers also helps us when making Vinita Bali to meet with representatives in Bangalore.
succession planning decisions below Board level.
During the course of the year, we also received updates at the Board All Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to visit our overseas and Committee meetings on external corporate governance changes businesses, if they happen to be travelling for other purposes.
Our local likely to impact the Company in the future.
management teams enjoy welcoming Non-Executive Directors to their business and it emphasises the interest the Board takes in all our INDUCTION PROGRAMME FOR NEW DIRECTORS operations.
The Chairman regularly reviews the development needs of individual Directors and the Board as a whole.
During 2017, Graham Baker, Angie Risley and Marc Owen joined the Board and each received tailored induction programmes relevant to their The following development sessions covering both the Smith & Nephew skills and experiences and their roles on the Board.
These induction business and wider market issues were held during the year: programmes, which are ongoing include: One-to-one meetings with senior executives to understand the roles July played by our senior employees and specifically how we do things at Visit to the Companys site in Hull to take part in activities Smith & Nephew: celebrating our 160th anniversary on the site.
The Board toured the Visits to our sites local to the Director to get a feel of how our research manufacturing and research facility and received presentations from and manufacturing operations are run: members of the workforce involved in community focused activities as part of the Hull City of Culture 2017.
Opportunities to accompany our sales representatives on the road to better understand the daily challenges they face: and Presentation from our Auditor, KPMG LLP KPMG, on External Reporting trends, covering changing accounting standards and Meetings with our external advisers for example Freshfields, our updates on financial reporting, the SEC and corporate governance Corporate lawyers, KPMG, our Auditor and Willis Towers Watson, our changes relating to Audit Committees and Auditors.
Remuneration Committee adviser to explain the legal and regulatory background to their role on our Board and how these issues are September approached at Smith & Nephew.
Presentations from the entire executive team as part of the Boards Strategy Review, covering the whole business and including a discussion on Risk.
By order of the Board, on 22 February 2018 Visit to the Companys offices in Tokyo and meetings with our senior Roberto Quarta leaders in Japan, with presentations on the business and challenges Chairman faced in Japan.
