GOVERNANCE The composition of the Committee The Committee is composed entirely Audit Committee report of independent non-executive directors.
The table below sets out its membership during the year.
Members: Philip Broadley Chair Lesley Knox Richard Meddings until 25 May 2017 Toby Strauss Julia Wilson Other regular attendees at Committee meetings include the following: Group Chairman: Group Chief Executive: Group Chief Financial Officer: Group Chief Risk Officer: Director of Group Finance: Group Chief Internal Auditor: Legal & General Retirement Finance Director: LGIM Finance Director: Group Actuary: Chief Tax Officer: Representatives of the external auditor,  LLP PwC.
PHILIP BROADLEY Chair of the Audit Committee The Committees remit covers accounting and financial reporting, internal controls and the external audit.
A particular focus during the year was our review of the estimates for future improvement of an annuitants life expectancy.
Letter from the Chair Three members of the Committee are also members of the Dear Shareholder Group Risk Committee, and two members of the Committee I am pleased to present the Audit Committee Committee are also members of the Remuneration Committee, ensuring report for the year ended 31 December 2017.
The report the appropriate identification and management of any issues explains the work of the Committee during the year.
that are relevant to both committees.
The report meets the disclosure requirements set out in The Committee meets regularly and privately with each of the the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
external auditor and the Chief Internal Auditor.
These meetings The significant accounting issues considered by the allow for regular and open dialogue of any issues relevant to Committee are set out on page 72. the Committees work.
Committee members also meet regularly with management outside formal committee The Code requires that the Committee must operate meetings to discuss topical issues and maintain their effectively and efficiently and that its members have a balance understanding of the groups businesses.
of skills and experience to deliver its responsibilities.
Members of the Committee have varied experience including as executives in the financial services and other sectors, as non-executive directors in other sectors and as board members responsible for financial reporting.
The Board consider that I meet the requirements of the Code in having recent and relevant financial experience, as other members of the Committee have too.
70 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE During 2017, the Committee met seven times in accordance Accounting and financial reporting with its annual plan.
The Committees terms of reference are The Committee reviews the appropriateness of the half-year reviewed on an annual basis and the current terms of and annual financial statements, which it carries out with both reference, reviewed in December 2017, are available on our management and the external auditors.
The Committees time over the course of the year ensuring that the annual report and accounts, taken as a was spent principally in consideration of: whole, are fair, balanced and understandable FBU in compliance with disclosure requirements and the material half-year and year-end financial reporting areas in which significant judgements had been applied.
asset valuations and actuarial reserving matters In collaboration with the Group Risk Committee, the monitoring and reviewing internal controls Committee also reviews the disclosures to be made in solvency II matters relation to internal control and risk management, and principal the effectiveness and work of both the internal and risks and uncertainties.
external audit functions In assessing whether the annual report was fair, balanced tax strategy and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the companys position and I set out in my report last year the results of the tender for performance, business model and strategy, the Committee the future provision of external audit services.
KPMG LLP evaluated whether: has been shadowing this years audit by PwC for 2017 and has completed a review of PwCs working papers from the 2016 Robust year-end governance processes are in place to support full year results as well as the 2017 interim results and, in due the Committees considerations which include: course, will review the 2017 papers in anticipation of its ensuring that all of those involved in the preparation of our appointment by shareholders to serve as the groups external annual report have been appropriately trained and fully auditor in 2018. briefed on the FBU requirements: The information on the following pages sets out in detail the internal legal verification of all factual statements, activities of the Committee during the year.
I hope that you together with legal verification of descriptions used within will find this report useful in understanding our work and the narrative: I welcome any comments from shareholders on my report.
regular engagement with and feedback from senior management on proposed content and changes: feedback from external advisers corporate reporting specialists, remuneration and strategic reporting advisers, external auditor to enhance the quality of our reporting: and early opportunity for review and feedback on our annual Philip Broadley report by Committee members.
Chair of the Audit Committee The Committee, having completed its review, recommended to the Board that, when taken as a whole, the 2017 annual report is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee, together with the Group Risk Committee, reviewed the key assumptions and methodologies of the risk-based capital model as well as related Solvency II disclosures and the proposed disclosures pertaining to the groups economic capital disclosure position.
During the year, the Committee has continued to keep abreast of significant and emerging accounting developments, in particular changes to IFRS relating to insurance accounting.
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 71 GOVERNANCE significant accounting issues considered by the Committee Issue Committees response Valuation of non-participating insurance contract The Committee evaluated the significant judgements that have an impact on the valuation liabilities retirement: of non-participating insurance liabilities for retirement products.
This included considering: The non-participating insurance liabilities for Valuation interest rates which are used to discount the liabilities.
These are sensitive to retirement products are significant in size and judgements made, for example, on credit default of the backing assets, as well as the their estimation is inherently judgemental.
investment data used to calculate the yield on these assets and the methodology used to model the asset cash ows to calculate the internal rate of return.
The Committee focused on managements proposed changes to reserving assumptions, other modelling changes, and the determination of the credit default assumption.
This included analysis of internal historic data and external market experience.
Longevity assumptions which estimate how long policyholders receiving annuity payments will live.
The Committee considered the effectiveness of the controls over the accuracy and completeness of the data used in determining the longevity assumptions and the validity of independent industry data supporting those assumptions.
The Committee also reviewed available data illustrating recent trends in mortality experience in the UK population and the mortality experience on different blocks of our business.
The Committee concluded that the retirement insurance contract liabilities are appropriate for inclusion in the financial statements, reflecting the asset risks and the available data on policyholder longevity.
Valuation of complex investments: The valuation of property assets, lifetime mortgages, private credit, new asset classes and new transactions require the use of complex models and management judgement.
The Mark to model investments can involve significant Committee seeks to ensure that the valuation process for these investments is robust.
judgement and can produce valuation challenges for investments in new asset classes.
The Committee reviewed the processes and controls over investments valuations.
In particular, the Committee reviewed the valuation uncertainty policies and governance including Mark to model valuations inherently include managements assessment of valuation uncertainty by asset type.
assumptions that lead to the existence of a range of plausible valuations for financial instruments The Committee concluded that there are appropriate controls surrounding the valuation of known as valuation uncertainty.
Certain assets complex assets and that they are valued appropriately for inclusion in the financial statements.
are subject to a higher degree of valuation uncertainty particularly where valuations are modelled using non-market inputs or the valuations are affected by other factors such as illiquidity of the asset.
Valuation of non-participating insurance liabilities The Committee has reviewed the methodology for calculating reserves including the insurance: allowance made for payments to and from reassurance counterparties.
The assumptions for the rate of future mortality and morbidity how many customers will die or become ill The non-participating insurance liabilities for during the policy term and persistency how many customers will discontinue cover are protection contracts are an important driver of the based on the companys internal experience and use judgement about how experience may profitability for this line of business and require vary in future.
judgements to be made regarding the assumed rates of mortality and persistency.
The company The Committee reviewed the assumptions and the expected level of prudence taking into makes extensive use of reassurance to reduce account market benchmarking, internal experience studies and the reinsurance structure.
The Committee also considered the internal control environment in place to control the valuation models.
The Committee concluded that the insurance liabilities of the Insurance division are appropriate for inclusion in the financial statements.
72 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT GOVERNANCE Internal control Internal Audit is an agenda item at each Committee meeting The Board has delegated responsibility for reviewing the and the Group Chief Internal Auditor updates the Committee effectiveness of the groups systems of internal control to on audit activities, progress of the audit plans, the results of the Committee.
any unsatisfactory audits and the action plans to address these areas.
In 2017, 106 audits were completed in line with the The Committee has the primary responsibility for the oversight Internal Audit Plan approved by the Committee.
of the groups system of internal controls including financial control and the work of the Internal Audit function.
The The Internal Audit function acts in accordance with the Global Committee, in collaboration with the Group Risk Committee, Institute of Internal Auditors International standards.
In the seeks to ensure that the group operates within a framework of year, the Committee engaged Ernst & Young LLP to perform an prudent and effective controls that allow risk to be identified, independent review of the effectiveness of the groups internal assessed and managed.
The outcomes were reported to the Committee which concluded that progress had been achieved The Committee has completed its review of the effectiveness with the strengthening of the leadership team and that the of the groups system of internal control policies and function was meeting its key objectives.
The recommendations procedures, during the year and up to the date this report was from the review will be implemented to evolve and strengthen approved, in accordance with the requirements of the the functions effectiveness.
Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and related Financial and Business Reporting published by the FRC.
During The Committee received and considered reports from the this review, the Committee did not identify any weaknesses external auditor on its assessment of the control environment which were determined to be significant to the preparation of as well as reports from senior management on its response the financial statements.
The Committee also noted that while to internal control recommendations made by internal audit the location of significant numbers of the finance teams and the external auditor.
The internal control and risk relocated to our offices in London, Cardiff and Hove, there management systems cover the groups financial reporting were no significant changes to the control environment noted process and the groups process for preparation of in the current year, significant to the preparation of the financial consolidated financial statements.
Where areas for improvement were identified, The Committee has concluded that the systems of internal processes are in place to ensure that the necessary actions controls and risk management within the group are effective.
are taken and progress is monitored by the Committee.
No significant control failings or weaknesses were identified The Committee monitored and reviewed the scope, extent during the period under review.
and effectiveness of the activity of the group Internal Audit department.
In particular, the Committee evaluates the alignment of the Internal Audit Plan with the groups key risks and strategy.
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 73 GOVERNANCE The external auditor The Committee is cognisant of the requirements governing the The Committee has the primary responsibility for overseeing appointment of an external auditor, notably the requirements the relationship with, and performance of the external auditor.
of the Competition and Markets Authority CMA in relation to This includes making recommendations for their appointment, the mandatory re-tendering of audit services every ten years, re-appointment or their removal.
In addition, the Committee together with the European Unions requirements for assesses the effectiveness of the external auditor against mandatory audit firm rotation.
The company confirms that it some of the following criteria: has complied with the provisions of the CMAs Order for the financial year under review.
provision of timely and accurate industry specific and technical knowledge As advised last year, PwC has been the groups external auditor for a number of years.
The audit was last tendered in maintaining a professional and open dialogue with the full in 2006 with a partial re-tender process in 2009.
During Committee Chair and members at all times 2016, the Committee undertook a full tender process in delivery of an efficient audit and the ability to meet respect of external audit services in compliance with legislation objectives within the agreed timeframes and FRC guidance on best practice, in particular ensuring the quality of its audit findings, managements response independence in respect of potential audit firms.
and stakeholder feedback The existing external audit firm, PwC, was not invited to The Committee receives regular reports from the external re-tender.
We approached a range of firms including the big auditor on audit findings and significant accounting issues.
four other than the incumbent and mid-tier firms to express In 2017, the Committee continued to focus on the external their interest.
Interested firms were subsequently requested auditors assurance work on Solvency II.
to complete a detailed Request For Proposal RFP.
Following this, a full tender process of firms shortlisted based on the The Committee Chair regularly meets the external auditor responses to the RFP was undertaken.
During the tender throughout the course of the year.
The Committee also meets process, each firm was given access to members of the the external auditor in private throughout the year.
groups senior management and a data room.
The tendering The Committee reviewed the quality of the external audit firms were judged against objective criteria determined in throughout the year and considered the performance of PwC, advance of the process, together with the findings and taking into account the Committees own assessment and conclusions of published inspection reports on the audit firms.
Whilst the Committee appreciated the quality of the proposals presented by all the tendering firms, it considered that the The Committee concluded that there had been appropriate submission and team from KPMG LLP KPMG best met the focus and challenge by PwC on primary areas of the audit and predefined criteria it had set.
had applied robust challenge throughout the audit.
As reported in the 2016 annual report and subject to The Committee reviews and approves the terms of shareholder approval, KPMG will be appointed as the engagement of the external auditor and monitors its Companys auditor with effect from the audit for the financial independence.
This includes overseeing, and in certain year ending 31 December 2018 at the 2018 AGM.
To ensure a circumstances approving, the engagement of the external smooth transition from PwC, KPMG is shadowing PwC on the auditors for non-audit work.
The non-audit services policy audit for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and will prohibits the auditor from providing the following services: then take responsibility for the audit in 2018. tax advice and compliance management or decision-making book-keeping and preparing accounting records or statements design or implementation of internal controls valuation legal, internal audit or human resources those linked to financing capital structure or allocation or investment strategy promoting, dealing in or underwriting share issues payroll services 74 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT GOVERNANCE In 2017, the group spent 2.2 million on non-audit services The Committee supports the five-year rotation of audit provided by PwC.
It spent a further 0.8 million on audit-related engagement partners to maintain the objectivity of the group services required by legislation, which is excluded from any external audit.
The current audit partner commenced his calculation of the ratio of non-audit to audit fees in accordance engagement in 2013.
PwC will end their tenure as external with the UK FRC Ethical Standard for Auditors June 2016. auditor at the 2018 AGM.
Further details can be found in note 34 to the consolidated The Committee remains satisfied that PwC continued to be financial statements.
The non-audit fee represents 35% of independent.
In addition, PwC annually reports on whether the total audit fee for 2017. and why it deems itself to be independent.
Analysis of current and prior year spend on audit, Update on auditor transition progress other assurance and non-assurance services m Since May 2017, the Committee has received a report from 2017 2016 2015 KPMG at each meeting describing its preparatory work during Audit 6.1 5.7 4.9 the transition period.
Audit-related required by legislation 0.8 1.0 1.1 Other audit-related 1.0 1.0 1.6 Other assurance 0.4 0.4 0.4 Non-assurance 0.8 1.1 1.3 Total 9.1 9.2 9.3 Following the audit tender process, the Policy was updated and approved by the Committee to address the requirements as set out in the EU Audit regulation.
Our policy is to approach other firms for significant non-audit work unless the audit firm offers a materially better combination of value, quality and timeliness compared with the non-audit firm whilst not impairing the audit firms integrity, objectivity and independence.
In these circumstances, the groups policy requires that all services with an anticipated cost in excess of a specified amount are subject to a full competitive tender involving at least one other alternative party in addition to the external auditor.
If the external auditor is selected following the tender process, the Committee is responsible for approving the external auditors fees on the engagement.
The Committee has pre-approved the engagement of the auditor for non-prohibited services where the anticipated cost is trivial, but authority is still required from the Group Chief Financial Officer to approve any such engagement.
The external auditor is required to report regularly to the Committee on the nature and fees relating to non-audit services provided under this authority.
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 75
