GOVERNANCE The composition of the Committee The Committee is composed of all the N ominations Committee report independent non-executive directors.
The table below sets out the committee membership during the year.
The Group Chief Executive and group HR Director may be invited to attend meetings where this may assist the Committee in fullling its responsibilities and, most notably, in relation to executive appointments and succession planning.
Members: Sir John Kingman Chair Julia Wilson Carolyn Bradley Philip Broadley Lesley Knox Richard Meddings until 25 May 2017 Rudy Markham until 25 May 2017 Toby Strauss SIR JOHN KINGMAN In line with our conicts of interest management policy, directors are asked to Chairman absent themselves from any discussions relating to his her own reappointment or succession.
The role of the Committee How the Committee spent its time in 2017 The Committee has overall responsibility for leading the process Following the changes to the composition of the Board for new appointments to the Board and ensuring that these during 2016, including the appointment of the new Chairman appointments bring the required skills and experience to the and new Group Chief Financial Officer, the Committees Board to support the Boards role in development and oversight activities in 2017 have focused on overseeing the induction of the groups strategy.
As part of this, the Committee reviews of recently joined Board members and assessing changes the structure, size and composition of the Board to ensure the to committee composition arising from the changes to Board is made up of the right people with the necessary skills the Boards composition.
and experience whilst striving to achieve a Board composition This year the Committee has particularly focused on succession that promotes diversity of thought and approach.
planning for the executive and senior management.
This has The Committees key responsibilities are: included testing that plans are in place for key senior business roles and ensuring that there are development plans in place to regularly reassessing the structure, size and composition nurture the talent in the next level of management below this of the Board and recommending any suggested changes to further strengthen internal succession.
The Committee is responsible for evaluating the independence reviewing the criteria for identifying and nominating of all non-executive directors and undertakes an annual review candidates based on the specification for a prospective of each non-executive directors other interests.
The Board, on appointment including the required skills and capabilities.
the recommendation of the Committee, is satisfied that each considering succession planning for directors and other non-executive director serving at the end of the year remains senior executives, taking into account the challenges and independent and continues to have sufficient time to discharge opportunities facing the company, ensuring the continued their responsibilities to the company.
Julia Wilson has served ability of the company to compete effectively in the market on the Board for six years and, as a result, her continued place, and what skills and expertise will be needed by the independence was subject to more rigorous review.
members considered Julias external interests and other reviewing the time commitment required from nonrelationships which could materially interfere with her ability to executive directors and assessing the non-executive exercise independent judgement.
It was concluded that there directors other significant commitments to ensure that were no circumstances which would affect Julias ability to act they continue to be able to fulfil their duties effectively.
in the best interest of the company and that her length of tenure had no detrimental impact on her level of independence.
The Committees terms of reference, which set out full details of the Committees responsibilities, can be viewed on our website: legalandgeneralgroup.
68 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE Our approach to diversity Diversity Our approach to diversity at Board level is set out in our Gender Board Diversity Policy, which is reviewed annually.
We continue The Committee only engages executive search rms that are to recruit based on merit while remaining committed to signatories to the Voluntary diversity in the widest sense, including in relation to gender, Code of Conduct for Executive ethnicity, religious belief, sexual orientation and disability, Search Firms, which promotes gender diversity and best when seeking to fill vacant Board positions and for the practice for corporate board company more generally.
The company has worked with JCA Group, We have maintained the diversity on our Board, which Odgers, Russell Reynolds comprises 30% females and 70% males.
Our Executive and Korn Ferry which are all signatories to this Code and Committee comprises 27% females and 73% males.
The The Board now comprises: have no other connection to Board continues to support Lord Davies and HamptonFemales 30% the company.
Alexander voluntary targets, namely for a third of all Board Males 70% The Committee briefs the members in FTSE 350 companies and FTSE 100 companies search rm to ensure that the to be women by 2020.
More information can be found on pool of candidates presented Sector experience includes candidates with an pages 32 to 34.
The chart opposite demonstrates the Boards appropriate range of current position.
experience, knowledge and background, and who The Board continues to support the delivery of the talent and demonstrate independence leadership programmes within the wider organisation which of approach and thought.
seek to address gender imbalance by removing barriers that prevent women from realising their potential.
Board members actively participate in discussions relating to talent and leadership and a number of Board members act as Board members come from mentors to individual employees who have been identified as the following backgrounds: future leaders.
The Board supports the Legal & General 50 50 Financial Services 90% by 2020 Network which aims to have a 50 50 balance of men Customer and Retail 10% and women right through the organisation by 2020.
Tenure years We will publish our Gender Pay Gap data, which will appear online at www.
A summary is available on page 34 of this report.
The length of tenure of the non-executives varies: Over six years 10% Between three and six years 30% Between one and three years 60% NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 69
