AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT ACCOUNTABILITY THE COMMITTEE REMIT COVERS ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL REPORTING, INTERNAL CONTROLS Highlights for 2017: AND EXTERNAL AUDIT.
A PARTICULAR FOCUS In depth review of Lower DURING THE YEAR WAS ASSESSING THE IMPACT Passaic River provision Review of future strategy OF THE NEW LEASING ACCOUNTING STANDARD and structure for Group Internal Audit Dear Shareholder Global tax costs and provisions I am pleased to present the report of the Audit and Risk Committee for the year ended 31 December 2017.
This Report explains the work that the Committee has undertaken during the year.
We have Priorities for 2018 included information on our oversight of the Companys financial reporting, its assurance framework and of its systems of risk management and internal controls and explain the Connecting for Growth significant accounting issues that have been considered by the Committee, which are set global change programme out on page 51.
In depth reviews of major provisions where significant The Committee has an annual work plan linked to the Groups financial reporting cycle, judgements and estimates which ensures that it considers all matters delegated to it by the Board.
During the year, are required the Committee met six times and in that time, in addition to its annual work plan, it reviewed managements initial findings on the impact of adopting the new accounting standard for leases, revenue recognition and financial instruments.
The Committee also reviewed the Groups processes and controls for the approval and subsequent monitoring of capital expenditure and for procurement.
This report will be my last as Chairman as, after four years on the Board, I will be stepping down as Chairman of the Committee later in the year and will not seek re-election as a Director at the 2018 Annual General Meeting.
As announced on 8 January 2018 Anne Fahy will be taking over as Chairman with effect from 16 May 2018.
Anne and I will be working closely together to ensure a smooth handover and both of us will be available at the 2018 Annual General Meeting to answer any questions.
Ruth Anderson Chairman, Audit and Risk Committee 6 March 2018 Membership and meetings It is important that the Committee operates effectively and efficiently and has the right balance of skills and expertise to deliver its responsibilities.
The composition of the Committee and its members biographies, including their relevant financial and accounting experience can be found on pages 39 to 41, and their attendance can be found on page 44.
Ruth Anderson and Nicholas Bull were the members of the Committee determined by the Board as having recent and relevant financial experience for the year ended 31 December 2017.
Committee responsibilities During the year, the Committee reviewed its terms of reference to ensure they reflect current standards of governance.
The Committee is responsible for monitoring: the financial reporting process, the integrity of the financial statements of the Group, and any other formal announcements relating to its financial performance and reviewing significant financial reporting judgments contained in them: the effectiveness of the internal financial controls and the internal control and risk management systems of the Company: and the Companys policy on the supply of non-audit services by the external auditor.
The Committee is responsible on behalf of the Board for agreeing the terms of engagement of the external auditor, the auditors remuneration, confirming the auditors independence and its objectivity as well as monitoring the effectiveness of the external audit process.
50 AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Committee responsibilities continued Regular attendees at Committee meetings in the year included the Group Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Legal & Risk Officer and Group Company Secretary, the Head of Financial Control, the Group Financial Controller, the Group Head of Internal Audit, and the external auditor.
The Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive also attend most meetings.
The Chairman holds regular meetings with both internal and external auditors and each has an opportunity to discuss matters with the Committee without management being present.
Significant issues relating to the financial statements The Committee considered the following issues relating to the financial statements during the year: Significant issues relating How the Committee addressed the issue during the year to the financial statements Pension matters At 31 December 2017, the Groups IAS19 Pension deficit was $163m.
valuation of obligations The Committee reviewed the methodology for determining key and disclosure assumptions underpinning the valuation of liabilities of the Groups most significant pension schemes.
The Committee also reviewed in detail the various aspects of the continuing obligations to the Groups ongoing schemes.
The Committee is satisfied that these, and the disclosures provided in note 10 to the financial statements are appropriate.
US environment provision The Group has recognised a provision, net of insurance reimbursements, of $11.3m in respect of remediation and legal professional costs for the Lower Passaic River.
The Committee considered at length managements position on the accounting and disclosure implications surrounding this environmental case.
Following the delivery of the EPAs Record of Decision in March 2016, the Committee has continued to review whether subsequent events, including those impacting other parties considered to be responsible for the most significant contamination in the river, triggered the requirement to re-measure the level of provisioning previously established.
The Committee is satisfied that there is no requirement to re-measure the provision at 31 December 2017 and that the disclosures provided in note 28 to the financial statements are appropriate.
The carrying value The carrying value of the Groups tangible assets is $293 million.
of tangible assets The Committee reviewed, and discussed in some detail, the evidence presented by management of its impairment assessment of tangible assets including the related business plans to support the carrying values.
The review specifically focused on managements assessment of assets held in Brazil, with a carrying value of $38m, following difficult economic and trading conditions.
The Committee was satisfied with managements conclusion that based on the fair value of net assets there was no impairment of tangible assets during 2017 even in a reasonable downside scenario and that the disclosures in note 14 to the financial statements are appropriate.
Taxation The Group operates in numerous jurisdictions around the world, with different regulations applying in different territories.
This complexity together with intra-group cross-border transactions give rise to inherent risks.
In addition to reviewing the Groups effective tax rate, which has dropped from 34%to 32%, the Committee also considered the Groups uncertain tax provisions which amount in total to $13 million and deferred tax asset recognition.
The Committee is satisfied with the approach and disclosures adopted by management as reflected in the financial statements in note 9 to the financial statements.
51 AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED The Committee considered the Financial reporting overall performance and effectiveness The Committees primary responsibility in relation to the Groups financial reporting is of the Internal Audit function, their to review with management and the external auditor the half-year and annual financial independence and objectivity.
statements including, amongst other matters: the accounting policies and practices adopted: material areas in which significant judgments have been applied, where there are significant estimates, or where significant issues have been discussed with the external auditor: and the clarity of disclosures and compliance with financial reporting standards and relevant financial and governance reporting requirements including the use, prominence and balance of financial Alternative Performance Measures compared to their closest Generally Accepted Accounting Principles equivalents.
Going concern and viability statements The Committee undertook to review the appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
The Committee reported to the Board that management had followed sound processes in reaching its conclusion in relation to both the going concern and viability statements, as confirmed by the external auditor.
Internal audit The Group Head of Internal Audit agrees the Internal Audit departments programme of work annually in advance with the Committee and, at each Committee meeting, the Committee reviews key findings from internal audit reports and monitors the rate at which actions agreed with management are implemented.
During the year, the Group Head of Internal Audit presented to the Committee his future vision for the internal audit department, taking into account the increasing use of data analytics and the focus on risk-based auditing.
The Committee considered the overall performance and effectiveness of the Internal Audit function, its independence and objectivity and, based on its own assessment and input from management worldwide, was satisfied that the experience and expertise of the function is appropriate for the Company.
Internal control and risk management The Board has overall responsibility for determining the nature and extent of its principal risks The Company has a whistleblowing and the extent of the Groups risk appetite, and for monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness procedure which enables employees of the Groups systems of risk management and internal control.
The principal risks and who are aware of, or suspect, misconduct, illegal activities, fraud, uncertainties facing the Company are addressed in the Strategic Report and in the table on abuse of assets or violations of any pages 21 to 26 earlier in this document.
Company policy to report these The Board has delegated to the Committee the responsibility for monitoring the effectiveness confidentially.
of the systems of risk management and internal control.
The Committee receives reports from management, Internal Audit and the external auditor relating to the effectiveness of the control environment.
The reporting process ensures that all business units regularly report on internal control and risks through the submission of self-assessments every six months.
During the year, the Committee specifically looked at the processes and controls underpinning the approval and subsequent monitoring of the Groups capital expenditure as well as a review of procurement controls.
The Committee and the Board are satisfied that these systems operate effectively in all material respects and provide reasonable assurance regarding the Groups financial and operational condition.
Whistleblowing procedure Whistleblowing is a standing item on the Committees agenda.
The Company has a whistleblowing procedure which enables employees who are aware of, or suspect, misconduct, illegal activities, fraud, abuse of assets or violations of any Company policy to report these confidentially.
During the year we launched a programme called Doing the right thing, encouraging employees to reflect still further on the importance of ethical behaviour in their working lives as well as providing continued training and awareness on the importance of a strong ethical and compliance-focussed culture for the group.
There were 50 incidents 52 AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED 2016: 30 of whistleblowing during the year, all of which were investigated, with disciplinary action taken where there was evidence of misdemeanour.
External audit Independence The Committee is responsible for reviewing the independence of the Companys auditor, Deloitte LLP, agreeing the terms of engagement with them and the scope of their audit.
Deloitte has a policy of partner rotation, which complies with regulatory standards, and, in addition, Deloitte has a structure of peer reviews for its engagements, which are aimed at ensuring that its independence is maintained.
Maintaining an independent relationship with the Companys auditor is a critical part of assessing the effectiveness of the audit process.
The Committee has agreed the Companys policy on non-audit fees and regularly reviews the level of audit and non-audit fees paid to Deloitte.
There is also a policy for ensuring significant assignments are not awarded to the auditor without first being subject to the scrutiny of the Committee.
The key principles of the policy on non-audit services are: Summary of non-audit services policy The Committee has approved a list of all permitted non-audit services which are allowed under UK statutory legislation and complies with the European Union Directive on audit and non-audit services.
Permitted services include audit-related services such as reviews of interim financial information or any other review of accounts required by law to be provided by the auditor.
The list also includes certain tax compliance and advisory services for Group subsidiaries incorporated outside the European Union.
The Committee has also approved a list of prohibited services which include services remunerated on a success fee or participation in activities normally undertaken by management.
Any service that is not on the list of permitted services if in excess of US$15,000 requires the approval of the Committee.
During 2017, the external auditor provided services in relation to the Groups interim results and tax advisory services outside the European Union.
The external auditor has confirmed to the Committee that they did not provide any prohibited services and that they have not undertaken any work that could lead to their objectivity and independence being compromised.
The non-audit services supplied by the external auditor during the year can be found in note 5 of the financial statements.
The non-audit services primarily relate to tax compliance and advisory services in India.
In the case of each engagement, it was considered appropriate to engage Deloitte LLP for the work because of their existing knowledge and experience from prior Group engagements.
The Committee discussed with, and received confirmation from, the external auditor that the audit team have not relied on the work performed by their tax teams as part of the audit and their objectivity and independence has been safeguarded.
Consideration of Audit tender Deloitte LLP was appointed the Companys auditor in 2003.
The Company has an established policy that the external audit contract be put out to competitive tender in accordance with the provisions of The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014.
However, given the significant change programme that is the Finance Review being implemented widely in the Group, the Company has decided not yet to tender the audit, as permitted by the transitional provisions under the EU Statutory Audit Directive but it will have to do so no later than 2023.
Tim Biggs was appointed as the lead audit engagement partner in 2016.
He will rotate off the audit team after the 2020 year-end.
The Company will continue to consider annually the timetable for audit tendering.
There are no contractual obligations that restrict the Companys choice of external audit firm.
53 AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Assessment of audit process The scope of the external audit is formally documented by the auditor.
They discuss the draft proposal with management before it is referred to the Committee who reviews its adequacy and holds further discussions with management and the auditor before final approval.
The Committee reviewed the performance and effectiveness of the external auditor, as well as their independence and objectivity.
The review process included the completion of a questionnaire assessing their performance which was completed by the Committee members, regular attendees to the Committee and those Coats colleagues globally who interact most frequently with the external auditor.
The feedback has been reviewed by the Committee which is satisfied that it can recommend to the Board that the Board should propose to shareholders the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as auditor for the year ending 31 December 2018.
Assessment of the performance of the Committee As reported last year the Board undertook an evaluation of its effectiveness and that of the Audit and Risk Committee and its members.
The feedback has been evaluated and acted upon.
The Board has also held a follow up session to reflect on the recommendations and progress on their implementation.
The Audit and Risk Committee Report was approved by a Committee of the Board of Directors on 6 March 2018 and signed on its behalf by: Ruth Anderson Chairman, Audit and Risk Committee 6 March 2018 54
