GROUP EXECUTIVE TEAM Membership details can Rajiv Sharma, Group Chief Executive for details see page 39. also be found online at Simon Boddie, Chief Financial Officer for details see page 39. www.
com aboutus Shantanu Banerjee, President Performance Materials Shantanu has 30 years of experience working at Coats and has held a number of senior marketing and manufacturing roles across North America and South Asia.
Currently, as President of Performance Materials, he is responsible for leading and growing the business in all geographic clusters around the world by focusing on innovation and technology development.
Changes to the composition of the GET since 1 January 2017 up to the Ronan Cox, Chief Transformation Officer Ronan has over 20 years of experience at date of this report are shown below Coats across sales, manufacturing and supply chain operations.
As Chief Transformation Officer he leads the Connecting for Growth programme, a series of projects which each address different aspects of reinventing Coats for the future and support the drive to a faster, Ashok Mathur served as Chief more profitable business delivering value for customers, employees and shareholders.
Operations Officer Asia, until he retired 30 April 2017.
Adrian Elliott, President Apparel and Footwear Adrian leads the Apparel and Footwear segment at Coats providing a world class portfolio of threads, zips and trims to global brands Andy Speak served as Chief Human Resources Officer until and manufacturers.
He is primarily responsible for the development and delivery of value adding products and customer propositions leading to sustainable and profitable sales growth.
Adrian has worked at Coats for over 25 years across several countries and continents.
Monica McKees appointment as Chief Human Resource Officer Kevin Finn, Chief Operating Officer, Asia Kevin is responsible for ensuring a safe, was announced on 16 January respectful and inclusive working environment and sound internal controls across operations in 2018 and she will join 20 March Asia.
Kevin has over 30 years of experience working at Coats and held a range of operational 2018. and management roles throughout the business globally.
Most recently he was Managing Director in China, with responsibility for country operations.
Hizmy Hassen, Chief Digital and Technology Officer Hizmy has global responsibility for Technology within the organisation and is responsible for leading on digitising Coats customer facing interactions which will underpin sales growth and increased productivity.
He has worked at Coats for almost 20 years and across areas of Supply Chain, Technology and Digital.
Stuart Morgan, Chief Legal & Risk Officer and Group Company Secretary Stuart joined Coats in 2014 and is responsible for legal and compliance, governance, risk management, communications and company secretarial matters.
He was previously General Counsel, Global Retail and Wealth with Lloyds Banking Group where he led international teams and provided legal and regulatory advice, risk management guidance and strategic support.
Massimo Petronio, Chief Operating Officer, EMEA and LatAm Massimo is responsible for ensuring a safe, respectful and inclusive working environment and sound internal controls across operations in both regions.
He has over 30 years of experience of working at Coats, most recently as Chief Industrial Operations Officer.
Michael Schofer, Chief Supply Chain Officer Michael leads the supply chain business with responsibility for procurement, manufacturing, logistics and the programme to digitise Coats' supply chain.
over 25 years experience at Coats and held leadership roles in General Management, Supply Chain management, IT and large scale business reorganisation throughout Coats.
His previous role was as CEO of the Global Crafts Business.
Monica McKee, Chief Human Resources Officer Monica will join on 20 March 2018 Monica will join as Chief Human Resources Officer and will be responsbile for delivering the Coats global HR strategy.
This covers performance management, progression planning, reward and talent acquisition.
Previously Monica was Head of Human Resources, Corporate Functions at Bristol-Myers Squibb where she also held a series of senior executive roles in organisation design, change management and business partnership.
