CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Responsibilities LEADERSHIP The Board The Boards role is to provide leadership of the Company, and it is responsible to the shareholders for the long term success of the Company.
This includes: Monitoring and challenging performance against plan: Co-developing strategy with executive management: Leveraging Non-Executive Director expertise beyond the boardroom: and Ensuring good corporate governance.
All matters are reserved for the Board unless specifically listed in the terms of reference for Committees of the Board or where the Board has delegated authority.
A delegated authorities policy and schedule are reviewed by the Board annually.
Chairman Mike Clasper, the Chairman, leads the Board, and is responsible for its effectiveness and governance.
He sets the tone for the Company and ensures that the links between the Board and management and between the Board and shareholders are strong.
He sets the Board agenda and ensures that sufficient time is allocated to important matters.
Group Chief Executive Rajiv Sharma is responsible for the day-to-day management of the Groups operations, for recommending the Groups strategy to the Board and for implementing the strategy agreed by the Board.
He is supported in decision-making by Simon Boddie, Chief Financial Officer and fellow Executive Director, and by a Group Executive Team GET comprised of senior managers.
Senior Independent Director SID In his role as the SID, Nicholas Bull provides a sounding board for the Chairman and serves as an intermediary for the other Directors when necessary.
Nicholas is available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Group Chief Executive or other Executive Directors have failed to resolve, or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Non-Executive Directors The role of the Non-Executive Directors is to provide constructive challenge to the executive management, and to bring experience and objectivity to the Boards discussion and decisionmaking.
They monitor the delivery of the Companys strategy against the governance, risk and control framework established by the Board.
The Non-Executive Directors, led by the SID, are also responsible for evaluating the performance of the Chairman.
Group Executive Team GET The GET is responsible for the operational delivery of the Groups strategy.
This includes dayto-day management of operations and responsibility for monitoring detailed performance of all aspects of our business.
Company Secretary Stuart Morgan is the Chief Legal & Risk Officer and Group Company Secretary.
In his role as Group Company Secretary, Stuart is responsible for working with the Chairman to develop Board and Committee agendas and to ensure that all Board procedures are complied with.
Stuart also advises the Board on corporate governance, legal, regulatory and compliance matters and developments.
Other Committees Pensions This ad hoc Committee has been established by resolution of the Board to act as a committee to provide guidance on the actuarial valuations and investment strategies for the Companys three UK defined benefit pension schemes for such duration as determined by the Board.
It is known as the Pensions Committee.
The Pensions Committee is chaired by Mike Allen, and its other members are Simon Boddie, Nicholas Bull, and David Gosnell.
43 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Disclosure The Committees primary duty is to determine whether, what and when any Group information needs to be disclosed to the market and to verify such information ahead of its disclosure to the market via a Regulatory Information Service in accordance with the EU Market Abuse Regulation and the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules.
This includes providing appropriate reassurances to the Board and, as required, individual Directors, and ensuring appropriate records are kept.
The Committee is chaired by Rajiv Sharma and its other members are Simon Boddie and Stuart Morgan.
Board meetings attendance Appointment Committee Audit Nomination Remuneration date Appointments Board Committee Committee Committee Total meetings held 11 6 2 3 Chairman Mike Clasper 20 02 14 N 11 2 Group Chief Executive Rajiv Sharma 02 03 15 N 11 2 Chief Financial Officer Simon Boddie 04 07 16 11 Senior Independent Director Nicholas Bull 10 04 15 A N 11 6 2 Non-Executive Directors Mike Allen 22 09 10 N R 10 2 3 Ruth Anderson 16 04 14 A N 11 6 2 David Gosnell 02 03 15 A N R 11 6 2 3 Echo Lu 01 12 17 N R 1 1 1 1 Fran Philip 01 10 16 N R 11 2 3 Alan Rosling 02 03 15 A N R 11 6 2 3 Key to Committee Appointments : A: Audit and Risk N: Nominations R: Remuneration Echo Lu attended the maximum possible number of meetings since joining the Board The Board met formally 11 times during the year and a number of sub-committee meetings were also convened to deal with matters such as approval of the Trading Statement, settlement of the Heads of Terms of the pensions matter with certain Trustees, and the final approval of the interim and half year results.
In addition, one Board meeting was devoted exclusively to discussions on the Groups strategy.
Noteworthy matters considered by the Board in 2017 Major projects and M&A activity M&A discount rates Capital structure Refreshed Group Risk Register together with numerous principal and other risk deep dives Corporate Responsibility Employee Engagement Survey Health and Safety USPP and financing arrangements with banks Dividend approach Connecting for Growth strategic change programme Investor Relations Legal and litigation issues 2018 Budget and Medium Term Plan Year end and half year results 44 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Board support Each Director has access to the advice and services of the Group Company Secretary.
Where necessary Directors may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
No such independent advice was sought during the financial year.
The Board receives regular briefings from the Group Company Secretary on governance, legal and regulatory matters.
Before each Board meeting, papers are delivered electronically via a secure iPad accessible web portal, which helps to ensure that Directors have time and resources to fulfil their duties.
The web portal includes a resource centre providing access to key information.
Time commitment Each Director is aware of the need to allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
In addition to time spent at Board and Committee meetings, the Directors attend strategy days and participate in Company-related events such as the Global Leadership Conference and visits to the Companys sites worldwide.
Directors interests and conflicts The interests of the Directors including interests of their connected persons in the share capital of the Company and its subsidiaries are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 55 to 67.
There is an established process to capture details of any interests that a Director may have which conflict with, or could potentially conflict with, the interests of the Company.
The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to authorise any actual or potential conflicts of interest if considered appropriate.
At each meeting the Board considers Directors conflicts of interest and Directors are reminded of their duty to disclose any conflicts and potential conflicts, as well as any interests in the matters to be discussed at the meeting.
No Director, either during or since the end of the year under review, was or has become interested in any material contract not being a contract of employment with the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Board effectiveness Introduction The Board recognises the importance of monitoring and seeking ways to enhance its effectiveness in line with best practice corporate governance.
Following the externally facilitated Board effectiveness review in 2016 by an independent third party, Grand Shearman, the Board conducted an internal effectiveness review in the last quarter of 2017.
Board effectiveness review During 2017, the Board continued to reflect and act upon the various recommendations which emerged from the 2016 Grand Shearman Board effectiveness review, which had examined how the Directors engaged individually and collectively and how each Director could further enhance the effective functioning of the Board and its Committees for the benefit of the Group.
In the last quarter of 2017, the Board undertook an internal review which considered progress against the various recommendations in the 2016 review along with any further areas for focus.
The review found a strong agreement that good progress had been made against all the recommendations in the 2016 review, and concluded that the Board should continue to focus in particular on: Striking the optimal balance between the breadth and the depth of the issues it discusses: Ensuring it remains in a position to provide informed oversight of the Groups Digital agenda: and Using pre-education sessions to help prepare Directors for discussions on key evolving business areas.
45 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED In the wake of this internal review, actions have been agreed to ensure further progress against these areas in 2018, including, in relation to the Boards role in oversight of the Digital agenda, appropriately leveraging external market expertise.
In addition, during the year Nicholas Bull led an assessment of my performance in discussion with the other Non-Executive Directors.
Following these reviews, I am satisfied that the Board and its Committees are performing effectively and that the balance of skill, experience, diversity, independence and knowledge of the Group are sufficient to enable the Directors to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively and I believe the Board has a sufficient balance of diversity.
Board improvement The Chairman in conjunction with the Group Company Secretary is responsible for the ongoing development and training of the Non-Executive Directors.
The Board receives reports from the Group Company Secretary on relevant legal and governance issues at Board meetings.
On appointment, Directors are given an induction and training programme details of Echo Lus induction programme can be found in the Nomination Committee Report on page 49.
The Directors receive information including Board and Committee packs in a timely manner and have access to all relevant information and staff.
UK Corporate Governance Code Compliance Statement For the year ended 31 December 2017, we are pleased to report that the principles of the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code have been applied and the Company complied in full with the provisions of the Code.
46 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED RELATIONS WITH BOARD MEMBERS TAKE AN ACTIVE ROLE IN SHAREHOLDERS ENGAGING WITH SHAREHOLDERS, BOTH IN PRIVATE MEETINGS AND IN WIDER FORUMS SUCH AS THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director aim to meet some of the major institutional investors at least once per year and are available to meet other investors on request.
The Chairman shares feedback from these meetings with the wider Board.
The Board receives regular updates on investor communication activity, changes to the shareholder register, analysis of share price performance and particular investment themes such as Environmental, Social and Governance compliance ESG, and the Chairman ensures that any views expressed by shareholders are communicated to the Board at the earliest opportunity.
The Board considers transparency and openness to be a key feature of its stated strategy and endeavours to ensure that both shareholders and the market remain appropriately informed and that timely updates are released to the market.
We maintain an active engagement with our key financial audiences, including institutional shareholders, debt stakeholders and sell-side analysts as well as potential shareholders.
During the year we made regular presentations to, and had meetings with, institutional and retail investors from the UK, Europe and the US to communicate progress towards achieving our sales growth strategy and to answer questions.
Throughout the year our senior management team presented at industry conferences organised by investor bodies and investment banks for their institutional investor bases.
Our dedicated Investor Relations function and management team managed the interaction with these audiences and provided additional regular presentations during the year.
Presentations are made to analysts and shareholders covering the Companys Preliminary Results and its half year results each year.
Our website has a section focused on information and updates relevant to public shareholders which can be found at www.
Annual General Meetings The Board values the Annual General Meeting as an important opportunity to engage with investors.
Attendees have the opportunity to ask questions of the Board and are invited to meet with the Board following the formal business of the meeting.
This interaction helps the Board to develop an understanding of the views of the Companys shareholders.
Copies of the presentations and reports and the results of proxy voting at the 2017 AGM were released to the market and can be found at www.
This years Annual General Meeting will be held in London on 16 May 2018.
