2 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT The Audit Committee is confident of the Executives commitment to the strong financial risk andcontrol environment strategy which supports Tullowsbusiness model Steve Lucas Chairman of the Audit Committee Committee members Meetings attended changes to the forward curve were the key factors that had the largest impact on our financial reporting, which required us to Steve Lucas 4 4 revise our models, leading to further asset write-offs this year.
Anne Drinkwater 4 4 On the other hand, the Rights Issue and completion of the Jeremy Wilson 4 4 refinancing of RBL provided additional flexibility for Tullow in Tutu Agyare 3 3 terms of liquidity, thus having a positive impact on the going concern assessment.
Mike Daly 3 3 Ann Grant 1 1 In 2017, the Audit Committee continued to oversee the risk management and internal control systems.
By disposing of Denotes Directors who were no longer members of the Committee as non-core assets, progressing the farm-down in Uganda and at 31December 2017. consolidating activities within New Ventures, Tullow is now a much more streamlined organisation in terms of responsibilities 2017 highlights and accountabilities for controls.
The internal control environment Approval of half-year and full-year Financial Statements.
has seen improvements during the year, predominantly due to the enhancements to the financial control systems in Ghana Review of the work of the independent reserves auditor.
and the internal financial control initiatives being driven by Assessment of the remit and results of internal audit.
The supplier due diligence processes have beenenhanced with a robust roll-out across the Group and Review of Senior Accounting Officer sign-off process.
improvements in monitoring and assurance at Group level.
Review of financial controls, including focused reviews of TheIMS, being embedded across the Group, provides clarity control improvements in Ghana Business Unit.
The successful embedding ofthe e-learning modules on the Code of Ethical Conduct, as Monitoring of enhancements to supplier due diligence process.
well as initiating the development of an automated Enterprise Review of information systems risks and controls.
Risk Management tool to increase transparency and visibility ofrisks across the business, ensures that we continue to Review of tax and formulation of tax strategy disclosure.
improve the overall risk and internal controls environment Review of whistleblowing reporting and investigations.
Ongoing review of the effectiveness of risk management Steve Lucas andinternal control systems.
Chairman of the Audit Committee 6 February 2018 DEAR SHAREHOLDER Tullow observed a number of changes in 2017, within its business, organisation and governance at both the Board and ALLOCATION OF Executive level.
The most significant from the Audit Committee AUDIT COMMITTEE TIME % perspective was a change in the CFO position with Les Wood taking over the role from Ian Springett in June, after six months as Interim CFO.
Previously, Les was operating as head of the Commercial and Finance functions, so his appointment to CFOwas a smooth transition within the finance organisation.
Having Les as the CFO allows Tullow to continue to focus on refining and improving its financial risk and controls strategy.
Subsequent changes to the Finance function provided confidence to the Audit Committee over the commitment of the Executive to the strong risk and control environment which supports Tullows business model.
The Audit Committee continued to oversee the financial reporting process in order to ensure that the information provided to the Financial results 41 shareholders is fair, balanced and understandable and allows Internal audit 19 accurate assessment of the Companys position, performance, Risk and controls 27 business model and strategy.
The continued low oil price and Governance 13 www.
com 67 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Governance monitor and review the adequacy and effectiveness of the Steve Lucas has been Audit Committee Chairman since May 2012.
Companys internal financial controls and internal control Steve, who is a Chartered Accountant, was finance director at and risk management systems: National Grid plc from 2002 to 2010.
It is a requirement of the consider the level of assurance being provided on the risk UK Corporate Governance Code that at least one Committee management and internal controls systems and whether member has recent and relevant financial experience and Steve itissufficient for the Board to satisfy itself that they are Lucas therefore meets this requirement.
The other members of operating effectively: the Audit Committee are Anne Drinkwater and Jeremy Wilson.
Biographies of the Committee members are given on pages 40 review the adequacy of the whistleblowing system, and the and41.
Together the members of the Committee demonstrate Companys procedures for detecting and preventing fraud: competence in the oil and gas industry with Anne Drinkwater and review and assess the annual internal audit plan, its alignment Steve Lucas having significant prior experience in oil and gas with key risks of the business and coordination with other companies, while also bringing a wider range of industry, assurance providers and receive a report on the results of commercial and financial experience, which is vital in supporting theInternal Audit functions work on a periodic basis: effective governance.
The Company Secretary serves as the secretary to the Committee.
oversee its relationship with the external auditor including assessing its independence and objectivity, review the annual The Chief Financial Officer, the Group Internal Audit Manager, audit plan to ensure it is consistent with the scope of the the Group Head of Finance and representatives of the external audit engagement, and review the findings of the audit: auditor are invited to attend each meeting of the Committee and participated in all of the meetings during 2017.
The Chairman of assess the qualifications, expertise and resources of the the Board also attends meetings of the Committee by invitation external auditor and the effectiveness of the audit process: and and was present at the majority of the meetings in 2017.
The ensure that, following the transition period applied under the external auditor and the Group Internal Audit Manager have CMA Order, the audit services contract is put out to tender at unrestricted access to the Committee Chairman.
In 2017, the Audit Committee met on four occasions.
Meetings The Ethics & Compliance Function maintains responsibility for are scheduled to allow sufficient time for full discussion of key monitoring systems and controls to prevent bribery and topics and to enable early identification and resolution of risks corruption, and the Audit Committee continues to receive and issues.
Meetings are aligned with the Groups financial updates from the Group Ethics & Compliance Manager on reporting calendar.
The Committee reviewed and updated its terms of reference during the year.
These are in line with best practice and reflect Key areas reviewed in 2017 therequirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016, The Committee fully discharged its responsibilities during the theFRCs 2016 Guidance on Audit Committees, the FRCs 2014 year and the following describes the work completed by the Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Audit Committee in 2017: Financial and Business Reporting, the FRCs 2016 Ethical Standards, and the Competition and Markets Authoritys The Annual Report Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation A key element of the governance requirements regarding the Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Groups Financial Statements is for the report and accounts to Committee Responsibilities Order 2014.
The Audit Committees be fair, balanced and understandable.
To ensure this requirement terms of reference can be accessed via the corporate website.
is met by Tullow, the Group takes a collaborative approach to TheBoard approved the terms of reference on 7 December 2017. creating its Annual Report and Accounts, with direct input from the Board throughout the process.
The process of planning, Summary of responsibilities writing and reviewing the report is run by a central project The Committees detailed responsibilities are described in its team, alongside a formal audit process undertaken by our terms of reference and include: external auditor.
In order for the Audit Committee and the Board to be satisfied with the overall fairness, balance and monitor the integrity of the Financial Statements of the clarity of the final report, the following steps are taken: Group, reviewing and reporting to the Board on significant financial reporting issues and judgements, among others early planning, taking into consideration regulatory changes including going concern and viability assessments: and best practice: review and, where necessary, challenge the consistency comprehensive guidance issued to key report contributors ofsignificant accounting policies, and whether appropriate across the Group: accounting standards have been used: validation of data and information included in the report both review the content of the Annual Report and Accounts internally and by the external auditor: andadvise the Board on whether it is fair, balanced and a series of key proof dates for comprehensive review across understandable and provides the information necessary different levels in the Group that aim to ensure consistency forshareholders to assess Tullows position, performance, and overall balance: and business model and strategy: Senior Management and Board review and sign-off.
68 Tullow Oil plc 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 2 Financial reporting Monitoring the integrity of the Financial Statements and formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance.
Reviewing the significant financial reporting issues and accounting policies and disclosures in the financial reports.
The Committee met with the external auditor as part of annual audit planning and the full-year and half-year accounts approval process.
The Committee considered the key audit risks identified as being significant to the 2017 accounts and the most appropriate treatment and disclosure of any new or judgemental matters identified during the audit and half-year review as wellasany recommendations or observations made by the external auditor.
The primary areas of judgement considered by the Committee inrelation to the 2017 accounts and how these were addressed are detailed below: Significant financial judgements for2017 How the Committee addressed thesejudgements The Committee and Deloitte LLP reviewed and Recognition of finance lease liabilities: The Group has a contract with a supplier for the lease of the TEN field Ghana FPSO.
Management was required to exercise judgement challenged managements judgement that the to determine when the FPSO should be recognised as a finance lease in accordance TEN FPSO lease met the IAS 17 finance lease recognition criteria at year end 31 December 2017, with IAS 17, what discount rate to apply to future minimum lease payments and the that there was no rate implicit in the lease contract expected length of the contract.
The finance lease was recognised as of 1 August 2017 and that most economically efficient outcome was on the issue of the Certificate of Offshore Completion for the FPSO.
Management were not able to identify a rate implicit in the lease contract as such has used its incremental an appropriate lease term.
cost of borrowing to discount future minimum lease payments.
Finally given the number of potential options for the length of the contract management has selected the most economically efficient outcome.
Recognition of assets held for sale: The Group signed a sales and purchase agreement The Committee and Deloitte LLP reviewed to farm down a portion of its interest in Uganda to Total on 9 January 2017.
Management andchallenged managements judgement that has exercised judgement in determining that this disposal met the requirements of IFRS completion of the farm-down was highly probable.
5 and that the associated assets and liabilities should be retained as held for sale.
The critical judgement in determining that the assets wereheld for sale was regarding the point that management were committed to thesale.
Management continue to conclude that the sale is highly probable.
Carrying value of intangible exploration and evaluation assets: The amounts for The Group has a very active Exploration and intangible exploration and evaluation assets represent active exploration projects.
Appraisal work programme and the Committee These amounts will be written off to the income statement as exploration costs unless reviews and challenges management assumptions commercial reserves are established or the determination process is not completed and and judgements underlying the valuation of there are no indications of impairment in accordance with the Groups accounting policy.
intangible assets for each licence at each balance The process of determining whether there is an indicator for impairment or calculating sheet date.
In addition, Deloitte LLP has identified the impairment requires critical estimation.
this as a significant area of focus for its audit and undertakes discussions with operational and The key areas in which management has applied judgement and estimation are as finance staff to challenge evidence provided by follows: the Groups intention to proceed with a future work programme for a prospect management to support the value of intangible or licence: the likelihood of licence renewal or extension: the assessment of whether assets and provides detailed reporting to the sufficient data exists to indicate that, although a development in the specific area is likely Committee on the results of its work.
This is a to proceed, the carrying amount of the exploration and evaluation asset is unlikely to be recurring area of judgement.
recovered in full from successful development or by sale, and the success of a well result or geological or geophysical survey.
Carrying value of property, plant and equipment: Management performs impairment Results of the impairments tests were discussed reviews on the Groups property, plant and equipment assets at least annually with and challenged by the Committee.
In addition, reference to indicators in IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
Where indicators of impairments Deloitte LLP performs similar procedures and or impairment reversals are present and an impairment or impairment reversal test is audits the underlying economic models to satisfy required, the calculation of the recoverable amount requires estimation of future cash itself of the integrity of the process and the flows within complex impairment models.
This is a recurring area of judgement.
Key assumptions and estimates in the impairment models relate to: commodity prices that are based on forward curves for two years, mid-term price assumptions for three years after this and the long-term inflated corporate economic assumption thereafter, pre-tax discount rates that are adjusted to reflect risks specific to individual assets, commercial reserves and the related cost profiles.
Going concern: Refer to page 34 of the Directors report.
The Committee reviewed and challenged the assumptions and judgements in the underlying going concern forecast cash flows by discussing and analysing the risks, sensitivities and mitigations identified by management.
The Committee receives written and oral reporting from Deloitte LLP on its conclusions on managements assessment of going concern, and it was noted that Deloitte LLP reduced the level of risk associated with the going concern assumption during 2017. www.
com 69 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Significant financial judgements for2017 How the Committee addressed thesejudgements Decommissioning costs: Decommissioning costs are uncertain and cost estimates can A review of all decommissioning cost estimates vary in response to many factors, including changes to the relevant legal requirements, isundertaken annually by internal experts.
theemergence of new technology or experience at other assets.
The expected timing, work Theresults are then reviewed in the context scope, amount of expenditure and risk weighting may also change.
Therefore significant ofoperator estimates for the purposes of the estimates and assumptions are made in determining the provision for decommissioning.
Provision for decommissioning costs is based on current The estimated decommissioning costs are reviewed annually by an internal expert and the legaland contractual requirements, technology, results of this review are then assessed alongside estimates from Operators.
Provision for and price levels.
The impact on decommissioning environmental clean-up and remediation costs is based on current legal and contractual estimates was reviewed and challenged by the requirements, technology and price levels.
Deloitte LLP also reviews the results as part of its audit.
This is a recurring area ofjudgement.
Provisions for onerous service contracts: Due to the historical reduction in original The Committee reviewed and challenged the planned future work programmes the Group identified a number of onerous service assessment of the Groups onerous contracts contracts in prior years.
Management has estimated the value of any future economic withDeloitte LLP.
outflows associated with these contracts.
External auditor The Groups external auditor is Deloitte LLP and the Making recommendations to the Board on the appointment AuditCommittee assessed the qualifications, expertise orre-appointment of the Groups external auditor, overseeing andresources, and independence of the external auditor the Boards relationship with the external auditor and, where aswell as the effectiveness of the audit process.
This appropriate, the selection of a new external auditor, and assessing reviewcovered all aspects of the audit service provided by the effectiveness of the external audit process isa key Deloitte LLP, including obtaining a report on the audit firms responsibility of the Audit Committee.
own internal quality control procedures and consideration ofthe audit firms annual transparency reports in line with The UK Corporate Governance Code states that the Audit the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Audit Committee Committee should have primary responsibility for making also approved the external audit terms of engagement arecommendation on the appointment, re-appointment or andremuneration.
During 2017 the Committee held private removal of the external auditor.
On the basis of the review of meetings with the external auditor.
The Audit Committee external audit effectiveness described below, the Committee Chairman also maintained regular contact with the audit recommended to the Board that it recommends to shareholders partner throughout the year.
These meetings provide an the re-appointment of Deloitte as Tullows statutory auditor opportunity for open dialogue with the external auditor at the 2018 AGM.
Matters discussed The external auditor is required to rotate the audit partner included the auditors assessment of significant financial responsible for the Group audit every five years.
The current risks and the performance of management in addressing Deloitte lead audit partner, Mr Dean Cook, started his tenure these risks, the auditors opinion of managements role in 2015 and his current rotation will end with the audit of our infulfilling obligations for the maintenance of internal 2018 accounts.
controls, the transparency and responsiveness of interactions with management, confirmation that no restrictions have The audit contract was last tendered in 2004 and no contractual been placed on them by management, maintaining the obligations existed that acted to restrict the Audit Committees independence of the audit, and how they have exercised choice of external auditor.
Under the EU Audit Regulation professional challenge.
andthe Competition and Markets Authority The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014, Tullow elected toapply the transitional rules with an annual review of this approach.
According to those rules, the Company is required to run a competitive tender process in respect of auditor appointment no later than 31 December 2024.
70 Tullow Oil plc 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 2 In order to ensure the effectiveness of the external audit Internal controls and risk management process, Deloitte LLP conducts an audit risk identification Responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups risk process at the start of the audit cycle.
This plan is presented management and internal control systems is delegated to the to the Audit Committee for its review and approval and, for Audit Committee by the Board.
In concert with the whole Board, the 2017 audit, the key audit risks identified included carrying the Audit Committee completed a robust assessment of the value of exploration and evaluation assets, carrying value principal risks facing the Company, including those that would ofproperty, plant and equipment, provision for tax claims, threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or provisions for onerous contracts, decommissioning provisions, liquidity.
The results and outcomes of that assessment are revenue recognition, risk of management override and going provided on page 42 of this report under the section entitled concern.
These and other identified risks are reviewed Principal Risks.
through the year and reported at Audit Committee meetings The Audit Committee obtained comfort over the effectiveness where the Committee challenges the work completed by the ofthe Groups risk management and internal control systems auditor and tests managements assumptions and estimates through activities coordinated by the Internal Audit function.
in relation to these risks.
The Committee also seeks an These activities comprised: assessment from management of the effectiveness of the audit process.
In addition, a separate questionnaire addressed audit reviews undertaken by the Internal Audit function: to all attendees of the Audit Committee and senior finance assurance activities undertaken by the Group functions: managers is used to assess external audit effectiveness.
Asaresult of these reviews, the Audit Committee considered enhancement of the enterprise risk management and the external audit process to be operating effectively.
assurance processes: The Committee closely monitors the level of audit and non-audit the external auditors observations on internal financial services provided by the external auditor to the Group.
controls identified as part of its audit: and Non-audit services are normally limited to assignments that regular performance, risk and assurance reporting by the are closely related to the annual audit or where the work is Business Unit and corporate teams to the Board.
ofsuch a nature that a detailed understanding of the Group isnecessary.
In 2017 the most significant non-audit service During the year, Group Internal Audit presented its findings provided by Deloitte to Tullow related to its role as a reporting tothe Audit Committee, which monitored progress of issues accountant on the Rights Issue.
An internal Tullow standard raised and their timely resolution on a regular basis.
Senior for the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit Management representatives from the business were also services is in place to formalise these arrangements.
It is invited to the Audit Committee meetings to provide updates reviewed annually and has been revised in 2017 to reflect onkey matters such as Ghana Business Unit finance, tax changes in the regulatory environment.
Among others, it strategy and proposed disclosure as well as improvements requires Audit Committee approval for all non-trivial categories made in the SCM due diligence process.
A breakdown of the fees paid to the In addition, during the year, the Audit Committee received external auditor in respect of audit and non-audit work reports from the independent reserves auditor, ERCE, and isincluded in note 4 to the Financial Statements.
reviewed the arrangements in place for managing information In addition to processes put in place to ensure segregation technology risk relating to the Groups critical information ofaudit and non-audit roles, Deloitte LLP is required, as part systems.
The Committee also reviewed the arrangements of the assurance process in relation to the audit, to confirm forCompany employees and contractors to raise concerns to the Committee that it has both the appropriate independence through the speaking up programme.
and the objectivity to allow it to continue to serve the Based on the results of the annual effectiveness review of risk members of the Company.
This confirmation is received management and internal control systems that was coordinated everysix months and no matters of concern were identified by Group Internal Audit, the Audit Committee concluded that by the Committee.
the system of internal controls operated effectively throughout the financial year and up to the date on which the Financial Statements were signed.
com 71 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Internal audit requirements Whistleblowing procedure Considering how the Groups internal audit requirements shall Ensuring that an effective whistleblowing procedure is in place.
be satisfied and making recommendations to the Board.
In line with best practice and to ensure Tullow works to the The Group Internal Audit Manager has direct access and highest ethical standards, an independent whistleblowing responsibility to the Audit Committee Chairman and Committee.
procedure was in operation throughout 2017 to allow staff to His main responsibilities include: evaluating the development confidentially raise any concerns about business practices.
of the Groups overall control environment as well as the This procedure complements established internal reporting effectiveness of risk identification and management at processes.
The whistleblowing policy is included in the Code business and corporate levels.
During 2017, the Group of Ethical Conduct which is available to all staff in printed Internal Audit Manager met with the Audit Committee Chairman form and on the corporate website.
The Committee considers and with the Audit Committee without the presence of the whistleblowing procedures to be appropriate for the size management to assess managements responsiveness and scale of the Group.
toInternal Audit recommendations made during the year andto assess the effectiveness of Internal Audit.
Review of effectiveness of the Audit Committee During the year, the Audit Committee has undergone an The Committee reviewed and challenged the programme independent review of its own effectiveness with the results of2017 Internal Audit work developed to address both reported to the Board.
The Committee was considered to financial and overall risk management objectives identified beoperating effectively and in accordance with the UK within the Group.
The plan was subsequently adopted Corporate Governance Code and the relevant guidance.
withprogress reported at the Audit Committee meetings.
Forty-three internal audit reviews were undertaken during the year, covering a range offinancial and business processes in the Groups London office and the main operational locations in Ghana, Uganda and Kenya.
Detailed results from these reviews were reported to management and in summary to the Audit Committee during the year.
Where required the Audit Committee receives full details on any key findings.
The Audit Committee receives regular reports on the status of the implementation of Internal Audit recommendations.
The Group also undertook regular audits of non-operated joint ventures under the supervision of Business Unit management and the Group Internal Audit Manager.
Internal Audit also runs a systematic programme of audits of suppliers compliance with commercial and business ethics clauses, including bribery and corruption, ofthe significant contracts.
The Committee receives summaries of investigations of significant known or suspected fraudulent activity by third parties and employees including ongoing monitoring and following up of fraud investigations.
The Audit Committee assessed the effectiveness of InternalAudit through its review of progress versus plan andthe results of audits reported, and through the thorough self-assessment review report provided by the Group InternalAudit Manager.
Resourcing levels in Internal Audit are assessed by the Audit Committee with a view to ensuring that it can fully discharge its duties.
Results of the review were discussed at the Committee and actions to further improve Internal Audit effectiveness are being implemented.
72 Tullow Oil plc 2017 Annual Report and Accounts
