Board of Directors as at 31 December 2017 Committee Board composition Membership Key Committee Chairman A Audit Gender split of Directors as at 31 December 2017 R Remuneration Male 7 Nomination NG Female 5 & Governance S Science NG R Leif Johansson Pascal Soriot Non-Executive Chairman of the Board Executive Director and CEO Date of first April 2012 October 2012 appointment Skills and experience: From 1997 to 2011, Skills and experience: Pascal brings a passion or election to Leif was Chief Executive Officer of AB Volvo.
for science and medicine as well as significant the Board.
Prior to that, he served at AB Electrolux, latterly experience in established and emerging as Chief Executive Officer from 1994 to 1997. markets, strength of strategic thinking, He was a Non-Executive Director of BMS a successful track record of managing change from 1998 to September 2011, serving on the and executing strategy, and the ability to lead Directors nationalities as at 31 December 2017 Boards Audit Committee, and Compensation a diverse organisation.
He served as Chief and Management Development Committee.
Operating Officer of Roches pharmaceuticals British 5 He holds an MSc in engineering from Chalmers division from 2010 to September 2012 and, French 3 University of Technology, Gothenburg.
prior to that, Chief Executive Officer of Genentech, a biologics business, where he American 2 Other appointments: Leif is Chairman of led its successful merger with Roche.
Pascal Swedish 2 global telecommunications company, LM joined the pharmaceutical industry in 1986 Ericsson.
He holds board positions at Autoliv, and has worked in senior management roles Inc and Ecolean AB.
He has been a member in numerous major companies around the of the Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering world.
He is a doctor of veterinary medicine Sciences since 1994.
Leif is also a member of cole Nationale Vtrinaire dAlfort, the European Round Table of Industrialists.
Maisons-Alfort and holds an MBA from HEC, Paris.
Length of tenure of Non-Executive Directors 3 years 3-6 years 4 3 Philip Broadley Leif Johansson Deborah DiSanzo Genevive Berger Sheri McCoy Graham Chipchase Nazneen Rahman 6-9 years 9 years 1 2 Shriti Vadera Rudy Markham Marcus Wallenberg A R NG Marc Dunoyer Rudy Markham Executive Director and CFO Senior independent Non-Executive Director November 2013 September 2008 Changes to the composition Skills and experience: Marcs career in Skills and experience: Rudy has significant of the Board and its pharmaceuticals, which has included periods international business and financial Committees for the year with Roussel Uclaf, Hoechst Marion Roussel experience, having formerly held various ended 31 December 2017 and GSK, has given him extensive industry senior commercial and financial positions experience, including finance and accounting: with Unilever, culminating in his appointment Philip Broadley Nazneen Rahman corporate strategy and planning: research and as its Chief Financial Officer.
He has also Elected to the Board on Appointed to the Board and development: sales and marketing: business served as a Non-Executive Director of the 27 April 2017 and became became a member of the reorganisation: and business development.
UK Financial Reporting Council from 2007 a member of the Audit Science Committee with Marc is a qualified accountant and joined to 2012, as Chairman and a Non-Executive Committee on the same date.
AstraZeneca in 2013, serving as Executive Director of Moorfields Eye Hospital NHS Vice-President, GPPS from June to October Foundation Trust, and as a Non-Executive Ann Cairns Sheri McCoy 2013.
Prior to that, he served as Global Head Director of Legal & General Group plc.
Retired from the Board and Appointed to the Board of Rare Diseases at GSK and concurrently Other appointments: Rudy is a non-executive as a member of the Audit and became a member of Chairman, GSK Japan.
He holds an MBA from member of the Board of United Parcel Committee with effect from the Audit Committee with HEC, Paris and a Bachelor of Law degree from Services Inc.
He is also Vice Chairman of the 27 April 2017, after three effect from 1 October 2017.
Supervisory Board of Corbion NV formerly years service.
CSM NV, a Fellow of the Chartered Institute Deborah DiSanzo of Management Accountants and a Fellow Appointed to the Board with Bruce Burlington of the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
Retired from the Board and those Board Committees on which he served on 31 August 2017, after seven years service.
88 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance S A R NG Genevive Berger Philip Broadley Graham Chipchase Deborah DiSanzo Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director April 2012 April 2017 April 2012 December 2017 Skills and experience: Genevive was Chief Skills and experience: Philip has significant Skills and experience: Graham is Chief Skills and experience: Deborah is the global Science Officer at Unilever PLC & NV, and a financial and international business experience, Executive Officer and a Director of Brambles General Manager for IBM Watson Health, member of the Unilever Leadership Executive having previously been Group Finance Director Limited, the global supply-chain logistics the business unit founded to achieve IBMs from 2008 to April 2014.
She holds three of Prudential plc for eight years and Old Mutual company listed on the Australian Securities next moonshot.
Deborah is widely recognised doctorates in physics, human biology and plc for six years.
He started his career at Exchange.
Brambles operates in over by multiple organisations as a top health medicine and was appointed Professor of Arthur Andersen where he was a partner for 60 countries, primarily through the CHEP influencer, including publications Health Medicine at lUniversit Pierre et Marie Curie, seven years.
He is a past Chairman of the and IFCO brands.
Graham served as Data Management and Modern Healthcare, Paris in 2006.
Her previous positions include 100 Group of Finance Directors in the UK.
Chief Executive Officer of global consumer and is a sought-after speaker at healthcare Professor and Hospital Practitioner at He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered packaging company, Rexam PLC from 2010 and women in technology venues, including lHpital fide la Piti-Salptrire in Paris: Accountants in England and Wales.
to 2016 after serving at Rexam as Group the Forbes Healthcare Summit and Aspen Director General at the Centre National fide la He graduated in Philosophy, Politics and Director, Plastic Packaging and Group Finance Ideas Festival.
Deborah has a distinguished Recherche Scientifique: Chairman of the Health Economics from St Edmund Hall, Oxford Director.
Previously, he was Finance Director career working at the intersection of healthcare Advisory Board of the EU Commission: and and has a MSc in Behavioural Science from of Aerospace Services at the global engineering and technology.
Prior to joining IBM, she was Non-Executive Director of Smith & Nephew plc.
the London School of Economics.
After CEO of Philips Healthcare.
Previously, she held starting his career with Coopers & Lybrand management roles at Agilent, Hewlett-Packard Other appointments: In May 2015, Genevive Other appointments: Philip chairs the Audit Deloitte, he held various finance roles in the and Apollo Computer.
was appointed as a Director of Air Liquide Committee of Legal & General Group plc.
industrial gases company The BOC Group S. A. for a term of four years.
She is currently He is a member of the Code Committee of Other appointments: Director of ReWalk PLC now part of The Linde Group.
He is a Chief Research Officer at Firmenich SA, The Takeover Panel and of the Oxford Robotics, Inc.
Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants Geneva, Switzerland.
He is Treasurer of in England and Wales and holds an MA Hons the London Library and Chairman of the Board in chemistry from Oriel College, Oxford.
of Governors of Eastbourne College.
Other appointments: Chief Executive Officer of Brambles Limited.
A S A R S Sheri McCoy Nazneen Rahman Shriti Vadera Marcus Wallenberg Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director October 2017 June 2017 January 2011 April 1999 Skills and experience: Sheri is Chief Executive Skills and experience: Nazneen is Head of the Skills and experience: Shriti has significant Skills and experience: Marcus has international Officer and a Director of Avon Products, Inc. Division of Genetics and Epidemiology at the knowledge of global finance, emerging business experience across various industry Prior to joining them in 2012, she had a Institute of Cancer Research ICR, London: markets and public policy.
She has advised sectors, including the pharmaceutical industry distinguished 30-year career at Johnson & Head of the Cancer Genetics Unit at the Royal governments, banks and investors on the from his directorship with Astra prior to 1999.
Johnson, latterly serving as Vice Chairman Marsden NHS Foundation Trust: and Director Eurozone crisis, the banking sector, debt Other appointments: Marcus is Chairman of of the Executive Committee, responsible for of the TGL clinical gene testing laboratory at restructuring and markets.
She is a member Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB, Saab AB the Pharmaceuticals and Consumer business the ICR.
Her research harnesses her scientific of the G20 CEO Advisory Group and of the and FAM AB.
He is a member of the boards segments that represented more than 60% of and clinical expertise to identify and clinically International Advisory Council of Asia House.
of Investor AB, Temasek Holdings Limited, the companys revenues.
Sheri joined Johnson implement human disease genes.
She has a Shriti is also Chairman of the European and the Knut and Alice Wallenberg Foundation.
& Johnson as a scientist in research and strong focus on cancer predisposition genes, Financial Services Chairmans Advisory development and subsequently managed in which she is an  Committee, TheCityUK.
She has served as a businesses in every major product sector, expert and has discovered many such genes Minister in the UK Cabinet Office, and Business including consumer, prescription medicines during her career, particularly for breast, ovarian and International Development Departments.
and medical devices, holding positions including and childhood cancers.
Nazneen qualified in She has also served on the Council of Worldwide Chairman, Surgical Care Group medicine from Oxford University in 1991, gained Economic Advisers, HM Treasury, where and Division President, Consumer.
She holds her Certificate of Completion of Specialist she focused on business and international a Bachelor of Science degree in textile Training in medical genetics in 2001 and economic issues.
Prior to that, Shriti spent chemistry from the University of Massachusetts completed a PhD in molecular genetics in 1999.
14 years in investment banking with Dartmouth, a Masters degree in chemical She has a strong commitment to open science SG Warburg UBS.
engineering from Princeton University and and science communication and has garnered Other appointments: Shriti is Chairman of an MBA from Rutgers University, both in numerous awards, including a CBE in the 2016 Santander UK plc and Senior Independent New Jersey, US.
Queens birthday honours in recognition of her Director of BHP Billiton.
Other appointments: In addition to Avon Products, Inc. Sheri serves on the boards of Other appointments: Nazneen is a member New Avon LLC: Catalyst, a global non-profit that of the scientific advisory board of Genomics helps build workplaces that work for women: plc and the advisory board of Wellcome and Stonehill College, Easton, Massachusetts.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Board of Directors 89
