Senior Executive Team SET as at 31 December 2017 Pascal Soriot Marc Dunoyer Katarina Ageborg Dr Sean Bohen CEO CFO Executive Vice-President Sustainability Executive Vice-President, Global Medicines and Chief Compliance Officer Development and Chief Medical Officer See page 88.
Katarina currently serves as Executive Sean was appointed Executive Vice-President, Vice-President Sustainability and Chief GMD in September 2015 and leads our global Compliance Officer.
In 2015, she assumed late-stage development organisation for both responsibility for the Companys sustainability small molecules and biologics, driving a programme, with oversight for the Access to medicines pipeline which features novel and Healthcare, Environmental Protection and groundbreaking science across three main Ethics & Transparency strategic priority areas.
therapy areas Oncology, Cardiovascular Prior to her broadened role in sustainability, she & Metabolic diseases and Respiratory focused on delivery, design and implementation as well as the selective areas of autoimmunity, of the Companys compliance programme neuroscience and infection.
He is also the as well as streamlining the Safety, Health & Companys Chief Medical Officer and is Environment function.
She has been a member responsible for patient safety across the of the SET since 2011.
Katarina led the Global entire AstraZeneca and MedImmune portfolio.
Intellectual Property function from 2008 to He joined AstraZeneca from Genentech, 2011, during which time she streamlined the where he held a number of senior leadership organisation and launched a new patent filing roles across various therapy areas and within strategy.
After joining Astra AB in 1998, she early development.
Before joining Genentech, held a series of senior legal roles supporting Sean was a Clinical Instructor in Oncology Commercial, Regulatory and Intellectual Property.
at Stanford University School of Medicine, In addition to the SET, Prior to AstraZeneca, Katarina established her a research associate at the Howard Hughes we have two senior level own law firm and worked as a lawyer on both Medical Institute and a postdoctoral fellow governance bodies civil and criminal cases.
Katarina holds a at the National Cancer Institute.
He is a accountable for making Master of Law Degree from Uppsala University graduate of the University of Wisconsin and key decisions regarding School of Law in Sweden.
later earned his doctorate in biochemistry our portfolio and pipeline.
and his medical degree at the University of California, San Francisco.
Early Stage Product Late Stage Product Committees ESPCs Committee LSPC The ESPCs are senior The LSPC is also a senior level, cross-functional level governance body, governance bodies with accountable for the quality accountability for oversight of the portfolio post-Phase III of our early-stage small investment decision.
Jointly molecule and biologics chaired by the EVPs of GMD portfolio to Proof of Concept and GPPS, members include, stage.
The EVPs of our as appropriate, members of two science units, IMED the SET, including the CEO and MedImmune, chair and CFO, and members our ESPCs.
of the GMD and GPPS leadership teams.
Pam Cheng Fiona Cicconi The ESPCs seek to deliver a flow of products to GMD The LSPC seeks to maximise Executive Vice-President, Executive Vice-President, for Phase III development the value of our investments Operations & Information Technology Human Resources through to launch.
The in the late-stage portfolio, Pam joined AstraZeneca in June 2015 after Fiona joined AstraZeneca in September 2014 as ESPCs also seek to maximise also ensuring well-informed having spent 14 years in Global Manufacturing Executive Vice-President, Human Resources the value of our internal and and robust decision making.
and Supply Chain roles at Merck MSD.
and is responsible for the overall design and external R&D investments Specific accountabilities Pam was the Head of Global Supply Chain delivery of the Companys people strategy, through robust, transparent include: Management & Logistics for Merck from 2006 impacting over 60,000 employees in more and well-informed decision to 2011 and led the transformation of Merck than 100 countries.
She started her career at making that drives approval of the criteria supply chains across the global supply network.
General Electric, where she held various human business performance supporting Proof More recently, Pam was President of MSD resources roles within the oil and gas business, and accountability.
of Concept China, responsible for MSDs entire business in which included experience in major global decision to invest in China.
Prior to joining Merck, Pam held various acquisitions and driving change.
Subsequently, Specifically, the ESPCs Phase III development engineering and project management positions Fiona spent a number of years at Cisco, have responsibility for based on agreement of at Universal Oil Products, Union Carbide overseeing human resources in seven countries the following: commercial opportunity Corporation and GAF Chemicals.
Pam holds in Europe and latterly handling employee and our plans to develop Bachelors and Masters degrees in chemical relations in Europe, Middle East and Africa, approving early-stage the medicine engineering from Stevens Institute of before joining Roche in 2006.
There, she was investment decisions evaluation of the Technology in New Jersey and an MBA in most recently responsible for global human prioritising the outcome of the marketing from Pace University in New York.
resources for Pharma Technical Operations, respective portfolios development programme She has been a member of the Board of where her primary focus was to identify and licensing activity for and decision to proceed Directors for Codexis Inc. CDXS since 2014. develop a sustainable supply of leadership products in to regulatory filing and talent from within the organisation.
Phase I and earlier decision to invest in delivering internal and life-cycle management external opportunities activities for the reviewing allocation late-stage assets of R&D resources.
decision to invest in late-stage business Note: Jamie Freedman was Executive development Vice-President, Oncology from April 2017 opportunities.
to October 2017 90 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Dr Ruud Dobber David Fredrickson Dr Bahija Jallal Mark Mallon Executive Vice-President, Executive Vice-President, Executive Vice-President, Executive Vice-President, Global Product North America Global Head Oncology Business Unit MedImmune and Portfolio Strategy, Global Medical Affairs & Corporate Affairs Ruud was appointed Executive Vice-President, Dave was appointed Executive Vice-President, Bahija was appointed Executive ViceNorth America in August 2016 and is Global Head Oncology Business Unit in President, MedImmune in January 2013 Mark was appointed Executive Vice-President, responsible for driving growth and maximising October 2017 and is responsible for and is responsible for biologics research GPPS, GMA & Corporate Affairs in August the contribution of the commercial operations in driving growth and maximising commercial and development activities.
Bahija is tasked 2016, leading AstraZenecas global marketing North America to AstraZenecas global business.
performance of the global oncology and with advancing the biologics pipeline of and commercial portfolio strategy as well as the Ruud joined Zeneca in 1997 and has held haematology portfolio within AstraZeneca.
She joined MedImmune in 2006 medical affairs and corporate affairs functions.
various senior commercial and leadership roles.
In addition, he plays a critical leadership role as Vice-President, Translational Sciences and These functions integrate corporate, therapy Most recently, Ruud was Executive Vicein setting the Oncology portfolio and product has held roles of increasing responsibility at area and product strategies to bridge scientific President, Europe and oversaw business strategy for the organisation.
Prior to this role, AstraZeneca.
Prior to joining AstraZeneca, development and commercial excellence in the functions in the 28 EU member states.
Ruud was Dave served as President of AstraZeneca K. K. Bahija worked with Chiron Corporation, core areas of cardiovascular and respiratory also responsible for the development of our in Japan, and Vice-President, Specialty Care where she served as Vice-President, Drug diseases.
Prior to this, Mark was EVP for the late-stage, small molecule antibiotic pipeline for AstraZeneca in the US, spanning oncology, Assessment and Development.
Bahija received International region, responsible for the growth as well as its global commercialisation.
Prior infectious disease, and neuroscience a Masters degree in biology from lUniversit and performance of AstraZenecas commercial to that, Ruud was Regional Vice-President medicines.
Dave joined AstraZeneca from fide Paris VII and her doctorate in physiology businesses in this region.
Since joining Zeneca, of AstraZenecas European, Middle East and Roche Genentech in 2014, where he was from lUniversit Pierre et Marie Curie, Paris VI.
Mark has held many senior sales and marketing African division, Regional Vice-President for Business Unit Manager, Oncology in Spain She conducted her postdoctoral research at roles, including Regional Vice-President for the Asia Pacific region and Interim Executive and held growing commercial responsibilities the Max-Planck Institute of Biochemistry in Asia Pacific, President of our Chinese and Vice-President, GPPS.
Ruud was a member in strategy, marketing and sales in the US.
She is the President Italian subsidiaries, Chief Operating Officer of of the Board and Executive Committee of He also served for nine years at the Monitor of the Board of Directors of the Association our Japanese subsidiary and Vice-President the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Group, LLC now Monitor Deloitte Group, LLC, for Women in Science and she is also of our US gastrointestinal and respiratory Industries and Associations EFPIA and was a global strategy consultancy.
He has served on the Board of Trustees of the Johns businesses.
Mark began his career in the previously Chairman of the Asia division of as Vice Chairman of the European Federation Hopkins University.
pharmaceutical industry in management Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations consulting.
He holds a degree in chemical of America.
Holding a doctorate in immunology EFPIA Japan and was a member of the Board engineering from the University of Pennsylvania from the University of Leiden in the Netherlands, of the Japan Pharmaceutical Manufacturers and an MBA in marketing and finance from the Ruud began his career as a scientist, researching Association JPMA.
He is a graduate of Wharton School of Business.
in the field of immunology and ageing.
Georgetown University DC in Government.
Dr Menelas Pangalos Jeff Pott Iskra Reic Leon Wang Executive Vice-President, IMED Biotech General Counsel Executive Vice-President, Executive Vice-President, Unit and Global Business Development Europe International and China President Jeff was appointed General Counsel in January Menelas Mene was appointed Executive 2009 and has overall responsibility for all Iskra was appointed Executive Vice-President, Leon Wang is Executive Vice-President, Vice-President, IMED Biotech Unit in January aspects of AstraZenecas Legal and IP function.
Europe in April 2017 and is responsible for International and China President.
He is 2013 and leads AstraZenecas small molecule He joined AstraZeneca in 1995 and has worked sales, marketing and commercial operations responsible for the overall strategy and for research and early development activities.
in various litigation roles, where he has had across our businesses in 30 European driving sustainable growth across the region.
Since joining AstraZeneca in 2010, Mene has responsibility for IP, anti-trust and product countries, with the exception of Oncology Leon joined AstraZeneca China in March 2013 been instrumental in driving the Companys liability litigation.
Before joining AstraZeneca, teams in those which report to the Oncology and was promoted to President of AstraZeneca commitment to science and led the he spent five years at the US legal firm Drinker Business Unit.
Iskra trained as a Doctor of China in 2014.
Under Leons leadership, transformation of R&D productivity through Biddle and Reath LLP, where he specialised in dental surgery at the Medical University of China has become AstraZenecas second the development and implementation of our pharmaceutical product liability litigation and Zagreb, Croatia.
She joined AstraZeneca largest market worldwide, and AstraZeneca 5R framework.
Mene has previously held anti-trust advice and litigation.
He received in 2001 and has held a variety of in-market, has become the second largest and the fastest senior R&D roles at Pfizer, Wyeth and GSK.
his bachelors degree in political science from regional sales and marketing and general growing multinational pharmaceutical company He completed his undergraduate degree in Wheaton College and his Juris Doctor Degree management roles, including in Europe as in China.
In January 2017, Leon was promoted biochemistry at Imperial College London with from Villanova University School of Law.
Head of Commercial Operations for Croatia to Executive Vice-President, Asia Pacific a first class honours and earned a doctorate and Head of Specialty Care Central & Eastern Region.
Prior to joining AstraZeneca, Leon in neurochemistry from University College Europe and Middle East & Africa.
In 2012, held positions of increasing responsibility in London.
He is a Fellow of the Academy of she joined AstraZeneca Russia as Marketing & marketing and business leadership at Roche, Medical Sciences, Royal Society of Biology Strategy Director.
She was appointed General where he was a Business Unit Vice-President.
and Clare Hall at the University of Cambridge, Manager Russia in 2014 and, under her In addition, Leon holds several positions in a visiting Professor of Neuroscience at Kings leadership, AstraZeneca achieved a leading local trade associations and other prominent College London and recently gained an share in its three main therapy areas and organisations in China.
Leon holds an EMBA Honorary PhD from the University of Glasgow.
became a top-three prescription medicine from China Europe International Business In the UK, Mene serves on the Medical pharmaceutical company.
Iskras responsibilities School, and a Bachelor of Arts from Shanghai Research Council and is on the Board of were expanded in 2016 to cover both Russia International Studies University.
and the Eurasia Area, where she drove strong performance from a 1,500-strong team in a complex and dynamic region.
Iskra has an International Executive MBA from the IEDC-Bled School of Management, Slovenia.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Senior Executive Team 91
