NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT EFFECTIVENESS THE COMMITTEE CONTINUES TO ENSURE THAT THE BOARD HAS THE CORRECT BALANCE OF Highlights for 2017: SKILLS, EXPERIENCE, GENDER, ETHNIC DIVERSITY Oversight of market search AND INDEPENDENCE and recommendations for appointment of Echo Lu Dear Shareholder and Anne Fahy.
I am pleased to present the Nomination Committee Report, which summarises our work Oversight of senior executive over the past year.
talent development and succession planning.
Last year I reported on a year of change and further changes were another feature of 2017.
On 1 January 2017 Rajiv Sharmas tenure as Group Chief Executive began which evidenced the Committees strong focus on senior executive, as well as Board level talent development and succession planning.
Throughout the year we considered and reviewed plans for the Priorities for 2018 continued development of key personnel within the business to ensure an ongoing pipeline Ongoing focus on ensuring of executive talent.
appropriate mix of diversity The Committee also continued to ensure that the Board has the right balance of skills, among Board, GET and senior experience, diversity and independence.
Reviewing our succession plans and the composition management more generally of the Board are an essential part of this process.
During 2017 the Committee conducted a search with the assistance of an executive search agency, the Inzito Partnership, which resulted in Echo Lu being appointed as a Non-Executive Director.
Echo joined the Board, and this Committee, on 1 December 2017 and her direct managerial experience of global companies operating in markets in Asia, particularly North East Asia, will bring very pertinent additional local and regional insight.
She also has practical knowledge of empowering women entrepreneurs in emerging economies which will bring invaluable perspective to the Board and this Committee.
As a result of Ruth Andersons decision to retire from the Board and not stand for re-relection as a Director at the 2018 Annual General Meeting AGM, the Committee also engaged Inzito Parnership to search for her replacement.
On 8 January 2018 we announced that Anne Fahy would join the Board on 1 March 2018 as a Non-Executive Director and will succeed Ruth to become Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee at the AGM on 16 May 2018.
Anne is a very experienced Non-Executive Director with extensive experience of global business, developing markets and internal controls and will be a strong addition to this Committee.
Both recent appointments have increased the gender and ethnic diversity of the Board and will broaden the Committees perspective and contribution to the Company.
I welcome both Anne and Echo to the Board and thank Ruth for her wisdom and support over the years.
Mike Clasper Chairman, Nomination Committee 6 March 2018 Composition and meetings The Committee is chaired by Mike Clasper and its members comprise all of the Non-Executive Directors along with the Group Chief Executive.
The Committee met on two occasions during 2017 to discuss proposed appointments, succession planning and development and to evaluate the balance of skills, experience, diversity, independence and knowledge on the Board.
48 NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Diversity and gender The Board believes that having people with a diverse range of skills and qualifications, as well as a mix of geographical experience, ethnicities and gender on the Board and GET contributes to an effective and high performing leadership team, who are better able to guide the Company and set the tone and culture for the organisation.
When reviewing the composition of the Board, the Committee takes into account a number of factors including the balance of skills, experience, knowledge and independence of existing Board members and regularly considers the benefits and periodically seeks to balance the mix of ethnic, gender, age and professional diversity.
While the Committees focus is to ensure that appointment recommendations are made on objective criteria and that the best candidates are put forward for appointments, it always remains cognisant of the needs for and benefits of diversity.
Close regard is also given to these factors when considering senior executive appointments.
While there is no formal diversity policy, the Committees own practices are such that diversity considerations are taken into account as a matter of course and these were all applied when considering the appointment of Echo Lu, in December 2017 and Anne Fahy in March 2018.
The Committee continues to take an active interest in talent management, in particular ensuring that initiatives are in place to develop the talent pipeline and to promote diversity and gender in the GET and other senior executives.
During the year the Committee considered the changes in the GET including the appointment of the Chief Transformation Officer and changes in the Chief Operating Officer roles for EMEA and LatAm and the Global Supply Chain Officer.
During the year an executive search took place for external candidates for the roles of Chief Human Resources Officer and President, Crafts North America.
For the latter role Stephanie Leichtweis was appointed in October 2017 and for the former Monica McKee was appointed in March 2018 to replace Andy Speak who left the Company in August 2017.
Induction and training There is a formal induction programme for new Directors, which was followed during the year for Echo Lu.
This included meetings with GET members, and other senior executives individually and also meeting with relevant bankers, advisers and investors.
Following the initial induction for Non-Executive Directors, their continuing understanding of the business is progressed through relevant business engagements such as the Boards visits to the Turkish and Indian operations of the business during the course of 2017.
Succession planning The Committee has in place a developed approach to succession planning and developing a diverse pipeline to meet strategic objectives and achieve gender balance in senior management, as well as ensuring appropriate succession and development plans are in place for appointments to the Board.
We are satisfied that the succession planning structure in place is appropriate for a FTSE250 company of the size and nature of the Group.
Our succession planning arrangements will continue to be kept under regular review going forward.
Committee performance and effectiveness The Committee performance was evaluated as part of the Board and Committee effectiveness review and it was considered to be effective and remains independent.
The Committee is satisfied that the external commitments of its Chairman and members do not conflict with their duties and commitment as Directors of the Company.
During the year the Committee also considered potential actions resulting from the Board effectiveness review which are included in more detail on page 45.
The Committee noted that the Board considered the results of a follow up questionnaire on progress on Board effectiveness at its meeting in December 2017.
The Nomination Committee Report was approved by a Committee of the Board of Directors on 6 March 2018 and signed on its behalf by: Mike Clasper Chairman, Nomination Committee 6 March 2018 49
