OVERVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING OTHER INFORMATION GOVERNANCE REPORT Corporate Gover Corporate Governance finance Statement Statement Introduction strategic issues, policies set out on pages 12 and 13 and The Board has considered and supports the principles and corporate governance matters which are all reviewed regularly.
recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code the UK Code published in 2016 and the AIC Code of Corporate In order to enable them to discharge their responsibilities, all Governance the AIC Code.
The Board believes that the Company Directors have full and timely access to relevant information.
At each has complied with the provisions of the UK Code except as detailed meeting the Board reviews the Companys investment performance below and is also adhering to the principles and recommendations of and considers financial analyses and other reports of an operational the AIC Code during the period under review and up to the date of nature.
The Board monitors compliance with the Companys this report except as set out below.
The UK Code includes provisions objectives and is responsible for setting investment and gearing relating to: limits within which the Fund Manager has discretion to act, and the role of the Chief Executive: thus supervises the management of the investment portfolio which executive directors remuneration: and is contractually delegated to the Manager.
The Board has the right the need for an internal audit function.
of veto over the appointment of sub-managers recommended by the Fund Manager.
The Board has responsibility for the approval of For the reasons set out in the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for all investments in in-house funds managed or advised by F&C and Investment Companies the Board considers these three provisions any unlisted investments with the exception of new private equity as not being relevant to the position of the Company, being an investments, responsibility for which has been delegated to F&C.
In particular, all of the The following table sets out the Directors meeting attendance in Companys day to day management and administrative functions 2017.
The Board held a separate meeting in September 2017 to have been delegated to the Manager.
As a result, the Company has consider strategic issues and also met regularly in private session no executive directors, employees or internal operations.
Therefore, during the year, without any representation from the Manager.
with the exception of the need for an internal audit function, which is addressed on page 46, the Company has not reported further in Directors attendance in 2017 respects of these provisions.
Management Audit Nomination Engagement Copies of the codes can be found on their respective websites: Board Committee Committee Committee www.
of meetings 8 4 1 1 1 Simon Fraser 8 4 1 1 AIFMD The Company is defined as an Alternative Investment Fund AIF Sarah Arkle 8 4 n a 1 under the AIFMD issued by the European Parliament, and which Sir Roger Bone 8 4 1 1 has been implemented into UK law.
This requires that all AIFs must 2 Stephen Burley 3 1 n a 1 appoint a Depositary and an Alternative Investment Fund Manager 3 Francesca Ecsery 8 n a n a 1 AIFM.
The Board remains fully responsible for all aspects of the Companys strategy, operations and compliance with regulations.
Jeffrey Hewitt 8 4 n a 1 The Manager is the Companys AIFM.
4 Beatrice Hollond 3 1 n a n a Edward Knapp 8 4 n a 1 Articles of association The Companys articles of association may only be amended by Nicholas Moakes 8 n a 1 1 special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
1 Attends but is not a member of the Audit Committee 2 Retired as a Director on 25 April 2017 3 Joined the Nomination Committee on 24 January 2017 The Board 4 Joined the Board on 1 September 2017 and the Audit Committee on The Boards responsibilities are outlined on page 49.
More 30 October 2017 specifically, the Board is responsible for the effective stewardship of the Companys affairs and reviews the schedule of matters reserved for its decision.
These are categorised under strategy, policy, finance, Each Director has signed a terms of appointment letter with the risk, investment restrictions, performance, marketing, appointments, Company, in each case including one months notice of termination the Board and public documents.
It has responsibility for all corporate by either party.
These are available for inspection at the Companys Report and Accounts 2017 | 35 registered office during normal business hours and are also available Independence of Directors at annual general meetings.
The Board, which is composed solely of independent non-executive Directors, regularly reviews the independence of the individual Directors are able to seek independent professional advice at the Directors.
All the Directors have been assessed by the Board as Companys expense in relation to their duties.
No such advice was remaining independent of F&C and of the Company itself: none has a taken during the year under review.
The Board has direct access past or current connection with F&C and each remains independent to company secretarial advice and services of the Manager which, in character and judgement with no relationships or circumstances through the Company Secretary, is responsible for ensuring that relating to the Company that are likely to affect that judgement.
That Board and Committee procedures are followed and applicable includes Sir Roger Bone who has served for over nine years.
Those regulations are complied with.
The proceedings at all Board and Directors serving more than six years are subject to more rigorous other meetings are fully recorded through a process that allows review before being proposed for re-election.
any Directors concerns to be recorded in the minutes.
The Board has the power to appoint or remove the Company Secretary Conflicts of interest in accordance with the terms of the investment management A company director has a statutory obligation to avoid a situation agreement.
The powers of the Board relating to the buying back or in which he or she has, or potentially could have, a direct or issuance of the Companys shares are explained on pages 12, indirect interest that conflicts with the interests of the company a 32 and 33. situational conflict.
The Board therefore has procedures in place for the authorisation and review of situational conflicts relating to the Appointments Directors.
Limits can be imposed as appropriate.
Under the articles of association of the Company, the number of Directors on the Board may be no more than fifteen.
Directors may Other than the formal authorisation of the Directors other be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by the directorships as situational conflicts, no authorisations have been Board.
All new appointments by the Board are subject to election sought.
These authorisations were reviewed in January 2018, by shareholders at the next annual general meeting and institutional and each Director abstained from voting in respect of their own shareholders are given the opportunity to meet any newly appointed directorships.
Aside from situational conflicts, the Directors must Director if they wish.
An induction process is in place for new also comply with the statutory rules requiring company directors appointees and all Directors are encouraged to attend relevant to declare any interest in an actual or proposed transaction or training courses and seminars.
All the other Directors stand for rearrangement with the Company.
Committees Board effectiveness The Board has established an Audit Committee, Management The 2017 annual appraisal of the Board, the committees and the Engagement Committee and Nomination Committee.
The role and individual Directors has been carried out by the Chairman.
This built responsibilities of these committees are set out in their respective on the objectives identified from the previous years appraisal for reports.
As the Board has no executive Directors and no employees, which the Chairman was supported by independent consultants, the and is composed solely of non-executives, it does not have a Board Advisory Partnership LLP.
The process included confidential Remuneration Committee.
Detailed information on the remuneration unattributable one-to-one interviews between the Chairman and arrangements for the Directors of the Company can be found in the each Director.
The appraisal of the Chairman was covered as Remuneration Report on pages 43 to 44 and in note 5 on the part of the process and led separately by the Senior Independent Accounts.
The Chairmans report on progress against the objectives was submitted to the Board in February 2018 and new objectives Relations with shareholders set.
These include the delivery of the promotional campaign as part Shareholder communication is given a high priority.
In addition to the of the celebrations for the Companys 150th anniversary year: the annual and half-yearly reports that are available to shareholders, monthly maintenance of the high profile achieved as part of that campaign fact sheets and general information are available on the Companys into the future: and stepping up the succession plans for the website at foreignandcolonial.
A regular dialogue is maintained changes that will be needed for the Board over the next two to three with the Companys institutional shareholders and with private client years.
The appraisal determined that the Board was effective as was asset managers.
Shareholders wishing to communicate with the the Chairmans leadership of the Board.
Chairman, the Senior Independent Director or any other member of the Board may do so by writing to the Company, for the attention of the Removal of Directors Company Secretary, at the address set out on page 37.
The Company may by special resolution remove any Director before the expiration of their term of office and may by ordinary resolution All shareholders have the opportunity to meet and question the appoint another person who is willing to act to be a Director in their Board at the AGM.
The provisions under which a Director would automatically cease to be a Director are set out in the articles of association.
By order of the Board for and on behalf of F&C Investment Business Limited Secretary 6 March 2018 36 | Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
