BOARD OF DIRECTORS Key to Committee membership Mike Clasper CBE, Chairman Key skills and experience: Mike has over 35 years experience in general management and marketing for global companies, with a particular focus on brands and business services.
Audit and Risk Other current appointments: He is currently the Senior Independent Director at Serco Group plc, a leading provider of public services and Chairman of Bioss, an organisation and people Nomination development consultancy.
He is also a trustee of the Chartered Management Institute CMI a governor of the Royal Shakespeare Company RSC and an Advisory Board member for Remuneration Arora International.
Previous relevant experience: Mike was until recently Chairman of Which?
Ltd. and has Chair of Committee previously served as Chief Executive Officer of BAA plc, Chairman of HM Revenue & Customs, Operational Managing Director at Terra Firma, and held a number of senior management positions at Procter & Gamble.
He has also been the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director of ITV plc, Chairman of the West London Consortium, and Chairman of the Market Place Changes to the composition of the Impact Taskforce of Business in the Community.
Board since 1 January 2017 up to Qualifications: Mike holds an MA in Engineering from the University of Cambridge.
the date of this report are detailed below and also in the Directors Rajiv Sharma, Group Chief Executive Report on page 71: Key skills and experience: Rajiv became Group Chief Executive on 1 January, 2017, having served as an Executive Director since December, 2014.
He has nearly 30 years of experience Hongyen Echo Lu, which includes commercial, operations, M&A, strategy, digital and general management.
Rajiv Non-Executive Director joined Coats in November 2010 as Global CEO Industrial and was responsible for developing Appointed 1 December 2017 and executing a growth strategy.
He has lived and worked in the US, Europe and Asia.
Other current appointments: Rajiv does not currently have any other external appointments.
Anne Fahy, Previous relevant experience: Rajiv has multi industry global experience.
He has managed Non-Executive Director complex businesses with blue chip companies that include Saab, Honeywell, GE and Shell.
Appointed 1 March 2018 The majority of his career has been dedicated to growing or turning around businesses and he has been on the board of joint ventures at both GE and Shell.
Qualifications: Rajiv holds a degree in Mechanical Engineering, as well as an MBA from the University of Pittsburgh, USA.
Simon Boddie, Chief Financial Officer Key skills and experience: Simon has over 30 years experience of working in finance with extensive knowledge of international operations, emerging markets and digital.
Other current appointments: He is currently a Non-Executive Director of PageGroup plc, a specialist recruitment company, where he also chairs the audit committee.
Previous relevant experience: Simon was previously Group Finance Director for ten years at Electrocomponents plc, a FTSE 250 industrial distribution business.
Prior to Electrocomponents, Simon worked for Diageo, the leading international drinks business, where he held a variety of senior finance positions.
His career started at Price Waterhouse, where he qualified as a Chartered Accountant, before working in the Corporate Finance Team of Hill Samuel Bank.
Qualifications: Simon is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and has an MA in Economics from the University of Cambridge.
Nicholas Bull, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Key skills and experience: Nicholas is a qualified chartered accountant with over 30 years experience in global banking.
Other current appointments: He is currently Chairman of the investment trust, Fidelity China Special Situations plc, as well as a trustee of the Design Museum, the Conran Foundation and a member of the Council of the University of Exeter.
Previous relevant experience: Nicholas has served as Chairman of fide Vere, the hotel and leisure group.
He has also served as Chairman of the Advisory Board of City stockbroker, Westhouse Securities and of Smiths Corporate Advisory Limited.
Prior to that he had a career in banking with Morgan Grenfell subsequently Deutsche Bank, Socit Gnrale and ABN AMRO working in London, Hong Kong, Singapore and Sydney.
Qualifications: Nicholas has a BSc in Chemistry from the University of Exeter and is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
39 BOARD OF DIRECTORS CONTINUED Independence Mike Allen, Independent Non-Executive Director Key skills and experience: Mike has over 25 years experience in investment banking and general management both in New Zealand and the UK.
Other current appointments: He is currently Chairman of Investore Property Limited, Director of Godfrey Hirst Australia and Taumata Forests Limited, and an Independent Director of China Construction Bank NZ Limited and Tainui Group Holdings.
Previous relevant experience: Mike has previously held a variety of senior leadership roles in New Zealand at Southpac Corporation and Westpac.
Qualifications: Mike has an LLB BCom from Otago University, New Zealand.
Ruth Anderson, Independent Non-Executive Director Key skills and experience: Ruth is a chartered accountant with more than 30 years experience of working for the accounting firm KPMG LLP.
Other current appointments: Ruth is a Non-Executive Director at Ocado Group plc and Travis Perkins plc and chairs the audit committees at both.
She is also a Director of The Royal Parks and a Trustee of the charity The Duke of Edinburghs Award.
Previous relevant experience: During her career with the accounting firm KPMG LLP Ruth worked from student accountant to UK Vice Chairman and advised many global businesses.
Tenure Qualifications: Ruth has a BA in French and Spanish from the University of Bradford.
She is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and a member of the Chartered Institute of Taxation.
David Gosnell, Independent Non-Executive Director Key skills and experience: David has over 30 years experience in supply and procurement strategy and execution.
Other current appointments: David is currently Non-Executive Director of Brambles Ltd, the supply chain solutions provider and Chairman of Old Bushmills Distillery Company Ltd.
Previous relevant experience: David retired from Diageo plc in 2014 where he had most recently held the role of President of Global Supply and Procurement.
He led a global team of 9,000 people around the world across manufacturing, logistics and technical operations as well as managing Diageos global procurement budget.
Prior to joining Diageo, David spent 25 years at HJ Heinz in various operational roles.
Qualifications: David holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Electrical and Electronic Engineering from Middlesex University and has completed Supply Chain Manufacturing Drive Operational Excellence at INSEAD Singapore.
Hongyan Echo Echo Lu, Independent Non-Executive Director Diversity Key skills and experience: Echo has over 20 years of global HR, operations and general management experience in retail and pharmaceutical industries across Europe, Asia and the US.
Other current appointments: Echo is currently the Managing Director of Holland & Barrett International, a European health and wellbeing retailer Previous relevant experience: Echo previously served as the Managing Director of Homebase Ltd as part of Home Retail Group plc and spent ten years at Tesco plc in a variety of senior leadership roles, including Asia HR Director, Chief Operations Officer, China and Property Director, UK Ireland.
Echo has previously been a Non-Executive Director of Dobbies Garden Centres and served as a steering committee member of the Trestle Group Foundation, a non-profit organisation which supports female entrepreneurs in emerging economies.
Qualifications: Echo has a Bachelor of Arts in International Economy and Finance from Fudan University, Shanghai and a Master of Science in Industrial Relations and Human Resources from West Virginia University.
Charts reflect Board composition as at date of Annual Report publication.
40 BOARD OF DIRECTORS CONTINUED Key to Committee membership Fran Philip, Independent Non-Executive Director Key skills and experience: Fran has over 30 years of apparel merchandising, product innovation and branding experience having spent the majority of her career at the US retailer Audit and Risk LL Bean.
Other current appointments: Fran is currently a Non-Executive Director of a number of Nomination US companies including Vera Bradley Inc. the accessories brand: Totes Isotoner, the accessories manufacturer: Regent Holding, a home dcor designer and importer: and an industry executive Remuneration for Freeman Spogli, a US private equity firm specialising in retail and consumer brands.
Previous relevant experience: Fran worked for several specialty chains such as The Gap, Chair of Committee Williams Sonoma and The Nature Company.
She joined LL Bean in 1994 as Director of Product Development, Home Furnishings and went on to hold a number of roles including Vice President, Affiliated Brands, before becoming Chief Merchandising Officer in 2002 until she retired in 2011.
Qualifications: Fran has a degree in English and Sociology from Bowdoin College, Maine, and an MBA from the Harvard Business School.
Membership details can Alan Rosling, CBE, Independent Non-Executive Director also be found online at Key skills and experience: Alan has wide international experience, especially in Asia, and has www.
com aboutus worked in general management, strategy and business development roles across a number of sectors including energy, textiles, retailing, banking and government.
Other current appointments: Alan is currently the Chairman of Griffin Growth Partners, a specialist strategic advisory firm focused on growing markets in Asia and is a Director of Constellation Alpha Capital Corporation.
He is also co-founder of Kiran Energy, one of Indias leading solar power developers.
Previous relevant experience: Until 2009 Alan was an Executive Director of Tata Sons Limited.
Prior to that he was Chairman of the Jardine Matheson Group in India, Strategy Development Director at United Distillers and a member of The Policy Unit at No.
He was CEO of Piersons, a division of Courtaulds Textiles, and an investment banker with S. G. Warburg & Co.
Qualifications: Alan has an MA in History from the University of Cambridge and an MBA from the Harvard Business School.
Anne Fahy, Independent Non-Executive Director Anne joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 1 March 2018 Key skills and experience: Anne has over 25 years experience in global business, financial markets and internal control.
Other current appointments: Anne is currently a Non-Executive Director of Interserve, an international support services and construction company, SThree, a global staffing organisation providing specialist recruitment services, and Nyrstar, a global multi-metals business.
She is also a Trustee of Save the Children.
Previous relevant experience: During her career at BP, Anne gained extensive experience of global business, developing markets, risk management, internal control, compliance and strategy development in the aviation, petrochemicals, trading and retail sectors.
Qualifications: Anne is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Ireland and a Bachelor of Commerce in Economics, Accounting and Business from University College Galway, Ireland.
