OVERVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING OTHER INFORMATION GOVERNANCE REPORT Report of the Report of the Audit Committee Audit Committee I am pleased to present to you the Report of the Audit Committee for the year ended 31 December 2017.
The Report and Accounts have been reviewed particularly in respect of the new requirements relating to the Strategic Report.
The Committee has also reviewed the Managers preparations for new regulations including MiFID II and related disclosures.
Our focus on cyber-security measures has been maintained.
Role of the Committee The ISAE AAF and SSAE16 reports or their equivalent from F&C, The primary responsibilities of the Audit Committee are to ensure the the Custodian, Depositary, the Private Equity managers and the integrity of the financial reporting and statements of the Company, sub-managers and a due diligence report from the Companys and to oversee: the preparation and audit of the annual accounts: Share Registrars: preparation of the half yearly accounts and the internal control and risk The performance of the Companys third party service providers management processes.
The Committee met four times during the and administrators, other than F&C, and the fees charged in year with F&Cs Head of Investment Trusts, Head of Trust Accounting, respect of those services: Head of Business Risk and the Fund Manager in attendance.
EY Bank counterparty monitoring and F&Cs dealing efficiency and have attended all meetings and have met in private session with associated costs: the Committee.
The Board Chairman was invited to, and regularly The Companys trademarks and intellectual property rights: and attended, Committee meetings.
The Committees Terms of Reference for approval by the Board.
Specifically, the Committee considered, monitored and reviewed the Comprehensive papers relating to each of these matters were following matters: prepared for discussion.
These were debated by the Committee and any recommendations were fully considered if there was a judgement The audited annual results statement and annual report and to be applied in arriving at conclusions.
Recommendations were then accounts and the unaudited half-yearly report and accounts, made to the Board as appropriate.
including advice to the Board as to whether the annual report and accounts taken as a whole are fair, balanced and The Board retains ultimate responsibility for all aspects relating to understandable: external financial statements and other significant published financial The accounting policies of the Company: information as is noted in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Principal Risks faced by the Company and the effectiveness on page 49.
On broader control policy issues, the Committee of the Companys internal control and risk management has reviewed, and is satisfied with F&Cs Anti-Fraud, Bribery and environment, including consideration of the assumptions Corruption Strategy and Policy and with the whistleblowing policy underlying the Boards Future Prospects statement on viability: that has been put in place by F&C under which its staff may, in The effectiveness of the external audit process and the current confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial independence and objectivity of EY: reporting or other matters.
The necessary arrangements are in place The appointment, remuneration and terms of engagement of the for communication by F&C to this Committee where matters might auditor: impact the Company with appropriate follow up action.
In 2017 there The policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply were no such concerns raised with the Committee.
The Committee non-audit services and approval of any such services: has also considered and agreed the processes relating to new The need for the Company to have its own internal audit regulations particularly MiFID II and the Criminal Finances Act 2017. function: Report and Accounts 2017 | 45 Composition of the Committee performance of the third party administrators of the F&C savings plans The Board recognises the requirement for the Committee as a whole and on other relevant management issues.
to have competence relevant to the sector in which the Company operates and at least one member with recent and relevant The systems of internal controls are designed to manage rather experience.
The Committee comprises five independent nonthan eliminate risk of failure to achieve business objectives and executive Directors.
I, Jeffrey Hewitt, am Chairman of the Committee can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against and a Chartered Accountant and was for many years Group Finance material misstatement, or loss or fraud.
Further to the review by Director of Electrocomponents plc, as well as currently or having the Committee, the Board has assessed the effectiveness of the recently been audit committee chairman of other listed companies.
The assessment included a review of the The other members of the Committee have a combination of F&C risk management infrastructure and the report on policies and financial, investment and business experience through the senior procedures in operation and tests for the year to 31 October 2017 posts held throughout their careers.
Several have wide experience the ISAE AAF Report and subsequent confirmation from F&C of the investment trust sector including Beatrice Hollond who joined that there had been no material changes to the control environment the Committee during the year.
Details of the members can be found in the period to 1 March 2018.
This had been prepared by F&C on pages 28 and 29 and the updated Committees terms of for all its investment trust clients to the International Standard on reference can be found on the website at foreignandcolonial.
3402 and to the standards of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales Technical Management of risk Release AAF 01 06.
The ISAE AAF Report from independent F&Cs Business Risk Department provides regular control report reporting accountants KPMG sets out F&Cs control policies and updates to the Committee covering risk and compliance whilst any procedures with respect to the management of clients investments significant issues of direct relevance to the Company are required to and maintenance of their financial records.
The effectiveness of be reported to the Committee and Board immediately.
these controls is monitored by F&Cs Group Audit and Compliance Committee, which receives regular reports from its Internal Audit A key risk radar summary is produced by F&C in consultation with department.
Procedures are also in place to capture and evaluate the Board to identify the risks to which the Company is exposed, the any failings and weaknesses within F&Cs control environment and controls in place and the actions being taken to mitigate them.
The those extending to any outsourced service providers to ensure that Board has a robust process for considering the resulting risk matrix at action would be taken to remedy any significant issues.
Any errors or each of its meetings and dynamically reviews the significance of the breaches relating to the Company are reported at each Committee risks and the reasons for any changes.
The process evolved during the and Board meeting by F&C.
No failings or weaknesses material to the year to align with BMOs rigorous risk profiling activity.
overall control environment and financial statements were identified in the year.
The Committee also reviewed the control reports of the The Companys Principal Risks are set out on page 16 with Custodian, the Depositary, T. Rowe Price and Barrow Hanley, Private additional information given in note 25 on the Accounts.
The Equity managers and the Share Registrars due diligence report and Committee noted the robustness of the Boards review of Principal were satisfied that there were no material exceptions.
Risks and participated as Board members themselves.
The integration of these risks into the analyses underpinning the Ten Year Horizon Through the reviews noted above and by direct enquiry of F&C and Statement on viability on page 17 was fully considered and the other relevant parties, the Committee and the Board have satisfied Committee concluded that the Boards statement was soundly based.
themselves that there were no material control failures or exceptions The period of ten years was also agreed as remaining appropriate for affecting the Companys operations during the year nor to the date of the reasons given in the statement, whilst recognising that the period this Report.
remains longer than that used by many other companies.
Based on the processes and controls in place within F&C, the Internal controls Committee has concluded and the Board has concurred that there is no The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys systems of current need for the Company to have a separate internal audit function.
internal controls, for reviewing their effectiveness and ensuring that risk management and control processes are embedded in the dayExternal audit process and significant issues considered by to-day operations, which are managed by F&C.
The Committee has the Committee reviewed and reported to the Board on these controls, which aim In carrying out its responsibilities, the Committee has considered the to ensure that the assets of the Company are safeguarded, proper planning arrangements, scope, materiality levels and conclusions of accounting records are maintained and the financial information used the external audit for 2017.
The table on page 47 describes the within the business and for publication is reliable.
Control of the risks significant judgements and issues considered by the Committee in identified, covering financial, operational, compliance and overall conjunction with EY in relation to the financial statements for the year risk management, is exercised by the Committee through regular and how these issues were addressed.
The Committee also included reports provided by F&C.
The reports cover investment performance, in their review the areas of judgements, estimates and assumptions performance attribution, compliance with agreed and regulatory referred to in note 2 c xii on the Accounts and welcomes this investment restrictions, financial analyses, revenue estimates, increase in transparency on such issues.
Likewise, the Committee reviewed the disclosure and description of Alternative Performance 46 | Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC OVERVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING OTHER INFORMATION GOVERNANCE REPORT Significant Judgements and Issues considered by the Committee in 2017 Matter Action Investment Portfolio Valuation The Companys portfolio of The Committee reviewed annual audited internal control reports from F&C, the sub-managers and investments comprises highly liquid Private Equity managers.
These reports indicated that the relevant systems and controls surrounding securities quoted on recognised daily pricing, cash and holdings reconciliations, security valuation and Private Equity funding had stock exchanges, held directly or operated satisfactorily.
In addition, with regard to Private Equity vehicles, the Committee: discussed through quoted open-ended funds, controls directly with the managers: reviewed the managers estimated valuations in detail at six together with illiquid Private Equity monthly intervals: and performed a thorough review and comparison of each Private Equity funds 31 funds of funds.
The Private Equity December 2016 or most recent audited value versus the managers estimated valuation adopted by vehicles, which are subject to signed the Company in its own reporting.
The review indicated that the Private Equity managers estimated agreements covering long-term valuations could continue to be relied upon as being at fair value in accordance with the Companys commitments and funding, hold a accounting policy.
diversity of unquoted investments The process for valuing the more recent direct private equity valuations was reviewed and agreed by whose values are subjective the Committee.
Misappropriation of Assets Misappropriation of the Companys The Committee reviewed the annual audited internal control reports of F&C and the Custodian.
investments or cash balances could Neither of these reports indicated any failures of controls over the existence and safe custody of the have a material impact on its net asset Companys investments and cash balances.
The Committee reviews regularly the list of banks which value per share.
the Manager and sub-managers are authorised to place cash and deposits with.
The Companys Depositary reported quarterly on the safe custody of the Companys investments and the operation of controls over the movement of cash in settlement of investment transactions.
Through these reports the Committee is satisfied that the assets remained protected throughout the year.
Income Recognition Incomplete controls over, or inaccurate The Committees review of F&Cs annual audited controls report indicated that there were recognition of, income could result in no control failures in the year.
The Committee reviewed and approved at the interim and final the Company misstating its revenue accounts reporting meetings, all dividend receipts deemed to be capital special in nature by receipts and associated tax, with virtue of their payment out of investee company restructuring rather than ordinary business consequences for overall performance, operations.
In addition, the Committee reviewed that all special dividends had been correctly payment of dividends to shareholders, treated in accordance with the Companys accounting policy.
and compliance with taxation rules.
Investment income was tested and reported on by F&C.
Measures provided on page 90 and is satisfied that the disclosure that they had no reason not to issue an unqualified audit opinion in is fair and relevant.
respect of the Report and Accounts.
The Committee established that there were no material issues or findings arising which needed to be Procedures for investment valuation and recognition of income brought to the attention of the Board.
were the main areas of audit focus and testing.
For the long-held Pantheon and HarbourVest unlisted Private Equity investments in The increased focus on the Strategic Report by investors and particular, the Committee questioned the fund-of-fund managers on regulators is welcomed by the Committee.
The Committee has their processes in meetings during the year.
The year-end valuation carefully considered the disclosures made in the Report and Accounts particularly in relation to the EU Non-Financial Reporting is an estimate based on the September valuations extrapolated to the year-end by adjusting for cash flows and any known events Directive EU 2014 95.
It is aware that this area of Non-Financial as described in notes 2 c ii and 25 d on the Accounts.
The Reporting matters will evolve further in coming years.
Committee reviewed prior year experience on the validity of this estimation process by comparing the estimated value with the actual The Committee also noted that an independent, objective and skilled audited values which become known in May June of the following third party had read the Report and Accounts and commented year.
The variances were not material.
The process for valuing the on fairness, balance and comprehension.
The Committee more recent direct private equity valuations was reviewed and agreed recommended to the Board that the Report and Accounts were in by the Committee as being appropriate.
their view, fair, balanced and understandable in accordance with accounting standards, regulatory requirements and best practice.
The Committee met in February 2018 to discuss the final draft of the Report and Accounts, with representatives of EY and F&C in The Independent Auditors Report which sets out the unqualified attendance.
EY submitted their Year-End Report and confirmed audit opinion, the scope of the audit and the areas of focus, in Report and Accounts 2017 | 47 compliance with applicable auditing standards, can be found on service likely to exceed 5,000 is agreed by the Committee prior to pages 50 to 55. the commencement of the services and are accompanied by terms regarding liability, cost and responsibilities.
EY have not provided or Auditor, assessment, independence and appointment charged for any non-audit services during the year.
The Committee reviews the reappointment of the auditor every year and has been satisfied with the effectiveness of EYs performance VAT case on this, their second audit of the Companys accounts.
EY have As previously reported, PwC had continued to act for the Company confirmed that they are independent of the Company and have on a contingent fee basis in respect of a long running case for the complied with relevant auditing standards.
In evaluating EY, the reclaim of VAT.
The Supreme Court judgment on this case was finally Committee has taken into consideration the standing skills and issued in April 2017, in favour of HMRC and as such no fee became experience of the firm and the audit team.
From direct observation payable to PwC.
No further action by the Company is intended.
and indirect enquiry of management, the Committee is satisfied that EY will continue to provide effective independent challenge in Regulatory compliance carrying out their responsibilities.
The Committee also considered The Committee confirms that the Company is in compliance with the the evaluation of EYs audit performance through the Audit Quality requirements of the Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Review.
Their audit fee amounted to 87,000, excluding VAT 2016: Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender 72,000 of which 10,000 was a supplementary fee in relation to Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014.
This order relates to the frequency and governance of tenders for the prior year audit work completed in February 2017. appointment of the external auditor and the setting of the policy on The Committee considers the appointment of the external auditor the provision of non-audit services.
annually and the need for putting the audit out to tender for reasons of quality or independence.
As the Company is required to carry out Committee evaluation a tender every ten years, the next one will be conducted no later The activities of the Committee were considered as part of the than 2026.
Board appraisal process completed in accordance with standard governance arrangements as noted on page 36.
A full evaluation Non-audit services was undertaken on the effectiveness, roles and responsibilities of the Committee in accordance with the Financial Reporting The Committee regards the continued independence of the external auditors to be a matter of the highest priority.
The Companys policy Councils current guidance.
The evaluation found that the Committee with regard to the provision of non-audit services by the external functioned well, with the right balance of membership and skills.
auditor ensures that no engagement will be permitted if: Jeffrey Hewitt the provision of the services would contravene any regulation or Audit Committee Chairman ethical standard: 6 March 2018 the auditors are not considered to be expert providers of the non-audit services: the provision of such services by the auditor creates a conflict of interest for either the Board or the Manager: and the services are considered to be likely to inhibit the auditors independence or objectivity as auditors.
In particular, the Committee has a policy that the accumulated costs of all non-audit services sought from the auditors in any one year should not exceed 30% of the likely audit fees for that year and not exceed 70% cumulatively over three years and any individual 48 | Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
