Report of the Report of the Nomination Committee Nomination Committee Role of the Committee search platform, Nurole Ltd.
Following candidate interviews with The primary role of the Nomination Committee is to review and the Committee members, the other Board members were invited make recommendations with regard to Board structure, size and to meet Mrs Hollond who was then formally invited to join the composition, the balance of knowledge, experience, skill ranges Board.
The appointment was made on 1 September 2017.
The and diversity and consider succession planning and tenure policy.
final decision with regard to new appointments always rests with All of the Committees responsibilities have been carried out over the Board.
The services provided by the platform were for the sole the course of 2017 and 2018 to date.
The Committee met on one purpose of recruiting the new Director: no other business relationship occasion during the year and specifically considered, monitored and exists with that agency.
reviewed the following matters: The structure and size of the Board and its composition As part of the Boards annual objectives, succession planning will be particularly in terms of succession planning and the experience stepped up in 2018 in order to put in place the processes that will be and skills of the individual Directors and diversity across the needed for the Board to make the necessary changes over the next Board as a whole: two to three years.
tenure policy: the criteria for future Board appointments and the methods of Diversity and tenure recruitment, selection and appointment: In carrying out its responsibilities, the Committee applies the the appointment of new Directors and the reappointment policies of the Board with regard to its belief in the benefits of of those Directors standing for re-election at annual general having a diverse range of experience, skills and backgrounds.
The meetings: appointment of Beatrice Hollond was made in accordance with the need for any changes in committee membership: these policies.
The Boards diversity policy is set out on page 13. the attendance and time commitment of the Directors in fulfilling their duties, including the extent of their other directorships: The Board is also of the view that length of service will not the question of each Directors independence prior to publication necessarily compromise the independence or contribution of of the Report and Accounts: and directors of an investment trust company, where continuity and the authorisation of each Directors situational conflicts of experience can add significantly to the strength of the board.
In interests in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act normal circumstances the Directors are expected to serve for a 2006 and the policy and procedures established by the Board in nine-year term, but this may be adjusted for reasons of flexibility relation to these provisions.
Composition of the Committee Committee evaluation Committee membership is listed on pages 28 and 29 The activities of the Committee were considered as part of the and its terms of reference can be found on the website at Board appraisal process completed in accordance with standard foreignandcolonial.
governance arrangements as summarised on page 36.
The conclusion from the process was that the Committee was operating Succession planning effectively, with the right balance of membership, experience and One new non-executive Director appointment was made to the skills.
Board in 2017, Mrs Beatrice Hollond.
She replaced Mr Stephen Burley, who retired immediately following the 2017 annual general Simon Fraser meeting.
This appointment was made using an independent Nomination Committee Chairman 6 March 2018 42 | Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
