2 NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT The majority of the Committees time during the year was spent on the search for and the appointment of a new CFO and the preparation for Chairman succession planning andimplementation.
Jeremy Wilson Chairman of the Nominations Committee Committee members Meetings attended DEAR SHAREHOLDER Anne Drinkwater 4 4 The main function of the Nominations Committee is to ensure that the Board and its Committees are appropriately constituted Aidan Heavey 3 3 and have the necessary skills and expertise to support the Paul McDade 2 2 Companys current and future activities.
Below Board level, Steve Lucas 4 4 theCommittee continues to focus on the recruitment, Jeremy Wilson 4 4 development and retention of a diverse pipeline of managers who will occupy the most senior positions in the Company Tutu Agyare 1 1 inthe future.
Mike Daly 1 1 At the beginning of 2017, the Committee completed its Ann Grant 1 1 workonCEO and Chairman succession culminating with a Simon Thompson 1 1 recommendation to the Board that Paul McDade succeed founder Aidan Heavey as CEO, with Aidan taking on an interim Denotes Directors who were no longer members of the Committee as at 31December 2017. role as Chairman for a transitional period of up to two years from the April 2017 AGM.
This recommendation was approved 2017 highlights by theBoard and announced on 11 January 2017, concluding along and successful effort by the Committee to manage one Appointed Paul McDade as CEO and AidanHeavey as Chairman.
ofthe most significant transitions in Tullows history.
Following Commencement of Chairman search and review of the announcement, the Committee shifted its focus towards candidatelonglist.
ensuring that the transition of these key roles was executed smoothly and with minimal disruption to the business.
Aidans Appointmented Les Wood as Interim CFO in January 2017 and appointment as Chairman for this interim period reflects the subsequently as CFO and Executive Director in June 2017.
Boards belief that, owing to the unique nature of Tullows Identifying the skill matrix, structure, size and composition business and relationships across Africa, a phased transition ofthe Board to deliver the long-term strategic aims of ofthe leadership is appropriate.
At the outset of the year, the Committee primarily focused on ensuring that the succession of Paul McDade to the role of CEO and of Aidan Heavey to the role of Chairman was executed with minimal interruption to the business.
Apart from supporting the transition of these two important roles, the majority of the Committees time during the year was spent on: 1 the search for and the appointment of a new CFO to replace Ian Springett who stepped down from the Board due to ill health: and 2 the search for a new Chairman to succeed Aidan Heavey, Aidans appointment as Chairman being limited to a two-year transitional period as previously announced.
In our Full Year Results statement we announced that AnneDrinkwater had informed the Board that she has decided notto stand for re-election at the 2018 AGM.
The Nominations Committee will begin a search for her replacement in 2018. www.
com 73 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED The Committee also reviewed the balance of skills and attributes Committees role on the Board as a whole and how that compares to the skills The Committee reviews the composition and balance of the that will be needed to complement and support Paul McDade Board and senior executives on a regular basis and also ensures as our new CEO.
This work included a skills assessment facilitated robust succession plans are in place for all Directors and senior by Lintstock Ltd as part of our annual Board evaluation in October.
When recruiting new Executive or non-executive The Committee has also debated the structure, sizeand Directors, the Committee appoints external search consultants composition of the Board and how the Board can best help to provide a list of possible candidates, from which a shortlist is deliver the long-term strategic aims of the Company after a produced.
External consultants are instructed that diversity is newChairman has been appointed.
In doing so, the Committee one of the criteria that the Committee will take into consideration recognises the importance of establishing a Board that is more in its selection of the shortlist.
The Committees terms of reflective of the value we place on diversity and inclusion within reference are reviewed annually and are set out on the our business.
The Committee appointed Spencer Stuart to complete an Committees main responsibilities executive search process for a new CFO which resulted in a The Committees main duties are: recommendation to the Board that Les Wood be appointed as an Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer, which was approved reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board by the Board and announced in June 2017.
Spencer Stuart was including the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of also appointed to commence work on the search for the new its members and making recommendations to the Board Chairman which has resulted in the Committee receiving and with regard to any changes required: reviewing a preliminary longlist of candidates which was prepared identifying and nominating, for Board approval, candidates and presented by Spencer Stuart and which reflected the criteria tofill Board vacancies as and when they arise: set by the Committee for relevant experience, background, diversity and personal characteristics.
The Committee has succession planning for Directors and other senior executives: deliberately commenced this search well ahead of the April 2019 reviewing annually the time commitment required of deadline in order to maximise our ability to find the right non-executive Directors: and candidate to lead Tullows Board.
making recommendations to the Board regarding membership During the course of 2018, the Committee will continue with of the Audit, Remuneration and other Committees in this work in addition to reviewing the recruitment, development consultation with the Chair of each Committee.
and retention of managers who will occupy the most senior positions in the Company in the future, with a particular focus Committee membership and meetings on achieving a diverse employee population with a nationality The composition of the Committee changed during the year.
mix representative of our assets geographic footprint and Jeremy Wilson, the Senior Independent Director, was appointed improving gender diversity.
Chairman of the Committee following the conclusion of the AGM Jeremy Wilson in April 2017.
The membership and attendance of members at Chairman of the NominationsCommittee Committee meetings held in 2017 are shown in the adjacent table.
6 February 2018 In addition to four formal meetings, the Committee held a number of informal discussions, telephone conference calls and interviews during the year.
74 Tullow Oil plc 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 2 Committee activities Senior Independent Director and membership of Board CEO succession implementation Detailed planning for the Committees Following the scheduled retirement of Ann Grant identification of a successor to founder Aidan Heavey was at the AGM in April after nine years service on the Board, completed in January 2017 with a recommendation to the theCommittee recommended Jeremy Wilson be appointed Board that Paul McDade be appointed as Chief Executive Officer, Senior Independent Director.
Jeremy confirmed to the subject to shareholder approval.
The Board and Tullows Committee that he is able to commit additional time to the shareholders approved the recommendation and Paul McDade role, if required, in order to carry out any duties that arise as was appointed CEO following the AGM in April 2017.
The a result of the appointment of a non-independent Chairman.
services of executive search consultants Egon Zehnder and The Committee also reviewed the membership and other external advisers were employed.
There is no other chairmanship of each of the Board Committees in light connection between Egon Zehnder and Tullow.
ofthechanges to the composition of the Board.
As a result ofthis review, the Committee recommended the appointment Chairman succession implementation In January 2017, of Jeremy Wilson as Chairman of the Nominations Committee theCommittee recommended, and the Board approved, the and Tutu Agyare as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
appointment of Aidan Heavey as non-executive Chairman, All of these changes were approved by the Board and occurred subject to shareholder approval from the conclusion of the with effect from the conclusion of the 2017 AGM.
Following a 2017 AGM for a transitional period not exceeding two years.
further review of Board Committee membership later in the Given Aidan Heaveys unique role as founder of Tullow Oil year, the Committee recommended reducing the number of andCEO for 31 years, the Committee, in recommending non-executive Directors on each of the Audit Committee and Aidans appointment as Chairman, was mindful of the need Nominations Committee and the Board approved.
to maintain continuity and stability during the leadership transition, particularly with respect to the extensive network Board size and composition In 2017 following the AGM of relationships that Aidan has developed, in Africa and theBoard comprised nine Directors: three Executive and six elsewhere.
The Committee believes that this phased transition non-executive Directors, and included one woman and one is in the best interests of shareholders, host governments African.
The Board continues to support the aspirations set and other key stakeholders, but fully recognises the need to out in the 2011 Davies Report Women on Boards and those appoint an independent Chair at the end of this transitional in the Hampton-Alexander Review and will seek to redress period.
Accordingly, the Committee appointed Spencer Stuart the current imbalance in the representation of women during to conduct a search for an independent Chairman, which has the coming years.
The Committee acknowledges that our resulted in the Committee approving a role specification and Board is not currently reflective of the value that we place ensuring that search parameters reflected an appropriate ondiversity and inclusion within our business and has emphasis on Tullows diversity aspirations and then recognised a need to take appropriate corrective action subsequently receiving and reviewing a preliminary longlist inthis regard.
In the Committees recently announced search ofcandidates.
The Committee has deliberately started its for the replacement of Anne Drinkwater, we have placed the search early in Aidans two-year transitional period in order highest priority on ensuring diversity in the appointment.
to maximise ourability to find the right candidate to lead Beyond the immediate search, the Committee believes that Tullows Board inthe future.
broader action to advance our diversity aspirations must form part of a long-term Board strategy which must be led by CFO emergency planning In January 2017, Ian Springett whoever Tullow selects as its new Chairman.
commenced an extended leave of absence in order to undergo treatment for a medical condition.
The Board Improving the diversity of the talent pipeline As part of a implemented the emergency plan, appointing Les Wood, continuing effort to address the lack of gender and national VicePresident Commercial and Finance, as Interim CFO.
diversity in the Senior Management team see also the Organisation & Culture section on pages 50 and 51 diversity CFO succession planning and implementation The Committee was included in the 2017 corporate scorecard.
A diversity led an executive search process for a new ChiefFinancial plan was developed and progress has been made against Officer and recommended to the Board that Les Wood be that plan which has included: improving our understanding appointed as an Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer and reporting of diversity within the Company: an increased and Les was appointed in June 2017. focus on diversity by the leadership team: and specific actions to improve processes such as recruitment, staff development and performance management to enhance the diversity of the Senior Management pipeline.
The Committee is confident that if the implementation of this plan continues with the same level of commitment observed in 2017, diversity, particularly at senior levels, will materially improve over the coming years.
The Committee will report progress against the plan.
Committee evaluation The performances of the Board and its Committees were considered as part of the internal Board evaluation process.
