71 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT ACCOUNTABILITY DEAR SHAREHOLDER, AUDIT Im pleased to write to you for the first time as your new Chairman of the Audit Committee.
I must take this opportunity to thank Ian Barlow COMMITTEE for his excellent chairmanship over the past seven years and wish him well in his new role as Senior Independent Director, whilst retaining his invaluable experience and expertise as he remains a member of the Audit Committee.
Id also like to thank Brian Larcombe, who stepped down on 6 April 2017, for his many years of wise counsel on this Committee.
Your Audit Committee has had another busy year, meeting seven times.
Of course, the usual matters we expect to cover every year were dealt with, but as with all years there were other matters as well.
Indeed there have been a number of personnel changes directly or indirectly affecting the Committee this year which I should reference: We welcomed Graham Baker as our new Chief Financial Officer, with effect from 1 March 2017.
Grahams profile can be read in the section about Directors on page 50 and he is an excellent appointment to the Board, including strong executive oversight of the Companys controls framework.
Membership Marc Owen has also joined the Audit Committee.
His background Member Meetings since attended in healthcare, based in the US and European markets, provides the 1,2 experience which will be missed by the anticipated retirement of Joe Robin Freestone Chairman September 2015 7 7 Papa in 2018.
Id like to welcome Marc to the Committee and look 1,2 Ian Barlow May 2010 7 7 forward to working with him.
3 Erik Engstrom January 2015 6 7 4 We welcomed Steve Humphries, our new SVP Internal Audit.
Brian Larcombe January 2003 3 3 Steve comes from a rich industry background.
He was previously Chief 5 Marc Owen October 2017 2 2 Internal Auditor for SABMiller plc, another manufacturing firm, and 6 Joseph Papa February 2011 7 7 brings strong insight.
He has previously held positions at Wolseley plc, 1 Robin Freestone was appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee on 1 March 2017, succeeding Avery Dennison Inc. and Nstle UK Ltd. Ian Barlow, who remained as a member of the Committee and became the Senior Independent Director with effect from 6 April 2017.
Finally, we welcomed our new Chief Information Officer, Chris Bayley, 2 Designated financial experts under the SEC Regulations or recent and relevant financial who has a strong background in cyber security from TUI plc.
The work experience under the UK Corporate Governance Code.
he has commenced has given the Committee the opportunity to review 3 Erik Engstrom missed one Audit Committee meeting in Hull, which clashed with a RELX board and challenge the IT architecture in the Company and its future-proofing meeting for which he is the Chief Executive Officer.
to the ever present threat of cyber attack.
4 Brian Larcombe retired from the Board and Audit Committee at the Annual General Meeting on 6 April 2017.
Moving onto our auditor, KPMG.
They have completed their third years 5 Marc Owen was appointed to the Board and the Audit Committee with effect from 1 October 2017. audit and continue to provide robust challenge and suggest areas of 6 Joseph Papa will retire from the Board and the Audit Committee at the Annual General Meeting improvement within our internal control framework.
We have negotiated to be held on 12 April 2018. fees that will continue to be reviewed for good market practice.
7 Roland Diggelmann will join the Audit Committee on 1 March 2018.
KPMG and the SVP Internal Audits team continued to highlight areas 2018 focus where improvements are required.
Further detail of the work undertaken To provide assurance over the next phase of the Groups can be found in the report below.
NAPO system our SAP Enterprise Resource Planning ERP implementation in North America.
To extend the breadth of the assurance activities to include other risk areas such as product risk linking into the Groups toprisk items.
Monitoring the progress made on cyber security, one of our principal risks identified in 2017.
To provide assurance over the Accelerating Performance and Execution APEX programme, which will streamline manufacturing, warehouse and distribution, use systems to provide general administration more efficiently and increase sales force effectiveness whilst maintaining customer focus.
72 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT continued ACCOUNTABILITY The main non-routine matters we dealt with during the year were: ROLE OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Our work falls into the following six areas: Monitoring the improvements made in our risk management: led by Susan Swabey, Company Secretary, who is responsible for our Financial reporting risk management assessment.
Susan has worked closely with our Reviewing significant financial reporting judgements and accounting Senior Director of Internal Audit to develop our processes for risk policies and compliance with accounting standards.
management, our approach to risk appetite and improving alignment Ensuring the integrity of the financial statements and their compliance between the Boards assessment of risk and the underlying risk with UK and US statutory requirements.
This work accelerated in 2017 with deep dives to examine risk through the lens of our products and Ensuring the Annual Report and Accounts are fair, balanced and also considering risks from a cross-functional perspective.
understandable and recommending their adoption by the Board.
Monitoring the Companys Minimum Acceptable Practices MAPs for Monitoring announcements relating to the Groups financial internal controls.
We have set a goal of 97% compliance with these performance.
practices currently 95% as self-assessed by management and Internal controls expect this to be achieved during 2018.
Monitoring the effectiveness of internal controls and compliance with Updates from our SVP Treasury, Tax and Finance Operations the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 and the Sarbanes-Oxley Functions.
The SVP Tax reported on US tax reform.
Monitoring the Finance Transformation project, which is planned to Reviewing the operation of the Groups risk mitigation processes and deliver significant cost savings and improvements to internal control the control environment over financial risks.
and update on the service provided by our outsourced finance facility.
Risk management Monitoring the progress of the implementation of our NAPO system On behalf of the Board, reviewing and ensuring oversight of the our SAP ERP implementation in North America.
processes by which risks are managed, through regular functional Assessing new accounting standards IFRS 9, 15 and 16. reports and presentations, and reporting any issues arising out of Update from Smith & Nephews Chief Information Officer including such reviews to the Board.
cyber risk, IT risk as a whole and incident management reporting.
Reviewing the process undertaken and deep-dive work required to complete the Viability Statement and recommending its adoption to the Board.
Reviewing the impact of risk management and internal controls and working closely with the Ethics & Compliance Committee.
Fraud and whistle-blowing Receiving reports on the processes in place to prevent fraud and to enable whistle-blowing.
Robin Freestone If significant, receive and review reports of potential fraud or whistleChairman of the Audit Committee blowing incidents.
Internal audit Agreeing Internal Audit plans and reviewing reports of Internal Audit work.
Monitoring the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function.
Reviewing the control observations made by the Internal Auditor, the adequacy of managements response to recommendations and the status of any unremediated actions.
External audit Overseeing the Boards relationship with the external auditor.
Monitoring and reviewing the independence and performance of the external auditor and evaluating their effectiveness.
Making recommendations to the Board for the appointment or re-appointment of the external auditor.
Monitoring and approving the external auditors fees.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee describe our role and responsibilities more fully and can be found on our website, www.
com, where further information can be found for permitted non-audit services.
73 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT continued ACCOUNTABILITY ACTIVITIES OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE IN 2017 July in Hull, UK ANDSINCETHE YEAR END Approval of H1 Results In 2017, we held five physical meetings and two meetings via voice Reviewed the results for the first half 2017 and approved the conference.
All except one meeting were attended by all appointed H1 announcement.
members of the Audit Committee.
The Chairman, the Chief Executive KPMG reviewed and provided findings on H1 2017.
Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the SVP Internal Audit, the external auditor, and key members of the finance function, the Company Reviewed and approved the external auditors Integrated Audit Plan Secretary and Deputy Company Secretary also attended by invitation.
We also met with the external auditor and the SVP Internal Audit without Received a progress report from the SVP Internal Audit.
Our programme of work in 2017 was as follows: Received a report from the Group Treasurer, including an update on pension matters.
Early February Approval of Preliminary Announcement Approved the definitions for trading non-trading for annual reporting purposes.
Reviewed the results for the full year 2016 and the preliminary announcement and recommended them for adoption by the Board.
Received an update regarding the implementation of IFRS 9, 15 and 16.
Reviewed a draft of the 2016 Annual Report.
Held private meetings with external auditor, KPMG and the SVP Reviewed the effectiveness of financial controls and of the Risk Internal Audit.
Management process and identified areas for improvement in 2017.
Received a progress report from the SVP Internal Audit and approved Early November in Dubai, UAE the Internal Audit Plan for 2017.
Approval of Q3 Trading Report Received the Quality Assurance Report and approved the Quality Reviewed the Q3 2017 Trading Report and approved the Assurance work programme for 2017.
Received the Viability Statement and confirmed that the Company is Reviewed the progress reports from the external auditor on Q3 2017 a viable entity for the assessed forthcoming three-year period.
and from Internal Audit on their work.
Confirmed the independence of KPMG as external auditor.
Received an update on new reporting, regulatory and Held a private meeting with external auditor, KPMG.
Received an update on Sarbanes-Oxley SOx and MAPs progress.
Late February via voice conference Received a progress report from the SVP Internal Audit, focusing Approval of Financial Statements on fraud.
Reviewed and approved the Annual Report and Accounts for 2016, Held a private meeting with the external auditor, KPMG.
having agreed that they were fair balanced and understandable, and recommended them for adoption by the Board.
Late November Considered the effectiveness and independence of the external auditor Review of Functional Reports and concluded that their work had been effective and independent.
Received a report from the SVP Internal Audit focusing on the 2018 Internal Audit plan.
April Reviewed and approved the layout and design of the Annual Reviewed the control themes and observations of the external auditor Report 2017. and concluded that they had met expectations.
Received a progress report from the SVP Internal Audit.
Considered and approved critical accounting policies and judgements in advance of the 2017 year end.
Approved the Sustainability Report and its verification process.
Received an update from KPMG on the external audit and preliminary Received a corporate governance update for 2018 SOx control findings.
Received and discussed reports on Tax, Risk Management, Finance Reviewed the annual report process and recommended Transformation and Cyber Risk.
Held private meetings with external auditor, KPMG and the SVP Risk management update, including heat maps from the Company Internal Audit.
Secretary and Senior Director of Internal Audit.
Held a private meeting with the external auditor, KPMG.
Since the year end, we have also reviewed the results for the full year 2017, the preliminary announcement, Annual Report and Accounts for May via voice conference 2017 and have concluded that taken as a whole, they are fair, balanced Approval of Q1 Trading Report and understandable and have advised the full Board accordingly.
Reviewed the Q1 2017 Trading Report and approved the In coming to this conclusion, we have considered the description of the Q1 announcement.
Groups strategy and key risks, the key elements of the business model, Approved the Companys policy and report on Conflict Minerals which is set out on pages 89, risks and the key performance indicators forsubmission to the NYSE.
and their link to the strategy.
74 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT continued ACCOUNTABILITY SIGNIFICANT MATTERS RELATED Liability provisioning TO THE FINANCIALSTATEMENTS The recognition of provisions for legal disputes is subject to We considered the following key areas of judgement in relation to the a significant degree of estimation.
Provision is made for loss 2017 accounts and at each half-year and quarterly trading report, which contingencies when it is considered probable that an adverse we discussed in all cases with management and the external auditor: outcome will occur and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated.
In making its estimates, management takes into Valuation of inventories account the advice of internal and external legal counsel and uses A feature of the Orthopaedic Reconstruction and Trauma & third party actuarial modelling where appropriate.
Provisions are Extremities franchises whose finished goods inventory makes up reviewed regularly and amounts updated where necessary to approximately 60% of the Group total finished goods inventory is the reflect developments in the disputes.
The ultimate liability may high level of product inventory required, some of which is located at differ from the amount provided depending on the outcome of court customer premises and is available for customers immediate use.
proceedings and settlement negotiations or if investigations bring to Complete sets of products, including large and small sizes, have to light new facts.
be made available in this way.
These sizes are used less frequently Our action than standard sizes and towards the end of the product life cycle As members of the Board, we receive regular updates from the are inevitably in excess of requirements.
Adjustments to carrying Chief Legal Officer.
These updates form the basis for the level of value are therefore required to be made to orthopaedic inventory provisioning.
The Group carries a provision relating to potential to anticipate this situation.
These adjustments are calculated in liabilities arising on its portfolio of modular metal-on-metal hip accordance with a formula based on levels of inventory compared products of $157 million as of 31 December 2017.
We received with historical usage.
This formula is applied on an individual product detailed reports from management on this position, including the line basis and is first applied when a product group has been on actuarial model used to estimate the provision, and challenged the the market for two years.
This method of calculation is considered key assumptions, including the number of claimants and projected appropriate based on experience, but it does involve management value of each settlement.
The legal judgements have decreased estimation of customer demand, effectiveness of inventory by $35 million during the year, primarily due to settlements of a deployment, length of product lives, phase-out of old products and number of metal-on-metal matters that were provided for within the efficiency of manufacturing planning systems.
There have been some smaller Our action movements from cases having been resolved and some new At each quarter end, we received reports from, and discussed with, matters arising.
We have determined that the proposed levels of management the level of provisioning and material areas at risk.
provisioning at year end of $190 million included within provisions The provisioning level was 19% at 31 December 2017 20% as at in Note 17.1 in 2017 $225 million in 2016 were appropriate in 31 December 2016.
We challenged the basis of the provisions and the circumstances.
concluded that the proposed levels were appropriate and have been consistently estimated.
Impairment In carrying out impairment reviews of acquisition intangible assets a number of significant assumptions have to be made when preparing cash flow projections.
These include the future rate of market growth, discount rates, the market demand for the products acquired, the future profitability of acquired businesses or products, levels of reimbursement and success in obtaining regulatory approvals.
If actual results should differ or changes in expectations arise, impairment charges may be required, which would adversely impact operating results.
Our action We reviewed managements reports on the key assumptions with respect to acquisition intangible assets particularly the forecast future cash flows and discount rates used to make these calculations.
We noted the reduction in headroom relating to the coblation technology asset acquired with ArthroCare in 2014 and challenged the assumptions used for future revenue growth of products using this technology.
We concluded that the carrying value of this asset is appropriately supported by the cash flow projections.
We have also considered the disclosure surrounding these reviews, and concluded that the review and disclosure were appropriate.
75 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT continued ACCOUNTABILITY EXTERNAL AUDITOR Taxation Independence of External Auditor The Group operates in numerous tax jurisdictions around the Following a competitive tender in 2014, KPMG was appointed external world.
Although it is Group policy to submit its tax returns to the auditor of the Company in 2015.
We are satisfied that KPMG are fully relevant tax authorities as promptly as possible, at any given time independent from the Companys management and free from conflicts the Group has unagreed years outstanding and is involved in of interest.
Our Auditor Independence Policy, which ensures that this disputes and tax audits.
Significant issues may take several years to independence is maintained, is available on the Companys website.
In estimating the probability and amount of any tax charge, management takes into account the views of internal and external We believe that the implementation of this policy helps ensure that advisers and updates the amount of provision whenever necessary.
auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded.
The policy also The ultimate tax liability may differ from the amount provided governs our approach when we require our external auditor to carry depending on interpretations of tax law, settlement negotiations out non-audit services, and all such services are strictly governed by or changes in legislation.
Our action The Auditor Independence Policy also governs the policy regarding We annually review our processes and approve the principles audit partner rotation with the expectation that the audit partner will for management of tax risks.
We review quarterly reports from rotate at least every five years.
Stephen Oxley has been in tenure management evaluating existing risks and tax provisions, which for three years as our Audit Partner.
The Audit Committee confirms has included a detailed impact assessment of US tax reforms in the it has complied with the provision of the Competition and Markets year end report from management.
Based on a thorough report from Authority Order.
management of tax liabilities and our challenge of the basis of any Effectiveness of external auditor s tax provisions recorded, we concluded that the levels of provisions We conducted a review into the effectiveness of the external audit as and disclosures were appropriate.
part of the 2017 year end process, in line with previous years.
We sought the views of key members of the finance management team, considered the feedback from this process and shared it with management.
OTHER MATTERS RELATED TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS As well as the identified significant matters, other matters that the Audit During the year, we also considered the inspection reports from the Committee considered during 2017 were: Audit Oversight Boards in the UK and US and determined that we were satisfied with the audit quality provided by KPMG.
Business combinations During 2017, we acquired Rotation Medical, Inc. We received a report The Audit Committee regularly receives feedback from KPMG, including from management setting out the significant assets and liabilities at each meeting where management present their summary of critical acquired, details of the provisional fair value adjustments applied, an accounting estimates as at each quarter end.
analysis of the intangible assets acquired, the assumptions behind the Overall therefore, we concluded that KPMG had carried out their audit valuation of these acquired intangible assets and the proposed useful for 2017 effectively.
economic life of the intangible asset acquired.
During 2017, we also considered and concurred with management that there had been no The Audit Committee continues to review not only the effectiveness changes to the provisional fair values recognised in the 2016 acquisition of the external auditor, KPMG but also its market competitiveness.
of Blue Belt Technologies, Inc.
Appointment of External Auditor at Annual General Meeting Post Retirement Benefit Pensions Resolutions will be put to the Annual General Meeting to be held on The Group has post retirement defined benefit pension schemes, which 12 April 2018 proposing the re-appointment of KPMG as the Companys require estimation in setting the assumptions.
We received a report from auditor and authorising the Board to determine its remuneration, management setting out their proposed assumptions for the UK and on the recommendation of the Audit Committee in accordance with US schemes and concurred with management that these assumptions the Competition and Markets Authority CMA Order 2014. were appropriate.
Disclosure of Information to the Auditor In accordance with Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, the Directors serving at the time of approving the Directors Report confirm that, to the best of their knowledge and belief, there is no relevant audit information of which the Auditor, KPMG, is unaware and the Directors also confirm that they have taken reasonable steps to be aware of any relevant audit information and, accordingly, to establish that the Auditor is aware of such information.
76 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT continued ACCOUNTABILITY Non-Audit Fees Paid to the Auditor INTERNAL AUDIT Non-audit fees are subject to approval in-line with the Auditor The Internal Audit team, which reports functionally to the Audit Independence Policy which is reviewed annually and forms part Committee, carries out risk-based reviews across the Group.
of the terms of reference of the Audit Committee.
These reviews examine the management of risks and controls over financial, operational, IT and transformation programme activities.
The Audit Committee recognise the importance of the independence The audit team, led by the SVP Internal Audit, consists of appropriately of the external auditor and ensures that the Auditors independence qualified and experienced employees.
Third parties may be engaged to should not be breached.
The Audit Committee ensures that the Auditor support audit work as appropriate.
does not receive a fee from the Company or its subsidiaries that would be deemed large enough to impact its independence or be deemed The SVP Internal Audit has direct access to, and has regular meetings a contingent fee.
The total fees for permitted non-audit services shall with, the Audit Committee Chair and prepares formal reports for be no more than 70% of the average of the fees paid in the last three Audit Committee meetings on the activities and key findings of the consecutive financial years for the statutory audits of the Company function, together with the status of managements implementation of and its subsidiaries.
In light of the Financial Reporting Councils revised recommendations.
The Audit Committee has unrestricted access to all Ethical Standards and SEC Regulations, we have revised our Auditor internal audit reports, should it wish to review them.
During the year, the team completed over 40 audits and reviews across Any pre-approved aggregate, individual amounts up to $25,000 may the Group.
These included reviews of: the roll-out of SAP across the be authorised by the Senior Vice-President Tax and Senior ViceNorth America business: IT operations including cyber status: inventory, President Group Finance respectively and amounts up to $50,000 by financial reporting and credit management processes across multiple the Chief Financial Officer.
Any individual amount over $50,000 must be markets: Treasury operations: Manufacturing operations in China and pre-approved by the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
If unforeseen Costa Rica: Shared Services operations in China, India and Poland: additional permitted services are required, or any which exceed the ERM effectiveness: and readiness for complying with e-commerce with amounts approved, again pre-approval by the Chairman of the Audit key customers GS1-GDSN and Global Data Protection Requirements Committee is required.
The following reflects the non-audit fees incurred with KPMG in 2017, A periodic review of the Internal Audit function is undertaken, most which were approved by the Chairman of the Audit Committee: recently in 2014, by an independent external consultant in accordance with the guidelines of the Institute of Internal Auditors.
In addition 2017 2016 a structured questionnaire was introduced this year, allowing Non- $ million $ million Executive and Executive and senior management, plus the external Tax fees and Assistance with tax compliance 0.1 0.1 auditor, to comment on key aspects of the functions performance.
The Audit Committee, which re-approved the functions charter in services November 2017, has satisfied itself that adequate, objective internal Pension advice Advice on the impact of changes 0.5 audit standards and procedures exist within the Group and that the to pension benefits for the UK Internal Audit function is effective.
RISK MANAGEMENT PROGRAMME Tax compliance services conducted by KPMG in 2017 only took place Whilst the Board is responsible for ensuring oversight of strategic in countries where it is required by law for the auditor to conduct risks relating to the Company, determining an appropriate level of these services.
risk appetite, and monitoring risks through a range of Board and Board Committee processes, the Audit Committee is responsible for The ratio of non-audit fees to audit fees for the year ended 31 December ensuring oversight of the processes by which operational risks, relating 2016 was 0.15.
The ratio of non-audit fees to audit fees for the year to the Company and its operations are managed and for reviewing ended 31 December 2017 is 0.02. financial risks and the operating effectiveness of the Groups Risk Full details are shown in Note 3.2 of the Notes to the Group accounts.
Audit Fees paid to the Auditor During the year, we reviewed our Risk Management processes Fees for professional services provided by KPMG, the Groups and progress was discussed at our meetings in February, April and independent auditor in each of the last two fiscal years, in each of the November.
We approved the Risk Management Programme for 2017 following categories were: and monitored performance against that plan specifically reviewing the work undertaken by the risk champions across the Group, identifying 2017 2016 $ million $ million the risks which could impact their areas of our business.
Audit fees 4.4 4.0 During May and June, a new risk management policy and manual Audit-related fees was rolled out with one-to-one training provided to risk champions.
From May 2017, this allowed risk reporting to commence in-line with the Total 4.4 4.0 strategy of a bottom up approach.
This was revisited again in November.
The Enterprise Risk Management ERM approach commenced and included interviewing individual members of senior management and the Board throughout Q3 2017, to discuss principal risks and concerns they had.
These interviews were also used to understand the individual Board members risk tolerance.
77 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT continued ACCOUNTABILITY Later in July, the ERM structure was aligned with that of the Internal Audit EVALUATION OF INTERNAL CONTROLS function to assess the mitigating actions in place for our key products.
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rule 13a15 f and In November, it was reported that deep dives had concluded for 15d15 f under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
ALLEVYN, Total Knees, Compliance EUCAN Europe and Canada and PICO, with key themes noted by the Committee.
The 2017 Annual Report There is an established system of internal control throughout the Group disclosure was also discussed.
and our country business units.
The main elements of the internal control framework are: Since the year end, we have reviewed a report from the SVP Internal Audit into the effectiveness of the Risk Management Programme The management of each country is responsible for the establishment throughout the year.
We considered the principal risks, the actions and review of effective financial controls within their business unit.
taken by management to review those risks and the Board risk appetite The Groups IT organisation is responsible for the establishment of in respect of each risk.
effective IT controls within the core financial systems and underlying IT infrastructure.
The responsibility for the review of the effectiveness We concluded that the Risk Management process during 2017 and up of such controls is split between the IT organisation and the Financial to the date of approval of this Annual Report was effective.
Work will Controls & Compliance Group.
continue in 2018 and beyond to continue to enhance the process.
The Group Finance Manual sets out financial and accounting policies.
See pages 4049 for further information on our Risk The Groups Minimum Acceptable Practices MAPs have been Management Process.
enhanced by simplifying and clarifying the requirements as well as broadening their scope.
The business is required to self-assess their VIABILITY STATEMENT level of compliance with the MAPs twice a year and remediate any We also reviewed managements work in conducting a robust gaps.
MAPs compliance is validated through spot checks conducted assessment of those risks which would threaten our business model by the Financial Controls and Compliance function and during both and the future performance or liquidity of the Company, including its Internal Audit and external audit visits.
resilience to the threats of viability posed by those risks in severe but There are clearly defined lines of accountability and delegations plausible scenarios.
This assessment included stress and sensitivity of authority.
analyses of these risks to enable us to evaluate the impact of a severe During the year, there has been further progress in standardising and but plausible combination of risks.
We then considered whether simplifying our core financial controls.
In 2018, there will be a focus on additional financing would be required in such eventualities.
Based on standardising the controls globally, merging the core financial controls this analysis, we recommended to the Board that it could approve and with the MAPs and evaluating technology solutions to operating and make the Viability Statement on pages 4849. testing controls.
GOING CONCERN The Internal Audit function executes a risk-based annual work plan, as approved by the Audit Committee.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out The Audit Committee reviews reports from Internal Audit on their in the Financial review and principal risks section on pages 3649. findings on internal financial controls, including compliance with The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and MAPs and from the SVP Group Finance and the heads of the borrowing facilities are described on pages 3839.
Financial Controls and Compliance, Taxation and Treasury functions.
The Audit Committee reviews regular reports from the Financial In addition, the Notes to the Group accounts include the Groups Controls and Compliance function with regard to compliance objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act including the scope and results of risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and managements testing and progress regarding any remediation, as hedging activities: and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
well as the aggregated results of MAPs self-assessments performed The Group has considerable financial resources and its customers by the business.
and suppliers are diversified across different geographic areas.
As a Business continuity planning, including preventative and contingency consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to measures, back-up capabilities and the purchase of insurance.
manage its business risk successfully despite the ongoing uncertain Risk management policies and procedures including segregation of economic outlook.
duties, transaction authorisation, monitoring, financial and managerial The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has review and comprehensive reporting and analysis against approved adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the standards and budgets.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis A treasury operating framework and Group treasury team, for accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
accountable for all treasury activities, which establishes policies and Management also believes that the Group has sufficient working capital manages liquidity and financial risks, including foreign exchange, for its present requirements.
interest rate and counterparty exposures.
Treasury policies, risk limits and monitoring procedures are reviewed regularly by the Audit Committee on behalf of the Board.
Our published Group tax strategy which details our approach to tax risk management and governance, tax compliance, tax planning, the level of tax risk we are prepared to accept and how we deal with tax authorities, which was reviewed by the Audit Committee on behalf of the Board.
78 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT continued ACCOUNTABILITY The Audit Committee reviews the Group whistle-blower procedures.
Having received the report from management, the Audit Committee reports to the Board on the effectiveness of controls.
The Audit Committee received and reviewed a report on the progress of the Finance Transformation during 2017 and the mitigation of the KPMG, an independent registered public accounting firm issued an associated risks.
audit report on the Groups internal control over financial reporting as at 31 December 2017.
This system of internal control has been designed to manage rather than eliminate material risks to the achievement of our strategic CODE OF ETHICS FOR SENIOR FINANCIAL OFFICERS and business objectives and can provide only reasonable, and not We have adopted a Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers, which absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Because of applies to the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the inherent limitation, our internal controls over financial reporting may not SVP Group Finance and the Groups senior financial officers.
There have prevent or detect all misstatements.
In addition, our projections of any been no waivers to any of the Codes provisions nor have there been evaluation of effectiveness in future periods are subject to the risk that any amendments to the Code during 2017 or up until 22 February 2018. controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, A copy of the Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers can be found or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may on our website at www.
Entities where the Company does not hold a controlling interest have their own processes of internal controls similar to those In addition, every individual in the finance function certifies to the of the Company.
Chief Financial Officer that they have complied with the Finance Code of Conduct.
We have reviewed the system of internal financial control and satisfied ourselves that we are meeting the required standards both for the year EVALUATION OF COMPOSITION, PERFORMANCE AND ended 31 December 2017 and up to the date of approval of this Annual EFFECTIVENESS OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Report.
No concerns were raised with us in 2017 regarding possible The composition, performance and effectiveness of the Audit improprieties in matters of financial reporting.
Committee was evaluated this year in accordance with the EU Audit This process complies with the Financial Reporting Councils Guidance Reform.
Its effectiveness is also reviewed in conjunction with the annual on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Board evaluation, which this year was conducted by Ian Barlow, in his Business Reporting on the UK Corporate Governance Code and first year as Senior Independent Director.
additionally contributes to our compliance with the obligations under The review by the Audit Committee found the following and the below the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other internal assurance activities.
action will be taken during 2018: There has been no change during the period covered by this Annual Report that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially Finding Action affect, the Groups internal control over financial reporting.
Composition The Board is responsible overall for reviewing and approving the adequacy and effectiveness of the risk management framework and The composition of the Audit Committee with at None the system of internal controls over financial, operational including least one financial expert and a mix of UK and quality management and ethical compliance processes operated by global experience in the healthcare sector was the Group.
The Board has delegated responsibility for this review to deemed appropriate.
The Audit Committee, through the Internal Audit Performance function, reviews the adequacy and effectiveness of internal control procedures and identifies any weaknesses and ensures these are The Committee was considered to have performed None remediated within agreed timelines.
The latest review covered the effectively with an appropriate balance between financial year to 31 December 2017 and included the period up to the challenge and constructive support.
approval of this Annual Report.
Effectiveness The main elements of this annual review are as follows: The Committee was considered to be effective with a None The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer evaluated thorough agenda and good papers, which were well the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Groups presented and debated.
disclosure controls and procedures as at 31 December 2017.
Based upon this evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded on 22 February 2018 that the disclosure controls and procedures were effective as at 31 December 2017.
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting.
Management assessed the effectiveness of the Groups internal control over financial reporting as at 31 December 2017 in accordance with the requirements in the US under section 404 of the SarbanesOxley Act.
In making that assessment, they used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control-Integrated Framework 2013.
Based on their assessment, management concluded and reported that, as at 31 December 2017, the Groups internal control over financial reporting was effective based on those criteria.
