Audit Committee In this Report, we describe the work of the Report Audit Committee the Committee and the significant issues it considered in 2017.
Our main priorities were to receive assurance on the soundness of financial reporting, effective risk identification and management, and compliance with the AstraZeneca Code of Ethics and relevant legislation.
Financial reporting The integrity of AstraZenecas financial reporting is underpinned by effective internal controls, appropriate accounting practices and policies, and the exercise of good judgement.
The Committee reviewed, at least quarterly, the Companys significant accounting matters, including contingent liabilities, revenue recognition, and deferred tax and, where appropriate, challenged managements decisions before approving the accounting policies applied.
During 2017, the Committee reviewed significant restructuring programmes initiated from 2013 onwards, including accounting for restructuring charges, control over capital expenditure and the projection for their completion.
The Committee continued to monitor the inclusion of Externalisation Revenue in AstraZenecas Statement of Comprehensive Income.
For more information on Externalisation Revenue, please refer to the Financial Review from page 66.
The Committee also looked closely at intangible asset impairment reviews, legal provisions and other related charges, to ensure that items are appropriately accounted for in Reported and Core results.
Following the competitive tender of the Companys external audit services in 2015, PwC were appointed as the Companys external auditor for the year commencing on 1 January 2017 having received shareholder approval at the Companys AGM.
The Committee monitored PwCs review of the Groups historical accounting practices, policies and processes The integrity of to understand any difference in approach or interpretation of relevant standards and support AstraZenecas continuous improvement.
financial reporting Risk identification and management During the year, the Committee regularly is underpinned reviewed the Companys approach to risk management, its risk reporting framework by effective internal and risk mitigation.
When identifying risks, we consider the total landscape of enduring controls, appropriate risks which are long-standing and businessas-usual in nature.
We then consider more accounting practices specific and current risks key active risks which are challenging our business presently.
and policies, and Finally, in order that we scan the horizon and identify risks which may challenge us in the exercise of the future, we also consider emerging risks.
These deliberations provided a framework for good judgement.
the Committees activities in 2017 and 100 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance provided the context for the Committees business is generally considered to pose consideration of the Companys viability higher compliance risks such as Argentina, statement and the stress test analysis that China, Germany, Malaysia, Mexico, underpins the assurance provided by it under Sub-Saharan Africa, the UK and the US.
which key profitability, liquidity and funding metrics are tested against a severe downside Engagement with senior leaders scenario which assumes that the significant The Committee considers it important to risks modelled in the planning process will interact with members of management below crystallise.
For more detail on the viability the SET and to have wider engagement with statement, please refer to the Risk Overview the Companys employees.
In November, from page 63. members of the Committee visited the Companys Commercial leadership team The Committees consideration of risk in Cotia, Brazil.
The Committee members management was supported by deep dive discussed the opportunities and challenges reviews of key activities such as: the local marketing company faces, and the current and emerging risks arising from the cyber defence capability and the development and successful delivery to patients continuous enhancements to safeguard of mature medicines, as well as those from our critical applications, information assets rapidly evolving pipeline.
The Committee also and business continuity met informally with senior leaders from the supply capability necessary for the Operations, IS IT, Finance, Legal and Oncology successful delivery of the Companys pricing and reimbursement teams.
In October, biologics portfolio I visited marketing company sites in Germany a review of commercial operations in and the UK to discuss risk management, Middle East and Africa and Latin America compliance controls and compliance culture the approach to pricing, reimbursement and with the management teams there, and I also market access for oncology medicines held town hall meetings with the employees post-acquisition reviews of Acerta Pharma at each site.
and ZS Pharma including the circumstances connected with the two FDA Complete Changes to the membership Response Letters relating to ZS-9.
of the Committee Finally, the membership of the Committee In addition to these deep dive reviews, during underwent change during the year.
Bruce visits to the Companys businesses in Brazil, Burlington and Ann Cairns retired from the Germany and the UK, the Committee Board and Committee, and I would like to increased its understanding of the business, offer my sincere thanks to Bruce for his valued environment and associated risks in each diligence and commitment to the work of location, together with the action taken the Committee since 2011 and to Ann for to ensure a good compliance culture is her contribution over the last three years.
Further information on the Companys Principal Risks can be found The Committee was also strengthened by in the Risk Overview from page 63. the appointments of Philip Broadley and Sheri McCoy who between them bring Compliance with the Code of Ethics extensive and relevant international business, The Committees priorities continue to include pharmaceutical and accounting experience maintaining compliance with the Companys to the work of the Committee.
Code of Ethics which replaced our Code of Conduct in 2017, high ethical standards, We hope that you find this information helpful and operating within the law in all countries in understanding the work of the Committee.
where we conduct business or have Our dialogue with our shareholders is valued interactions.
The new Code of Ethics, greatly and we welcome your feedback on the underlying principles for which have this Audit Committee Report.
not changed, is written in more simple and accessible language to empower decision Yours sincerely making that reflects our Company Values, expected behaviours and key policy principles.
Further information on our Code of Ethics is set out from page 40.
The Committee monitored and reviewed compliance with our Code of Ethics, including Rudy Markham the effectiveness of our anti-bribery and Chairman of the Audit Committee anti-corruption controls, across the Group.
The Committee prioritises its focus on countries regions where we have significant operations and countries in which doing AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Audit Committee Report 101 Audit Committee Report continued Committee membership and attendance monitoring and reviewing the external exchange gains and losses relating to All Committee members are Non-Executive auditors independence and objectivity the classification of certain non-structural Directors and considered by the Board ensuring the provision of non-audit services intra-Group loans, in each case supported to be independent under the UK Corporate by the external auditor are appropriate and by papers prepared by management and Governance Code.
The Committees in accordance with the policy approved by the external auditor members are Rudy Markham Committee the Committee the external auditors reports on its audit Chairman, Philip Broadley, Sheri McCoy making recommendations to the Board for of the Group Financial Statements, and and Shriti Vadera.
Bruce Burlington and Ann seeking shareholder approval relating to the reports from management, IA, Global Cairns were members of the Committee until appointment, reappointment and removal Compliance and the external auditor on they retired from the Board and Committee of the external auditor, and to approve the the effectiveness of our system of internal on 31 August and 27 April 2017, respectively.
remuneration and terms of engagement of controls and, in particular, our internal the external auditor control over financial reporting In December 2017, the Board determined monitoring the Companys response to the going concern assessment and that, for the purposes of the UK Corporate any external enquiries and investigations adoption of the going concern basis in Governance Code, at least one member of the regarding matters within the Committees preparing this Annual Report and the Committee has recent and relevant financial area of responsibility.
More information experience, and Rudy Markham and Philip on the basis of preparation of Financial Broadley were determined to be financial Following each Committee meeting, the Statements on a going concern basis is set experts for the purposes of the Sarbanes-Oxley Committee Chairman informs the Board out in the Financial Statements on page 139 Act.
In February 2018, the Board determined of the principal matters the Committee the preparation of the Directors viability that the members of the Committee as a whole considered and of any significant concerns statement and the adequacy of the analysis have competence relevant to the sector in which it has or that have been reported by the supporting the assurance provided by the Company operates as Rudy Markham and external auditor, the Vice-President, IA or the that statement Shriti Vadera have served as Non-Executive Chief Compliance Officer.
The Committee compliance with applicable provisions of the Directors of the Company for nine and seven identifies matters that require action or Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
In particular, the status years respectively, and Sheri McCoy has improvement and makes recommendations of compliance with the programme of internal had a 30-year career in the pharmaceutical on the steps to be taken.
The Committees controls over financial reporting implemented industry.
The Board of Directors biographies meeting minutes are circulated to the Board.
pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbaneson pages 88 and 89 contain details of each Oxley Act.
The Committee continued its Committee members skills and experience.
The Committees work is supported by valuable focus on IT controls in the context of the insight gained from its interactions with changes to the Groups IT environment.
The Committee held five meetings in 2017 and other Board Committees, senior executives, More information about this is set out in the Committee members attendance is set out in managers and external experts.
The Committee Sarbanes-Oxley Act Section 404 section of the table on page 87. meetings are routinely attended by the CFO: the Financial Review on page 83. the General Counsel: the Chief Compliance Role and operation of the Committee Officer: the Vice-President, IA: the ViceRisk and Compliance The Committees terms of reference President, Group Financial Controller: the Companys principal, enduring and are available on our website, and the Companys external auditor.
emerging risks, including the Companys www.
The CEO attends on an agenda-driven basis.
risk management approach, risk reporting framework and risk mitigation.
More The Committee regularly reports to the Board In addition, the Committee and separately the information about the Principal Risks on how it discharges its main responsibilities, Committee Chairman, meet privately with the faced by the Company is set out in the which include: CFO: Chief Compliance Officer: General Risk Overview section from page 63 Counsel: Vice-President, IA: and the Companys quarterly reports from the General Counsel monitoring the integrity of the Companys external auditor on an individual basis to ensure on the status of significant litigation matters financial reporting and formal announcements the effective flow of material information and governmental investigations relating to its financial performance, between the Committee and management.
quarterly reports of work carried out by and reviewing significant financial reporting IA and Finance including the status of judgements contained within them Activities of the Committee in 2017 follow-up actions with management ensuring the Companys Annual Report During 2017 and in January 2018, the quarterly reports from Global Compliance and Accounts present a fair, balanced Committee considered and discussed regarding key compliance incidents and understandable assessment of the the following standing items: both substantiated and unsubstantiated, Companys position and prospects by carrying trends arising and dispersion of incidents out a formal review of the documentation and Financial reporting across the Groups business functions receiving a year-end report from management key elements of the Financial Statements including any corrective actions taken on the internal controls, governance, and the estimates and judgements so that the Committee could assess the compliance, assurance and risk management contained in the Companys financial effectiveness of controls, and monitor activities that support the assessment disclosures.
Accounting matters considered and ensure the timeliness of remediation reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys included the areas described in the Financial data from reports made by employees via internal financial controls, internal nonReview under Critical accounting policies the AZethics helpline, online facilities and financial controls, risk management and estimates with a focus on accounting other routes regarding potential breaches systems including whistleblowing issues relevant to revenue recognition, of the Code of Ethics, together with the procedures and compliance with laws litigation and taxation matters, goodwill results of enquiries into those matters and the AstraZeneca Code of Ethics and intangible asset impairment from page reports from the Group Treasury function, monitoring and reviewing the role, resources 79 and other important matters such as in particular, concerning the Companys and effectiveness of the Companys IA monitoring the accounting for Externalisation liquidity and cash position, credit risk and function, its Compliance function, the Revenue in the Groups Consolidated the appropriateness of its investment external audit process and the Companys Statement of Comprehensive Income management policy in the context of the relationship with its external auditor the Companys presentation of deferred tax current economic situation assets and collateral balances, and foreign 102 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance the preparation of the Directors Modern supply chain readiness for launching new carrying value and managements current Slavery Act Statement and the adequacy products, a review of the Groups biologics estimate of discounted future cash flows for at of the monitoring, review and education capability and manufacturing capacity, risk products the headroom.
Products will be relating to modern slavery risks conducted and an overview of manufacturing siteidentified as at risk because the headroom is across the organisation during the year.
preparedness for an increasingly complex small or, for example, in the case of a medicine regulatory environment in development, there is a significant External audit review and mitigation for Brexit scenarios, development milestone such as the publication audit and non-audit fees of the external in particular, funding sources, cash of clinical trial results which could significantly auditor during 2017, including the objectivity management activities, insurance and alter managements forecasts for the product.
and independence of the external auditor derivative contracts in the context of the UK through the application of the Audit and losing passporting rights for banking services In 2017, the Committee considered the annual Non-Audit Services Pre-Approval Policy as key compliance risks arising from our impairment reviews of the Groups intangible described further below.
Further information activities in MEA and Latin America and the assets, including Byetta, FluMist, Movantik about the audit and non-audit fees for 2017 programme of strengthening controls and Moventig, ZS-9 and tralokinumab.
The is disclosed in Note 30 to the Financial processes, streamlining geographical and considerations of the Byetta and Movantik Statements on page 189. organisational structures, and creating a Moventig impairment reviews covered culture of accountability anticipated generic entry in the US, and a Performance assessment consideration of major trends regarding re-assessment of the market opportunity in effectiveness review of IA by considering pricing, reimbursement and market access in the context of the OIC indication respectively.
its performance against the internal audit oncology, and the key external and internal The FluMist impairment review included the plan and key activities.
The Committee noted risks the Company faces in this context impact of the announcement in June 2017 how IA had delivered value to the business post-acquisition reviews of Acerta Pharma by the Advisory Committee on Immunization during the year by providing assurance over and ZS Pharma including the circumstances Practices of the Center for Disease Control compliance with significant policies, plans, connected with the two FDA CRLs relating and Prevention of an interim recommendation procedures, laws and regulations, as well to ZS-9 on the use of FluMist Quadrivalent in the as risk-based audits across a broad range a review of the arrangements, activities and US during the 2017 2018 influenza season, of key business activities, introducing operation of the Groups Global Business which followed a similar announcement in thematic reporting to the business, and Services unit.
2016 in respect of the 2016 2017 influenza adapting the audit plan to respond to new season.
The Committee also assessed the or arising risks over the year External audit, accounting and impact of the second CRL received from the the Committee conducted the annual regulatory changes FDA for ZS-9.
evaluation of its own performance with monitoring the external audit transition each Committee member responding to process to ensure an effective transition Impairments were taken on Byetta, FluMist and a web-based questionnaire prepared by of the Groups external auditor Movantik Moventig, and tralokinumab was fully an external third party.
The effectiveness a review of the governance arrangements impaired following the disappointing clinical review of the Committee was assessed for the Pensions Trustee of the AstraZeneca read out for the Phase III programme in as high, with the Committee continuing to UK Pension Fund severe, uncontrolled asthma in November.
provide challenge and assurance over key preparation and policy changes required accounting areas of judgement.
A feature for the implementation of IFRS 9 and IFRS Litigation and contingent liabilities of the Committees oversight was said to 15 with effect from 1 January 2018 The Committee was regularly informed by be its targeting of deep dive sessions to preparation for compliance with the General the General Counsel and external auditor further its understanding of the challenges Data Protection Regulation which is due to about IP litigation, product liability actions and facing parts of the business as well as risk come into force on 25 May 2018. governmental investigations that might result management and its visibility to different in fines or damages against the Company, to stakeholders through site visits and informal Significant financial reporting issues assess whether provisions should be taken and, discussions with employees.
considered by the Committee in 2017 if so, when and in what amount.
Of the matters Revenue recognition the Committee considered in 2017, the more Matters considered and discussed by the The US is our largest single market and sales significant included: the Texas Attorney General Committee in addition to its usual business accounted for 30.6% of our Product Sales in matters regarding Crestor and Seroquel: as described above included: 2017.
Revenue recognition, particularly in the and the Nexium and Prilosec product liability US, is impacted by rebates, chargebacks, cash litigation in the US.
The Company has had Business updates discounts and returns for more information, success in defending the Nexium substance regular updates from the IT IS team on please see the Financial Review from page 66. patent in the Canadian Supreme Court by matters including: the alignment of The Committee pays particular attention overturning invalidity decisions from lower critical systems and information assets to managements estimates of these items, courts but it is also managing third party patent to the Groups cyber defence capability: its analysis of any unusual movements and infringement challenges in the US for Calquence enhancing segregated networks: their impact on revenue recognition informed and Imfinzi products which received FDA mandatory training on cyber security to by commentary from the external auditor.
The Company support effective risk identification and continues to defend claims by generics mitigation: and learning from a simulated Valuation and possible impairment of companies for damages relating to the US global cyber security crisis exercise, and intangible assets Pulmicort patent litigation.
Further information from high-profile cyber-attacks affecting The Group carries significant intangible assets about the Companys litigation and contingent other large organisations during 2017 on its balance sheet arising from the acquisition liabilities is set out in Note 28 to the Financial reviews of the Companys significant of businesses and IP rights to medicines in Statements from page 182. restructuring programmes initiated from development and on the market.
Each quarter, 2013 onwards, including accounting for the CFO outlines the carrying value of the Tax accounting restructuring charges, control over Groups intangible assets and, in respect of The Committee reviews the Companys capital expenditure and the projection those intangible assets that are identified as at approach to tax including governance, for their completion risk of impairment, the difference between the risk management and compliance, tax planning, AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Audit Committee Report 103 Audit Committee Report continued dealings with tax authorities and the level of tax permitted non-audit services undertaken by the quarter ended 31 March 2017 and risk the Company is prepared to accept.
The full the external auditor, the principal purpose of provision of a comfort letter for the Companys statement, which was published in December which is to ensure that the independence of capital market debt issuance.
Following their 2017, can be found at www.
the external auditor is not impaired.
The policy appointment, PwC provided non-audit services covers three categories of work: audit services: including an interim review of the results of the The Committee also reviewed the impact audit-related services: and tax services, the Group for the six months ended 30 June 2017. of the reduction in US federal tax rates as a latter of which is significantly restricted such Fees for non-audit services amounted to 4% of result of tax reform in the US, which resulted that no tax services are pre-approved under the fees paid to PwC for audit, audit-related and in a reduction of deferred tax balances of the policy.
The policy defines the type of work other services in 2017.
that falls within each of these categories and not been provided for KPMG for 2017 as this the non-audit services that the external auditor would not be meaningful given that no Group Retirement benefits is prohibited from performing under the rules audit services were provided during the year.
Pension accounting continues to be an of the SEC and other relevant UK and US important area of focus recognising the level of professional and regulatory requirements.
In each case, KPMG and PwC were pension fund deficit and its sensitivity to small considered better placed than any alternative changes in interest rates, which the Committee The pre-approval procedures permit certain audit firm to provide these services in terms of continues to monitor carefully.
The Committee audit and audit-related services to be performed their familiarity with the Companys business, reviewed the Companys defined benefit by the external auditor during the year, subject skills, capability and efficiency.
All such pension global funding objective and to annual fee limits agreed with the Committee services were either within the scope of principles, focusing in particular on the in advance.
Pre-approved audit and auditthe pre-approved services set out in the Companys main defined benefit pensions related services below the clearly trivial Non-Audit Services Policy or were presented obligations in Sweden, the UK and the US.
threshold within the overall annual fee limit to Committee members for pre-approval.
are subject to case-by-case approval by the Internal controls Vice-President, Group Financial Controller.
Further information on the fees paid to PwC The Committee receives a report of the matters for audit, audit-related and other services is considered by the Disclosure Committee during The pre-approved audit services included provided in Note 30 to the Financial Statements each quarter.
During the year, a number of internal services in respect of the annual financial on page 189. control weaknesses were reported relating to a statement audit including quarterly and new IT system implemented in January 2017 used half-year reviews, attestation opinions Assessing external audit effectiveness to manage customer deduction programmes in under section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, In accordance with its normal practice, the the US and over the completeness of reports statutory audits for subsidiary entities, and other Committee considered the performance of used to validate the adequacy of supporting procedures to be performed by the independent PwC and its compliance with the independence documentation and approval of manual journals.
auditor to be able to form an opinion on the criteria under the relevant statutory, regulatory These were remediated in-year with validation Companys consolidated financial statements.
and ethical standards applicable to auditors.
testing performed to ensure operational The pre-approved audit-related services, which effectiveness.
Across the wider internal the Committee believes are services reasonably The Committee assessed effectiveness taking control environment, a large number of design related to the performance of the audit or review into account the views of senior management improvements have been implemented to of the Companys financial statements, included within the finance function and regular further strengthen, enhance and fide-risk our certain services related to acquisitions and Committee attendees, in particular, against internal control over financial reporting.
At the disposals, financial statement audits of five key factors namely: judgement: mind-set January 2018 meeting, the CFO presented employee benefit plans, and internal controls & culture: skills, character & knowledge: and to the Committee the conclusions of the CEO reviews.
The Committee is mindful of the 70% quality control.
The Committee felt that the first and the CFO following the evaluation of the non-audit services fee cap under EU regulation, full year audit had been comprehensive: that effectiveness of our disclosure controls and together with the overall proportion of fees for the change of auditors had, as anticipated, procedures required by Item 15 a of Form 20-F audit and non-audit services in determining brought a fresh approach and provided robust at 31 December 2017.
Based on their evaluation, whether to pre-approve such services.
challenge to management proposals, and the CEO and the CFO concluded that, as at that had led to improvements being incorporated date, we maintained an effective system of The CFO supported by the Vice-President, throughout the control environment.
Group Financial Controller, monitors the Accordingly, the Committee was satisfied that status of all services being provided by the there had been an effective transition of the For further information on the Companys external auditor.
Authority to approve work Groups external auditor and concluded that internal controls, please refer to the exceeding the pre-agreed annual fee limits the PwC audit was effective for the financial Accountability section in the Corporate and for any individual service above the year commencing 1 January 2017.
Governance Report on page 96. clearly trivial threshold is delegated to the Chairman of the Committee together with In February 2018, the Committee External auditor one other Committee member in the first recommended and the Board agreed to the Following a competitive tender carried out in instance.
A standing agenda item at reappointment of PwC as the Companys 2015, a resolution to approve the appointment Committee meetings covers the operation auditor for 2018.
Accordingly, a resolution of PwC for the financial year ending 31 of the pre-approval procedures and regular to re-appoint PwC as auditors will be put to December 2017 was passed by shareholders reports are provided to the full Committee.
shareholders at the Companys AGM in 2018. at the Companys AGM in April 2017.
KPMG LLP KPMG, who formerly held office, All non-audit services other than the preRegulation worked with PwC to ensure an orderly approved audit and audit-related services The Committee considers that the Company transition during the first half of the year.
are approved by the Audit Committee on has complied with the Competition and Richard Hughes is the lead partner at PwC.
In 2017, non-audit Markets Authoritys Statutory Audit Services services provided to the Company by KPMG for Large Companies Market Investigation Non-audit services and safeguards prior to their cessation of appointment as Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender The Committee maintains a policy the Audit the Groups auditor in April included services Processes and Audit Committee and Non-Audit Services Pre-Approval Policy provided in respect of the audit transition, Responsibilities Order 2014 in respect of its for the pre-approval of all audit services and interim review of the results of the Group for financial year commencing 1 January 2017.
104 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Corporate Governance
