STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE & RISK MANAGEMENT ETHICAL & PRUDENT RISK MANAGEMENT Our ethical standards and behaviour underpin everything we do across our Group and weworktoensure that they are upheld and demonstrated at every opportunity.
A culture of ethical behaviour aligned to our values and a Risk management is underpinned by the IMS, implemented robust Integrated Management System IMS are central to in2016, which sets out all mandatory policies, standards and howwe run the business.
Through clear corporate governance controls necessary to manage our activities and associated policies, supported by robust risk, assurance and performance risks.
During the year, we have incorporated feedback from management processes, we manage the opportunities and thebusiness to make the mandatory requirements clearer.
risksin our operations and respond to the concerns of our Business Units have also reviewed their local systems to shareholders and stakeholders.
The Board incentivises such confirm compliance with the IMS and local legislation and good governance and risk management measures through regulation.
An independent Internal Audit, due to report in the aset ofKey Performance Indicators KPIs in our Group scorecard, first quarter of 2018, is assessing how effectively the Corporate which are used to determine Executive Directors and employees functions have rolled out mandatory requirements across the variable, performance-related pay.
See pages 20 to 23 for Group and how local BU management systems align with moreinformation.
Assurance activities are planned on an annual basis to coordinate Risk, assurance and performance management them between the Business Units, functions and Internal Audit The Company has a consistent risk management process across and to align them to key risks and key requirements set out in the the Group, which ensures risk is considered at every level of the IMS.
Bottom-up and top-down reviews of planned assurance organisation, and that adequate risk information flows from the activities are carried out to ensure the right level ofassurance Business Units and functions to the Group and from the Board across the Group.
Responsibility for assurance activities is clearly down to the Business Units and functions.
On an annual basis articulated at each of the four organisational tiers see chart.
the Board of Directors carries out an assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten Both risk management and assurance are treated as an integral our business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity.
part of doing business at Tullow and are monitored together The management of these principal risksis delegated to the with usual business and operational performance as part of Executive Team and Senior Management andis overseen by the performance management.
Performance scorecards are used Board of Directors and its Committees.
A summary of the full to give Senior Management a clear view of business performance report on these risks is available on pages 42 to 49. and a subset of the KPIs are monitored regularly by the Executive Team and have targets which are linked to remuneration.
TULLOW ASSURANCE MODEL INDEPENDENT Internal Audit Board, ASSURANCE Statutory auditor reserves auditor Audit Committee, Government audits, etc.
operate above TIER 3 Sub-Committees Tullows internal assurance model RISK Heads of Group functions Board Committees TIER 2 OVERSIGHT Executive Team OWNERSHIP & BU embedded functional leads BDT Executive Vice President TIER 1 MANAGEMENT BU Manager OF RISK Site-based functional staff BU leadership TIER 0 BU functional leads 38 Tullow Oil plc 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 1 Stakeholder engagement SPEAKING UP Our priority is to ensure that the Company can negotiate and sustain agreement, legitimacy and trust in our countries of operation.
We aim to maintain and build relationships with allstakeholders, including national and local governments, 60 regulators, international and national NGOs, multilaterals, speaking hostcommunities and their diaspora.
up cases We also look for opportunities to engage stakeholders outside formal meetings and use these to understand evolving expectations of Tullow and our industry, and to provide input on key policy issues and contribute our own views.
We took part in Chatham HR 38 House New Producers conferences in Guyana and Suriname Fraud 8 and took part in a panel discussion in Nairobi for the launch of Oxfams report on implementation of Free, Prior and Informed Supply chain 12 Consent FPIC in Turkana.
Corruption 2 Speaking up cases 60 In Ghana, our engagement focused on the six coastal communities closest to our operations and we discussed a range of topics with them including the operating constraints of our Floating Production Storage and Offloading vessels FPSOs, the Turret Remediation Project and ongoing Jubilee and TEN operations.
In Kenya we published our Exploration & Appraisal Stakeholder Engagement Framework for the South Lokichar Basin, Turkana, which received positive feedback.
In 2015, the Board established an Ethics & Compliance Committee in order to oversee and assist the Executive Team Ethical behaviour inensuring that our policies and codes relating to Ethics & We are fully committed to conducting our business ethically, Compliance were fully reflective of best practices in this area legally and in compliance with our own internal Code of Ethical and that they were thoroughly implemented across our Conduct the Code.
As in previous years, we implemented a business.
Following the successful implementation of the programme of communication and training on the Code and its revised Code and the Tullow staffs 100 per cent completion of related ethical standards.
In particular, all staff are required to the Code of Ethical Conduct e-learning module and compliance complete an annual e-learning module covering key areas of certification in 2017, the Board determined that a standalone the Code, with a special focus on anti-corruption and compliance committee was no longer required and that Ethics & controls.
In 2017, all staff 100 per cent completed the e-learning Compliance issues would be best addressed on an ongoing module as well as their compliance certification with the Code.
basis by the Executive Team under the supervision of the Board The Code certification process obtains confirmation and formal as a whole and through the Audit Committee.
The Board will disclosure from staff on how they complied with the Code.
continue to monitor Ethics & Compliance issues as part of its ongoing risk management remit and the Board maintains AllCode certificates were reviewed and assured by our Group responsibility for overseesing the development and monitoring Ethics & Compliance function before obtaining formal sign-off the implementation and effectiveness of the Code and other by Les Wood, our Chief Financial Officer, who has executive Company standards in relation to good ethical behaviour.
In responsibility for Ethics & Compliance.
addition, Ethics & Compliance features strongly at the Audit As part of our continued commitment to zero tolerance of bribery Committee which provides further assurance to the Board.
and corruption, we further strengthened our supply chain due TheBoard signs off on the Tullow Code of Ethical Conduct to diligence process to cover additional controls, including those ensure this key document is fully supported.
The Executive related to beneficial ownership.
The revised process also covers Team also has regular engagement on strategic Ethics & Compliance due diligence related to human rights and labour conditions matters to ensure the tone from the top is clear and transparent.
aspart of our compliance with the UK Modern Slavery Act.
The Audit Committee also reviews the adequacy and security Furthermore, in response to the introduction of the UK Criminal ofthe Companys arrangements for staff to raise concerns, in Finances Act 2017, we leveraged our anti-corruption controls to confidence, about possible improprieties in financial reporting introduce a specific compliance programme to prevent the or other matters.
In 2017, we recorded 60 speaking up cases, facilitation of tax evasion.
This programme will continue to be of which seven were submitted via our confidential, external our focus in 2018. and independent reporting option provided by Safecall.
We In addition to the supply chain due diligence improvements, we investigated all reported possible or actual breaches of our carry out an annual sanctions and trade restrictions review of Code, following which seven members of our workforce left the all vendors and suppliers across the Company using an external Group and had their contracts terminated.
This is necessary company to ensure we monitor our compliance with these touphold good corporate governance and ensure that we requirements.
The 2017 review covered over 7,500 vendors safeguard the integrity of our Code and that of the Company.
including other third parties and confirmed that we had no Asin previous years, we provide above a breakdown of sanction breaches during the year.
speaking up cases by category.
