Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT that a diverse range of candidates including all aspects of diversity Committee meetings The Nomination Committee is responsible We met on four occasions during the year.
Details of the as described above are considered whilst ensuring that for reviewing the structure, size and appointments continue to be based on merit, measured against attendance at Nomination Committee meetings are set out above.
objective criteria and the skills and experience the individual composition of the Board and its We invited the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief People Officer offers.
The Board has targeted a minimum female representation Committees: taking into account skills, on the Board of 33% by 2020 and a minimum of one director of and the Company Secretary to attend meetings of the Nomination Committee.
During 2017, we also invited members of the executive colour by 2024. knowledge, experience and diversity, and management to present to the Committee in relation to the The Nomination Committee reviews and assesses composition making recommendations to the Board management of top talent in their teams.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Nomination Committee.
on behalf of the Board and recommends appointments of new with regard to any changes.
As part of these processes, the Nomination Committee will consider the balance of skills, experience, independence and In 2017, we: knowledge of the Board and the diversity representation.
reviewed the composition of the Board, including the balance of skills, knowledge and experience, including As at the date of this report, the Board had a total of seven Directors.
The skill set of the Non-Executive Directors includes experience and understanding of our stakeholder groups: financial, economic, financial services, banking, digital, technology, reviewed the pipeline of top talent to run the communications and consumer expertise.
business particularly at the level below executive Bruce Carnegie-Brown management, with presentations from executive As mentioned opposite, the external executive search consultants, Chairman of the Nomination Committee management which also included updates on Egon Zehnder, who we have engaged in the search for a new diversity plans for their areas of the business: Non-Executive Director, is a signatory to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms on gender diversity and best commenced an executive search for a new Nonpractice and has been briefed on our Diversity Policy in the Executive Director: Committee members context of identifying candidates for our consideration.
Eligible to considered and recommended to the Board the Committee members attend Attended Nomination Committee Dashboard We recognise that we do not currently have sufficient diversity in re-election of all Directors at the 2018 Annual our Executive Management and direct reports.
At the end of 2017 Bruce Carnegie-Brown Chairman 4 4 General Meeting: and this group was 32% female and 68% male.
In 2017 the Group 2017 highlights Andrew Fisher 4 4 reviewed the register of Directors conflicts of interest.
engaged external support to help us understand the challenges Robin Freestone 4 4 commenced an executive search for a new Nonthat exist in our organisation and from this the Group has Sally James 4 4 Executive Director: developed our 2018 Diversity Action Plan under the vision Be Rob Rowley 2 2 reviewed the composition of the Board: We commenced an executive search for a new Non-Executive yourself.
In 2018 we are investing Genevieve Shore 4 4 Director, engaging Egon Zehnder as the external executive search in employee resource groups to support grass roots diversity reviewed the Groups internal diversity plans: and consultants.
Egon Zehnder is a signatory to the Voluntary Code initiatives, reviewing and making changes to our talent acquisition continued to review talent in the Group with a greater Rob Rowley resigned on 4 May 2017 of Conduct for Executive Search Firms on gender diversity and and talent progression approaches and creating a dedicated focus on managing the pipeline of top talent to run best practice and has no other connection with the Company.
diversity lead role within our people function.
the business particularly at the level below executive The search is ongoing at the time of this report.
The role of the Nomination Committee is to: Nomination Committee effectiveness The members of the Nomination Committee can, where they judge regularly evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge, experience Number of meetings of the Nomination Committee: 4 In 2017 we carried out our evaluation of Nomination Committee it necessary to discharge their responsibilities, obtain independent and independence of the Board: effectiveness as part of our external Board evaluation.
Details of Allocation of time Allocation of time professional advice at the Companys expense.
review the size, structure and composition of the Board, this process are set out on page 45.
The Committee was including Board diversity: Succession, talent & development considered to be effective in fulfilling its role during 2017 and plans 43% Written terms of reference that outline the Committees authority identify and recommend to the Board at the relevant time remains independent.
We also reviewed progress against actions and responsibility are published on the investor relations section Diversity 20% candidates for appointment as Directors: and identified in the 2016 evaluation: of the Groups website at http: corporate.
com Board composition, skill set give full consideration to succession planning for Directors and and recruitment 15% and are available in hard copy form on application to the Company other senior executives.
2016 evaluation actions update Annual Report disclosures, Secretary.
We review our terms of reference annually.
The following actions were identified during the 2016 evaluation: Committee eectiveness The Nomination Committee has a formal, rigorous and greater focus on managing pipeline of top talent to run and other governance matters 22% Boardroom diversity transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the business particularly at the level below executive the Board.
When the need to appoint a Director is identified, we We currently have over 25% female representation on the Board management talent management has been discussed at and are working towards the target which we revised in 2016 in prepare a candidate profile indicating the skills, knowledge and each of the meetings supplemented by presentations from experience required, taking into account the Boards existing light of the Hampton-Alexander Review.
The Boards Statement on members of executive management: and composition, including relevant experience and understanding of Diversity is as follows: continued focus in meetings on diversity as well as regular our stakeholder groups.
We engage external executive search Dear Shareholder updates on the Groups internal diversity plans, each consultants and we interview suitable candidates who are The Board of Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC welcomed the As chair of the Nomination Committee, I am pleased to present presentation from executive management has included an publication of the Hampton-Alexander Review on FTSE Women proposed by either existing Board members or by the external the Nomination Committees report for the year ended 31 update on diversity plans within their business areas.
Leaders and the Parker Review on Ethnic diversity of UK boards.
I have set out our role and activities in reviewing We recognise the benefits of having a diverse Board, and see the Boards composition, including the recommendation of 2017 evaluation actions update diversity at Board level as important in maintaining good corporate We give careful consideration to ensure proposed appointees appointment of a new Non-Executive Director, reviewing Some of the areas that will be actioned in 2018 include: have enough time available to devote to the role and that the governance and Board effectiveness.
We want a Board that reflects succession and development plans for the Board and executive continued focus in meetings on diversity: and diversity in the broadest sense to embrace different perspectives, balance of skills, knowledge and experience, including experience Committee packs - enhancing Committee papers, ensuring they management and overseeing the Groups diversity plans.
and understanding of our stakeholder groups, on the Board insight and challenge such as gender, race, age, educational and are concise and facilitate constructive debate and discussion.
professional background, disability or sexual orientation.
Committee membership This report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: I chair the Nomination Committee and the other members, all When the Nomination Committee has identified a suitable Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC is committed to ensuring that of whom are Independent Non-Executive Directors, are detailed any Board vacancies arising are filled on merit, in the context of candidate, we then make a recommendation to the Board with in the table below.
Biographies of the members of the the Board making the final decision.
the skills, experience, independence and knowledge which the Bruce Carnegie-Brown Nomination Committee are set out on pages 40 and 41.
Board as a whole requires to be effective.
When Board positions Chairman of the Nomination Committee become available, the Company will remain focused on ensuring 21 February 2018 38% 10% 7% Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC 54 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 55 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 30% 15%
