Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Strategic progress The Board Following the appointment of Mark Lewis as The composition of the Board continues to CONTINUING TO Chief Executive Officer, and under his be appropriate to the Groups requirements This was a solid year of direction, the Group undertook a review of with the right diversity of experience and performance for the Group its strategic initiatives and its key technical expertise to support the strategic DELIVER IN A YEAR performance indicators.
This review has and operational direction of the Group.
during a year of transition, with culminated in the evolution of our strategy the Groups revenue increasing with a revised set of key performance During 2017, as described earlier in my by 4% from 316.4m to 329.7m indicators.
Further detail on the Groups report, Mark Lewis was appointed Chief OF TRANSITION strategy can be found on pages 10 to 11.
Executive Officer in succession to Peter and adjusted operating profit Plumb who stepped down from the Board on increasing by 6% from 107.8m Our three leading brands give us significant strength, While no acquisitions were made in 2017, 4 May 2017.
Peter served as the Groups Chief to 113.9m.
breadth and diversity, generating growth and the Group continues to be open to Executive Officer for eight years and I would acquisition opportunities which are like to thank him for his commitment and increasing the predictability of the business.
All of our evaluated against a disciplined set of risk dedication to the Groups vision to help Adjusted operating profit brands are consistent in their ambition To help and return appetite metrics.
households save money and to recognise the m support he provided to Mark during the households save money.
As anticipated, in recent years, the price handover period.
comparison industry has attracted greater scrutiny from our regulators, in part due to In addition, Rob Rowley, our Senior 113.9m the growing importance of the sector to Independent Non-Executive Director, Our results Cash generated from operations during the Business model consumers looking to make informed stepped down from the Board during the 6% year was 106.3m.
After paying dividends This was a solid year of performance for 2017 has again demonstrated the value of our decisions about their choice of service year.
Rob was a Director for nine years and completing its share repurchase the Group during a year of transition, with three leading brands, giving the Group providers.
In particular, the Competition and having joined the Board shortly after the Groups revenue increasing by 4% programme, the Group ended the year significant strength, breadth and diversity Markets Authority completed its review of flotation.
I would like to thank Rob for his with cash and cash equivalents of 35.1m.
from 316.4m to 329.7m and adjusted and increasing the predictability of the Total dividend per share Digital Comparison Tools ranging from price significant contribution to the Board over operating profit increasing by 6% from During the year the Group returned a business.
The Group has delivered its eighth comparison websites to smartphone apps in this time.
Sally James succeeded Rob as total of 94m in dividends and share 107.8m to 113.9m.
year of revenue and earnings growth and has September 2017.
During 2017 we have Senior Independent Director.
repurchases and generated a Total helped nearly eight million customers during continued to engage on a proactive basis with Growth was strong in MoneySuperMarkets Shareholder Return for the year of 24%.
the year to save money on a broad range of 10.44p key regulators and we share the vision of Following the publication of the HamptonInsurance channels driven by our financial and household services.
More and 6% regulators to make products more accessible Alexander Review, we revised our diversity marketing and pricing initiatives.
more customers wish to engage digitally with New Chief Executive Officer and understandable to consumers.
policy and are aiming for a minimum of 33% MoneySuperMarkets Home Services their service providers across a wide range of Our results were achieved in a year of of women on the Board by 2020.
We will channels declined during the year as a transition as we welcomed Mark Lewis to devices and want to test the value of the continue to focus on broadening and result of lower collective switch activity services being provided to them by Governance and risk management the Group on 13 March 2017 and who, strengthening the diversity of the Board and The identification and management of risk compared to 2016 and during the second following a period of handover from Peter comparing prices on an increasing range of Group in the years to come.
half management refocused on the core services.
The continuing structural shift in has continued to be a focus for us during Plumb, became Chief Executive Officer on energy switching proposition.
Revenue in consumers engagement from offline to the year.
Following the detailed assessment 10 April 2017.
Peter stepped down from the of the risks associated with change Our employees MoneySavingExpert was 13% ahead of last Board at the conclusion of the Annual online and from desktop to mobile, and their year with trends consistent with those seen continuing demand for a better customer management and our software Our results this year once again reflect the General Meeting on 4 May 2017. development life-cycle in 2016, we spent dedication and quality of all our employees by MoneySuperMarket: energy revenues experience and better execution from were impacted by reduced collective providers of these services all support the 2017 implementing the recommendations across the Group.
We rely on their skills, Mark has a successful track record of switch activity compared with last year, growth aspirations of the Groups key brands.
from those assessments as well as experience, competence and hard work to leading fast growing digital businesses with reviewing the risks associated with the new drive our business forward.
Most but there was good growth in Money strong customer satisfaction, trust and products.
Further information on importantly, their passion for our mission values.
His experience and values are Dividend and share repurchase risk management and the key risk focus and their commitment to delivering the increased by 4% compared with 2016. aligned with our goal of helping households In line with our progressive dividend policy, We continue to maintain a strong financial areas during the year are set out on pages best for our customers are key assets for save money.
the Board is recommending a final dividend position with good cash generation.
29 to 33. the Group and critical to its future success.
of 7.6p per share 2016: 7.1p representing On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank an increase of 7% on the final dividend in During the year we continued to enhance all of our employees for their contribution 2016.
If approved by shareholders at the our approach to corporate governance, to the performance of the Group.
forthcoming Annual General Meeting, this building on areas for improvement will bring the total dividend for the year to identified during our 2016 Board evaluation.
10.44p 2016: 9.85p per ordinary share, an Outlook During 2017, we undertook an external We have set out on pages 10 to 11 our increase of 6% year over year, and will be evaluation of the Board, in line with the UK paid on 15 May 2018 to all shareholders on refined strategic priorities to invest in Corporate Governance Code the Code.
the register on 6 April 2018. customer experience optimisation and to More information on our approach to focus on key areas to drive future growth.
governance is set out in my Introduction to Details of our dividend policy can be found We expect adjusted EBITDA for 2018 to be Governance, the Corporate Governance broadly flat as we invest in our revised on page 27.
Report and the reports of each of the strategy.
This investment will enable us to Committees on pages 38 to 72.
These We also completed a 40m share accelerate our growth after 2018.
We have reports describe how we have applied the great confidence in our brands which give us repurchase programme during 2017, main principles of the Code during 2017 and returning surplus capital to shareholders in strength, breadth and diversity and are reports upon our compliance with the aligned with our ambition to help the year.
households save money, enabling us to continue to build our business for the future.
Bruce Carnegie-Brown Chairman Read more about the Bruce Carnegie-Brown performance of our brands Chairman frompage18 21 February 2018 Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC 4 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 5 Annual Report and Accounts 2017
