Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements BOARD OF DIRECTORS Bruce Carnegie-Brown Mark Lewis Matthew Price Robin Freestone Genevieve Shore Chairman of the Board and Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director of the Nomination Committee and Chairman of the Audit Committee Term of Office: Appointed to the Board as a Term of Office: Mark was appointed to the Term of Office: Matthew was appointed to the Term of Office: Robin was appointed to the Term of Office: Genevieve was appointed to Non-Executive Director in April 2010 and Board in March 2017 and became Chief Executive Board in April 2014.
Board as a Non-Executive Director in August the Board as a Non-Executive Director in became Chairman of the Board in April 2014.
He became Chairman of the Audit September 2014.
Committee Membership: Matthew attends Committee in April 2016.
Committee Membership: Bruce chairs the Committee Membership: Mark attends meetings of the Audit and Risk Committees Committee Membership: Genevieve is a Nomination Committee and attends meetings meetings of the Risk, Remuneration, Audit and by invitation.
Committee Membership: Robin chairs the member of the Risk, Remuneration, Audit and of the Risk, Remuneration and Audit Committees Nomination Committees by invitation.
Audit Committee and is a member of the Risk, Nomination Committees.
Skills and Experience: Matthew has experience Independent: On appointment.
Skills and Experience: Mark has experience in in finance and in consumer facing businesses.
Skills and Experience: Genevieve brings digital, Skills and Experience: Bruce has over 30 years consumer marketing, online marketplaces and He was formerly finance director at Costa Coffee Skills and Experience: Robin has experience technology and commercial expertise to the of experience of the financial services sector in retail.
He was formerly retail director at John 2009 to 2014 and managing director of its of leading global and digital businesses, having Group from a career in the media, publishing and both executive and non-executive roles.
He has Lewis 2013 to 2017 and was its online director business in China.
Matthew previously held been chief financial officer of Pearson PLC from technology sectors.
Most recently she was chief previously held senior executive positions in prior to that.
Mark previously held senior senior finance and commercial roles at Sodexo 2006 to 2015.
Previously he was deputy chief product and marketing officer of Pearson PLC private equity as managing partner of 3i Group, commercial and management roles at Collect and J Sainsbury including retail finance director financial officer at Pearson and prior to that, he and prior to that was director of digital strategy in insurance as chief executive officer of Marsh and eBay UK including CEO and managing and property director.
Matthew is a qualified held a number of senior financial positions at and chief information officer.
Genevieve is also Ltd and in banking as a managing director of JP director.
Mark has an MBA INSEAD and an MA, chartered accountant, having trained and Amersham plc 2000 to 2004, Henkel Ltd 1995 a non-executive director at Santander UK plc, Morgan, and non-executive roles as chairman of BA Hons from Cambridge University in qualified with Deloitte in its corporate to 2000 and ICI plc 1984 to 1995.
Robin is a Next 15 Communications Group plc, Arup Group Aon UK Ltd 2012 to 2015, director of Close Mathematics.
non-executive director of Smith & Nephew plc Limited and the Rugby Football Union.
She is an Brothers Group plc 2006 to 2014 and director of and Michael Kors Holdings Limited, also chairing advisory board member for Lego Education and External Appointments: None.
Catlin Group Ltd 2010 to 2014. the audit committee of both companies.
has advised and invested in education technology start-ups and works with female executives as a External Appointments: Bruce is chairman of External Appointments: Robin is a noncoach and mentor.
Lloyds of London and vice chairman and lead executive director of Smith & Nephew plc and independent director of Banco Santander SA.
He sits on the External Appointments: Genevieve is a advisory board to the ICAEWs Financial Reporting non-executive director of Santander UK plc, Committee and also chairs the ICAEWs Corporate Next 15 Communications Group plc, Arup Group Sally James Andrew Fisher Governance Advisory Group.
Limited and the Rugby Football Union.
She is a member of the advisory board of Lego Education.
Darren Drabble Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director and and Chairman of the Risk Committee Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Term of Office: Sally was appointed to the Board Term of Office: Andrew was appointed to as a Non-Executive Director in April 2013 and the Board as a Non-Executive Director in became Senior Independent Director in May 2017.
Committee Membership: Sally chairs the Risk Committee Membership: Andrew chairs the Committee and is a member of the Remuneration, Remuneration Committee and is a member Audit and Nomination Committees.
of the Nomination and Risk Committees.
Company Secretary and Group General Counsel Independent: Yes.
Skills and Experience: Sally has experience of the Skills and Experience: Andrew has experience Term of Office: Darren was appointed Company financial services sector having been a nonof building digital, media and entrepreneurial Secretary in June 2007. executive director of UBS Limited 2009 to 2015 businesses.
He is currently executive chairman and before that held a number of senior legal and was previously chief executive officer of Skills and Experience: Darren has a corporate roles in investment banks in London and Chicago Shazam Entertainment Limited.
Prior to that, and commercial law background originally including Managing Director and EMEA General Andrew was European managing director of qualifying as a solicitor with Addleshaw Goddard Counsel at UBS Investment Bank from 2001 to Infospace Inc and founder and managing director LLP before working as a senior legal counsel at 2008.
She has also been a non-executive director of TDLI.
Andrew has been a non-executive United Utilities Group PLC.
Darren joined the of Rotork plc since 2012 where she is senior director of Marks and Spencer Group plc since Group as Company Secretary and Group General independent director, a non-executive director of December 2015.
Bank of America Merrill Lynch International since External Appointments: Andrew is executive 2016 and a non-executive director of Hermes chairman of Shazam Entertainment Limited and Fund Managers Limited since 2017. a non-executive director of Marks and Spencer External Appointments: Sally is a non-executive Group plc.
director of Rotork plc, Bank of America Merrill Lynch International and Hermes Fund Managers Limited.
com Group PLC 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 41 Annual Report and Accounts 2017
