Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Governance framework The Company Secretary The Company Secretary is responsible for: In 2017, we: managing the provision of timely, accurate and considered Strategy information to the Board: Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Board undertook a comprehensive review of the Groups recommending corporate governance policies and practices to strategic priorities at a number of meetings attended the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer: by the Board and senior management including a implementing and communicating corporate governance two-day off-site strategy meeting at which we: policies across the Group: and advising the Board and its Committees on corporate tested and reviewed the revised Group corporate governance and compliance within the Group and appropriate strategy and strategic priorities: Audit Risk Remuneration Nomination procedures for the management of their meetings and duties.
Committee Committee Committee Committee reviewed the markets in which we operate: and The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a reviewed the regulatory and risk environment in matter for the whole Board.
All Directors are able to consult which we operate, with a focus on price with the Company Secretary, who is also secretary to all of the comparison websites.
There is also a formal documented procedure reviewed the Groups plans against the Boards risk by which any Director may take independent professional advice appetite to ensure that our ambitions for the business relating to the performance of any aspects of their duties at Leadership Chairman are aligned with our ability to manage risk: the Companys expense, which can be facilitated by the This section looks at the roles and responsibilities of our I am responsible for: Company Secretary.
considered the Groups capital structure and approved Board members.
leading the Board and ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects a 40m share repurchase programme: of its role: Board meetings promoting the highest standards of corporate governance: The role of the Board reviewed a number of potential acquisitions: I set the Board agendas following consultation with the Chief facilitating effective contribution of Non-Executive Directors We are responsible for the long-term success of Executive Officer and with the assistance of the Company approved the annual budget: and encouraging active engagement by all Directors, with the Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC, with the overall aim of Secretary.
This year we examined how we can leverage the skills, appropriate level of challenge by all Directors: delivering shareholder value over the long term.
Principally, we held deep-dives at our Board meetings into various knowledge and experience of the Board more effectively, and in ensuring the Board receives accurate, timely and clear achieve this through: aspects of the business including new business particular the Non-Executive Directors to support the business.
information and is consulted on all matters important to it: and setting and monitoring strategy and ensuring the necessary opportunities, internal control and risk management, This review included consideration of the annual programme, ensuring the Company maintains effective communication with resources are in place: cyber security, data protection, MoneySavingExperts structure, format and timings of the Board and Committee shareholders and communicating their views to the Board.
providing entrepreneurial leadership within an effective risk Credit Club, change management and innovation in meetings to free up time during Board meeting days for the management framework: and mobile and apps, including the MoneySuperMarket Non-Executive Directors to share their skills and experience with reviewing management performance.
Chief Executive Officer App: and the Groups employees and to learn more about our customers.
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for: This will include listening to employee calls with customers in adopted new Group KPIs for 2018 onwards which are In setting and monitoring strategy, we have regard to the impact leading the performance and management of the Group: order to better understand the issues being faced by our aligned with the revised Group strategic priorities.
that those decisions will have on the Groups obligations to various proposing strategies, business plans and policies to the Board: customers and how employees deal with those issues.
In 2017 stakeholders, such as shareholders, employees, regulators and ensuring effective implementation of the Boards decisions: we held eight Board meetings.
At each meeting we hold a Governance the wider community.
maintaining an effective framework of internal controls and risk deep-dive into specific aspects of the business.
The principal reviewed and revised our annual programme of management: and areas of focus for the Board in 2017 are listed in the section on business for the Board and each of the Committees: While the Board is not managing the day-to-day operations of the leading, motivating and monitoring performance of the the right and the pie chart on page 44 shows how the Board Group, key decisions and matters which are reserved for approval Companys executive management and focusing on succession reviewed the outcome of the Board evaluation allocated its time.
of the Board are fully documented and regularly reviewed.
These planning for the executive management.
process, which this year was conducted externally by include the setting of, and changes to, Group strategy, approval of SCT Consultants, details of which are on page 45: The Board splits its meetings between its Ewloe, London and major acquisitions or disposals, determination of interim dividends The Non-Executive Directors Manchester offices.
Board members have the opportunity to meet oversaw the implementation of upgrades to our cyber and recommendation of final dividends, approval of budget and Each Non-Executive Director is responsible for: and interact with employees at various times during the year.
and data security capabilities: financial results, and carrying out an annual review of the bringing experience and independent judgement to the Board: This year we held a product showcase in which the Board and effectiveness of risk management and internal control systems.
and received updates on the Governments plans for senior leadership team were invited to sit with employees leading constructively challenging and helping develop proposals corporate governance reform and the FRCs review of innovative projects in order to gain a deeper understanding of We review the matters reserved to the Board annually and the on strategy.
the UK Corporate Governance Code: those projects.
Additionally, I meet from time to time with the current matters reserved are available on our website at Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors present.
considered, discussed and revised the Principal Risks http: corporate.
The Senior Independent Director and uncertainties which could impact the Group: and Scheduled meetings in 2017 The Senior Independent Director is an Independent NonThe Board currently comprises me, as Chairman, four Eligible to obtained approval from shareholders for a new Executive Director who is responsible for: Board members attend Attended Independent Non-Executive Directors, Andrew Fisher, Robin meeting with the Companys shareholders and representative Remuneration Policy, which applied from 4 May 2017.
Freestone, Sally James and Genevieve Shore, and two Executive bodies when requested and, if necessary, discussing matters Bruce Carnegie-Brown 8 8 Leadership and employees Directors, Mark Lewis Chief Executive Officer and Matthew Price with them where it would be inappropriate for those Andrew Fisher 8 8 Chief Financial Officer.
As Chairman, I am responsible for leading discussions to take place with either the Chairman or the Chief facilitated the effective induction of the new Chief Robin Freestone 8 8 the Board and for its effectiveness.
Executive Officer: and Executive Officer and ensured a seamless transition: Sally James 8 8 acting as a sounding board for the Chairman and as an and Mark Lewis 6 6 Mark Lewis leads the business as Chief Executive Officer, having intermediary for the other Directors when necessary.
Peter Plumb 3 2 held a deep-dive into the Groups people and succeeded Peter Plumb on 10 April 2017.
Peter Plumb and Rob Matthew Price 8 8 culture, diversity, talent management and employee Rowley stepped down as Directors on conclusion of the AGM Sally James is our Senior Independent Director, having succeeded Rob Rowley 3 3 engagement including reviewing results of employee on 4 May 2017.
The division of the roles and responsibilities of Rob Rowley on 4 May 2017.
Genevieve Shore 8 8 surveys and feedback from the diversity and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer is in writing, provides clarity on the distinct responsibilities of each role and has been inclusion employee focus group.
Responsibilities of Board members are Peter Plumb did not attend the May 2017 Board meeting, after he had ceased Performance set out opposite.
to be Chief Executive Officer reviewed the strategic and operational performance of Ad hoc conference calls and Committee meetings were also each of the businesses: and convened to deal with specific matters which required attention considered Group financial performance against between scheduled meetings.
com Group PLC 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 43 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Stage 2 Industry and competitive environment and stakeholders Board evaluation process Board Committees Allocation of Board time We delegate certain Board responsibilities to our Board including customer trends: consumer and regulatory environment: 1 2 training from external advisers on directors duties and Committees which play an important governance role through the responsibilities, including in relation to FCA regulated businesses: work they carry out.
Briefing papers are prepared and circulated Board & Completion of to the Committee members in advance of each meeting.
The meetings with FCA representatives, recent analyst and broker Committee questionnaires meeting reports, meetings with corporate brokers and other key advisers: Committee chairmen report formally to the Board on Committee observation activities at the subsequent Board meeting.
share register analysis and meetings with key shareholders.
Stage 3 Meet the team including individual meetings with the The Committees may obtain external professional advice at the Companys expense if deemed necessary.
Chairman, Chief Financial Officer, Company Secretary, Chief Risk 4 3 Officer and senior management, business-related presentations Results collated, 1-1s with each Detailed reports on the activities of the Audit Committee, from senior management and the opportunity for all staff to meet reported and Director and the Mark over informal Meet Mark sessions during a period of six Nomination Committee and Risk Committee are set out in this evaluated Company Strategy 38% months.
Secretary Report on pages 48 to 53, 54 to 55 and 56 to 58 respectively.
Governance, Risk and Annual Report 10% Details of the work of the Remuneration Committee together with People Talent Culture 7% the Annual Statement from the Remuneration Committee Training and information Business performance and CEO Updates 30% chairman, the Remuneration Policy and the Annual Report on Directors are continually updated on the Groups business, the 5 6 Finance and investor relations 15% Remuneration are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report markets in which they operate and changes to the competitive and Discussion with Paper circulated on pages 59 to 72. regulatory environment through presentations and briefings to Chairman to Board the Board from Executive Directors and senior management.
Effectiveness As part of the annual individual performance evaluation I discuss The composition of our Board is kept under review by the Process for review of strategic initiatives Nomination Committee to ensure that it retains the necessary training and development requirements with each Director so that any needs identified through the formal evaluation or during the skills, knowledge and experience to meet the needs of the 8 7 business.
Details of the skills and experience of individual year can be addressed.
The Company Secretary also maintains a record of individual Directors training.
Directors are set out on pages 40 to 41.
Action plan Board Discussion Engagement of Gathering data, including external strategy one to one meetings consultants to with managers from Mark Lewis joined the Board as an Executive Director on 13 March Directors received briefings from the Company Secretary during Directors, Board and Committee meeting observation and one to support process each brand and vertical 2017 on governance and compliance areas including the FRC 2017 and succeeded Peter Plumb as Chief Executive Officer on 10 one meetings with each Director and the Company Secretary, with April 2017.
Peter Plumb stepped down as an Executive Director review of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the new 1 2 the results being analysed and presented for discussion at a corporate criminal offence of failing to prevent the facilitation of and Rob Rowley stepped down as a Non-Executive Director on Board meeting.
The Board then agreed the key actions.
conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 4 May 2017.
Sally also reviewed its progress against actions identified in the internal Secondary research to map James succeeded Rob Rowley as Senior Independent Director 2016 Board evaluation: markets and Primary To ensure that Directors are able to fully acquaint themselves with from that date.
competitive customer current trading and matters requiring discussions and decisions, 2016 evaluation actions update dynamics research comprehensive Board papers and Committee papers are The Nomination Committee reviewed the composition and the The following actions were identified following the evaluation circulated electronically approximately one week prior to balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board during conducted in 2016: 4 3 2017, including relevant experience and understanding of our scheduled meetings.
Talent strategy we have continued to focus both in stakeholder groups.
Mindful of the need to refresh the Board, the Nomination Committee meetings and Board meetings on Nomination Committee has commenced a search for a new Directors, may, in the furtherance of their duties, take Review of Internal working developing an effective talent strategy for managing the independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
organisations groups identify and Non-Executive Director.
pipeline of top talent to run the business: capabilities and discuss long list of Diversity the Nomination Committee has received updates performance opportunities Induction of a new Director Independence of Non-Executive Directors regarding the work by the diversity and inclusion focus group The Board considers that I was independent on appointment as On appointment, each Director receives a tailored induction to as well as presentations from senior management on their 5 6 Chairman and considers Andrew Fisher, Robin Freestone, Sally suit the individuals background and experience.
Mark Lewis plans for improving diversity across the Group: and induction is summarised below: James and Genevieve Shore to be independent, being Organisational culture we have continued to focus on Internal working independent in character and judgement and free from organisational culture, with presentations on progress from the groups prioritise Internal working relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could Stage 1 Chief People Officer and feedback from engagement surveys at opportunities and groups appear to affect, their judgement.
consolidate shortlist Understand the Moneysupermarket Group businesses financial plan opportunities Conflicts of interest 2017 evaluation actions 8 7 As permitted by the Companies Act 2006, the Companys articles The Directors many positive responses indicated their widely held Stage 2 of association enable Directors to authorise potential conflicts of view that ongoing improvements have been made since the Understand the Moneysupermarket Group environment interest.
The Company has a formal procedure for notification and previous external evaluation in 2014.
In particular, members Outline plan authorisation to be sought prior to appointment of any new considered there was open and transparent debate with discussed at Refined plan Director or prior to a new conflict arising.
This procedure enables strategy presented to the constructive challenge and active engagement from all members Stage 3 away days Board for approval non-conflicted Directors to impose limits or conditions when of the Board.
The Board receives comprehensive reports to enable Meet the Moneysupermarket Group teams giving or reviewing authorisation and requires the Board to review it to monitor performance, consider risks and controls, and take 9 10 the register of Directors conflicts annually and on an ad hoc basis key decisions.
Some of the areas that will be actioned in 2018 are a when necessary.
The Board has complied with this procedure continuing focus on: Stage 1 Company structure and strategy including Group during the year.
Strategy ensuring the new strategic priorities are translated structure, history, strategy, vision, key people, succession plans: into a strategic implementation plan and regularly reviewed: Board procedures including governance framework, Code of Performance evaluation Board packs enhancing Board papers, ensuring they are Conduct and other key policies, recent Board and Committee concise and facilitate constructive debate and discussion: and minutes, annual agendas, matters reserved to the Board: finances Board evaluation Stakeholder voice ensuring stakeholder voices are heard in and performance including operating plans, current KPIs and We undertake a performance evaluation of the Board each year.
targets, operational overview of all business areas, stakeholders An external evaluation is carried out every three years.
In 2017 we and key relationships including major suppliers and providers, undertook an external evaluation, conducted by SCT Consultants.
In 2018 we will undertake an internal evaluation of the Board and meetings with key providers: Group Risk Appetite Framework and This involved the completion of questionnaires by individual its Committees.
com Group PLC 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 45 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED a review of Group policies relating to the maintenance of and control assessments are carried out at least quarterly across all discussed with the Board.
In addition, all Directors receive formal Director evaluation I appraise each of the Directors individually in the form of accounting records, transaction reporting and key financial areas of the business, in order to understand the strength and reports and briefings during the year about the Companys control procedures: performance of the controls in place, and potential gaps and investor relations programme and receive detailed feedback interviews, taking account of feedback received as part of the an investment evaluation procedure to ensure an appropriate weaknesses.
Internal Audit and Risk & Compliance monitoring obtained by the Companys brokers after meetings, direct contact Board evaluation process.
I can confirm that each Director continues to make a valuable contribution to the Board and level of approval for all capital expenditure and other findings are also taken into account when assessing risks.
and other means, through which they are able to develop an capitalised costs: understanding of the views of major shareholders.
External devotes sufficient time to the role.
My evaluation was undertaken by the Senior Independent Director, taking into account the views monthly finance team meetings which include reviews of The Risk & Compliance function provides challenge to executives in analysts reports on the Group are also circulated to Directors.
internal financial reporting issues and financial control their assessment and management of risks with particular focus on of the other Directors.
Biographies of the Board are set out on monitoring: and the actions being taken to reduce risk.
The senior management team Andrew Fisher, in his capacity as Remuneration Committee pages 40 and 41 which includes my significant commitments.
During the year I was appointed chairman of Lloyds of London ongoing training and development of financial reporting meets on a monthly basis to ensure risk management is integrated chairman, also engages in discussion with shareholders on employees.
within strategic and business planning processes.
Reporting to the significant matters relating to executive remuneration.
and relinquished my role as a non-executive director of Jardine Lloyd Thomson Group plc and of Santander UK plc.
The Board is Risk Committee enables the Directors to have clear visibility of the Other controls in place to manage our business in accordance with most relevant risks: identify areas of concern and or priority: have Formal presentations are given to analysts and shareholders satisfied that these appointments do not conflict with my ability to our Risk Appetite Framework include: access to detailed information to enable root cause analysis and covering the full-year and half-year results and the Company seeks carry out my duties and responsibilities effectively for the Group.
an annual two-day strategy meeting to discuss and approve the underlying trends: and identify, escalate, and potentially mitigate the to maintain a dialogue with various bodies which monitor the Groups strategic direction, plans and objectives and the risks impact of new risks in a timely manner.
Twice a year the Board Companys governance policies and procedures.
The Company Committee evaluation to achieving them: reviews the Groups Principal Risks and the Group Risk Appetite Secretary generally deals with questions from individual shareholders.
Evaluations of each of the Committees were carried out as part a schedule of matters reserved for approval by the Board to Framework and Statement.
During these reviews it also takes account of the external Board evaluation, which included observation of ensure it maintains control over appropriate strategic, financial, of the significance of any environmental, social and governance Communications with shareholders some of the Committee meetings.
Summaries of the actions organisational, compliance and capital investment issues: matters to the business of the Group, ensuring any related risk and arising from these evaluations and progress on actions identified The results and results presentations, together with all an organisational governance structure with clearly defined associated mitigation have been identified.
information reported to the market via the regulatory information in 2016 can be found in the relevant Committee report.
lines of responsibility and delegation of authority: service, press releases and other shareholder information, are formal risk and control policies and supporting procedures In the 2016 Annual Report, we referred to two incidents which arose published on the investor relations section of the Groups website Accountability manuals: from data transfer errors following scheduled technology releases at http: corporate.
com to be viewed and Financial and business reporting regular reviews of the Principal Risks facing the Group to and impacted customers.
In early 2017, through our optimisation accessed by all shareholders.
The Boards aim is to present an Annual Report to shareholders, ensure they are being identified, evaluated and appropriately and improvements workshops, we identified two additional similar which, taken as a whole, is a fair, balanced and understandable managed: incidents which were of a less significant nature.
In response, we Our Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is available to assessment of the Groups position and performance, business a process for regular assessment of key controls across the took steps to minimise the potential customer detriment.
We shareholders if they have concerns for which contact through the model and strategy.
The Board has ensured that processes are Group: included the findings from our root cause analysis of the additional normal channels of me, the Chief Executive Officer or the Chief in place to achieve this and more information on the processes a Risk & Compliance function responsible for overseeing the incidents into our programme to improve quality assurance and Financial Officer has failed to resolve or for which such contact can be found in the Audit Committee Report on pages 48 to 53. implementation of the Risk Appetite Framework: testing within our technology release processes and strengthen is inappropriate.
A statement of Directors responsibilities and the auditors an Internal Audit function providing assurance over key risks, controls in respect of data mapping.
We did not experience any responsibilities in relation to the Annual Report are set out on processes and controls: and similar incidents throughout the rest of 2017.
The Risk Committee Annual General Meeting pages 75 to 76 and 82 respectively.
The Directors opinion that a whistleblowing hotline which employees can use to report oversaw the enhancements to processes and received regular All shareholders will have the opportunity to ask questions at the the Companys business is a going concern is set out on page 28. any instances of suspected wrongdoing.
updates, including in relation to the steps taken to minimise forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The chairs of the Audit, customer detriment.
Nomination, Remuneration and Risk Committees will be available Risk management and internal control Our internal control effectiveness is assessed through the to answer questions at that meeting.
Shareholders may also The Board has overall responsibility for setting the risk appetite of performance of regular checks, which in 2017 included the Process for review of effectiveness contact me, the Chief Executive Officer or, if more appropriate, the the Group, maintaining the Groups risk management and internal following areas: The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness Senior Independent Non-Executive Director to raise any issue with control system and reviewing the systems effectiveness.
We have reviewing and testing the Groups financial reporting processes: of the risk management and internal control systems.
The steps it one or all of the Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the completion of the Groups internal audit plan: takes in relation to the review are set out on pages 29 and 30.
The Principal Risks faced by the Group which has been in place for the performing compliance monitoring activities including financial Audit Committee makes a recommendation to the Board on The Company prepares separate resolutions on each substantially year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual promotion reviews and call listening: effectiveness which the Board considers, together with reports separate issue to be voted upon at Annual General Meetings.
The Risk Committee and the Audit Committee assist us in assessment of the identification and management of risks from the Risk Committee, in forming its own view on the The result of the vote on each resolution is published on the discharging these duties.
connected to the Groups capital investment programme: effectiveness of the risk management and internal control systems.
Groups website after the Annual General Meeting and will be assessment of the Groups processes for identifying and announced via the regulatory information service.
At the 2017 We regularly review and update our internal control and risk mitigating potential conflicts of interest: During 2017, the Board reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups AGM, shareholders representing 76.29% of the Companys issued management processes.
We continued to oversee progress on assessment of the identification and management of risk management and internal control systems.
We confirm that share capital returned their proxy votes.
work started in 2016 relating to an upgraded quality assurance technology risks across the Group, including data security and the processes outlined above and on pages 29 to 30 and 52 have and testing process for new technology releases and enhanced change management: and been in place for the year under review and up to the date of Compliance statement incident management process.
A summary of actions we have monitoring the completion of the Groups mandatory approval of this Annual Report and that these processes accord This Corporate Governance Report, together with the Audit taken in 2017 is set out in the Risk Committee Report on pages 56 Customer First, data protection and Code of Conduct training with the UK Corporate Governance Code and the FRC Guidance on Committee Report on pages 48 to 53, the Nomination Committee to 58. for new starters and refresher training for all employees.
Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Report on pages 54 to 55, the Risk Committee Report on pages 56 Business Reporting September 2014 version.
We also confirm to 58 and the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 59 to 72 Risk management that no significant failings or weaknesses were identified in Risk review and assessment provides a description of how the main principles of the 2016 A description of the process for managing risk together with a relation to the review.
The Board has carried out a robust The Groups systems and procedures are designed to identify and edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code have description of the Principal Risks and strategies to mitigate those assessment of the Principal Risks facing the Group, including those manage and, where practicable, reduce and mitigate the effects of been applied by the Company during 2017.
The Code is published risks, is provided on pages 29 to 33. that would threaten its business model, future performance, the risk of failing to achieve the Groups objectives.
They are not by the Financial Reporting Council and is available on its website solvency or liquidity and these, together with how they are designed to eliminate such risk, but the Group seeks to understand at www.
The Directors consider that during the financial Internal control managed or mitigated, are set out on pages 31 to 32. its Principal Risks and manage them within our risk appetite.
year ended 31 December 2017 and to the date of this Report, the The main features of the Groups risk management and internal Company complied with the Code except as follows: controls in respect of financial reporting and the preparation of The Groups risk register is a key element in our risk management Shareholder engagement accounts are: framework and is used in the assessment and reporting of risks being Major shareholders E. 1.1 The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is available a comprehensive annual business planning and budgeting managed by the Group.
Senior management continue to work The Board actively seeks and encourages engagement with major to meet with major shareholders when requested but has not process, requiring Board approval, through which risks are alongside the Risk & Compliance function to ensure the risk register institutional shareholders and other stakeholders.
Senior received any requests to do so.
As a result of regular feedback identified and appraised: incorporates any new risks and movements in risks.
The risk register executives, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief provided to the Board by the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief a comprehensive financial reporting system, regularly is managed by the Risk & Compliance function and is reviewed on a Financial Officer regularly meet with analysts and institutional Financial Officer following dialogue with major shareholders, the enhanced, within which actual and forecast results are regular basis by the Risk Committee.
Each risk is owned by a member shareholders to keep them informed of significant developments Senior Independent Non-Executive Director believes she is aware compared with approved budgets and the previous years of executive management who is responsible for the ongoing and to develop an understanding of their views which are of the views, issues and concerns of major shareholders.
figures on a monthly basis and reviewed by the Board: assessment of risk and the delivery of mitigating actions.
com Group PLC 46 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 47 Annual Report and Accounts 2017
