Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Biographies of the members of the Committee are set out on Committee meetings The Audit Committee plays a key role in pages 40 to 41.
We met four times in 2017 and the attendance of our members is monitoring the integrity of the Groups shown in the table.
In order to maintain effective communication Committee members between all relevant parties, we invited the Chairman of the Board, financial reporting, reviewing the Eligible to Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Risk Officer, Committee members attend Attended material financial reporting judgements Head of Internal Audit and Company Secretary, together with Robin Freestone Chairman 4 4 appropriate members of the management team with responsibility and assessing the internal control Sally James 4 4 for risk and internal control, and the external auditor, to meetings Rob Rowley 2 2 environment.
We set time aside periodically to seek the views of Genevieve Shore 4 4 the external auditor, in the absence of management.
The external auditor has direct access to me to raise any concerns outside formal Committee meetings.
I also meet separately with the Head Rob Rowley stepped down from the Board and Audit Committee on 4 May 2017 of Internal Audit during the year.
In between meetings, I keep in touch with the Chief Financial Officer and external audit partner The secretary to the Committee is Darren Drabble, Company as well as other members of the management team.
Secretary and Group General Counsel.
After each meeting, I report to the Board on the main issues that Role we discussed.
The primary role of the Audit Committee is to ensure the integrity Robin Freestone of the financial reporting and audit processes and monitor the The members of the Audit Committee can, where they judge it Chairman of the Audit Committee effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk management necessary to discharge their responsibilities, obtain independent systems.
This includes: professional advice at the Companys expense.
monitoring the integrity of the Financial Statements of the Company, any formal announcements relating to the Financial Statements and reports Companys financial performance and any significant issues The Committee is responsible for reviewing the appropriateness and judgements contained in them: Number of meetings of the Audit Committee: 4 of the Groups trading statements, half-year reporting and annual reviewing the Groups Financial Statements and the material Audit Committee Dashboard Allocation of time Financial Statements.
We do this by considering, among other Allocation of time financial reporting judgements contained in them: things, the accounting policies and practices adopted by the advising the Board on whether the Committee believes this Planning and preparation for 2017 highlights Group: the correct application of applicable reporting standards Annual Report and the Financial Statements contained within external reporting including and compliance with broader governance requirements: the monitored progress on the back office programme standard changes 14% it, when taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and approach taken by management to report the key judgemental understandable and provide the information necessary for including implementation of a new integrated Finance Annual report, half year and trading update reviews 21% areas of reporting and the comments of the external auditor on shareholders to assess the Groups strategy, business activities and HR system: managements chosen approach.
Internal controls, risk assessment and financial performance: monitored progress on the automation of Finance and evaluation 11% reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence and HR controls to our agreed target of 60%: Internal audit planning and report and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, In 2017, we: review including whistleblowing 17% focused on financial reporting, including the taking into consideration relevant UK professional processes to make this Annual Report & Accounts External audit matters, including reviewed the 31 December 2016 Annual Report and regulatory requirements: eectiveness and fees 16% fair, balanced and understandable: Financial Statements and the half-year statement developing and implementing a policy on the level, amount Review of tax, treasury and other and pre-approval of non-audit services provided by the to 30 June 2017, together with reports from the reviewed the effectiveness of external and internal strategic financial matters 21% external auditor: external auditors: audit processes and the effectiveness and advising the Board on the appointment, re-appointment and appropriateness of our system of internal controls: reviewed the trading updates issued in April 2017 Dear Shareholder removal of the external auditor and the remuneration and considered and approved the Groups tax strategy and October 2017: As chairman of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to present the terms of engagement of the external auditor: for publication: Audit Committees report for the year ended 31 December 2017. monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups internal control examined key points of disclosure and presentation oversaw the recruitment and onboarding of a new I have set out our role and activities in ensuring appropriate and risk management systems, including whistleblowing and to ensure adequacy, clarity and completeness of the challenge and governance around accounting treatment and the fraud prevention procedures: Head of Internal Audit: Financial Statements: and internal control environment and ensuring that the Annual Report reviewing the scope, activities and results of the Groups oversaw the onboarding of  as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable.
Internal Audit function: reviewed documentation prepared to support the into a co-source internal audit arrangement, in reviewing the Audit Committees terms of reference, carrying enhanced going concern and viability statements particular to provide specialist IT and technology out an annual performance evaluation exercise and noting Committee membership given on pages 27 to 28. support: and the satisfactory operation of the Committee: and I chair the Audit Committee.
The other members of the Audit received updates on the corporate offence of failing to reporting to the Board how it has discharged Committee are detailed in the table below.
All the members are prevent the criminal facilitation of tax evasion and its responsibilities.
Independent Non-Executive Directors in accordance with oversaw managements actions in relation to the provision C. 3.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code Code and consideration of risks and implementation of new Written terms of reference that outline the Committees authority the Board has determined I have recent and relevant financial and responsibilities are published on the investor relations section policies and procedures to mitigate those risks.
experience as required by the Code.
I am a qualified accountant 38% of the Groups website at http: corporate.
and was formerly chief financial officer of Pearson PLC.
I am a 10% com and are available in hard copy form from the Company non-executive director and chair the audit committees of both 7% Secretary.
We review our terms of reference annually.
The Audit Smith & Nephew plc and Michael Kors Holdings Limited.
I am also 30% Committees terms of reference include all matters required by a member of the advisory board to the ICAEWs Financial 15% Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rule 7.1 and the Code.
As a whole the Committee has competence relevant to the sector in which the Company operates through Genevieve Shores and my digital experience and the financial services experience of Sally James.
com Group PLC 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 49 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Significant issues Fair, balanced and understandable Report Independence and non-audit services We identified the issues below as significant in the context of the 2017 Financial Statements.
We consider these areas to be significant We have policies and procedures in place in relation to the and Accounts taking into account the level of materiality and degree of judgement exercised by management.
We discussed the issues in detail to provision of non-audit services by the external auditor which are One of the key governance requirements is for the Annual Report ensure that the approaches taken were appropriate.
This included reviewing presentations and reports from both management and the reviewed regularly and have been updated during the year to and the Financial Statements, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced external auditor.
reflect the requirements of the new EU Ethical Standards for and understandable and provide the information necessary for auditors.
This ensures that the Group benefits in a cost-effective shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, manner from the cumulative knowledge and experience of its Issue Committee review business model and strategy.
Ensuring this standard is met auditor whilst also ensuring that the auditor maintains the requires continuous assessment of the financial reporting issues Revenue recognition necessary degree of independence and objectivity.
The external affecting the Group in addition to the focused exercises which As more fully described on pages 88 and 99 to We reviewed and assessed managements key controls in relation to the recording of auditor is not permitted to perform any work which they may later take place during the production of the Annual Report and revenue which include: 100 the majority of the Groups revenue is be required to audit or which might affect their objectivity and Financial Statements.
These focused exercises can be summarised a a completeness check which is performed by reconciling all click activity on the derived from success-based commercial deals independence or create a conflict of interest.
Key points from our as follows: website and ensuring that an invoice has been raised, or revenue has been which compensate the Group for each product internal procedure for approval of work given to the external a qualitative review of disclosures and a review of accrued, where appropriate: sold by a provider to a customer referred to it auditor are: internal consistency throughout the Annual Report by the Group.
The Group recognises this b a review to compare accrued revenue at the end of the previous month and actual no non-audit work may be placed with the external auditor and Financial Statements: revenue invoiced during the following month, with significant differences revenue at the point at which a customer without the specific approval of the Audit Committee: a review by the Committee of all material matters, as reported investigated to provide evidence that revenues are correctly stated: and leaves one of the Groups websites, based on any approved non-audit services must be in line with the cap elsewhere in this Annual Report and Financial Statements: c a programme of revenue assurance by the Groups Internal Audit function.
the number expected to click through and limits introduced by EU legislation as referred to later : a risk comparison review, which assesses the consistency of purchase a product from a provider site.
the non-audit fees are reported regularly to the Committee: and the presentation of risks and significant judgements This helps provide us with assurance that revenues are correctly stated by reviewing various services are prohibited, including the provision of most throughout the main areas of risk disclosure in this Annual provider systems and controls to ensure that sales made by providers resulting from types of tax services, valuation services, appraisals or fairness Report and Financial Statements: referrals made by the Group have been correctly identified and allocated in the opinions, outsourcing of internal audit services, management a review of the balance of good and bad news: and provider systems.
In addition management regularly reviews the quantum and ageing functions, recruitment services and legal services.
ensuring it correctly reflects: of any accrued revenue balances.
The assessment of the Groups information system the Groups position and performance as described on which records the clicks, together with the reconciliation of revenue to cash receipts, During the year the value of non-audit services provided by the pages 24 to 27: therefore form a key part of the audit.
The results of KPMGs testing are included in external auditor amounted to 0.03m 2016: 0.06m.
Non-audit the Groups business model, as described on pages 12 to 13: their first half and full-year reports prepared for the Committee and reviewed in detail services amounted to 16% of the value of the audit.
EU legislation the Groups strategy, as described on pages 8 to 10. and discussed with KPMG.
on permitted non-audit services came into effect from 17 June Capitalisation and recoverability of 2016 which introduced a permitted non-audit services fee cap of The Directors statement on a fair, balanced and understandable 70% of the average audit fee over a consecutive three-year period.
software and development costs Annual Report and Financial Statements is set out on page 76.
The judgements in relation to software and development assets largely relate to the This cap will come into effect for the Group in the financial year As more fully described on pages 97 to 98 of future economic benefits associated with the assets and that capitalisation is in ending 31 December 2020.
A significant proportion of non-audit the Groups Financial Statements the Group External auditor accordance with the relevant accounting standards.
We addressed these matters services during 2017 related to the review of the Groups holds intangible asset balances arising from The Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the through examining investment appraisals on key IT projects received from the capitalisation of certain software and half-year reporting.
Board in relation to the appointment of the external auditor.
We management outlining the basis for the key assumptions used and were comfortable development costs principally relating to also approve the terms of engagement and fees of the external with managements justification.
We gain comfort that business plans in relation to the The assurance provided by the external auditor on this item is developments in the Groups front end auditor, ensuring they have appropriate audit plans in place and capitalised assets have received Board approval.
This is also a significant risk area for considered by the Group as strictly necessary in the interests of platforms and back office data warehouse.
that an appropriate relationship is maintained between the Group the audit, and therefore KPMG provide to the Committee their comments on the the Group.
The level of non-audit services offered reflects the and the external auditor.
During the year ended 31 December 2017 the auditors knowledge and understanding of the Group.
The Group Committee critically reviewed the analysis performed on the capitalisation of software has also continued with the appointment of other accountancy and development costs and agreed that as a result of the strategic review, where other In 2017, we: firms to provide certain non-audit services to the Group in projected future cash flows for certain assets did not support their carrying values connection with internal audit, tax, systems and regulatory advice reviewed, considered and agreed the scope and these should be impaired.
and anticipates that this will continue in 2018. methodology of the audit work to be undertaken by the external auditor: The external auditor was not engaged during the year to provide We also reviewed and considered the following areas due to their materiality and the application of judgement.
However, we considered evaluated the independence and objectivity of the any services which may have given rise to a conflict of interest.
The them to be stable in nature and therefore did not classify them as significant issues in the context of the 2017 Financial Statements.
external auditor, having regard to: a a report from Committee is satisfied that the overall levels of audit and nonIssue Committee review the external auditor describing their arrangements to audit fees are not material relative to the income of the external Intangible assets impairment testing We reviewed the judgements, assumptions and estimates made by management in identify, report and manage conflicts of interest: b auditor as a whole and therefore that the objectivity and independence of the external auditor was not compromised.
preparing the impairment review to ensure that they were appropriate including the the extent and nature of non-audit services provided decision to impair some costs, principally relating to elements of our mobile apps and by the external auditor: and c considering the code base for our platforms and data warehouse.
We also obtained the external tenure of the audit partner, who is required to rotate auditors views on the appropriateness of the approach and conclusions.
The results of every five years in line with ethical standards.
The this review were that we were satisfied with the conclusions reached.
audit partner rotated with effect from April 2015 and the audit was tendered during 2016: Share-based payment charges We reviewed the judgements, assumptions and estimates made by management to ensure that they were appropriate.
We also obtained the external auditors assessment monitored the quality of services provided by the of the calculations.
The results of this review were that we were satisfied with the external auditor: conclusions reached.
agreed the terms of engagement and fees to be paid Enhanced going concern and viability In assessing the validity of the statements detailed on pages 27 to 28, we reviewed the statements work undertaken by management to assess the Groups resilience to the Principal Risks to the external auditor for the audit of the 2017 under various scenarios and gained appropriate assurance that sufficient rigour was Financial Statements: built into the process.
reviewed recommendations made by the external Potential claims from providers We continued to review the work undertaken by management and external advisers in auditor in their management letters and the assessing potential claims from providers against the Group in relation to data transfer adequacy of managements response: and errors occurring following previous technology releases and in assessing costs associated with minimising impact on customers.
We also reviewed the level of reviewed the report of the FRCs Audit Quality Review insurance cover in place and additional controls introduced during the year and were team relating to KPMG.
satisfied with the conclusions reached by management.
com Group PLC 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 51 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Effectiveness and re-appointment Internal control Audit Committee effectiveness We considered the quality and effectiveness of the external audit The Committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing the In 2017, we: In 2017 we carried out our evaluation of Audit Committee process, in light of the FRCs Practice Aid for Audit Committees effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk management effectiveness as part of our external Board evaluation.
Details of continued to oversee investment in the Internal Audit May 2015.
The assessment of effectiveness was completed as systems.
Through monitoring the effectiveness of its internal this process are set out on page 45.
The Committee was function, with the recruitment of a new Head of part of an ongoing process of review throughout the year with the controls and risk management, the Committee is able to maintain considered to be effective in fulfilling its role during 2017 and Internal Audit to lead the transformation of the Audit Committee seeking assurances and understanding of the a good understanding of business performance, key judgemental remains independent.
We also reviewed progress against actions function and provide direct independent reporting to auditors approach to the audit.
At the planning meetings for the areas and managements decision-making processes.
identified in the 2016 evaluation: the Audit Committee Chair: half-year review and year-end audit, the external auditor was required to explain significant risks to audit quality by reference to oversaw the onboarding of  2016 evaluation actions update In 2017, we: the Companys specific circumstances and changes in the risks who now work alongside our internal team to provide The following actions were identified during the 2016 evaluation: and reasons for those changes.
We explored the auditors reviewed the framework and effectiveness of the additional support on internal audit services, continued focus on internal controls over technology understanding of our business and industry knowledge which Groups system of internal control and risk particularly relating to IT and technology: developments following appointment of informed their approach to identifying risks.
management, including financial, operational and  to co-source the Internal Audit reviewed the rolling twelve-month Internal Audit plan compliance controls: function  have carried out a number which defines the scope of work the Internal Audit We reviewed the report of the FRCs Audit Quality Review team of internal audits since their appointment and presented their monitored and reviewed managements progress function will undertake, ensuring it is aligned to key relating to KPMG as a firm and discussed the actions taken by results to the Committee: on improvements to back office systems and KPMG in light of the recommendations.
KPMG confirmed that it is risks of the business: monitor and ensure appropriate resources are available to the processes, including the implementation of the performing the audit in line with the latest firm guidance although Internal Audit function we have continued to monitor this and reviewed results from audits performed including Finance and HR system: KPMG as a firm is now working on standardisation across audits to have overseen key appointments to the team in 2017: and any unsatisfactory audit findings and related bring greater levels of consistency.
We worked with KPMG to continued focus on automation of controls we have monitored received regular updates from management on action plans: understand their judgements about materiality.
We looked at the this as part of the progress on the back office systems.
internal control improvements and requested that way they communicated key accounting and audit judgements.
reviewed open audit actions, together with , as part of their internal This approach was supplemented by members of the Committee 2017 evaluation actions monitoring progress against the actions: audit remit, reported on progress of automation of and senior members of the finance team who regularly interact Some of the areas that will be actioned in 2018 include: financial controls, ensuring the target of over 60% with the external auditor completing a detailed questionnaire considered the different sources of assurance enhancing Committee papers, ensuring they are concise and of automation of controls was met by the end of which included consideration of the audit partner, the approach, against the Groups key risks to ensure there is facilitate constructive debate and discussion: and the year: communication, independence, objectivity, and reporting.
The comprehensive risk and assurance coverage: overseeing an assurance programme to monitor the results of the questionnaire were then reported to and discussed implementation of the new strategic initiatives.
reviewed comprehensive reports from the external met with the Head of Internal Audit without by the Committee, with the Committee gaining an understanding auditor, KPMG, of the results of its controls testing as management present: from respondents of why respondents considered the audit team Training part of the external audit: and exhibited the qualities included in the responses.
We also assessed agreed a targeted plan to provide specific assurances The Audit Committee receives or reviews guidance as appropriate the cost effectiveness and value for money aspect of the audit.
We reported to the Board on our evaluation of the in preparation for GDPR compliance: during the year.
reported our findings to the Board as part of our recommendation.
operation of the Groups internal control and risk agreed the plan and received summary reports on management system, informed by reports from We held private meetings with the external auditor as necessary In 2017, we: the progress of the Revenue Audit function: and Internal Audit including  after Committee meetings to review key issues within their sphere and KPMG.
received updates from our external auditor, conducted an assessment of the Internal of interest and responsibility.
KPMG, on financial reporting developments: Audit function.
KPMG has acted as the auditor to the Group since 2004 and were received an update on the tax environment We consider the adequacy of managements response to matters appointed as the auditor to the Company on its flotation in 2007. and forthcoming regulations from Deloitte, raised and the implementation of recommendations made.
Whistleblowing The lead audit partner rotates every five years to ensure our tax adviser: The Group has a whistleblowing process including an external independence.
The KPMG audit partner was rotated on 30 April The Boards statement on internal control and risk management received an update on the corporate offence confidential reporting hotline which enables employees of the 2015 in accordance with the FRCs Ethics Standard 3 Revised.
Group to raise, in confidence, concerns about possible of failing to prevent the criminal facilitation of Following a formal competitive tender exercise during 2016 in improprieties in financial reporting, other operational matters or tax evasion and the steps we needed to take to relation to the audit for the Group for the year ended 31 Internal Audit inappropriate personal behaviours in the workplace.
mitigate against the associated risks: and December 2017, the Board approved the Audit Committees The Group has an Internal Audit function which together with the recommendation to put a resolution to shareholders at the 2017  co-source arrangement delivers a reviewed the impact of IFRS 15 on the Groups Annual General Meeting to re-appoint KPMG, which shareholders risk-based internal audit plan to provide independent assurance In 2017, we: Financial Statements.
over the Groups key risks.
reviewed the controls in place to mitigate against risks associated with the new corporate offence of Since KPMGs re-appointment, we have considered further the Overview of Committee activities for 2018 failing to prevent the criminal facilitation of tax length of KPMGs tenure and the results of the detailed Our priority for 2018 will be overseeing an assurance programme evasion: and questionnaire when assessing their continued effectiveness and to monitor implementation of the new strategic initiatives, as well independence.
We continue to remain satisfied with the work of reviewed reports at each meeting from the Company as GDPR compliance, together with a review of reporting against KPMG and that it continues to remain independent and objective.
Secretary and Group General Counsel on: a the new strategic priorities.
Following the implementation of our In accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK & socialisation of the external confidential reporting Finance and HR system, we will oversee further enhancements to Ireland 260 and Ethical Standard 1 issued by the Accounting hotline, email and internet arrangements: and b systems and processes.
We will also continue to focus on the Practices Board, and as a matter of best practice, the external development of our assurance and internal audit processes, with whistleblowing incidents and their outcomes and auditor has confirmed its independence as auditor of the the new Head of Internal Audit and .
received a benchmarking report from the provider of Company, in a letter addressed to the Directors.
our external confidential reporting hotline.
This report was approved by the Board and signed on its We have therefore complied with the requirement to ensure the behalf by: Risk Committee external audit contract is tendered within the 10 years prescribed The Group established a separate Risk & Compliance function in by EU and UK legislation and the Codes recommendation.
We 2014 headed by the Chief Risk Officer.
A separate Risk Committee confirm we have complied with the provisions of The Statutory Robin Freestone was also established in 2014 which is chaired by Sally James.
The Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Chairman of the Audit Committee Risk Committee operates separately but alongside the Audit Mandatory use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit 21 February 2018 Committee.
A separate report of the work and responsibilities of Committee Responsibilities Order 2014. the Risk Committee is set out on pages 56 to 58.
com Group PLC 52 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 53 Annual Report and Accounts 2017
