Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION TO GOVERNANCE Succession planning and diversity Committee Chairs We recognise that in order to maintain an effective and diverse Board, it is essential to plan for the future and to ensure the right The composition of the Board continues individuals are appointed to the Board from a diverse pool of talent.
We consider our Board to be diverse in terms of the to be appropriate to the Groups background, skills and experience which each individual brings requirements with the right diversity of to the Board.
Mindful of the need to refresh the Board, we have commenced a search for a new Non-Executive Director.
experience and technical expertise to support the strategic and operational All future appointments will continue to be based on merit.
More detail on the work of the Nomination Committee and on direction of the Group.
our diversity policy can be found in our Nomination Committee Robin Freestone Bruce Carnegie-Brown Report on pages 54 to 55.
Details of the proportion of women Audit Committee Nomination Committee on the Board, in senior leadership positions and within the whole organisation can be found on page 35 of the Corporate Responsibility Report.
Board effectiveness During 2017 we conducted an external evaluation of the Board Bruce Carnegie-Brown and the Committees, with SCT Consultants undertaking that Chairman evaluation.
The evaluation process involved the completion of questionnaires, one to one interviews with each Director and the Company Secretary, observation at Board and Committee meetings, followed by a Board discussion, including a review of progress against actions from the 2016 internal Board evaluation.
Sally James Andrew Fisher Our governance More information on the process and the key action areas are set Risk Committee Remuneration Committee As a Board of Directors we aim to establish a governance structure Governance Dashboard out on page 41. which provides effective control and oversight of the Group whilst at the same time promoting the entrepreneurial spirit which has 2017 highlights: Ethics and governance been central to the Groups success in striving to help every There is a strong relationship between ethics and good we reviewed the Groups strategic priorities and household make the most of their money.
We remain committed to operating ethically, approved a revised set of strategic priorities, further demonstrating integrity and acting responsibly in our details of which are set out on pages 10 to 11: In our Corporate Governance Report on pages 42 to 47, we aim to Bruce Carnegie-Brown 7-8 years undertakings with our customers, our shareholders and our wider provide a clear and meaningful explanation of how we as a Board we obtained approval for a new Remuneration Policy stakeholders.
Our Code of Conduct incorporates additional Sally James 4-5 years lead the Group and discharge our governance duties, including at the 2017 AGM following a comprehensive review of guidance for employees and each employee completes an how we apply the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance the executive remuneration framework and after Andrew Fisher 3-4 years e-learning module on the Code of Conduct.
It also outlines the governance initiatives we have incorporating feedback following a shareholder on ethics and social responsibility is contained in our Corporate undertaken during the year.
Our statement of compliance with the Matthew Price 3-4 years consultation: Responsibility Report on pages 34 to 37.
UK Corporate Governance Code is set out on page 47.
Genevieve Shore 3-4 years we reviewed the content of the Annual Report to Board operation ensure it is fair, balanced and understandable and in Leadership Robin Freestone 2-3 years We continue to operate a clear line of distinction between line with best governance practice: The composition of the Board continues to be appropriate to the management, led by the Chief Executive Officer, who is Mark Lewis 0-1 year Groups requirements with the right diversity of experience and responsible for the day to day running of the business, and the we held deep-dives to cover a specific strategic technical expertise to support the strategic and operational Board, acting under my leadership, which provides constructive priority at each meeting.
This included deep-dives direction of the Group.
In March 2017, Mark Lewis joined us as an Board composition challenge to management ensuring an open culture of debate that into each of MoneySuperMarket, MoneySavingExpert Executive Director.
Following a period of handover, Mark creates and preserves value for our shareholders.
and TravelSupermarket, key risks and controls, cyber succeeded Peter Plumb as Chief Executive Officer on 10 April security, data protection, MoneySavingExperts Credit 2017.
Mark has a successful track record of leading fast growing Gender Role During 2018, I will ensure that the Board continues to engage with Club and innovation in mobile and apps, including the digital businesses with strong customer satisfaction, trust and its stakeholders and operates in a constructive and open manner, MoneySuperMarket App: values scores.
His experience and values are aligned with our goal with honesty and integrity as its core principles.
of helping customers save money on their household bills.
we reviewed the composition, skills and experience of 14% the Board: and Peter Plumb and Rob Rowley both stepped down from the Board Bruce Carnegie-Brown 29% at the conclusion of the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
Rob was we continued to enhance our effectiveness by: Chairman 29% succeeded as Senior Independent Director by Sally James from 21 February 2018 71% focusing on talent, succession and diversity both that date.
Sally remains Chairman of the Risk Committee and a at Board and senior management level: 57% member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
reviewing our annual agendas and revising The membership of the Board Committees was reviewed during meeting schedules as part of the review of the 2017 to ensure the Committees continue to operate effectively Groups strategic priorities in readiness for 2018: and have the skills required to support the increasing complexity and Femal e Chai r of the Group.
The current membership of each of the Committees is set out in each of the Committee reports on pages 49, 54, 56 completing an external evaluation of the Board and 71.
Sally James, Chairman of the Risk Committee, is a member Mal e Executive Director s through SCT Consultants.
of each of the Committees to ensure that risk is appropriately considered in each Committee.
com Group PLC 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 39 Annual Report and Accounts 2017
