COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE This section of the Corporate Governance Report details the All Directors are expected to: Companys compliance with the Principles set out in the UK Attend all meetings of the Board, and of those Committees on Corporate Governance Code the Code published on 27 April 2016 which they serve which is available at www.
This section should be read in Attend the Annual General Meeting AGM conjunction with the Corporate Governance Report as a whole, which is set out on pages 70 to 113.
Devote sufficient time to the Companys affairs to enable them to fulfil their duties as Directors The Company has complied in full with the requirements of the Code during 2017.
2 Division of responsibilities The Chairman and Chief Executive have separate roles and A.
Leadership responsibilities which are clearly defined, documented and approved A.
1 The role of the Board by the Board.
The Chairman, David Tyler, is responsible for the The Board is collectively responsible to the Companys shareholders operation of the Board.
The Chief Executive, David Atkins, is for the Companys long-term success and the delivery of its long-term responsible for leading and managing the business within the strategic and operational objectives.
authorities delegated by the Board.
The Board sets the strategic direction, governance and values of the A.
3 The Chairman Group and has ultimate responsibility for its management, direction The Chairman sets the Boards agenda and ensures that important and performance.
matters, in particular strategic issues, receive adequate time and The Board operates through a sound risk attention at meetings.
The Chairman encourages a collegiate management and internal controls system, details of environment on the Board which facilitates open discussion.
When he became Chairman in 2013, David Tyler was considered The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for independent.
In accordance with the Code, the continuing test of its decision which can be accessed at www.
independence for the Chairman is not necessary.
The Board has regular meetings throughout the year.
It held six The Chairman ensures that he engages regularly with institutional of these in 2017.
Additional Board conference calls are held between shareholders.
the formal Board meetings as required.
During 2017 a number of Further details of shareholder engagement are on additional meetings were scheduled to consider the proposed page 80. acquisition of intu properties plc.
The table below includes details of attendance at Board meetings and conference calls in 2017.
Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to communicate directly with A.
4 Non-Executive Directors Executive Directors and senior management between Board meetings.
The Non-Executive Directors challenge and help develop proposals Table 89 on strategy.
The annual Board Strategy Day is dedicated to considering the future direction of the Company at the start of the Board and Committee meetings attendance business planning process.
4 Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Further details of the 2017 Board Strategy Day are on David Tyler 15 15 6 6 2 2 page 78.
4.1 Senior Independent Director 2 Timon Drakesmith 14 15 The Senior Independent Director, Terry Duddy, is available to address Jean-Philippe Mouton 15 15 shareholders concerns on governance.
When and if necessary, he can also address concerns on other issues that have not been resolved Pierre Bouchut 15 15 3 3 2 2 through the normal channels of communication with the Chairman, Gwyn Burr 15 15 3 3 6 6 2 2 Chief Executive or Chief Financial Officer, or in cases when such Terry Duddy 15 15 6 6 2 2 communications would be inappropriate.
He can also deputise for the 3 Andrew Formica 14 15 3 3 2 2 Chairman in his absence, act as a sounding board for the Chairman Judy Gibbons 15 15 3 3 6 6 2 2 and advise and counsel all Board colleagues.
Peter Cole was unable to attend one Board meeting due to illness.
The Senior Independent Director also chairs an annual meeting of 2.
Timon Drakesmith was unable to attend one Board meeting due to an extended Executive and Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman to leave of absence in order to undergo medical treatment.
appraise the Chairmans performance and address any other matters 3.
Andrew Formica was unable to attend one Board meeting due to a prior which the Directors might wish to raise.
The Audit Committee normally holds four meetings per year.
In 2017 three Director conveys the outcome of these discussions to the Chairman.
meetings were held due to the December meeting being rescheduled to The Chairman meets with the Non-Executive Directors as necessary, January2018.
but at least twice a year without the Executive Directors present.
If any Director has concerns about the running of the Company or a proposed action which cannot be resolved, these will be recorded in the Board minutes.
No such concerns arose in 2017.
114 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE B.
Effectiveness All Directors receive an induction programme when appointed to the B.
1 The composition of the Board Board, which takes into account their qualifications and experience.
During the year the Board reviewed the overall balance of skills, Where appropriate Non-Executive Directors are offered experience, independence and knowledge of the Board and opportunities to meet institutional shareholders.
All Directors are Committee members.
It was satisfied that the Board was of an kept informed of changes in relevant legislation and regulations and of appropriate size and that the requirements of the business can be met.
changing financial and commercial risks.
Where appropriate the The Board is satisfied that the Non-Executive Directors, each of whom Companys legal advisors and External Auditor assist in this regard.
is independent from management and has no material or other Executive Directors are also subject to the Companys annual connection with the Company, are able to exercise independent performance development review process in which their performance judgement.
is reviewed against pre-determined objectives and their personal and professional development needs are considered.
The Board reviews the independence of its Non-Executive Directors each year in accordance with the criteria set out in the Code.
During the annual appraisal of Non-Executive Directors performance, the Chairman reviews and agrees each Non-Executive There are currently six Non-Executive Directors including the Directors training and personal development requirements.
Chairman and four Executive Directors on the Board.
Non-Executive Directors are also encouraged to attend seminars and undertake external training at the Companys expense in areas B.
2 Appointments to the Board considered appropriate for their professional development.
These The Nomination Committee, which is chaired by the Chairman and include issues relevant to the Board and the Committees to which comprises all Non-Executive Directors, leads the process for Board they belong.
appointments, which are made on merit, against objective criteria, and makes recommendations to the Board.
5 Information and support The Committees terms of reference can be found at The Directors have access to independent professional advice at the www.
Companys expense, as well as to the advice and services of the General Counsel and Company Secretary who advises the Board on Non-Executive Directors are appointed for three-year terms and corporate governance matters.
The Board and its Committees receive stand for re-election at each AGM.
Any term beyond six years is high-quality, up to date information for them to review in good time subject to a rigorous review, taking into account the need for before each meeting.
The General Counsel and Company Secretary progressive refreshment of the Board.
ensures that Board procedures are followed and that the Company and the Board operate within applicable legislation.
The General Further details of the work of the Nomination Counsel and Company Secretary is also responsible for facilitating Committee are on pages 82 to 83.
Directors induction, assisting with identifying and enabling Disclosures on diversity are on pages 47 to 48 and 83. appropriate training and Board performance evaluation.
No new appointments were made to the Board in 2017.
When new The appointment and removal of the General Counsel and Company appointments are made, an external search consultancy would Secretary is a matter requiring Board approval.
normally be used and identified in the Annual Report in accordance with the Code.
6 Evaluation In 2017 a formal performance evaluation of the Board was conducted B.
3 Commitment internally by the General Counsel and Company Secretary by means The Board is satisfied that all the Non-Executive Directors are able to of an online questionnaire.
The evaluation of the Board is externally devote sufficient time to the Companys business.
Non-Executive facilitated every three years.
An externally facilitated performance Directors are advised when appointed of the time required to fulfil the evaluation of the Board was carried out in 2016 by Independent Audit role and asked to confirm that they can make the required Limited, which has no connection with the Group.
Each individuals commitment to their role is reviewed annually as part of their annual appraisal.
Letters of appointment for The Chairman carries out a formal performance evaluation the Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at the AGM.
individually with each Non-Executive Director every year.
The Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, are Positions held by Non-Executive Directors are set out responsible for the annual evaluation of the Chairmans performance.
Following the internal Board effectiveness review in 2017, the Directors concluded that the Board and its Committees operate All Executive Directors are encouraged to take a non-executive effectively and that each Director continues to contribute effectively position in another company or organisation.
These appointments are and demonstrates commitment to the role.
subject to the approval of the Board which considers particularly the time commitment required.
More details of the Board effectiveness review are on page 81.
Non-Executive Director positions held by Executive Directors are set out on page 72.
COM 115 Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code continued It must be recognised that the Groups internal controls provide B.
7 Election and re-election reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement All Directors are subject to election at the first AGM following their or loss.
appointment and annual re-election at each AGM thereafter.
All Directors are therefore submitting themselves for re-election at the 2018 AGM.
Management has established a risk management framework and put in place sufficient procedures necessary to enable the Directors to Directors biographies are on pages 72 to 73 and also in the Notice of Meeting for the 2018 AGM.
report in compliance with the Code on internal controls.
These involve analysis, evaluation and management of the key risks to the Further discussion of the balance of skills, knowledge Group, including a review of all material controls.
They also include and experience on the Board is on pages 82 to 83. plans for the continuity of the Companys business in the event of C. Accountability unforeseen interruption.
Having monitored the Groups risk management and internal controls, and having reviewed the C. 1 Financial and business reporting effectiveness of material controls, the Audit Committee has not The Board considers that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, identified any significant failings or weaknesses in the Groups balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary internal control structure during the year.
for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
The Risk and Controls Committee supports the Audit Committee.
It is not a committee of the Board but of executives from across the A statement of the Directors responsibilities regarding business and is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer.
The Committee the financial statements is on page 121. reports its activities to the Group Executive Committee.
The Committees An explanation of the Groups business model and role is to: strategy is on pages 6 to 7 and pages 16 to 17 respectively.
Promote the application of the Risk Management Framework throughout the business The Board has established processes to ensure that all reports and information which it is required to present in accordance with Encourage proactive discussion of risk around the business regulatory requirements are a fair, balanced and understandable Manage the annual internal audit programme assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
Consider the results and recommendations of reviews Further details about the fair, balanced and Monitor the implementation of recommendations understandable process for the Annual Report are on page 86.
Oversee the Groups Business Continuity plans Monitor data protection compliance C. 2 Risk management and internal control The Audit Committee regularly reports to the Board on key risks to the The Board has established processes for monitoring sound risk Group.
The Board allocates responsibility for the management of each key management and internal control which allow it to review the risk to the Executive Directors and senior executives across the Group.
effectiveness of the systems in place within the Group.
A robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company has been carried The Audit Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities out during the year.
relating to the adequacy and effectiveness of the control environment An assessment of the principal risks facing the and the Groups compliance.
Company is on pages 63 to 68 and Key Performance Throughout the year the Audit Committee monitored the Indicators are on pages 18 to 19. effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control The Directors have assessed the prospects of the Company over a systems, including material financial, operational and compliance five-year period and have a reasonable expectation that the Company controls.
In particular the Audit Committee reviewed: will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall The External Auditors management letters due over the period of this assessment.
Internal audit reports including monitoring the implementation The Viability statement and Going Concern statement of recommendations arising from them are on page 69.
Reports on the system of internal controls and the Risk Management Framework The Groups risk management and internal control systems are designed to: The Companys approach to compliance with legislation and the prevention of fraud Safeguard assets against unauthorised use or disposition Business continuity and cyber risk Ensure the maintenance of proper accounting records Gifts and entertainment and expenses registers Enable regular reporting of financial performance to the Board to Further explanation of the Companys approach to support managements review process, including the production of risk management is on pages 61 to 68. external financial results Provide reliable information Identify and, as far as possible, mitigate potential impediments to the Group achieving its objectives Ensure compliance with relevant legislation, rules and regulations 116 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE The External Auditor may not provide a service which places it in a C. 3 Audit Committee and Auditor position where it may be required to audit its own work, such as The Audit Committee comprises four independent Non-Executive bookkeeping or valuation services Directors.
It normally holds four meetings per year, organised around Some services may be provided in specific or exceptional the Companys reporting schedule.
In 2017 three Audit Committee circumstances and may include due diligence and property-related meetings were held due to the December meeting being rescheduled consultancy.
Each occasion is specifically assessed and authorised to January 2018. by an Executive Director up to a limit of 50,000 and above that The Audit Committee Chairman regularly reports details of the work level by the Chairman of the Audit Committee carried out by the Audit Committee to the Board in accordance with Further details are in the terms of reference for the its terms of reference.
Audit Committee and the full policy on non-audit The terms of reference for the Audit Committee are services is available at www.
As reported in last years Annual Report, Deloitte LLP Deloitte resigned as External Auditor at the 2017 AGM and was replaced by PwC following a Pierre Bouchut, the Chairman of the Audit Committee, has been tender process which took place in 2016.
The Audit Committee has determined by the Board to have recent and relevant financial considered the re-appointment of PwC and recommended it to the Board.
experience as required by the Code.
The Audit Committee as a whole The Board will therefore recommend the re-appointment of PwC to has competence relevant to the sector in which the Company operates.
There are no contractual obligations which Details of the composition of the Audit Committee are restrict the Audit Committees choice of external auditor or which put in on page 84.
The biographies of members of the Audit place a minimum period for their tenure.
There are no current plans to Committee are on page 73. re-tender the services of the External Auditor.
The Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial PwCs remuneration as External Auditor for the year ended Officer and other members of the senior finance management team 31December 2017 was 0.6 million.
Consideration is given to the together with senior representatives of the Companys External nature of and remuneration received for other services provided by Auditor,  LLP PwC, are invited to attend all PwC to the Company.
Confirmation is also sought that the fee payable or part of meetings as appropriate.
In order to fulfil its duties as for the annual audit is sufficient to enable PwC to perform its defined in its terms of reference, the Audit Committee receives obligations in accordance with the scope of the audit.
presentations and reviews reports from the Groups senior During 2017 non-audit services provided by PwC to the Company included management, consulting as necessary with PwC.
work on the Qualified Financial Benefits Statement to assess the future The Audit Committee meets at least once a year with PwC and with synergies in respect of the potential acquisition of intu properties plc, the the head of the internal audit function which undertakes the majority provision of training materials and other assurance and advisory services.
of the Companys internal audit reviews, with no Company Fees for non-audit services provided to the Company by PwC for the year management present.
Cushman & Wakefield LLP the Valuer and PwC have full access to Further information on the remuneration of PwC and one another and the Chairman of the Committee meets with the Deloitte is in note 4 to the financial statements on Valuer and PwC to discuss the half-year and year end valuation page 142. process to ensure each is satisfied that there has been a full and open exchange of information and views.
The Audit Committee oversees and monitors the policies and procedures which form the core components of the Groups adequate The Audit Committee has regard to the recommendations of the procedures under the Bribery Act including the Code of Conduct and Financial Reporting Council on regular and open communications Whistleblowing Policy.
The Code of Conduct explains how colleagues between audit committees and external auditors and it has concluded are expected to fulfil their responsibilities by acting in the best interests that the relationship with PwC meets these recommendations.
of the Group and in line with its corporate and financial objectives.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities A summary of the Code of Conduct is available at in relation to: www.
Ensuring that management has systems and procedures in place to ensure the integrity of financial information The Whistleblowing Policy sets out the procedures for colleagues Reviewing the Companys internal audit arrangements to report any suspicions of fraud, financial irregularity or other malpractice on an entirely confidential basis.
Reports are provided Maintaining an appropriate relationship with the Groups External to the General Counsel and Company Secretary, who ensures that Auditor PwC matters are investigated appropriately.
The Audit Committee Reviewing the effectiveness, objectivity and independence of PwC receives a report on any matters raised.
Two such reports were including the scope of work and the fees paid to PwC received during the year.
The Company subscribes to the independent The Committee is responsible for developing, implementing and charity Public Concern at Work so that colleagues may have free monitoring the Groups policy on the engagement of the External access to its helpline.
Auditor to supply non-audit services.
The principal requirements of Details of how the Audit Committee has discharged its the policy are that: responsibilities during the year are in the Audit Committee Report on pages 84 to 87.
COM 117 Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code continued E. 2 Constructive use of general meetings D. Remuneration At general meetings, the proxy appointment form gives shareholders D. 1 The level and components of remuneration options either to direct their proxy vote for or against each resolution The principal responsibility of the Remuneration Committee is to or to withhold their vote.
The Company will ensure that the proxy determine and agree with the Board the overall remuneration appointment form and any announcement of the results of a vote will principles and the framework for remuneration of the Executive make it clear that a vote withheld is not a vote in law: it will therefore Directors, the General Counsel and Company Secretary and the other not be counted when calculating the proportions of votes that were for members of the Group Executive Committee.
The terms of reference and against the resolution.
All valid proxy appointment forms are for the Committee are reviewed annually.
After the vote has been counted, The Chairman of the Committee reports regularly on the Committees information is given on the number of proxy votes for and against each activities at Board meetings.
resolution and the number of shares representing withheld votes, both at the general meeting and on the Companys website.
Notice of a The Directors remuneration report is on pages 88 general meeting is despatched to shareholders at least 14 days in advance.
Separate resolutions are proposed on each substantially separate issue.
D. 2 Procedure When the Board is of the opinion that a significant proportion of the When determining policy on executive remuneration the votes at any general meeting is cast against a resolution, the Company Remuneration Committee takes into account all factors which it will explain, when announcing the results of the vote, the actions it deems necessary.
These include: intends to take to gain an understanding of the reasons behind the result.
Relevant legal and regulatory requirements The provisions of the Code Associated guidance Views of principal shareholders Further details are in the terms of reference for the Remuneration Committee which are available at www.
Details of the composition of the Remuneration Committee are on page 88.
Details of advisors who provided services to the Remuneration Committee during the year are on page 107.
During 2017 no individual was present when his or her own remuneration was being determined.
E. Relations with shareholders E. 1 Dialogue with shareholders The Company actively engages with its shareholders.
Throughout 2017 the Company attended a wide variety of meetings, presentations and road shows.
The Chairman and the Executives meet regularly with institutional shareholders.
Views are communicated to the Board as a whole.
Institutional shareholders are offered the opportunity to attend meetings with the Senior Independent Director, or may request such meetings.
The Board receives reports of meetings with institutional shareholders together with regular market reports and brokers reports which enable the Directors to understand the views of shareholders.
The Board takes account of corporate governance guidelines of institutional shareholders and their representative bodies such as the Investment Association and the Pensions and Lifetime Savings Association.
Hammersons website contains information of interest to both institutional and private shareholders.
Further details about engagement with shareholders and other stakeholders are in the Corporate Governance Report on page 80.
