Corporate Governance report continued BOARD OF DIRECTORS Leading the business David Tyler David Atkins Peter Cole Timon Drakesmith Jean-Philippe Mouton Chief Financial Chairman Chief Executive Chief Investment Executive Director Officer and Managing Officer Director, Premium Outlets Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board 30 June 2011 12 January 2013 and 1 January 2007 and 1 October 1999 1 January 2013 appointed Chairman appointed Chief Executive on 9 May 2013 on 1 October 2009 Skills and experience Committee Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Timon Drakesmith is a N R membership David Atkins is a Chartered Peter Cole is a Chartered Jean-Philippe Mouton Chartered Accountant Surveyor who joined the Surveyor who joined the joined Hammerson in Skills and experience who joined the Company Company in 1998.
His Company in 1989 as a 2003 with responsibility David Tyler is an in 2011 as Chief Financial career at Hammerson Senior Development for property leasing, experienced chairman Officer.
He has experience began with responsibility Surveyor.
He was development and asset and is currently chairman of working in commercial for strategy and appointed to the board management in France.
at J Sainsbury plc and property having spent six investment performance, of the Companys UK In 2006 he assumed Domestic & General.
years as finance director at working on a number of business in 1992.
In 1999 responsibility for He has over 40 years Great Portland Estates plc.
overseas transactions, he assumed responsibility managing the French experience in both He is currently a nonparticularly in France.
In for Hammersons portfolio as Director of executive and nonexecutive director of 2002 he took responsibility development, acquisition Operations and in 2009 executive roles in a variety ValueRetail PLC and for the UK retail parks and disposal programme.
became the Managing of businesses spanning the The Merchants Trust PLC, portfolio and, in 2006, for He implemented the Director of Hammersons consumer, retail, business and chairman of VIA the wider UK retail disposal of the London French business.
He also services and financial Outlets advisory and portfolio.
In 2016 he offices in 2012 and he has Board responsibility services sectors.
was appointed as a has led the Companys for marketing where he the co-chair of the Parker non-executive director major regeneration and can draw on experience Previous roles Review Committee.
gained while working Finance director of the Previous roles is a member of the policy for Disneyland Paris.
MK Electric division and Previous roles Chairman of Logica plc committee of the British group director of financial President and general Previous roles and 3i Quoted Private Property Federation, operations of Novar plc, council member of the Director of strategic Equity plc, finance a director and trustee and other financial roles City Property Association.
planning at Disneyland director of GUS plc and of the Reading Real Estate at Credit Suisse, Barclays Paris and positions of Christies International Foundation and a governor and Deloitte Haskins at The Walt Disney plc, and senior financial and trustee of & Sells.
Company and Standard and general management Berkhamsted Schools Chartered Bank.
NatWest Limited Previous roles and Unilever PLC.
Member of the executive Non-executive director boards of the European of Burberry Group plc, Public Real Estate Experian plc and Reckitt Association and Revo Benckiser Group plc.
previously known as BCSC and a member of the Revo Educational Trust.
72 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Key to Committee membership A Audit Committee N Nomination Committee R Remuneration Committee Committee Chairman Pierre Bouchut Gwyn Burr Terry Duddy Andrew Formica Judy Gibbons Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board 13 February 2015 1 May 2012 3 December 2009 26 November 2015 1 May 2011 Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee A N A N R N R A N A N R membership membership membership membership membership Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Pierre Bouchut has Gwyn Burr has expertise In addition to the Andrew Formica is an Judy Gibbons has considerable senior in marketing and leading capabilities and actuary, having qualified in a background in management experience customer service experience of managing a Australia and the UK.
He e-commerce, software, in finance, European retail processes for major retail large public company, has considerable internet technologies, and European property.
She is currently a Terry Duddy brings experience in capital digital media and mobile He is currently an adviser to member of the board, specific insight into markets and fund applications.
She also has Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize remuneration committee customer behaviour and management, including extensive experience in N. V. having stood down as and chairman of the retail markets.
He is property management, marketing and chief operating officer, nominations committee currently the chairman and has managed international business.
Europe and Indonesia on of Sainsburys Bank plc.
of retailTRUST, senior portfolios and businesses She is currently a 1 January 2018.
He is also She is also a non-executive independent director across Europe and non-executive director a non-executive director director of Just Eat plc, of Debenhams plc and globally.
In 1993 he joined of Michael Kors Holdings and chairman of the audit Metro AG, Taylor Wimpey a non-executive director the Henderson Group, Limited and Virgin Money committee of Firmenich SA.
plc and Ingleby Farms and of Majid Al Futtaim where he has held various Giving Limited.
Gwyn will be Properties LLC.
senior positions, and in chair of Which?
Limited Previous roles stepping down as a 2008 became the chief and a trustee of House of Senior management roles Previous roles non-executive director of executive of Henderson Illustration, Nesta and and chief financial officer Chief executive of Home DFS Furniture plc in Group plc.
He became the Somerset House Trust.
at Delhaize Group SA, Retail Group plc, director Spring 2018. co-chief executive of Janus Carrefour SA, Casino, of DSG Retail Limited Previous roles Henderson Group Plc in Guichard-Perrachon SA Previous roles and trustee of Education Non-executive director May 2017.
He is also the and Schneider Electric SA.
Senior roles in marketing, and Employers of Guardian Media Group deputy chairman of the Non-executive director of customer service and Taskforce.
plc and O2 plc, corporate Investment Association.
La Rinascente SpA and financial services at Asda vice-president of non-executive member plc.
Customer service Previous roles Microsoft Corporation of the advisory boards of and colleague director Non-executive director and venture partner of Qualium Investissement at J Sainsbury plc.
of TIAA Henderson Real Accel Partners.
Senior and Lombard Odier Non-executive director of Estate Limited.
roles in marketing and Asset Management the Principality Building product development Switzerland SA.
Society, director of the at Apple Inc. and Incorporated Society of Hewlett-Packard.
British Advertisers and chair of Business in the Community, community investment board.
