Corporate Governance Statement Background Compliance This Statement forms part of the Directors Report on pages The Board has considered the principles and 28 to 31. recommendations of the AIC Code by reference to the AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in the Corporate Governance Code, as The UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure Guidance and well as setting out additional principles and recommendations Transparency Rules the Disclosure Rules require listed on issues that are of specific relevance to the Company.
companies to disclose how they have applied the principles and complied with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code Corporate Governance Code, as issued The Board considers that reporting against the principles and by the Financial Reporting Council FRC.
The provisions of recommendations of the AIC Code and by reference to the AIC the Corporate Governance Code, which was issued by the FRC Guide which incorporates the Corporate Governance Code in April 2016, were applicable in the year under review.
The will provide better information to shareholders.
Corporate Governance Code can be viewed at www.
The Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code and the best practice provisions of the Corporate The related Code of Corporate Governance the AIC Code, Governance Code throughout the year ended 31 December issued by the Association of Investment Companies AIC, 2017 except as set out below: provides specific corporate governance guidelines to investment companies.
The FRC has confirmed that AIC The Corporate Governance Code C. 3.6 includes member companies who report against the AIC Code and who provisions relating to the need for an internal audit follow the AICs Corporate Governance Guide for Investment function.
As explained on page 40, the Company does not Companies the AIC Guide will be meeting their obligations have an internal audit function.
in relation to the Corporate Governance Code and the associated disclosure requirements of the Disclosure Rules.
7.1 includes The AIC Code issued in July 2016 was applicable in the year provisions relating to the annual re-election of all under review.
The AIC Code can be viewed at directors.
As explained on page 33, the Company considers www.
that this provision is inappropriate to the Company.
The Board is aware of the new UK Corporate Governance Code The principles of the AIC Code which was published by the FRC for consultation in December The AIC Code is made up of twenty one principles.
The new Code is expected to apply for financial years sections cover the Board: Board meetings and relations with beginning on or after 1 January 2019 and accordingly the the investment managers: and shareholder communications.
Board will report on its compliance with the new Code in the Companys 2019 Annual Report.
32 Witan Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 The Board 1.
The chairman should be independent.
Mr H M Henderson has been Chairman of the Company since March 2003: he joined the Board in 1988.
The Board considers that Mr Henderson is, and has been since his appointment, an independent non-executive director.
Independence stems from the ability to make decisions that conflict with the interests of management: this is a function of confidence, integrity and judgement.
Having served on the Board for more than nine years, Mr Henderson stands for re-election by the shareholders each year and will do so for as long as he continues to serve on the Board.
The Board is firmly of the view, however, that length of service does not of itself impair a directors ability to act independently: rather, a directors longer perspective adds value to the deliberations of a well-balanced investment trust company board.
The other independent non-executive directors, under the chairmanship of the Senior Independent Director, review and evaluate annually the performance and continuing independence of the Chairman.
Mr A Watson was appointed as the Senior Independent Director in February 2008.
He is also able to act as a sounding board for the Chairman and serve as an intermediary for the other directors, should this prove necessary, and to act as a channel of communication for shareholders in the event that contact through the Chairman has failed to resolve concerns or is inappropriate.
A majority of the board should be independent of the manager.
At 31 December 2017 the Board was composed of eight independent non-executive directors and one executive director the Chief Executive Officer.
The Board is therefore independent of the Companys executive management.
All the directors are wholly independent of the Companys various investment managers.
In the opinion of the Board, each of the directors is independent in character and judgement and there are no relationships or circumstances relating to the Company that are likely to affect their judgement see also section 1 above.
Directors should be submitted for re-election at regular intervals.
Nomination for re-election should not be assumed but be based on disclosed procedures and continued satisfactory performance.
New directors stand for election by the shareholders at the annual general meeting that follows their appointment.
Thereafter all directors stand for re-election at least every three years, as required by the Companys Articles of Association.
Directors who have served for more than nine years stand for re-election annually.
There are currently four directors with service of more than nine years: Mr H M Henderson, the Chairman, Mr Boyle, Mrs Claydon and Mr Watson.
Mr Boyle and Mrs Claydon intend to retire at the forthcoming AGM.
The Board has reviewed Provision B.
7.1 of the Corporate Governance Code, which states that all directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to annual election by shareholders.
The Board considers that the annual re-election of all the directors is inappropriate to the Company.
There are two main reasons: a it appears to place excessive emphasis on the short term and insufficient emphasis on the need for an effective board to work together and to refresh its composition over time: and b there is some danger, because many small and nominee shareholders do not exercise their voting rights, that if all the directors seek re-election at once a minority of the shareholders could engineer the removal of the whole Board for reasons injurious to the interests of the Companys investors as a whole.
Therefore the Board considers it appropriate to continue to apply Provision B.
7.1 as if the Company were not a constituent of the FTSE 350 Index, a view which a number of prominent institutional investors have shared.
Every year the Board reviews its composition and the composition of its two Committees.
The Boards Remuneration and Nomination Committee oversees this process.
Further details are given under section 7 on page 35.
Annual Report 2017 Witan Investment Trust PLC 33 Other Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Directors Report Strategic Report Corporate Governance Statement continued The Board 4.
The board should have a policy on tenure, which is disclosed in the annual report.
New directors are appointed for an initial term ending three years from the date of their first annual general meeting after appointment, with the expectation that they will serve a minimum of two three-year terms.
There is no absolute limit to the period for which a director may serve although the continuation of directors appointments is contingent on satisfactory performance evaluation and re-election at annual general meetings.
Directors appointments are reviewed formally by the Board ahead of their submission for re-election.
None of the non-executive directors has a contract of service and a non-executive director may resign by notice in writing to the Board at any time: there are no set notice periods.
The Boards tenure and succession policy seeks to ensure that the Board is well-balanced and refreshed regularly by the appointment of new directors with the skills and experience necessary, in particular, to replace those lost by directors retirements.
Directors must be able to demonstrate their commitment to the Company, including in terms of time.
The Board seeks to encompass past and current experience of areas relevant to the Companys objective and operations, the most important skill-sets being investment management, finance, marketing, financial services, risk management, custody and settlement, and investment banking.
Specialist firms are usually used to assist with recruitment.
Whilst the roles and contributions of longer serving directors are subject to rigorous review, the Board is strongly of the view that length of service is only one factor and that shareholders benefit from having directors with a longer perspective of the Companys history and its place in the savings market.
There should be full disclosure of information about the board.
Details of the directors are set out on pages 26 and 27.
They demonstrate a broad range of experience, gained overseas as well as in the United Kingdom.
The board should aim to have a balance of skills, experience, length of service and knowledge of the Company.
The Board considers that it has achieved this aim.
Brief biographical details of each director are set out on pages 26 and 27.
Board Diversity The Company supports the objectives of the Davies Report to improve the performance of corporate boards by encouraging the appointment of the best people from a range of differing perspectives and backgrounds.
The Company recognises the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender, and takes this into account in its Board appointments.
The Company is committed to ensuring that its director search processes actively seek both men and women with the right qualifications so that appointments can be made, on the basis of merit, against objective criteria from a diverse selection of candidates.
The Board will continue to consider diversity during the director search process.
34 Witan Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 The Board 7.
The board should undertake a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and individual directors.
The Board has established a process to evaluate its performance annually.
This process is based on open discussion and seeks to assess the strengths and weaknesses of the Board and its Committees.
The Chairman leads on applying the conclusions of the evaluation.
The Chairman reviews with each director his or her individual performance, contribution and commitment to the Company.
The Senior Independent Director leads the annual evaluation of the Chairman and reviews the conclusions with him.
In addition, in consideration of Provision B.
6.2 of the Corporate Governance Code, which states that evaluation of the board of FTSE 350 companies should be externally facilitated at least every three years, in 2016, the Board appointed BoardAlpha Limited to carry out an evaluation programme.
The Board reviewed their report in March 2017 and the Chairman has led on implementing those changes recommended by the report that the Board considered should be made.
The report did not identify any material weaknesses or concerns.
BoardAlpha Limited does not have any other connection with the Company.
The Board intends to appoint an external organisation to facilitate its evaluation in 2019.
Director remuneration should reflect their duties, responsibilities and the value of their time spent.
The Directors Remuneration Report on pages 43 to 55 details the process for determining the directors remuneration and sets out the amounts payable.
The independent directors should take the lead in the appointment of new directors and the process should be disclosed in the annual report.
The Boards Remuneration and Nomination Committee oversees the recruitment process, which includes the use of a firm of non-executive director recruitment consultants.
However, all the independent non-executive directors are asked to contribute and to consider serving on the sub-committee appointed to draw up the shortlist of candidates.
Notwithstanding this, the Chairman would not expect to lead the process of selecting his successor.
Directors should be offered relevant training and induction.
Directors newly appointed to the Board are provided with an introductory programme covering the Companys strategy, policies and operations, including those outsourced to third parties.
Thereafter, directors are given, on a regular and ongoing basis, key information on the Companys investment portfolios, financial position, internal controls and details of the Companys regulatory and statutory obligations and changes thereto.
The directors are encouraged to attend industry and other seminars, conferences and courses, if necessary at the Companys expense, and to participate generally in industry events.
A log of directors training is maintained and reviewed each year by the Audit Committee.
The directors have access to the advice and services of the Companys Executive team and AIFM and of the Company Secretary, through its appointed representative, who are responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The chairman and the board should be brought into the process of structuring a new launch at an early stage.
This principle does not apply to the Company, which is a long established investment trust company.
Annual Report 2017 Witan Investment Trust PLC 35 Other Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Directors Report Strategic Report Corporate Governance Statement continued Board meetings and the relationship with the manager 12.
Boards and managers should operate in a supportive, co-operative and open environment.
Typically, the Board meets approximately ten times each year.
The Chief Executive Officer who is a director, other representatives of the Companys Executive team and the AIFM and a representative of the Company Secretary expect to be present at all meetings.
The Board devotes two days each year to meetings with the Companys investment managers and each investment manager sends representatives at least once a year.
The Chairman seeks to encourage open debate within the Board and a supportive and co-operative relationship with the Executive team and with the Companys investment managers, advisors and other service providers.
The primary focus at regular board meetings should be a review of investment performance and associated matters such as gearing, asset allocation, marketing investor relations, peer group information and industry issues.
The Chief Executive Officer and the AIFM monitor investment performance and all associated matters.
The Chief Executive Officer reports to each Board meeting, at which investment performance, asset allocation, gearing, marketing and investor relations are usually key agenda items.
Boards should give sufficient attention to overall strategy.
The Board is responsible for determining the strategic direction of the Company and for promoting its success.
At least one of its meetings each year is devoted entirely to reviewing overall strategy and progress is monitored throughout the year.
The boar d should regularly review both the performance of, and contractual arrangements with, the manager or executives of a self-managed company.
The Boards Remuneration and Nomination Committee reviews the performance of and the contractual arrangements with the Chief Executive Officer.
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible to the Board for reviewing the performance and the contractual arrangements of his staff.
The Chief Executive Officer leads on the selection and monitoring of the investment managers and their terms of reference, which are approved by the Board and the AIFM.
The board should agree policies with the manager covering key operational issues.
The Company manages its own operations through the Board and that of its AIFM, as set out on page 38.
Each investment manager runs a discrete investment portfolio within the terms of their investment management contract.
Further details are given on page 38.
Shares are held by the Companys custodian depositary.
Boards should monitor the level of the share price discount or premium if any and, if desirable, take action to reduce it.
The Chief Executive Officer and his team monitor the share price and the discount premium to net asset value daily and he reports to every Board meeting.
The Board makes use where appropriate of share buybacks at a discount and issuance at a premium in order to add to the net asset value per share and achieve a sustainable low discount or a premium to net asset value.
The board should monitor and evaluate other service providers.
The Chief Executive Officer and the AIFM are responsible for monitoring and evaluating the performance of the Companys service providers.
The Boards Audit Committee oversees this process together with the WIS Risk Committee.
36 Witan Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 Shareholder communications 19.
The board should regularly monitor the shareholder profile of the company and put in place a system for canvassing shareholder views and for communicating the boards views to shareholders.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that there is effective communication with the Companys shareholders.
He works closely with the Chief Executive Officer and there is regular liaison with the Companys stockbroker.
There is a process in place for analysing and monitoring the shareholder register and a programme for meeting or speaking with the institutional investors and with private client stockbrokers and advisors.
In addition to the Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman, or the Senior Independent Director, expects to be available to meet the larger shareholders and the Chairman of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee is available to discuss remuneration matters.
The Company encourages attendance at its Annual General Meeting as a forum for communication with individual shareholders.
The Notice of the Annual General Meeting and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
The Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman of the Audit Committee and the Chairman of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee all expect to be present at the Annual General Meeting and to answer questions from shareholders as appropriate.
Details of the proxy votes received in respect of each resolution are made available to shareholders.
The Chief Executive Officer makes a presentation to the meeting.
The directors may be contacted through the Company Secretary at the address shown on page 100.
The board should normally take responsibility for, and have a direct involvement in, the content of communications regarding major corporate issues even if the manager is asked to act as spokesman.
While the Chief Executive Officer and his team expect to lead on preparing and effecting communications with investors, all major corporate issues are put to the Board or, if time is of the essence, to a Committee thereof.
The board should ensure that shareholders are provided with sufficient information for them to understand the risk: reward balance to which they are exposed by holding the shares.
The Board places importance on effective communication with investors and approves a marketing programme each year to enable this to be achieved.
Copies of the Annual Report and the Half Year Report are circulated to shareholders, to those who hold shares through the subsidiary companys products and, where possible, to investors through other providers products and nominee companies or written notification is sent when they are published online.
In addition, the Company publishes a factsheet monthly and its net asset value per share daily.
All this information is readily accessible on the Companys website www.
A Key Information Document, prepared in accordance with new EU rules is also published on the Companys website.
The Company belongs to the Association of Investment Companies which publishes information to increase investors understanding of the sector.
Annual Report 2017 Witan Investment Trust PLC 37 Other Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Directors Report Strategic Report Corporate Governance Statement continued 2.5% may be allocated to newly-established or smaller third The Board party managers that are viewed as having potential to add The Board is collectively responsible for the success of the value to the overall portfolio.
Its role is to provide leadership within a framework of controls that enable risk to be assessed and managed.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the directors The Board sets the Companys strategic aims subject to the are provided with management, regulatory and financial Companys Articles of Association and to such approval of the information that is timely, accurate and relevant.
shareholders in general meeting as may be required from time to time and ensures that the necessary resources are in Matters specifically reserved for decision by the full Board place to enable the Companys objectives to be met.
There is an agreed procedure for directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent The Board has typically met approximately ten times a year professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
and deals with the most important aspects of the Companys affairs, including the setting of parameters for and the Board Committees monitoring of investment strategy, the review of investment performance and the extent to which borrowings may be used.
The Board has established an Audit Committee and a Remuneration and Nomination Committee.
The membership The Chief Executive Officer CEO is responsible to the Board of the Audit Committee and the Remuneration and and the AIFM for the overall management of the Company Nomination Committee is set out on pages 26 and 27.
The including investment performance, business development, roles and responsibilities of the Committees are described in shareholder relations, marketing, investment trust industry the Report of the Audit Committee on pages 41 and 42 and in matters, administration and unquoted investments.
The the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 43 to 55. duties of the CEO include leading on investment strategy and asset allocation, on the selection and monitoring of the Meetings of the Board and its Committees investment managers and their terms of reference and on the The number of formal meetings during the year of the Board use of derivatives.
The Board, in conjunction with the AIFM, and its Committees, and the attendance of the individual sets limits on matters such as asset allocation, gearing and directors at those meetings, is shown in the table that follows.
investment in derivatives, within which the CEO has discretion.
Remuneration The CEO reports to each meeting of the Board.
His report and Audit Nomination includes confirmation that the Boards investment limits and Board Committee Committee restrictions and those which govern the Companys tax status Number of meetings 10 4 2 as an investment trust, have been adhered to.
H M Henderson 10 2 2 The individual investment managers are each appointed to A L C Bell 10 4 2 manage a discrete portfolio in accordance with guidelines R W Boyle 10 4 which limit, for example, the markets in which they can M C Claydon 9 4 2 invest, the maximum size of each investment and the amount of cash that may be held in normal circumstances.
S E G A Neubert 9 They are not allowed to invest in unquoted securities, to R J Oldfield 7 2 gear the portfolio, to sell stocks short or to use derivatives.
J S Perry 9 4 The investment managers take decisions on individual B C Rogoff 10 investments and are responsible for effecting transactions on A Watson 10 4 the best available terms.
The Company and the AIFM receive monthly confirmation from each investment manager that it Not a member of the Committee but in attendance by invitation for all or has carried out its duties in accordance with their investment part of the meetings.
All the then directors attended the Annual General Meeting in In addition to his responsibilities for the overall management April 2017 other than Mr Oldfield and the Boards Away Day of the Company, the CEO manages the Direct Holdings in May 2017. portfolio.
A maximum of 10% of the Companys gross assets at the time of purchase may be invested in specialist funds within this portfolio and there are restrictions on the number, size and type of investments that may be made.
Up to a futher 38 Witan Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 As described elsewhere, the management of Witans portfolio Directors remuneration is outsourced to a number of third party investment managers The directors remuneration is detailed in the Directors around the world.
There are currently 10 such investment Remuneration Report on pages 43 to 45. managers as well as the Direct Holdings portfolio which is managed by the Chief Executive Officer.
Accountability and audit The directors statement of responsibilities in respect of the The Chief Executive Officer has responsibility under accounts is set out on page 56. delegation from the Board and the AIFM for a number of aspects of the management of the portfolio, including asset The report of the independent auditor is set out on pages 57 allocation, gearing and investment in derivatives.
The Board to 63. has set guidelines in respect of each of these aspects within which he may operate.
The Chief Executive Officer reports to The Board has delegated contractually to external agents, the Board regularly on each of these areas, as well as on the including the various investment managers, the management overall performance of the Company and other matters of of the investment portfolio, global custody which includes the significance.
safeguarding of the assets, the investment administration, management and financial accounting, company secretarial The in-house Executive management team of Witan and WIS and certain other administrative requirements and the is responsible for managing and controlling the relationships registration services.
Each of these contracts was entered with the third party managers.
into after full and proper consideration by the Board of the quality and cost of the services offered, including the control The management team receives monthly reports on systems in operation in so far as they relate to the affairs investment and compliance matters from each manager.
The Board receives and considers regular During 2017, the investment managers were asked to reports from the investment managers and ad hoc reports provide detailed information on their operational structures and information are supplied to the Board from its other and systems.
The Board also receives each year from its contractors as required.
investment managers reports on their internal controls: in most cases these include a report from the relevant Internal control companys auditors on the control policies and procedures in The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, operation.
evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company.
This process accords with the Corporate The Chief Executive Officer makes regular reports to the Governance Code guidance, is subject to regular review by the Board on the performance of and activity within the Direct Audit Committee and was fully in place during the year under Holdings portfolio.
In addition, the portfolios performance is review and up to the date of this Annual Report.
The Board independently measured, along with those of the third party remains responsible for the Companys system of internal managers.
control and has charged the Audit Committee with conducting an annual review of the effectiveness of the system, The Companys subsidiary, WIS, is authorised and regulated covering all the controls, including financial, operational and by the Financial Conduct Authority to provide investment compliance controls and risk management systems.
This products and services and was appointed as the Companys review took into account points raised during the year in the AIFM from July 2014.
The compliance structures required regular appraisal of specific areas of risk.
However, such for these activities, including a compliance manual and a a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the compliance monitoring programme, have been duly put into risks of failure to achieve the Companys business objectives place.
and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Company has a formal policy for staff to raise in confidence any concerns about possible improprieties, In accordance with provisions C2 and C3 of the Corporate whether in matters of financial reporting or otherwise, for Governance Code the Board reviews the Companys business appropriate independent investigation.
Its staff comprises only risks at least once a year.
These are analysed and recorded seven people including the Chief Executive Officer, who are in a risk map, which the Audit Committee reviews at each well known to and have frequent formal and informal contact meeting.
The Company receives from its main contractors with the members of the Board.
formal reports which detail the steps taken to monitor the areas of risk and which report the details of any known internal control failures.
Annual Report 2017 Witan Investment Trust PLC 39 Other Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Directors Report Strategic Report Corporate Governance Statement continued The Company does not have an internal audit function.
The Board encourages the Companys appointed investment Through WIS, the AIFM, it delegates to third parties the managers to engage with companies and to vote shares, management of its investments and most of its other in the best long-term interest of Witan shareholders but operations and employs only a small staff.
The investment in accordance with their own investment philosophies.
managers and certain other key contractors are subject to Where applicable, it monitors the policies of the investment external regulation and most have compliance and internal managers in respect of the UK Stewardship Code.
Elsewhere audit functions of their own.
The Companys investments in the world it can be more difficult to vote shares as each are held on its behalf by a global custodian appointed by the country has its own rules and practices regarding shareholder depositary.
A specialist firm of investment accountants and notification, voting restrictions, registration conditions and administrators is responsible for investment administration, share blocking, including, for example, dealing constraints.
for maintaining accounting records and for preparing financial Therefore, whilst the Companys investment managers are accounts, management accounts and other management apprised of the Companys approach to the stewardship of its information.
Their work is reviewed by an independent assets and the importance of sound corporate governance, accountant who also carries out some of the work that an they use their discretion according to their knowledge of the internal audit function would cover.
In addition, the Board relevant circumstances.
The investment managers report receives from the investment administrator an annual their compliance with the UK Stewardship Code, or equivalent report on its internal controls, including a report from its legislation, to the Audit Committee each year.
auditor on the control policies and procedures in operation.
The investment performance of the investment managers, In respect of the direct investments held, the Companys both individually and collectively, is measured for Witan by a Executive management maintains regular touch with the company that is independent of all the investment managers.
management of the investee holdings and engages when The corporate Company Secretary is a company with wellissues arise that are controversial or potentially prejudicial established experience in servicing investment trusts.
to the interests of Witans shareholders.
An annual report is provided to the Audit Committee in compliance with the UK The appointment of these and other professional contractors Stewardship Code.
provides a clear separation of duties and a structure of internal controls that is balanced and robust.
The Board and Approval the AIFM will continue to monitor its system of internal control This report was approved by the Board of directors on 12 March in order to provide assurance that it operates as intended and 2018 and is signed on its behalf by: the directors will review at least annually whether a function equivalent to an internal audit is needed.
H M Henderson Chairman Stewardship and the exercise of voting powers 12 March 2018 It is the Boards view that, in order to achieve long-term success, companies need to maintain high standards of corporate governance and corporate responsibility.
Therefore Witan expects the companies in which it is invested to comply with best practice in corporate governance matters, or to provide adequate explanation of any areas in which they fail to comply, whilst recognising that a different approach may be justified in special circumstances.
In respect of UK companies, current best practice in corporate governance matters is set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
40 Witan Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017
