Report of the Audit Committee Meetings of the Committee Statement by the Chairman of the The Committee held four meetings during 2017 and also met Committee in February 2018.
Meetings are usually attended, by invitation, As Chairman of the Audit Committee the Committee, I am by the Chairman of the Company, members of management, pleased to present the Report of the Committee for the year relevant external advisers and the auditors.
I report to the ended 31 December 2017.
Board after each meeting on the main matters discussed at the meeting.
In summary, the main matters arising in relation Composition and responsibilities of the Committee to 2017 were: During the year under review, the Committee comprised Assessment of the controls to ensure the ownership, four non-executive directors, including its Chairman, who valuation and liquidity of investments: this includes are appointed by the Board.
I was appointed Chairman of assessing management reports on the controls and the Committee in 2007.
The Board has taken note of the procedures of external managers and the external requirements that the Committee as a whole should have custodian administrator and the review of the audit work competence relevant to the sector in which the Company performed.
No significant issues were identified.
operates and that at least one member of the Committee should have recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee Consideration of other matters in relation to the financial is satisfied that the Committee is properly constituted in both statements including appropriateness of accounting respects: I am a Chartered Accountant and was previously policies, revenue recognition, portfolio valuation and a partner in  LLP and the other calculation of management fees.
Committee members have a combination of financial, investment and other relevant experience gained throughout their careers.
Interim and year-end reporting, in the light of the requirements of the Code of Corporate Governance issued Mr Watson, who was appointed to the Committee in 2006, by the AIC and FRC guidance to audit committees on and Mrs Claydon, who was appointed to the Committee in key developments for annual reports and non-financial 2013, were members of the Committee throughout the year.
The Committee agreed the process, timing and Mr Perry was appointed as a member of the Committee with responsibility for compliance.
Details of our qualifications and A variety of specific matters including whistleblowing, experience are given on pages 26 and 27. anti-money laundering compliance, data and IT systems security and business continuity.
As explained elsewhere The role of the Committee is to assist the directors in in this Report see page 40, the Company makes extensive protecting shareholders interests through fair, balanced and use of third party service providers, who are overseen understandable reporting, ensuring effective internal controls by the WIS Executive.
The Committee approves the and maintaining an appropriate relationship with the Groups programme of oversight and reviews the results.
The Committees role and responsibilities are set out in its terms of reference, which comply with the UK Corporate In light of the relative simplicity of the operations and Governance Code.
The terms of reference are available on the use of independent external consultants, who request from the Company Secretary and can be seen on report directly to the Committee, to advise on regulatory the Companys website www.
In summary, the compliance and adherence to internal procedures, it was Committee is responsible for: concluded that no internal audit function was required see page 40. monitoring the integrity of the Companys financial statements, including consideration of the Companys Following the appointment of WIS as the Companys AIFM, accounting policies and significant reporting judgements: the Committee works with the Risk Committee of WIS, ensuring the application of the Companys internal financial the Companys subsidiary, to ensure WIS compliance with and regulatory compliance controls and risk management Financial Conduct Authority FCA regulations.
Particular systems using external consultants where appropriate: topics in 2017 included monitoring the implementation of the regulations contained within the Client Assets sourcebook the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the CASS of the FCA.
external auditor and approving the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditor: The Committee also monitored the work required to ensure reviewing and monitoring the external auditors the Companys compliance with new legislation in 2017 and independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the 2018, including MiFID II, the Criminal Finances Act and the audit process: and General Data Protection Regulation GDPR.
reporting to the Board on how it has discharged its duties.
Risk Management has identified Strategic Report pages 18 and 19 five main areas of potential risk: market and investment Annual Report 2017 Witan Investment Trust PLC 41 Other Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Directors Report Strategic Report Report of the Audit Committee continued portfolio, operational, corporate governance, accounting, legal Financial statements and regulatory, and liquidity, and has set out the actions taken The Board has requested the Committee to confirm that in to evaluate and manage these risks.
its opinion the Board can make the required statement that the Annual Report taken as a whole is fair, balanced and The auditor has also detailed three key audit matters in its understandable and provides the information necessary report: valuation and existence of investments: accuracy for shareholders to assess the Companys position and and completeness of investment income and accuracy and performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee completeness of performance and management fees and has has given this confirmation on the basis of its review of the set out the work it has performed to satisfy itself that these whole document, underpinned by involvement in the planning have been properly reflected in the financial statements.
for its preparation, review of the processes to assure the accuracy of factual content, and by assurances from the The Committee has monitored the controls designed to Remuneration and Nomination Committee.
mitigate the risks associated with these matters during the year including reviewing managements risk report at Non-audit services each meeting and requiring amendments to both risks and The Committee has adopted the new limit on non-audit mitigating actions as appropriate.
The Committee considers fees that has been introduced with effect from January that management has carried out a robust assessment of the 2017, from which time non-audit fees cannot be more than principal risks facing the Company, including those that would 70% of the average audit fees for the last three years.
Any threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or new engagement with Grant Thornton for any non-audit liquidity and has taken appropriate action to mitigate those service must be approved in advance by the Committee.
There were no significant areas of material judgement The Committee assesses each service individually having or unadjusted errors.
considered the cost-effectiveness of the service and the impact on the auditors independence.
Going concern and viability The Committee has assessed the information, forecasts Grant Thornton are not providing any non-audit services and assumptions underlying the Viability and Going Concern to the Company other than to provide the CASS report, for Statements on pages 19 and 20 and recommended to the which their fees are budgeted at 25,000 and compliance Board that they are appropriate.
with covenants on the Secured Bonds 4,000.
The ratio of audit to non-audit work in the year was 64:36.
The Committee External audit considered that it was in the interests of the Company to Grant Thornton UK LLP was appointed as statutory auditor in appoint Grant Thornton for this work as it would not be cost- 2016.
In accordance with the current legislation, the Company effective to appoint another firm.
will need to re-tender for new auditors at least every 10 years and will have to change its auditor after 20 years.
Effectiveness of the Committee The Committee assessed its own effectiveness during The audit partner is Marcus Swales.
The auditor is required to the year.
The Committee considered that its approach was rotate partners every five years and it is proposed that Mr Swales comprehensive and appropriate and that it focused on the right should serve until the AGM in 2021, provided shareholders issues and was managed well.
Some suggestions were made to approve the continued appointment of Grant Thornton.
improve the papers provided to the Committee in order to focus the Committees review of issues and the risk register.
Accordingly, the Committee considers that the Company has complied with the provisions of the Large Companies Market Committee changes Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes As you will have read elsewhere, I shall be retiring from the and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 during the Board at the AGM on 2 May 2018.
I am pleased to report that financial year.
Mr Perry has been appointed to succeed me as Chairman of the Committee.
As a Chartered Accountant and former The Committee reviews the scope and effectiveness of the partner of Ernst & Young, he has the right experience and audit process, including agreeing the auditors assessments qualifications for this role.
of materiality, and monitors the auditors independence and objectivity.
The Committee conducts a formal review of the Approval performance of the auditor following the conclusion of the audit.
This report was approved by the Committee on 12 March 2018 In addition, Grant Thornton has been appointed to provide an and is signed on its behalf by: assurance report on client assets in accordance with the FCAs Robert Boyle Client Assets Sourcebook the CASS Report to the FCA in respect of Witan Investment Services Limited, to be completed Chairman of the Audit Committee by the end of April 2018.
12 March 2018 42 Witan Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017
