NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT The right skills, experience, independence and knowledge Nomination Committee members David Tyler Chairman Pierre Bouchut Gwyn Burr Terry Duddy Andrew Formica Judy Gibbons Board experience and balance Dear Shareholders During the year we again reviewed the composition of the Board and I am pleased to present the its Committees.
As part of this review the Committee considered: Nomination Committee report covering The number and balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors the Committees key activities in 2017.
Committee membership This report should be read in Length of tenure conjunction with the separate report Background, professional skills and experience on compliance with the UK Corporate Independence Governance Code which provides Diversity including age, gender and ethnicity other details about the Committee.
We also gave thought to how well the skills, knowledge and It can be found on pages 114 to 118 experienceof the Board continue to ensure that we can support the business to deliver effectively against our strategic objectives both of this report.
The Committee discussed emerging requirements for skills and experience on the Board as noted in the Changes to the Board 2017 Board effectiveness review and areas which could be included in During 2017 there were no changes to the membership of the Board.
future selection criteria such as digital and commercial experience Looking forward to 2018, the Committee will continue to oversee the and experience in fashion retail.
membership and composition of the Board particularly in the light of the proposed acquisition of intu properties plc which was announced Following this review the Committee is satisfied that the Board in December 2017. currently has an appropriate mix of skills, knowledge and experience to operate effectively.
The individual Directors bring a range of skills gained in diverse business environments and have excellent track records gained from working in a number of sectors.
In addition to a wide range of skills, experience of serving on other external boards Chart 48 Chart 49 Chart 50 Gender Years of service Age Male: 8 80% 0-3 years: 1 10% 41-50: 1 10% Female: 2 20% 3-6 years: 4 40% 51-60: 5 50% 6-9 years: 3 30% 61- 65: 4 40% 9 years: 2 20% 82 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Table 51 Skills and experience on the Board Audit: risk management Customer service: customer behaviours Digital technology: marketing Finance: banking: fund management French market: international business Mergers and acquisitions Property: regeneration projects Retail Shareholder relations Non-Executive Director Executive Director enables the Directors to bring the benefit of a different perspective to succession plan which includes Executive Directors, members of the debate in Board meetings.
During the year two Non-Executive Group Executive Committee and all senior management roles in the Directors served as executives on other boards.
The Committee reviewed the succession plans in place for Directors currently serve in non-executive roles on external boards.
each senior management role which take into account the immediate, The skills and experience on the Board are summarised in Table 51 emerging and longer-term succession plan for such roles.
We were above and the Directors biographies on pages 72 to 73 provide further satisfied that the plan was sufficiently robust to enable vacancies to be information about the particular skills, knowledge and experience filled on a short to medium term interim basis as well as taking into each Director brings to the Board.
account individuals of sufficient calibre to fill future vacancies on a longer-term basis.
The Committee acknowledges that in a business Diversity the size of Hammerson it is not always possible to identify internal The Board recognises the benefits of diversity in its broadest sense at successors for all roles.
all levels of the business.
In February 2018 the Board adopted a new The Committee takes a keen interest in the talent pipeline for the diversity policy which sets out the Boards ambitions and objectives future and is regularly updated by the Group HR Director on the steps regarding diversity at Board and senior management level.
This policy taken to provide learning and career development opportunities for affirms the Boards belief in the benefits of diversity in its widest sense high potential colleagues in the business.
In addition, the Directors in the board room as well as throughout the business.
Diversity on the have opportunities to meet talented individuals both when visiting the Board and in senior teams brings wider perspectives and enables more business and more formally in the board room when they are invited effective discussions and better decision-making.
The Boards policy to present on particular subjects.
aims to achieve at least one third women on the Board and Group Executive Committee by 2020.
Currently there are two female Gender pay gap reporting directors on the Board, representing 20% of its composition, and one During the year the Committee received a report on progress on the female member of the Group Executive Committee.
Gender diversity Companys approach to reporting on the gender pay gap and the steps and other measures of diversity on the Board are illustrated in the being taken to prepare the data for publication on the Groups website, charts on the opposite page and further measures of diversity are in which is required by April 2018.
The Committee approved the the People section of the Strategic Report on page 48. approach being taken and the Companys continued commitment to When drawing up selection criteria for a Board recruitment process fair pay practices.
You can read more about this on page 48. the Committee will have regard to diversity in its widest sense but will The Committee will continue to support the Board in 2018 by remain focused on recruiting on merit the best candidate for any role.
ensuring the Board has the appropriate skills, knowledge and The Committee also supports and receives updates about initiatives experience to operate effectively and deliver the Companys strategy.
within the business to create and promote a diverse organisation.
We will also continue to support the work that is being undertaken on For further information about the work taking place to promote and succession planning and diversity and inclusion at all levels support diversity and inclusion at Hammerson, see page 47. throughout the business.
Succession planning David Tyler The Committee has spent time considering this important area during Chairman of the Nomination Committee the year.
The Committee received an update paper on succession planning for the Executive Directors and the Chief Executive reported to the Committee on discussions he had held with individual Directors.
As Chairman of the Committee I also ensure that I keep closely in touch with the Executive Directors and other members of the senior management team on matters of career development and succession.
The Committee also considered the senior management HAMMERSON.
