Strategic report STRONG CLIENT RELATIONSHIPS One point of contact across the Group Building deeper client The sales team Our clients have a single relationships Investor requirements vary significantly across point of contact within investor types, geography and regulatory Our priority is to build long term partnerships our sales team, who jurisdiction.
With a well established network of with our clients, through one key point of offices in key locations and developed regulatory understands them contact, who understands the clients needs relationships in all of the markets in which we and is able to offer answers from across the and their needs operate, Man has a powerful level of insight into broad range of our strategies.
We have made investor preferences as well as regulatory significant progress in building relationships with Jonathan Sorrell requirements.
Our sales offices are strategically important asset owners over the President predominantly staffed with local people such past few years.
We continue to see our clients that investors and distributors can interact with investing in a number of different strategies specialists who speak their language and across the Group, with 56% of FUM coming understand the culture and particular nuances from clients invested in more than two products.
of doing business in that region.
We have 95 Clients are also increasingly investing across our sales and marketing people covering the EMEA different investment engines, with 59% of FUM region, 29 covering the Americas and 48 from clients invested in more than one covering the Asia Pacific region who learn investment engine.
We believe this theme will extensively about each of our investment continue as institutional investors look to work engines and have a broad knowledge of the with fewer providers.
product set available to clients.
Geographic coverage Global Sales and Marketing people Our business is well balanced geographically.
EMEA is our biggest market with 55% of FUM from clients in this region.
The US has been our 172 main geographical focus for growth for a at 31 December 2017 number of years and we have seen growth in this region accelerate over the last five years with 27% of FUM from clients in the Americas in Net flows 2017 compared to 8% in 2012.
18% of FUM comes from clients in the Asia Pacific region.
$12.8bn in 2017 18 Man Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Building long term relationships with our clients is key to growing organically, particularly as an institutionally focused business.
The breadth of our investment strategies and the strength of our structuring capabilities mean that we have the resources and experience necessary to support a wide range of clients.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2017 19
