Corporate governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Technological change and innovation The Board is keenly aware of the fast pace and challenge of technological innovation in our industry.
During the year we had presentations from both internal and external experts in the area of IT and technology.
The Board discussed with the Man AHL team the ongoing application of machine learning to Man AHLs quant strategies.
It reviewed our Technology Groups contribution to enhancing Sales and the client experience, providing scalable flexible infrastructure and increasing operational leverage.
We also reviewed the actions being taken to enhance Mans resilience to cyber risk and encouraged management to seek and share relevant learning with their counterparts in other businesses.
We will continue to request regular updates on developments in technology and digital capability to keep abreast of the challenges and opportunities being created in this space.
Stakeholder voice Introduction from the Chairman The Board is conscious of the increasing expectations placed on companies and their Boards by society at large and the added impetus given to the stakeholder voice by the Governments current Corporate 2017 was a year of good progress for Governance reforms.
theBoard as well as one of excellent The Board recognises the importance of taking account of all stakeholder performance by the business and interests for the support and protection of Mans long term growth.
reviewed progress on the development of business partnerships with the Companys major clients and the creation of customised product solutions Following certain improvements introduced at the beginning of the to meet investor needs.
It has discussed the feedback from the 2017 year and the embedding of the new executive team appointed in 2016, employee survey and explored the impact of Mans recruitment, learning feedback from the 2017 Board evaluation indicated a number of areas and development programmes, the retention of talent through internal of progress.
promotion and improvements in diversity.
The Board is also very aware of the importance of the Companys role in the societies in which it operates There was particular appreciation of the quality of discussion, the and has discussed expanding and enhancing the Companys and our opportunity for open and inclusive debate and the strong engagement of peoples involvement with local good causes.
More specific reviews of the the executive team.
Full details of the Boards processes, areas of attention interests of stakeholders, including customers, staff and suppliers, will be and activities during 2017 are given in the main body of this report.
In this undertaken in the current year.
introduction, I have highlighted a number of changes we introduced and key areas on which we focused.
Also noted are areas where further work Adherence to business principles is required and planned in 2018.
While recognising the strength of Mans business culture, the Board has questioned management on the extent to which the Companys business Strategy principles are embedded in employees day to day behaviours and In recognition of the importance Board members give to strategy debate, decision making, including any variation of penetration across different we have built more time into our regular meetings for deep dive reviews teams.
The Board recognises that it is challenging for management to with senior management of individual business strategies and operations.
report and the Board to monitor qualitative issues of this kind.
We will, These are interactive sessions which are centred on discussion and however, continue to encourage management to analyse the impacts of challenge and have been well received by both Board members and business culture and discuss progress and weaknesses, particularly as management teams.
The regular review of individual business strategies the business grows.
enabled us to concentrate our annual strategy session on Mans long term direction and structure, including consideration of different views Diversity and inclusion presented by external speakers on the future of asset management.
The Board recognises the value of diversity on the Board and in the Arising from this long term review, we identified a number of related workforce as a whole.
We have updated our Board diversity policy to strategic topics to be debated in future meetings.
embrace diversity in its broadest sense, both in our approach to new Board appointments and in our oversight and encouragement of diversity Management performance and risk and inclusion initiatives throughout the firm.
The Boards updated policy We have continued to review managements execution of strategy and and disclosure on how it was implemented during the year is set out on monitored the impact of recent business improvements, notably the page 64.
This is another area of work in progress where we are confident changes made within Mans discretionary investment manager, Man GLG.
that the measures we are taking will in time deliver a more diverse talent Risk is always a key area of focus for a business such as Man and the base in the business and on the Board.
Board has considered it both as a standalone topic and as an important factor in our decision making and business and strategic reviews.
We People explored in particular the uncertainties, integration challenge and I should like to congratulate the executive directors and all our people opportunity costs attaching to potential acquisitions, Brexit, regulatory across the world for their excellent achievements during the year and to changes and technology.
In our review of the substantial progress made thank all my non-executive colleagues for their continued contribution and by our Sales teams, we discussed the potential risk of concentration of teamwork.
I have greatly enjoyed working with them all.
The Board will assets in certain strategies and clients.
continue its overall focus on delivering long term value to our shareholders, fund investors and other stakeholders.
Lord Livingston of Parkhead Chairman 44 Man Group plc Annual Report 2017
