Corporate governance NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Membership and meeting attendance Formal meeting Committee member attendance Ian Livingston Chairman 1 1 Richard Berliand 1 1 Matthew Lester 1 1 Phillip Colebatch was a member of the Committee from 1 January until 5 May 2017 but no formal meetings were held during this period.
Luke Ellis attends meetings by invitation of the Chairman.
Role The keep the Boards composition in terms of Committees competency, skills, experience, background and The Committees main work during 2017 primary role diversity under regular review in response to changing business needs: was to continue to seek new non-executive identify the particular competency and directors who would be able to bring experience base required for a specific Board appointment and conduct the search and additional skills to the business and selection process: enhance the diversity of the Board.
recommend the appointment of new candidates to the Board and the renewal, where appropriate, of existing non-executive director appointments: and The Committee also focused on review and challenge senior management senior management development and development and succession plans.
succession following the successful new The Committees full terms of reference, which are reviewed by the top management structure introduced Committee and submitted to the Board for approval on an annual basis, are available on the Companys website www.
com corporateby Luke Ellis on his appointment as governance.
Meetings in 2017 Following the streamlining of Committee membership at the end of 2016, the Committee was able to discuss and share views on possible The Committee held one formal meeting during the year at which all non-executive candidates and agree any follow up steps both quickly and members were present.
In addition, as noted above, I had frequent calls informally without the need for formal scheduled meetings.
Progress on and face to face conversations with my Committee colleagues to discuss this search, on which I updated the Board at regular intervals during the progress on our NED search and consider the renewal of certain existing year, is reported below.
The Committee also met twice informally with the full non-executive team to discuss top management development As in previous years, the Committee continued its review of senior and succession plans.
management development and succession plans within our biannual nonexecutive dinners.
Luke Ellis joins us on these occasions to talk through Further details of the business discussed during the year are given on the his plans following which we have the opportunity for private discussion.
In December the Committee held a formal meeting at which it reviewed the proposed update of the Board diversity policy prior to its consideration and approval by the Board.
The policy is discussed in more detail opposite and set out in full on page 64.
62 Man Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Business during the year 2017 Committee evaluation New non-executive director search As noted on page 53, this years Committee evaluation was conducted as We were pleased to welcome Kate Barker to the Board in April 2017 as part of the main Board evaluation.
Questions relating to the Committees recommended by the Committee and agreed by the Board at the end of progress against its agreed 2017 priorities and its operation during the 2016.
Kate brings us strategic thinking, deep economic insight and a good year were included in a written assessment circulated by the Company understanding of financial markets from her broad ranging career as a top Secretary.
The responses were consolidated in an unattributed summary level business economist.
report and discussed on an individual basis by me with Committee members.
The findings of the evaluation and priorities for 2018 arising from At the same time we continued our search for new non-executive directors the written assessment and my discussions were reviewed and agreed by to bring additional skills and experience to the Board.
We recognised the Committee and Board and are set out below.
that we were unlikely to find the broad range of skills required fund management expertise, international and particularly US exposure, legal Assessment of progress and regulatory experience and financial technology and digital capability in one person.
We were also intent on identifying someone with the against 2017 actions intellect, knowledge and personality to contribute to and enjoy working Progress made Agreed 2018 actions on our Board while seeking to enhance its diversity.
In addition, it was important to avoid any candidates potential industry conflict or time Increase Board The appointment of In 2018 we shall continue commitment to another role which might prejudice Mans interests.
diversity Kate Barker brought to seek opportunities to additional strategic increase diversity in its With the support of The Zygos Partnership, an executive search firm which thinking, economic broadest sense to reflect has no other connection with the Company, the Committee reviewed long insight and market the spread of the lists of names and has interviewed a large number of potential candidates.
knowledge to the Companys business.
The Committee believes that it has made good progress and expects to Board.
be able to recommend a preferred appointee to the Board in due course.
Bring additional Reviewed and Continue the search in Renewal of existing non-executive director appointments direct experience interviewed a large 2018 and seek to fill During the year, taking account of the progress of the new non-executive of fund number of candidates.
additional gaps identified in director search and the need for both the continuity and refreshing of management, US financial technology and the Boards capability and experience, the Committee considered the exposure and digital capability, renewal of the appointments of Ms Shapiro and Mr Cryan as nonregulatory legal recognising that we may executive directors on the expiry of their second and first terms of expertise to the need to recommend more office respectively.
After full discussion and review, the Committee decided Board than one appointment.
to recommend to the Board the renewal of Ms Shapiros and Mr Cryans appointments for a further one year and three years respectively.
Review of senior Good discussion In 2018 the intention management with Luke Ellis of is to extend this review Senior management development and succession development and development and to the next layer of The Committee took advantage of the opportunity provided by our regular succession succession plans for management below Senior informal non-executive dinners held during the year for in depth review planning outside the Senior Management Executive and discussion of development and succession planning for the top formal meetings Management Committee level.
management roles below the Board.
Luke Ellis joined these meetings Executive Committee to talk through his plans for the new Senior Management Executive roles.
Committee roles through which he runs the business.
Details of the structure of the Senior Management Executive Committee are given on page 49.
Lord Livingston of Parkhead Chairman Diversity To reflect the importance of diversity in making new appointments to the Board and in senior management development and succession planning, the Committee reviewed and recommended to the Board an updated Board diversity policy.
This explains the Boards understanding of the value and impact of diversity in its broadest sense and the measures, processes and inputs through which it seeks to increase diversity on the Board and influence and monitor its introduction and impact within the Company as a whole.
The policy is fully aligned with Mans diversity and inclusion statement.
Further details of our diversity and inclusion activities throughout the firm are given in the People and Culture section on pages 38 and 39.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2017 63 Corporate governance NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Board diversity policy Implementation of policy during 2017 Overview Board appointments The Board embraces and seeks to promote diversity in its broadest sense, both in terms of its own composition and within Mans senior management and employee base as a whole.
It sees diversity as the combination and interaction of people with different knowledge, skills, experience, Following discussion and recommendation by the Nomination backgrounds and outlooks and believes that this creates greater value Committee, the Board broadened its knowledge and experience base and leads to better decision making and performance at all levels of with the appointment of Kate Barker as a non-executive director with the organisation.
The Board is also aware of the focus on and voluntary effect from 1 April.
From her wide ranging career as a top level business targets proposed for building gender and ethnic diversity into FTSE economist, Kate brings good understanding of global economies and company boards and senior management.
While we do not believe that markets and a diverse outlook from her non-executive experience in the adoption of a specific output target will on its own address the long different institutions and sectors.
standing gender diversity challenge within the financial services sector, we will continue to pursue, encourage and monitor progress on a Plans for 2018 number of processes, initiatives and measures which we believe The Nomination Committee will continue to seek additional nonwill in the longer term collectively deliver the desired improvement executive skills and experience, including direct fund management in gender balance across the firm.
Set out below are three main expertise, US market exposure, regulatory and legal knowledge, and areas on which we are focusing in pursuing our policy objectives.
financial technology and digital capability.
A broad search will be conducted across a range of sources to identify candidates who Board appointments can bring these different perspectives to the business.
When seeking to make a new appointment, the Board will focus first on identifying an individual with the capability, expertise and experience which are required to discharge the specific role and will select the best candidate on that basis.
Within this remit, it recognises and will pursue Oversight of recruitment, the added value to be derived from diversity, including gender and ethnic development and inclusion diversity.
To support this objective, we adopt a formal approach to Board search which includes insisting on strong representation of underrepresented groups on search firms long and short lists and remaining A wide ranging overview of People and Culture presented to the Board conscious of any potential for bias in the interview and selection process.
by management included details of Mans current global inclusion and We will also consider and explore alternative routes to the supply of diversity statistics and progress on a wide range of supporting appropriate candidates.
The Board noted and discussed the impact of the more diverse and collaborative culture created by the colocation in Oversight of recruitment, development and inclusion the London office of different investment management teams.
It reviewed The Board continues to encourage and oversee the output from a wide the broadening of recruitment channels, the extension of the women range of recruitment and people development policies and initiatives Returner programme and the wide range of Mans Diversity and led by the executive management which aim to grow the diversity of Inclusion network activities.
It received regular updates on specific Mans talent pool, provide development opportunities for all and embed people hires and promotions and led fuller discussions with Luke Ellis an inclusive culture.
While we cannot lead such initiatives directly, our on development and succession planning for the Senior Management role is to monitor and challenge the impact they are having on the Executive Committee roles.
The Board noted the diversity challenges firm.
As part of this oversight we review the level of gender diversity highlighted in all these discussions and encouraged management to introduced through our summer internship and graduate programmes continue to seek and take advantage of opportunities to deliver further and womens progression over time through mentoring, retention and progress in this area.
We also keep updated on Mans relationships with partners who can help source talent from more diverse backgrounds Plans for 2018 and under-represented groups and Mans sponsorship of events As a follow up to its review of the Senior Manager Executive Committee which encourage more diverse talent into financial careers.
roles, the Board will explore with Luke Ellis his development and succession plans for managers immediately below that level and will In addition, a key role of the Nomination Committee is to monitor and monitor and challenge progress made in increasing diversity within that discuss with the CEO the career development and succession plans key population.
for senior management across the firm, including the progress of any under-represented groups, and to promote the development of a strong and diverse pipeline of talent for future executive leadership Review and reporting and Board positions.
Review and reporting The Board is committed to the development of diversity on the Board and Feedback from the 2017 Nomination Committee and Board evaluations among Mans employees.
It will seek feedback on Board balance and any confirmed the positive progress made in diversifying the Board over the missing skills and experience in its annual Board evaluation and will keep past year while identifying additional skills, expertise and perspectives the review and challenge of Mans people development, inclusion and which would strengthen it further.
The Board noted the progress made diversity programmes firmly on the Board agenda.
An account of the on diversity awareness and development within the firm under Lukes Boards activities and progress against its objectives in these areas leadership and reinforced the need for further Board and management will be given in the Annual Report each year.
focus on people development and the promotion of diversity through recruitment, talent management and succession during 2018.
64 Man Group plc Annual Report 2017
