Corporate governance AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT Membership and meeting attendance I am supported in my role as Chairman of the ARCom by Andrew Horton and Dev Sanyal, both of whom are independent non-executive directors.
Phillip Colebatch stepped down from the Board on 30 September 2017 and therefore ceased to be a member of the ARCom from that date.
I am considered to have recent and relevant financial experience for the purposes of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and the ARCom as a whole has competence relevant to the sector in which the Group operates.
Further details of the ARCom members experience and areas of expertise and contribution are provided on page 47.
During the year, we met on six occasions with attendance at these meetings set out below: Meeting Committee member attendance During the year the Audit and Risk Matthew Lester 6 6 1&3 Phillip Colebatch 3 4 Committee the ARCom has continued to 2&3 Andrew Horton 5 6 support the Board in its assessment of the Dev Sanyal 6 6 integrity of the Groups financial reporting, 1 Phillip Colebatch stepped down from the Board on 30 September 2017.
He was not able to attend the ARCom meeting in February 2017 which had to be rescheduled at short notice to monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups accommodate conflicting commitments of other ARCom members.
2 Owing to conflicting business commitments, Andrew Horton was not able to attend the systems of risk management and internal ARCom meeting in October 2017.
3 Phillip and Andrew both received and reviewed the papers to be considered at the meetings controls, and overseeing the activities of the and had the opportunity to direct any questions to the Chairman in advance of the meetings.
Groups Internal Audit function and its The Board Chairman, CEO, CFO and CAO are invited to attend committee external auditor.
meetings along with the Head of Internal Audit and representatives from Deloitte LLP Deloitte, the Groups external auditor.
Other members of the The ARCom has also dedicated significant time to considering regulatory senior management team attend for those items that are relevant to them.
At developments impacting the Group such as MiFID II, to reviewing and the end of each meeting, the ARCom meets with the Head of Internal Audit challenging the process supporting the Groups ICAAP submission and to and representatives from Deloitte in the absence of management.
Both the discussing the integration of the Aalto acquisition.
We have also made a Head of Internal Audit and Deloitte have direct access to me should they number of changes to the ARComs forward agenda during the year wish to raise any concerns outside formal meetings.
which have enabled us to develop our understanding of the oversight and governance arrangements that exist in respect of Mans overseas How the ARCom operates offices, the most significant risk issues facing certain key offices and the processes and controls that have been implemented to mitigate Forward The ARComs annual forward agenda covers key events such risks.
agenda in the financial reporting cycle, specific risk matters identified by the ARCom and standing items that it is In addition, the ARCom has continued to challenge whether the right required to consider in accordance with its terms of culture exists within Man to ensure transparency and accuracy of financial reference.
The forward agenda is reviewed and updated reporting and has undertaken a candid assessment of the risks facing the in response to changing business risks and priorities.
Group and the degree to which they are effectively mitigated.
The ARCom has been pleased to see continued progress in this area.
Agenda In order to identify key issues impacting the business that setting may require consideration by the ARCom, agenda setting Matthew Lester meetings meetings, which I attend together with members of the Chairman, Audit and Risk Committee senior management team, the Head of Internal Audit and representatives from Deloitte, are held in advance of each committee meeting.
Committee At each meeting, the ARCom considers dashboards meetings which highlight and monitor changes in the key risks impacting the business, compliance matters, the financial controls framework and internal controls.
The dashboards are designed to enable the ARCom to focus on any matters that may require further discussion.
The ARCom also receives reports and presentations on key financial reporting, risk, compliance and audit matters from management who attend committee meetings to report on significant issues and respond to queries raised by the ARCom.
Board I report to the Board on the key areas of discussion and reporting make recommendations as appropriate following each committee meeting.
56 Man Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Roles and responsibilities How the ARCom has discharged its roles The ARCom is integral to Man Groups governance framework through its and responsibilities during 2017 oversight of the Groups financial reporting, risk management and internal Financial reporting controls, and internal and external audit.
The ARComs roles and Key accounting judgements and estimates responsibilities are outlined below, together with an explanation of how it As part of the process for monitoring the integrity of the financial has discharged its responsibilities during the year.
Full terms of reference information contained in the interim and annual financial statements, the for the ARCom, which are reviewed on an annual basis and referred to the ARCom reviewed the key accounting policies, judgements and estimates Board for approval, are available on the Companys website www.
adopted by management and confirmed that these were appropriate.
significant areas of judgement and estimation identified by the ARCom, in conjunction with management and the external auditor, are set out in the Financial Monitor the integrity of the financial information table on page 58.
Reporting contained in the interim and annual financial statements with particular focus on key accounting Viability and going concern policies, judgements and estimates and the The ARCom reviewed the viability statement as set out on page 31 financial controls framework.
and the processes supporting the viability assessment.
After significant Review the viability and going concern statements discussion and having considered the Groups prospects, principal and recommend their approval to the Board.
risks, forecast regulatory capital surplus and liquidity resources and Advise the Board on whether the ARCom believes requirements, the ARCom concluded that the three-year assessment the Interim and Annual Reports to be fair, balanced period, in line with the Groups business planning horizon, continued to and understandable.
be appropriate and recommended the draft viability statement to the Risk Board for approval.
Monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups Management, systems of risk management, capital adequacy ICAAP, The ARCom also reviewed the going concern disclosure which is set and internal controls please refer to page 32 for Internal out on page 110 and concluded that the Group and the Company further details.
Controls & had adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the Ensure that a robust assessment of the principal Compliance foreseeable future and confirmed to the Board that it was appropriate for risks facing the Group has been undertaken and the Groups financial statements to be prepared on a going concern basis.
advise the Board on the management and mitigation of these risks.
Fair, balanced and understandable assessment Review the Groups Internal Capital Adequacy At the request of the Board, the ARCom reviewed the interim and Assessment Process ICAAP including regulatory annual financial statements in conjunction with the narrative sections and economic capital, downside forecasts, and the of the interim and annual reports to ensure that there was consistency wind down cost.
in the information reported, that sufficient weight had been given to Review the effectiveness of the Groups regulatory both positive and negative aspects of business performance, that reporting activities, Compliance function and there was an appropriate balance between statutory and adjusted arrangements for staff to raise concerns, in performance measures, and that key messages had been presented confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial coherently.
The ARCom concluded that, taken as a whole, the reporting or other matters.
interim and annual reports were fair, balanced and understandable Report to the Remuneration Committee any findings and provided the information necessary for shareholders to assess in relation to risk matters which may impact its the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
decision on discretionary remuneration payments.
Internal Audit Approve the annual Internal Audit Plan and Charter Communications with the Financial Reporting Council FRC and Internal Audit activities.
As reported last year, the Company received a letter from the FRC Review the effectiveness of the Internal Audit in November 2016 which raised a number of questions around function.
contingent consideration payments in relation to the Numeric, Review all significant Internal Audit Silvermine and NewSmith acquisitions and the accounting recommendations and oversee progress in treatment of Reservoir Trust assets.
The Company responded to addressing these.
these queries and, in the first half of 2017, received a further letter External Audit Recommend to the Board the appointment, and from the FRC which confirmed that it had concluded its enquiries determine the remuneration, of the external auditor, and that no changes to the key accounting judgements that including reviewing the external auditors supported the areas highlighted in the letter were required.
Review and approve the external audit plan and the external auditors control procedures.
Review the findings of the external audit and the external auditors management letter and oversee management action to address the findings where necessary.
Approve and monitor the policies relating to the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor and the hiring of personnel from the external auditor.
Ensure that the tendering, selection and rotation of the external audit services contract are carried out in accordance with applicable law, regulation and best practice.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2017 57 Corporate governance AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Key accounting judgements and estimates Matter considered Action Outcome The ARCom discussed and challenged After full discussion, the ARCom confirmed that it Accounting treatment of Aalto acquisition managements assessment that all of the purchase agreed with managements assessment that the The accounting treatment of the purchase price price should be accounted for as consideration full Aalto purchase price should be accounted for of the Aalto acquisition required judgement to determine whether each component should be rather than remuneration in accordance with the as purchase consideration.
indicators set out in IFRS 3. accounted for as purchase consideration and therefore as goodwill and acquired intangibles on the balance sheet or as a post-acquisition P&L remuneration cost.
i Please refer to Note 10 in the Group financial statements for further details.
Impairment assessment of goodwill and The ARCom considered reports from After debate and challenge, the ARCom concluded management outlining the methodology for that no impairment expense was required to be acquired intangibles the impairment assessment and challenged the recorded for the year ended 31 December 2017.
Goodwill and acquired intangibles for each of the assumptions underpinning the goodwill valuation Groups cash generating units Man AHL, Man model including discount rates, the change in GLG, Man FRM, Man Numeric and Man Global cost allocation methodology, flow projections and Private Markets are tested for impairment at least headroom availability.
annually through the application of a value in use model.
This requires estimates concerning future cash flows, growth rates and associated discount rates to be taken into account.
Fair value of contingent consideration The ARCom considered managements fair value After a full discussion, the ARCom confirmed that The valuation of the contingent consideration is assessment of the contingent consideration it was comfortable with the proposed accounting creditors of the Numeric, Aalto, Pine Grove, BAML, treatment and that the net increase in the fair value dependent on estimates concerning the projected FRM, Silvermine and NewSmith earn-outs which of the contingent consideration was appropriate.
A future growth rates and cash flows based upon managements view of future business prospects projected an overall net increase in the fair value fair value adjustment of $16m has been recognised and associated discount rates.
of the contingent consideration of $16m.
The net in the income statement.
increase was primarily attributable to higher than budgeted performance for Numeric and small i Please refer to Notes 15 and 25 in movements in actuals versus forecast for Aalto, the Group financial statements for Pine Grove, BAML and FRM.
Consolidation of investment in funds The ARCom reviewed managements assessment The ARCom concluded that it was satisfied with of the investments which the Group is deemed to managements assessment of the entities which The Group holds seeding investments in a number control in accordance with IFRS 10. are deemed to be controlled by the Group and of funds which it manages.
Judgement is required to be exercised in terms of assessing whether the associated accounting treatment.
Four funds these investments are controlled by the Group have been classified as held for sale and nine investments have been consolidated on a line by and therefore need to be consolidated into the line basis with a grossing up impact on the balance Groups financial statements.
i Please refer to Note 13 in the Group financial statements for further details.
The ARCom discussed the existing methodology The ARCom confirmed that it was satisfied that a Deferred tax assets DTA underpinning the valuation of the DTA which uses three year period was the most appropriate basis The Group has unrecognised deferred tax assets in the US which largely represent historical tax a three year period to forecast profits.
The ARCom upon which to forecast profits in accordance with also challenged managements assessment that the Groups business planning horizon and that the losses and future deductions for amortisation this methodology continues to remain appropriate existing methodology continued to be appropriate.
of goodwill and other intangible assets that will and represents their best estimate of probable A movement in the DTA of $17m has been reduce the tax payable in the US.
The value of the DTA recognised requires judgement regarding the future taxable profits.
recognised in the income statement.
assessment of probable future profits.
i Please refer to Note 7 in the Group financial statements for further details.
The ARCom reviewed and discussed the APMs The ARCom noted that adjusted profit over the last Alternative performance contained in the interim and annual reports having five years was broadly consistent with cash inflows measures APMs considered a paper prepared by management from operating activities and therefore concluded Man assesses the performance of the Group which compared adjusted profit to operating cash that the APMs were appropriate, provided a fair using a variety of APMs, most significantly flows for the last five years in aggregate.
assessment of the underlying profitability of the adjusted profit before tax.
The directors focus business and were appropriately defined and on adjusted profit as this reflects the underlying reconciled to statutory measures as disclosed on trends in the business and the revenue and costs pages 147 to 150. that drive the Groups cash flow.
i Please refer to pages 147 to 150 for further details.
58 Man Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Compliance Risk management, internal controls During the year, the Head of Compliance & Regulatory presented and compliance the 2017 Compliance overview.
Particular focus was given to key developments in financial regulation including MiFID II and the Senior Oversight of risk and control environment key business areas Managers and Certification Regime SMCR and their impact on the The ARCom was keen to develop its understanding of the governance business and the industry in general.
Consideration was also given to the arrangements that exist within Mans overseas offices and the exercise of increasing complexity within the financial crime environment and the use central oversight.
As a result, the ARComs forward agenda was revised of technology to mitigate the associated risks.
The ARCom also reviewed with the in-depth risk reviews focusing on key overseas offices rather than and discussed the Groups whistleblowing policy and processes and the investment management businesses.
the steps that had been taken by the management team to improve awareness of the independent, confidential and external reporting Senior representatives from the US and Japanese businesses were service that was available to staff to raise concerns.
invited to present on the risk and control profile of their respective areas.
These presentations provided the ARCom with real insight into the In addition, the Money Laundering and Reporting Officer MLRO significant risks perceived by each business and the controls that exist to presented his 2016 annual report in the first half of 2017 and confirmed manage and mitigate these risks as appropriate.
Key areas of discussion that Man had established and maintained an effective AML CTF are set out below.
The ARCom intends to continue its review of Mans programme with proportionate systems and controls.
Updates were overseas offices in the year ahead with further presentations scheduled also provided during 2017 on the implementation of the Fourth EU throughout 2018.
Finance The ARCom received a presentation from the Group Financial Controller on the Finance functions governance arrangements and the key areas of focus during 2017 and 2018.
Particular consideration was given to career development and training across the function, changes to the structure of Japan US the US finance teams and improvements to process efficiency including The ARCom was provided Discussion focused on the the planned implementation of a new general ledger and consolidation with an overview of the significant growth of the US system in 2018.
The ARCom also received a number of updates from the opportunities and key objectives business over the previous five Head of Tax during the year on the new criminal offences in respect of the for the Japanese business years, particularly the increased failure to prevent the facilitation of tax evasion that had been introduced by and discussed the strategic Sales and Investment management the UK Criminal Finances Act 2017 and the steps that had been taken by relationship with Sumitomo presence in the region.
The the Group to ensure that reasonable prevention procedures were in place Mitsui Trust Bank.
The interaction ARCom also discussed the across the business globally.
between the Japanese office and challenges and risks associated Man Groups global functions with operating from multiple US Operations and Technology was also considered, as was locations and the extent to which The Groups Chief Operating Officer updated the ARCom on changes the role of the Board of Man such risks were mitigated through impacting the risk and control environment of the Operations and Group Japan Limited based the centralisation of controls, Technology functions.
Key areas of discussion included MiFID II, in Guernsey in overseeing the processes and reporting lines.
particularly research costs and best execution, the transition of Mans fund activities of its Japanese branch.
administration and agency business to an alternative service provider, the CASS Client Assets compliance framework and the selection of a leading order management platform to upgrade legacy technology solutions.
The ARCom also received an update at its meeting in May on the actions taken by management to address the operational issues identified in Ongoing monitoring of the Groups systems of risk management Australia which I reported on last year.
and internal control The ARCom is satisfied that, through its regular review of dashboards, Oversight of risk and control environment key functional areas its in-depth assessment of key business areas and functions, its The ARCom also considered presentations from each of the Groups key consideration of changes to the Risk Governance and Appetite Framework functional areas.
and its ongoing review of progress against the Internal Audit Plan as described below, it is monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups systems Risk of risk management and internal control on an ongoing basis.
Further The ARCom received an update on the Group Risk function and details can be found in the Risk Management section on page 32. discussed its role in supporting the Groups governance processes, primarily through the maintenance of the Groups Authorities Summary During the year, a number of operational and regulatory matters that had please see page 49 for further details and the operation of the Risk occurred were reported to the ARCom.
A paper summarising these Governance and Appetite Framework the Framework.
During the matters was considered by the ARCom at its December 2017 and year, the ARCom considered a number of proposed changes to February 2018 meetings.
Whilst Man sought to improve its processes in the Framework which had been developed to align the risk appetite response to the matters identified, they were not considered sufficiently process with other metrics and processes within the business.
The material in number or nature either to require separate disclosure in the ARCom endorsed the revised Framework and recommended it to financial statements or to indicate that the control environment had not the Board for approval.
At its meeting in May, the ARCom spent been operating effectively.
considerable time discussing the process supporting the Groups ICAAP prior to its submission to the Board in July.
ARCom members reviewed and challenged the economic modelling approach and assumptions as well as the model inputs and outputs.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2017 59 Corporate governance AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED The table below shows the remuneration paid to Deloitte in 2016 and 2017.
Internal Audit 2017 2016 2018 Internal Audit Plan $000 $000 The Groups Internal Audit function continues to be performed by KPMG.
Fees payable to the external auditor for the During the year, the ARCom reviewed and approved the 2018 Internal audit of the Company and the consolidated Audit Plan the Plan which included details of the planned audit reviews financial statements 456 451 for 2018 and the team responsible for delivering the Plan.
Other services: The ARCom received and discussed Internal Audit reports presented The audit of the Companys subsidiaries by the Head of Internal Audit at each meeting and monitored progress pursuant to legislation 1,572 1,529 against the 2017 Plan.
Whilst no significant weaknesses were identified Audit-related assurance services 341 308 in any of the Internal Audit reports, a number of improvements to certain All other services 54 54 processes and controls were implemented in response to the recommendations put forward.
Total auditors remuneration 2,423 2,342 Effectiveness of Internal Audit function Following a formal assessment of the external auditors independence and A review of the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function was undertaken objectivity at its meeting in February 2018, the ARCom concluded that during the year which was facilitated internally.
A questionnaire, which Deloitte continued to be independent and objective.
covered areas such as internal audit resourcing, delivery and reporting was circulated to and completed by key stakeholders.
The output of the Effectiveness of external audit process review indicated that, overall, the Internal Audit function continued to be At the May 2017 meeting, the ARCom considered responses to a effective.
The audit planning process and the Head of Internal Audits questionnaire which had been completed by ARCom members and knowledge of Mans business and risk environment were identified as various members of the management team in order to facilitate the key areas of strength whilst it was suggested that further co-ordination ARComs formal assessment of the effectiveness of the external audit with the external audit function would encourage increased efficiency.
The questionnaire focused on several components of the Respondents also indicated that they were keen to understand how external audit process including the quality of the audit partner and team, Mans control environment compared to industry best practice and planning and execution of the audit, communication with the ARCom and whether there were any areas where improvements could be made.
the external auditors independence and objectivity.
In response to this feedback, the Internal Audit function undertook an The responses indicated that, overall, Deloitte was performing in line with assessment of the maturity of Man Groups control environment across a expectations and that the quality of the audit team was a key area of number of thematic areas using the experience of the internal audit work strength.
The output of the review also highlighted that certain areas performed and knowledge obtained across other organisations, the that had been identified as requiring improvement in the previous years output of which was discussed by the ARCom.
assessment, particularly around the direct involvement of specialists and the extension of the controls-based approach, had been addressed in the External Audit 2016 audit.
A number of areas, primarily around resourcing of subsidiary audits and further use of specialists, were identified as requiring further 2017 external audit plan consideration and Deloittes plans to address these issues were set out in At the October meeting, Deloittes 2017 external audit plan was presented the 2017 Audit Plan.
After extensive discussion, the ARCom concluded by David Barnes, who took over the role as the lead engagement partner that the external audit process in respect of the 2016 financial statements during the year.
The plan, which was discussed and approved by the had been effective.
ARCom, set out the proposed materiality threshold, the scope of the audit and the significant audit risks that had been identified.
Reappointment of Deloitte as external auditor Deloitte was appointed as the Groups external auditor in 2014, following a Auditor independence and the provision of non-audit services tender process led by the ARCom in 2013.
In accordance with the Code In order to safeguard the independence and objectivity of the external and the Competition and Markets Authoritys Order 2014 the Order, the auditor, the ARCom is responsible for the development, implementation Company will be required to put its external audit process out to tender and monitoring of the Groups policies on the provision of non-audit again in 2023 at the latest with mandatory rotation of the external auditors services and the hiring of personnel from the external auditor.
The required by 2033 pursuant to the EU Audit Regulation.
The ARCom ARCom reviewed and approved these policies during the year.
confirms that the Company has complied with the provisions of the Order for the financial year under review.
Summary of non-audit policy In accordance with the non-audit services policy, any potential services Following the ARComs review of the effectiveness of the external audit to be provided by the external auditor, which are not excluded under the process and its assessment of the external auditors independence and non-audit services policy but which have an expected value of $75,000 objectivity, it has recommended the reappointment of Deloitte as the or more, must be approved by the ARCom in advance.
The non-audit Groups external auditor to the Board for recommendation and approval services fees in aggregate must not exceed 70% of the statutory audit by shareholders at the 2018 Annual General Meeting.
Further details can be found on the Companys website.
60 Man Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements How the ARCom has assessed its effectiveness Outlined in the table below are the three key areas that were identified in the ARComs 2016 evaluation as requiring further consideration and development during 2017, together with progress that has been achieved in 2017.
2016 evaluation 2017 progress Undertake in-depth The forward agenda for 2017 was revised reviews of new business and the in-depth risk reviews focused on areas as the Group particular overseas locations i. e. Japan continues to diversify and the US rather than the investment management businesses.
The in-depth reviews will be supplemented by more thematic reviews of specific risk areas during 2018.
Organise further Based on feedback from the ARCom, targeted training Board training sessions took place on regulatory throughout 2017 covering key accounting developments and key updates, governance over IT matters, issues impacting the corporate governance and emerging ARCom regulation.
Please refer to page 53 of the Corporate Governance report for further details.
Explore areas of best Deloitte highlighted a number of areas of practice among other best practice among other audit Audit Committees committees and advised that representatives from the external audit team often attended agenda setting meetings.
In response to this feedback, representatives from Deloitte now attend the ARComs agenda setting meetings.
In December 2017, the ARCom conducted a further evaluation of its effectiveness, which was facilitated internally.
Questionnaires, which covered topics such as composition, meeting effectiveness and engagement with the Internal Audit function and with Deloitte, were circulated to all ARCom members and regular attendees.
The findings of the evaluation confirmed that the ARCom was operating effectively and responses indicated that meetings were well structured with an appropriate level of constructive challenge provided by all members.
Areas identified for focus in 2018 included the introduction of thematic risk-focused reviews, streamlining the agenda for certain meetings and organising further training on areas identified by ARCom members.
Matthew Lester Chairman, Audit and Risk Committee Man Group plc Annual Report 2017 61
