Corporate Governance report continued Board activity An insight into the year How governance supported the delivery of Hammersons strategy in 2017 Hammersons governance framework is designed to support our strategy and is underpinned by the Companys culture and values.
These values: ambition, respect, collaboration and responsibility, are central to the way we run the business.
The Companys success depends on the Boards continual commitment to high standards of corporate governance and a strong, positive culture across the business while managing effectively the risks and uncertainties of the markets in which we operate.
We have set out below how the Boards governance role links to the strategic objectives of the business and the risks identified in the Risk Management Framework and what the Board did during the year to support those objectives.
Strategic Board Risk Management Key Board activities priority governance role Framework in 2017 Determine risk appetite Macro-economic Strategy Day reviewed Focus on growing strategic focus and risks Oversight of acquisitions Retail market consumer markets disposals programme as part Recommended the potential Property investment of active management of our acquisition of intu properties plc Property development property portfolio, realising Approved disposal of Tax and regulatory proceeds to recycle into Westwood and Westwood higher growth opportunities Acquisition completion Gateway Retail Parks, Thanet, Oversight of major Saint Sbastien, Nancy and development projects Place des Halles, Strasbourg Review and approve Approved purchase of Cergy 3 corporate acquisitions shopping centre and committed to the extension project Oversight of the portfolio Retail market Approved launch of Net Create Positive strategy Review of the development Property development differentiated pipeline Visited Westquay, Acquisition completion destinations Southampton Ensure balance of interests Catastrophic event between all stakeholders Visited Victoria, Leeds People Considered value-add Environmental initiatives and technologies Oversaw progress in Croydon Partnerships development plans for the Whitgift Centre, Croydon Oversight of Groups financial Macro-economic Approved 360 million Promote performance Revolving Credit Facility Treasury financial efficiency Review of capital structure Approved early redemption Partnerships and partnerships of 250 million 6.875% bonds Review of major changes to Tax and regulatory due 2020 corporate structure People Together with 50% joint Environmental venture partner, Allianz Real Acquisition completion Estate, approved 625 million seven-year loan secured against Dundrum Town Centre, Dublin See our strategy on page 16 and the Risk Management Framework on page 63.
76 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Visiting the business Getting out and about in the business is important for the Board as this enables the Non-Executive Directors to see first-hand how our assets are run and, importantly, meet local teams.
This provides an experience of the business which cannot be replicated in the board room and also enables the Directors to engage with teams at all levels in the business.
Such activities give a real insight into how the culture and values of the business work in a day-to-day setting.
The Board generally undertakes one or two visits to operational locations during the year and holds at least one Board meeting at a Hammerson location other than the head office.
All of this gives the Directors an opportunity to review operations, meet local teams and discuss their particular challenges.
Board visit to Westquay, Southampton In 2017 the extension to Westquay, Southampton was launched.
The June Board meeting at Westquay, Southampton enabled the Board to make a visit of the extension and the existing shopping centre.
The visit, scheduled over two days, included a tour of Southampton, a walking tour of the asset and an opportunity for the Board to meet colleagues from the local asset management and development teams.
The Board also received a presentation from the Group Product Manager and the General Manager of the shopping centre.
During the visit the Board had informal opportunities for discussion and engagement with the local teams and gained an insight into the operational challenges of running this shopping centre.
For more information see the iconic destinations section on page 20.
Following the completion of Victoria Gate and its opening in Board visit to Victoria, Leeds October 2016, this was an opportunity for the Board to tour the Companys interests in Leeds, accompanied by the Asset Manager, and view the shopping centre first-hand.
Following the tour the local teams involved in the Boards visit provided the Directors with key highlights as well as insights into the risks and challenges of running this centre and how these were being managed.
The Asset Manager gave a presentation covering the shopping centre business plan and an overview of the asset.
The Development Manager gave a review of the development to opening in October 2016 and discussed the challenges and successes and how the risks were managed during the development.
He also gave an update on future development opportunities in Leeds.
The Group Head of Insight provided an analysis of tenant and shopper data and the leasing team provided insight into the leasing strategy and the retail tenant mix.
The presentations concluded with a talk from the General Manager of the shopping centre on the approach to management of the centre and initiatives underway to deliver the business plan and results achieved.
Lunch provided a further informal opportunity for the Directors to engage with colleagues working in the shopping centre.
The Board made a visit to Victoria, Leeds in May which was scheduled outside the normal formal calendar of Board meetings.
Feedback from the Directors indicated that they had found the Allocating a full day to the visit enabled the Directors to visit very informative and that a full day to concentrate on meeting undertake a series of meetings including opportunities for the teams and visiting the asset had worked well.
Future visits like discussion and interaction with the local teams responsible for this will continue to be scheduled for the Board where possible.
development, leasing and centre management.
COM 77 Corporate Governance report continued Board Strategy Day The annual Board Strategy Day took place in the autumn.
The strategy Judy Gibbons perspective of the business is at the core of the Boards activities during the year.
on the Board Strategy Day The Strategy Day allows the Board to focus on debating ideas and reflecting on the future direction of the business in an environment This years Strategy Day provided an excellent forum for the Board and management to step back and look at the outside the board room.
It is also an opportunity to reflect on progress to date against the strategy.
In preparation for the day, the Board wider context in which the Company is operating.
The extensive and well-planned materials in the pre-reading received a background reading pack, including: helped the attendees to prepare well and consider the issues Institutional investors feedback from meetings held with the they felt were important to focus on.
Chief Executive, Head of Investor Relations and Group Financial On the day itself we had the benefit of some excellent Controller in London and Amsterdam during July 2017 external speakers who presented their views on trends in A background review of the economy and markets in which the technology and how these are influencing consumer business operates behaviour.
This led to a productive discussion as to how Key demographic, shopper, retail and technology trends these changes are affecting the retailers and what more we Hammersons performance benchmarked against that of its peers can do to add value to their businesses.
We also benefitted from the contribution to discussions made by all the The economic outlook in the UK, France and Ireland Group Executive Committee and other senior colleagues The morning was focused on customer, retail and technology who attended.
trends and Hammersons response to these.
Interesting insights were provided by two external guest speakers which stimulated The second part of the day was focused on reviewing the business in the light of these changes and discussing our discussion on ways in which Hammerson should respond to the trends.
The Non-Executive Directors also contributed personal strategic goals and approach going forward.
perspectives and views, based on their own business experience.
I find the Board Strategy Day one of the most stimulating The scope of the agenda included a set of questions to help frame the events in the Boards calendar as it provides an opportunity discussions including: for an in-depth review of the business and an evaluation of multiple scenarios that we need to be prepared for.
How has Hammerson delivered against its strategy?
What has changed in economic and market trends?
Why will customers visit Hammersons destinations in the future?
Are Hammersons assets fit for purpose as customer behaviour and retail demand evolve?
How does Hammerson maximise shareholder value?
The second half of the day was spent evaluating Hammersons portfolio in the light of its vision and strategic priorities.
The discussion ranged over ideas not just for the next years Business Plan but over a three to five-year period and enabled the exploration of some less conventional ideas.
The Board discussed considerations in connection with acquisition opportunities.
In addition the Board spent some time considering a potential acquisition of intu properties plc and more details are provided in the case study on the opposite page.
Following the Strategy Day certain insights and ideas generated were further discussed and refined for incorporation into the Business Plan and future strategy.
The importance of the Strategy Day lies in the opportunity for the Board to be ambitious in setting its strategic goals and to explore and evaluate new themes and ideas, which is particularly important for the Non-Executive Directors who are not involved in the day-to-day business.
You can read Judy Gibbons reaction to the day on the right.
78 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Governance supporting the strategy: proposed acquisition of intu properties plc During 2017, in the context of considering acquisition The Board concluded that the acquisition of intu properties plc opportunities aligned with the Companys strategy, the presented the most compelling and feasible opportunity which Board considered a potential transaction involving intu would support the Companys longer-term strategic ambitions properties plc.
Early discussions included a consideration of, and deliver financial returns for shareholders and positive among other matters: benefits for other stakeholders.
Following this the Board authorised further discussions with intu properties plc.
Rationale for the transaction Management and the Boards advisors produced a number of intu properties plcs portfolio detailed papers to help the Board consider various aspects of the Potential cost synergies acquisition opportunity.
In particular the Board considered: Brand and digital considerations A risk analysis Key risks Financial projections Key financial considerations The effect on the Groups key stakeholders including Further preliminary work took place over the next few months so colleagues, major shareholders, customers and partners that by the time of the Board Strategy Day in early October, the Its responsibilities under the terms of the UK Takeover Code Board was able to consider the opportunities and risks of such a and other legal requirements transaction in greater detail.
At the Board Strategy Day the The terms of the transaction Directors debated a range of merger and acquisition options and considered the relative merits of a transaction involving intu Day-to-day consideration of the transaction was delegated to a properties plc in comparison with other options.
At subsequent committee of the Board, monitored by the Board as a whole to meetings, the Board reviewed a number of key considerations ensure that all duties were fulfilled.
Procedures were put in place including: to deal with any potential leak of market-sensitive information and monitored by the Boards Disclosure Committee.
The quality of the retail assets that would be acquired The benefits of greater scale, reduced costs and synergies A number of Board meetings were held to discuss the merits and risks of the proposed transaction, review the progress of Financial considerations and analysis negotiations and approve next steps.
In between formal Board The mechanics to effect the acquisition meetings, the Chairman and the Chief Executive and other members of senior management kept the Board informed of significant developments.
During the period prior to the announcement of the potential transaction, the Board received advice from internal Hammerson teams including legal, treasury and finance functions.
Hammersons external legal team, corporate brokers, corporate sponsor and investment advisory banks also provided advice and guidance.
In early December the Board approved the formal terms of the transaction and the contents of the announcement.
On 6 December 2017, the Company announced its recommended all-share offer for intu properties plc.
See Chief Executives Review on page 12.
COM 79 Corporate Governance report continued Annual General Meeting Engagement with stakeholders The Annual General Meeting AGM provides an opportunity for all The Board is committed to engaging closely with its stakeholders and shareholders to hear a presentation on the Companys activities and taking their views into account.
performance and ask questions in addition to voting on the resolutions proposed.
The Board and members of the operational management Institutional shareholders team attend the AGM and are available to meet shareholders informally Hammerson has a comprehensive investor relations programme after the meeting.
The 2018 AGM will be held on 24 April 2018. through which the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and Head of Investor Relations meet regularly with the Companys institutional Employees and other stakeholders shareholders to discuss strategic issues as well as present the The Boards visits to Victoria, Leeds and Westquay, Southampton gave Companys results.
For the presentation of the half-year results, the the Directors the opportunity to meet colleagues in the business and Group Financial Controller stood in for the Chief Financial Officer to gain a first-hand view of the experience of our shoppers and hear during his leave of absence.
In 2017 the investor relations programme about our relationship with retailers.
They also met and held included attendance at a number of industry conferences, and discussions with colleagues below Board level at the Board Strategy institutional shareholders, including those based in South Africa, were Day where consideration of the Companys stakeholders was central invited to join site visits to a number of centres in the UK and France.
Hammersons 75th birthday celebrations during the As part of this programme meetings were held to discuss our year have provided further opportunities to engage informally with sustainability strategy and performance.
The Chairman held nine colleagues across the business and other stakeholders, including shareholder meetings in 2017 and the opportunity to meet the Senior retailers and partners.
In early 2018 the Board will receive a report on Independent Director was offered.
Meetings were also held by the the employee engagement survey which was conducted in late 2017 General Counsel and Company Secretary to discuss institutional and will review and discuss the results.
shareholders governance priorities and feedback from these meetings was reported to the Board.
Table 46 Share capital and substantial shareholders At 31 December Ordinary shares 2017 percentage of of 25p each total voting rights Blackrock, Inc. 72,969,764 9.190 APG Asset Management N. V. 62,111,208 7.830 1 Coronation Asset Management Pty Ltd 55,529,051 7.000 Peel Holdings IOM Limited 36,230,050 4.567 Legal & General Investment Management Ltd 25,717,084 3.610 Rockcastle Global Securities Limited 23,701,816 2.988 1.
On 9 February 2018 Coronation Asset Management Pty Ltd notified the Company that it had increased its shareholding to 8.03% of the Companys issued share capital.
No other changes to table 46 have been disclosed to the Company between 31 December 2017 and 23 February 2018.
80 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Board effectiveness Review process Every three years the Board carries out an external Board effectiveness review.
In the intervening years the review is conducted internally.
The Boards evaluation of its own performance provides an opportunity to consider ways of identifying greater efficiencies, maximising strengths and highlighting areas for further development.
Board effectiveness review 2017 Following an external review in 2016, the Board conducted an internal review led by the Chairman with the support of the General Counsel and Company Secretary during the year.
The 2017 review was conducted by means of an online questionnaire.
It was carefully structured and designed to enable the Board to comment on progress against matters identified in the previous review as well as assist in identifying any potential for improvement in the process of the Board and its Committees.
The questionnaire also focused on, amongst other matters, the purpose and impact of Board effectiveness reviews and questions on leadership and effectiveness.
The results of the review were considered by the General Counsel and Company Secretary and the Chairman following which they were discussed at the December Board meeting.
A number of key themes emerged from the review including continuing the Boards focus on the culture of the business and increasing opportunities for the Non-Executive Directors to gain first-hand experience of the Groups assets.
Having considered the findings of the review, the Directors were satisfied that the Board operated effectively in 2017 and there were no particular areas of concern.
Areas of focus arising from the review to be addressed in the year ahead are set out below.
Table 47 Recommendations arising from the 2017 review Agreed actions for 2018 Continued focus at Board level on the culture of the business.
In addition to informal opportunities to gauge the culture of the business, the Board will receive a formal presentation on the outcome of the 2017 employee engagement survey and an update report on the internal communications project which aims to standardise and improve employee communications, including through the use of a new intranet.
Provide further opportunities for Non-Executive Directors to visit the The Non-Executive Directors intend to arrange their own individual business on an informal basis.
programme of ad hoc visits of Hammersons assets.
Review the Boards work plan.
The General Counsel and Company Secretary will work with the Chairman and the Board to identify other topics to be added to the Boards work plan.
Consideration will be given to extending the Boards Strategy Day over a two-day period to allow more time for discussion.
Progress during the year on the main recommendations arising from the external evaluation in 2016 are set out below: Recommendations 2016 Completion of 2016 recommendations Review the annual Board and Committee meetings calendar and Following discussion with the Directors and the General Counsel and schedule of Board calls.
Company Secretary to canvass views, the Chairman proposed a number of changes to the schedule of meetings.
Keep monitoring the culture of the business.
Continued focus on annual visits to assets.
Visits to Victoria, Leeds and Westquay, Southampton enabled the Board to meet colleagues in the wider business and see the culture of the business first-hand.
You can read more about the visits on page 77. Review the Board papers to ensure greater consistency and improved The General Counsel and Company Secretary has worked with design and that they continue to be forward-looking and avoid colleagues on guidance to ensure greater consistency in the Board duplication between papers.
The Boards feedback on improvements has been positive.
Non-Executive Directors visibility around the business.
Non-Executive Directors who were able to schedule visits to Hammersons assets during the year found these very informative.
