Corporate Governance report continued GROUP EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Managing the business See the Directors biographies on page 72.
David Atkins Peter Cole Timon Drakesmith Jean-Philippe Mouton Chief Executive Chief Investment Officer Chief Financial Officer and Managing Director, France Managing Director, Premium Outlets Joined Group Executive Joined Group Executive Joined Group Executive Joined Group Executive Committee 2007 and appointed Committee 1999 Committee 2011 Committee 2009 Chairman in 2009 Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership CR F I F I IT F HS I RC CR F HS I Andrew Berger-North Sarah Booth Mark Bourgeois Grald Frzou Director, UK General Counsel and Managing Director, Deputy Managing Retail Parks Company Secretary UK and Ireland Director, France Joined Group Executive Joined Group Executive Joined Group Executive Joined Group Executive Committee 2013 Committee 2011 Committee 2017 Committee 2013 Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership CR IT HS UI I RC CR IT HS I RC UI F RC Andrew is a chartered surveyor Sarah was appointed as General Mark joined Hammerson in Grald joined Hammerson as and joined Hammerson Counsel on 29 March 2010 and 2017 as Managing Director of a property analyst in 2006 and in 2003.
He was appointed as Company Secretary on 22 UK and Ireland.
Mark began his took on responsibility for the Director, UK Retail Parks in September 2011.
Before joining career at KPMG: he then French investment programme 2005.
Andrew is responsible for Hammerson she was general qualified as a chartered surveyor in 2008.
In 2013 he became all aspects of the retail parks counsel at Sodexo UK and prior with Donaldsons.
Most recently Deputy Managing Director of portfolio, including acquisitions, to that legal and corporate he was at Capital & Regional plc Hammersons French business.
disposals, development and development director at where, as an executive director, Grald began his career in asset management.
Sarah he led the management and corporate finance roles at began her career at Dickson development of their shopping Arthur Andersen and Nexity.
Minto WS where she qualified as centre portfolio.
Key to Committee membership CR I Corporate Responsibility Board Investment Committee IT RC Group IT Committee Risk and Controls Committee F UI Hammerson France Management Board UK and Ireland Management Board HS Health and Safety Committee Committee Chairman 74 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Hammersons governance structure See the Directors biographies on page 72.
Hammerson plc Board Audit Nomination Remuneration Group Executive Committee Committee Committee Committee Risk and Controls Corporate Group IT Hammerson Health and Investment UK and Committee Responsibility Committee France Safety Committee Ireland Board Management Committee Management Board Board Hammersons governance structure is illustrated above.
The Board At its meetings the Group Executive Committee receives a number of has delegated a number of its responsibilities to its Audit, Nomination regular reports including on finance, trading and marketing, the and Remuneration Committees.
The terms of reference of each of property portfolio, human resources, corporate communications and these Committees and the Boards schedule of reserved matters can the Groups Risk Management Framework.
It also receives regular be found at www.
When the need arises, a standing update reports from each of the committees.
The Group Executive Disclosure Committee is convened to consider timely and accurate Committee monitors the progress of the strategic and operational disclosure of any information required to be disclosed to meet legal objectives through the delivery of the Business Plan.
It reviews the and regulatory obligations under the Listing Rules.
Groups Risk Management Framework and internal controls in conjunction with the Risk and Controls Committee.
It has For further information about the Board and its Committees see the UK responsibility for ensuring development and succession plans are in Corporate Governance Code compliance section of this report on page place so that the business has people of the right calibre and skills to 114, the Nomination Committee report on page 82, the Audit Committee deliver the Business Plan.
report on page 84 and the Directors remuneration report on page 88.
During the year, in addition to the regular reports described above, the Responsibility for operational matters, including the implementation of Group Executive Committee: the Groups Business Plan and strategy, is delegated by the Hammerson plc Board to the Chief Executive, David Atkins.
The Group Executive Received a report on cyber security arrangements within the Committee which is chaired by David Atkins is responsible for managing Group the business, delivering the strategy, managing risk, establishing Reviewed an update report on Sustainability targets and outcomes financial and operational targets and monitoring performance against for 2016 and priorities for 2017, including the launch of the Groups those targets, as set out in its own terms of reference.
The Group Net Positive strategy in March Executive Committee meets formally once a month.
The members also Reviewed and approved a proposal for Board approval for the VIA meet most weeks for informal discussions on day-to-day issues.
acquisition of Norwegian Outlet, Oslo The Group Executive Committee is supported by the following Reviewed and approved the Modern Slavery Act statement for committees which are each chaired by a Group Executive Committee Board approval to publish on the Companys website member: Discussed the rationale for, and approved the formation of, an Corporate Responsibility Board Investment Committee to focus on capital allocation and investment, which was implemented in July 2017 Group IT Committee Monitored security arrangements at the Groups shopping centres Hammerson France Management Board Received a presentation on the post-completion review of the Health and Safety Committee Victoria Gate, Leeds development and lessons learnt Investment Committee Received an update presentation on the Groups internal UK and Ireland Management Board communications and launch of a new intranet The Group Executive Committee also receives regular updates on the Hammerson has established an Integration Committee, formed of Value Retail and VIA Outlets businesses, which are externally members of the Hammerson management team, to plan and manage managed.
Timon Drakesmith is a board member of Value Retail PLC the integration of the Hammerson and intu businesses, following the and is chairman of VIA Outlets advisory and investment committees.
acquisition of intu properties plc.
The Risk and Controls Committee supports the Audit Committee by promoting the application of the Risk Management Framework around the business and manages the internal audit programme.
See page 61 for further information.
