AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Independent scrutiny and oversight Audit Committee members Pierre Bouchut Chairman Gwyn Burr Andrew Formica Judy Gibbons Valuation of the portfolio Dear Shareholders A key responsibility of the Committee is to consider the valuation I am pleased to present the process in relation to the Groups property portfolio and satisfy ourselves that it has been carried out appropriately.
This is the Committees report for the year.
This Committees most significant financial judgement.
The Committee report should be read in conjunction has scrutinised the valuations and, in addition, I met Cushman & Wakefield the Valuer independently and I am satisfied with the with the section on how we have conclusions reached by the Valuer.
Further details of the Committees complied with the UK Corporate assessment of significant financial judgements are set out in greater Governance Code which is on pages detail on page 87.
New External Auditor Following the process to appoint a new external auditor which During 2017, the Committee has continued to provide independent culminated in the appointment of  LLP scrutiny of the processes in place to monitor the Companys financial PwC and approval of this appointment by shareholders at the 2017 and non-financial reporting.
This included oversight of the viability Annual General Meeting, I am pleased to welcome PwC as the statement process and ensuring that this Annual Report meets the Companys new External Auditor.
A key focus this year has been criteria for fair, balanced and understandable reporting.
We have also ensuring the effective transition of the external audit process from overseen the Groups systems of internal control and risk Deloitte LLP to PwC and we describe the induction process in more management.
At every meeting the Committee considers the Risk detail on page 85.
Both the Committee and I welcome the fresh Management Framework.
This forms a basis for discussion to confirm perspective that the new audit team brings and the significant that risks are appropriately identified and categorised, that their transition work undertaken during the year.
We look forward to potential impact on the Group is understood and appropriate working with PwC in the future.
resources are in place to mitigate them to ensure they remain within the Groups risk appetite.
I confirm on behalf of the Committee that Committee members no significant failing or weaknesses in the Groups control structures Each of my fellow Committee members brings a wide knowledge and were identified in 2017. significant experience in business at a senior level in financial reporting, risk management, internal controls and strategic management which enables us to discharge our duties properly.
I also fulfil the requirement of bringing recent and relevant financial experience to the Committee.
More information can be found on Committee members on page 73.
84 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Financial Reporting Council review During the year the Company received a letter from the Financial Transition to PwC, the Companys Reporting Council FRC concerning its review of the Companys new External Auditor 2016 Annual Report.
It should be noted that the object of the FRCs Following the decision to undertake an audit tender during review is not to verify that the information in the Annual Report is 2016, a recommendation to appoint correct but rather to consider compliance with reporting  LLP PwC as the Groups new requirements.
I am very pleased to report that the FRC raised no External Auditor for the 2017 financial year was approved by significant findings and had no questions that they wished to raise.
the Board in October 2016, and was subsequently approved The letter highlighted a number of matters which, while not requiring by shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
a formal response, the FRC believed would improve existing disclosures and these have been addressed in this Annual Report.
In order to achieve as smooth a transition as possible, a plan was drawn up early on with the aim of familiarising the new Audit Committee effectiveness review lead audit partner, Paul Cragg, and his team with the The annual review of the effectiveness of the Committee was carried Hammerson business.
PwC shadowed the work of Deloitte out internally during the year.
The Committee and senior LLP Deloitte, the outgoing External Auditor, during the management attendees were invited to respond to questions on the year end process for 2016 and attended the January and content, management, and quality and focus of discussion during February 2017 Audit Committee meetings.
Views were also sought on some of the specific activities the Meetings were held with PwC to discuss and agree the Committee undertakes, for example, overseeing property valuations transition process, following which PwC prepared a detailed and considering significant financial judgements.
I am pleased that plan covering, amongst others, the following key steps: responses indicated that the Committee is performing well with no particular concerns.
Meetings and regular communication with Deloitte to agree handover protocol and arrange necessary Anti-bribery and corruption correspondence The Committee considered the policies and procedures in place in the Introductory meetings with senior management across Group to prevent bribery and corruption and were satisfied that these the business to enhance PwCs understanding of the were appropriate.
These include the Code of Conduct, Anti-Fraud Group and key business processes Policy and Response Plan, Whistleblowing Policy and Gifts and Entertainments Policy.
The Code of Conduct sets the ethical and Review of Deloittes papers following the 2017 AGM to enable PwC to gain assurance over the December 2016 cultural tone at Hammerson and all employees are expected to follow it.
You can read more about the management of these risks in the closing balances Risk section on page 61 and the People section on page 46 of the Regular meetings with the Hammerson finance team Annual Report.
Visits to shopping centres in the UK and France to see first-hand how these assets are run Whistleblowing arrangements Visit to Bicester Village to gain insight into how a During the year the Committee monitored the Groups premium outlet is run whistleblowing arrangements and received an annual Whistleblowing and Fraud report.
Two incidents were raised during the year, which Visit to Elliotts Field, Rugby to gain insight into the retail were treated as whistleblowing and were reported to the Committee.
parks business The first related to allegations of operational shortcomings and the Early engagement with EY LLP, the auditor for second to allegations of specific control weaknesses.
One is concluded ValueRetail and the other is ongoing.
I view the reporting of such incidents as a Appointment of PwC to complete the Groups first year positive reflection of our culture in which colleagues feel able to raise Irish statutory entity audits for the 2016 year end their concerns which can then be properly investigated.
You can read Appointment of PwC as External Auditor for the Groups more about Hammersons Whistleblowing Policy on page 117.
French subsidiary audits I am satisfied that the regular discussion and challenge which the Meetings with the local finance teams in France and Committee has had with senior management, PwC, the Risk and Ireland and at VIA Outlets Controls Manager and the Valuer, together with the continuing high Meetings with the Groups Valuer to understand the quality of reports and information, has enabled us to discharge our valuation process, and duties and responsibilities effectively.
Understanding the Groups processes and controls prior to the 2017 half-year review PwC and the Groups finance teams keep in regular, frequent Pierre Bouchut contact.
The transition period has gone smoothly and we Chairman of the Audit Committee look forward to working with PwC over the coming years.
COM 85 Audit Committee report continued In order to determine the internal audit programme for 2017, the Effectiveness of the External Auditor Groups Risk Management Framework was reviewed and key risks Following this first year that PwC has been the External Auditor, the which had not been subject to recent internal audit or key areas of Committee considered the effectiveness of the External Auditor as change were identified.
The proposed programme was discussed and part of the 2017 year end process.
The Committee sought the views of agreed with the Risk and Controls Committee ahead of a review by the key members of the finance team and their feedback confirmed that Audit Committee.
Having satisfied itself that the programme was PwC had carried out a smooth handover process from Deloitte, the based on a thorough review of the Groups key business activities and outgoing External Auditor, and had performed well and provided an related risk areas, the Committee approved the proposed programme.
appropriate level of challenge to management.
The Committee has During 2017 audits were carried out on the following activities: concluded that overall PwC has carried out its audit for 2017 effectively and efficiently.
Starters, leavers and change processes Shopping centre operations Non-audit services Treasury The Committee recognises the need for objective and independent VIA Outlets lease management and credit control auditors and how such objectivity might be, or appear to be, compromised through the provision of non-audit services by the Completion of 2016 internal audit recommendations External Auditor.
During the year the Committee considered the The Committee received an internal audit update report at each extent of the non-audit services provided by PwC.
Details of the meeting to review progress on the programme.
Each of the audits provision of non-audit services and associated fees are included confirmed that these areas were appropriately controlled.
Some in the Annual Report on page 117 and the full policy is available at recommendations for improvement were identified and agreed www.
Details of the fees paid to PwC during the year with management and responsibility for implementation was are shown in Note 4 to the financial statements on page 142. assigned.
The Committee also received reports on progress on any Fair, balanced, understandable outstanding actions from earlier audits and the expected timetables for their completion.
The Committee adopted the same approach as in previous years to ensuring that the 2017 Annual Report is fair, balanced and In addition, the Committee also received updates on preparation for understandable.
The process was led by an internal editorial team the implementation of policies and procedures in compliance with the consisting of members drawn from Group Finance, the Company General Data Protection Regulation which will apply from May 2018.
Secretariat, Corporate Communications, Investor Relations and In 2018 the Committee expects to continue to follow a risk-based Marketing.
The editorial team met regularly to review progress and approach to internal audit.
Risk areas scheduled for audits in 2018 ensure balanced reporting with appropriate links between key themes include sustainability reporting, the integration of the Irish assets, and sections of the Annual Report.
A paper was presented to the joint venture asset management services, VIA Outlets management Committee to help them challenge and test the assessment that the information, turnover rents in France and the supplier payment report was fair, balanced and understandable.
together, with senior management, reviewed the report during its production period and the Committee and then the Board were able Effectiveness of internal audit to confirm that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced As reported last year, it was agreed that a review of the Groups new and understandable and provides the necessary information for internal audit arrangements would be undertaken in 2017. shareholders to assess the Companys position, performance, business model and strategy.
The review of the effectiveness of the internal audit was carried out using a specifically created online survey tool and was completed by Viability statement Committee members, certain members of senior management who The Committee reviewed managements work on assessing the had received and reviewed audit reports, and also participants who potential risks to the business and the appropriateness of the had been directly involved in an internal audit.
The responses to Companys choice of a five-year assessment period.
Following this the survey were analysed and collated into a report which was review, the Committee was satisfied that management has conducted reviewed and discussed with the Chairman of the Committee.
a robust assessment and recommended to the Board that it could The survey responses indicate that the Groups internal audit approve and make the Viability statement on page 69. function is performing well with no significant concerns raised.
The responses also confirmed that the change to the new internal Internal audit audit arrangements has resulted in an improved approach for the As reported in last years Audit Committee report, new internal audit Group which provides effective assurance over the Groups risk and arrangements were implemented in 2016 which use a combination of controls environment.
internal and external resources to monitor the Groups internal audit procedures.
These arrangements enable the Risk and Controls Manager, who leads internal audit activities, to draw on expertise in specific areas from outside the Company where a high degree of specialist technical knowledge is required.
86 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Significant financial judgements In preparing the Groups and Companys accounts there are a number of areas requiring the exercise by management of particular judgement or a high degree of estimation.
The Committees role is to assess whether the judgements and estimates made by management are reasonable and appropriate.
Set out below are the key financial reporting and significant financial judgements which were addressed by the Committee during the year.
Table 52 Key financial reporting and significant How addressed by the Committee financial judgements considered in relation to the financial statements The Committee ensured that there was a robust procedure in place to Valuation of the Groups property portfolio satisfy itself that the Valuers valuations and assumptions were The valuation of the Groups property portfolio is a key recurring risk appropriate.
The Committee understands the established valuation due to its significance in the context of the Groups net asset value.
practices followed by the Valuer.
The Committee is also familiar with Valuations are inherently subjective due to the assumptions and the process by which management provides information to the Valuer.
judgements required concerning capitalisation yields and market rental income ERV.
The Valuer presented the valuations for all the Groups properties to the Committee in July 2017 and January 2018.
These were Valuations are undertaken by the Groups independent valuer, scrutinised, challenged and debated.
The Committee asked the Valuer Cushman & Wakefield the Valuer, and are thoroughly reviewed by to highlight any significant judgements or disagreements encountered management and the Groups External Auditor.
It was satisfied that the procedures and There is a higher degree of subjectivity in the valuation of the Groups methodologies used were appropriate.
The Chairman of the premium outlets as these require judgement about future trading and Committee held a private meeting with the Valuer at which he operating performance and discount rates.
discussed the valuation process and was able to satisfy himself that the process was independent and objective.
The Chairman of the Committee also held a private meeting with PwC to discuss their review of the valuation process and their conclusions.
The Committee concluded that the valuation of the Groups property portfolio has been carried out in an appropriate manner and was therefore suitable for inclusion in the Groups financial statements.
For further details see the Auditors report on page 122 and note 1 to the financial statements on pages 135 to 138.
The Committee reviewed managements report explaining the Accounting for significant transactions proposed accounting treatment for transactions completed during the During the year the Group undertook a number of acquisitions and year.
These included the sale of Place des Halles, Strasbourg and the disposals.
The accounting treatment of these transactions is a recurring impact on the associated non-controlling interest and the final Irish risk for the Group because of the financial significance and complexity of loan conversion to acquire the property ownership of Pavilions such transactions.
Judgement is required to determine the transfer of shopping centre in Dublin.
risks and rewards associated with each transaction and the appropriate disclosure requirements.
For property acquisitions involving corporate The Committee reviewed and challenged the proposed accounting entities, an assessment is also required to decide whether the purchase treatments and was satisfied that the approach adopted was appropriate.
should be accounted for as an asset acquisition or business combination.
For further details of the accounting treatment applied to such significant transactions see note 1 to the financial statements on pages 135 to 138.
The Committee reviewed the disclosure and commentary within the Presentation of information Annual Report including the relative prominence of APMs and IFRS The Group uses a number of Alternative Performance Measures APMs, financial measures.
The Committee was satisfied with the disclosures being financial measures not specified under IFRS, to monitor the and reconciliations provided.
Management principally reviews the Group on a proportionally consolidated basis, except for the Groups premium outlets investments.
For further details on managements presentation of financial information see page 53.
Judgement is required to ensure disclosures and associated commentary clearly explain the performance of the business and to provide reconciliations to the IFRS financial statements.
