82 GSK Annual Report 2017 Our Board Board composition Composition Tenure Non-Executive Composition Tenure Non-Executive 1 1 4 3 2 Philip Hampton 64 Non-Executive Chairman 2 1.
Deputy Chairman from 1 April 2015 and Non-Executive Gender diversity Chairman from 7 May 2015 Board Skills and experience As at date of publication As at 1 April 2018 Prior to joining GSK, Philip 62% 58% Male Male chaired major FTSE 100 companies, including The Royal Bank of Female 38% Female 42% Scotland Group plc and J Sainsbury plc.
He has also served as Group Finance Director at Lloyds TSB Group, BT Group plc, BG Group Executive plc, British Gas plc and British As at date of publication As at 1 April 2018 Steel plc.
Philip was previously appointed an Executive Director Male 75% Male 67% of Lazards and a Non-Executive Director of RMC Group Plc and Female Female 33% 25% Belgacom SA.
Until 2009, he was Chairman of UK Financial Investments Limited, which manages the UK Governments Non-Executive shareholdings in banks.
As at date of publication As at 1 April 2018 External appointments Male 56% Male 56% Philip is the Senior Independent Director of Anglo American Plc, Female 44% Female 44% Chairman of its Remuneration Committee and a member of its Audit Committee.
Philip is also Chair of the Hampton-Alexander Review on FTSE Women Leaders, an International experience independent review on improving International experience As at 1 April 2018 gender balance in FTSE leadership.
Global US Europe EMAP 75% 100% 92% 67% 83 GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Dr Patrick Vallance 58 Emma Walmsley 48 Simon Dingemans 54 Dr Hal Barron 55 Outgoing President, R&D Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Chief Scientific Officer and President, R&D Nationality Nationality Nationality Nationality British British American British Appointed Appointed Appointed Appointed 1 January 2017.
Chief Financial 1 January 2018 1 January 2017 Officer from 1 April 2017 Officer from 1 April 2011 Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Hal was President R&D at Calico Patrick joined GSK in 2006 as Emma joined GSK in 2010 with Prior to joining GSK, Simon had LLC California Life Company, an Head of Drug Discovery and was responsibility for Consumer over 25 years of experience in Alphabet-funded company that uses subsequently appointed Senior Healthcare, Europe and was investment banking at SG Warburg advanced technologies to increase Vice President, Medicines Discovery subsequently appointed President and Goldman Sachs.
Simon advised understanding of lifespan biology.
He has been of GlaxoSmithKline Consumer GSK for over a decade before his Prior to joining Calico, Hal was a member of GSKs Corporate Healthcare in October 2011. appointment and was closely Executive Vice President, Head of Executive Team since 2010 and was She has been a member of GSKs involved in a number of GSKs Global Product Development, and appointed President, R&D in January Corporate Executive Team since key strategic projects.
Simon was Chief Medical Officer of Roche, 2012.
Patrick joined the GSK Board 2011 and was appointed CEO of previously Chairman of the 100 responsible for all the products in on 1 January 2017.
GSK Consumer Healthcare, a joint Group of Finance Directors.
the combined portfolio of Roche Prior to joining GSK, Patrick was a venture between GSK and Novartis, and Genentech.
At Genentech, clinical academic and, as Professor External appointments from its creation in March 2015 he was Senior Vice President of of Medicine, led the Division of None until her appointment as GSK CEO Development and Chief Medical Medicine at University College Designate in September 2016.
He has over 20 years Emma joined the GSK Board on Director and Chair of The Science experience of research clinical 1 January 2017 and succeeded & Technology Committee at Juno medicine, general internal medicine, Sir Andrew Witty as GSK CEO Therapeutics, Inc. cardiovascular medicine and clinical on 1 April 2017. pharmacology.
He was elected to External appointments Prior to joining GSK, Emma worked the Academy of Medical Sciences Hal is Associate Adjunct Professor, with LOreal for 17 years where in 1999.
Patrick was previously a Epidemiology & Biostatistics, she held a variety of marketing and Non-Executive Director of UK University of California, San general management roles in Paris, Biobank Limited and Genome Francisco.
she was based in Shanghai as External appointments General Manager, Consumer Patrick stepped down as President, Products for LOreal China.
Emma R&D at the end of 2017 and will was a Non-Executive Director of step down as an Executive Director Diageo plc from 1 January to 21 with effect from 31 March 2018 to September 2016.
She holds an MA become the UK Governments Chief in Classics and Modern Languages Scientific Adviser and Head of the from Oxford University.
External appointments None Key N Committee Chair Nominations A Audit & Risk R Remuneration S Science C Corporate Responsibility 84 GSK Annual Report 2017 Our Board continued Dr Vivienne Cox 58 Manvinder Singh Vindi Banga 63 Professor Sir Roy Anderson 70 Lynn Elsenhans 61 Independent Non-Executive Senior Independent Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Director & Scientific and Director Medical Expert N A R R C N S C C N A Nationality Nationality Nationality Nationality Indian British British American Appointed Appointed Appointed Appointed 1 September 2015 and as Senior 1 October 2007 1 July 2016 1 July 2012 Independent Non-Executive Director Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience from 5 May 2016 Professor Sir Roy is a worldVivienne has wide experience of Lynn has a wealth of experience Skills and experience renowned medical scientist with business gained in the energy, of running a global business and Prior to joining GSK, Vindi spent advanced knowledge of infectious natural resources and publishing significant knowledge of the global 33 years at Unilever plc, where his disease epidemiology, and is sectors.
She also has a deep markets in which GSK operates.
last role amongst several senior currently Professor of Infectious understanding of regulatory and She served as Chair, President and positions was President of the Disease in the Faculty of Medicine, government relationships.
She Chief Executive Officer of Sunoco Global Foods, Home and Personal Imperial College, London.
He is worked for BP plc for 28 years, Inc from 2009 to 2012.
Prior to Care businesses, and he was a a Fellow of the Royal Society, the in Britain and continental Europe, joining Sunoco in 2008 as President member of the Unilever Executive Academy of Medical Sciences and in posts including Executive Vice and Chief Executive Officer, Lynn Board.
Vindi sat on the Prime the Royal Statistical Society.
He is President and Chief Executive of worked for Royal Dutch Shell, Minister of Indias Council of Trade an Honorary Fellow of the Institute BPs gas, power and renewable which she joined in 1980, and where & Industry from 2004 to 2014, of Actuaries and a Foreign Associate business and its alternative energy she held a number of senior roles, and was on the Board of Governors Member of the National Academy unit.
Vivienne was previously a including Executive Vice President, of the Indian Institute of Management of Medicine at the US National Non-Executive Director of BG Global Manufacturing from 2005 IIM, Ahmedabad.
Vindi is also the Academy of Sciences and the French Group plc and Rio Tinto plc and to 2008.
Lynn was previously a recipient of the Padma Bhushan, Academy of Sciences.
Professor Sir Lead Independent Director at the Non-Executive Director of Flowserve one of Indias highest civilian Roy brings scientific expertise to the UK Governments Department for Corporation and The First Tee of honours.
Vindi was a Non-Executive Director was appointed Commander of the External appointments External appointments of Thomson Reuters Corp and a Order of the British Empire in the Professor Sir Roy is a member of Lynn is a Non-Executive Director member of its HR committee.
Vindi 2016 New Year Honours for the Holdingham International of Baker Hughes, a GE company, was also previously Chairman of the services to the UK Economy Advisory Board and a member of and Chair of its Audit Committee, Supervisory Board of Mauser Group.
the Science Advisory Board of the and a Director of the Texas Medical External appointments Natural History Museum, London.
She is also a Trustee of the Vindi is a Partner at private equity He is also a member of the Vaccine Vivienne is Senior Independent United Way of Greater Houston.
investment firm Clayton Dubilier International Advisory Board Director of Pearson plc, a Non- & Rice.
He is also Chairman of Kalle VACCIAB of AJ Pharma Holding Executive Director of Stena AB GmbH, Senior Independent Director Sdn.
Bhd in Malaysia, the and Chairman of the Supervisory of Marks & Spencer Group plc, International Alzheimers Consortium Board of Vallourec, a supplier to a member of its Nomination at Harvard University, Boston, the energy industry.
Committee and Chairman of its Chairman of the Scientific Advisory Remuneration Committee.
Vindi Board of the Netherlands Centre for is a Non-Executive Director of the One Health NCOH and Chairman Confederation of British Industry of Oriole Global Health Ltd. CBI, a Director of High Ridge Brands Co, a member of the Holdingham International Advisory Board and Chair of the Board of Trustees of Marie Curie.
He is also on the Governing Board of the Indian School of Business ISB, Hyderabad, and is a member of the Indo UK CEO Forum.
85 GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Dr Laurie Glimcher 66 Dr Jesse Goodman 66 Judy Lewent 69 Urs Rohner 58 Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Director & Scientific and Director & Scientific and Director Director Medical Expert Medical Expert A S C A N R S R N S Nationality Nationality Nationality Nationality American American American Swiss Appointed Appointed Appointed Appointed 1 September 2017 1 January 2016 1 April 2011 1 January 2015 Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Laurie is currently Professor of Jesse previously served in senior Judy has extensive knowledge of the Urs has a broad range of business Medicine at Harvard Medical School leadership positions at the global pharmaceutical industry and and legal experience having served and is CEO, President and an US Food and Drug Administration of corporate finance, having joined as Chairman on a number of Boards, Attending Physician at the DanaFDA, including most recently as the Merck & Co in 1980 and then served most recently for Credit Suisse, Farber Cancer Institute.
FDAs Chief Scientist and previously as its Chief Financial Officer from a world-leading financial services as Deputy Commissioner for 1990 to 2007 when she retired.
Prior to joining Credit In addition to a number of senior Science and Public Health and as Judy previously served as a Suisse in 2004, Urs served as leadership positions held at both Director of the Center for Biologics Non-Executive Director of Dell Chairman of the Executive Board Harvard Medical School and Evaluation and Research CBER.
Inc, Quaker Oats Company and and CEO of ProSieben and Harvard School of Public Health, Motorola Inc. ProSiebenSat.
This Laurie has also served as Stephen Jesse played a leadership role followed a number of years in and Suzanne Weiss Dean and in developing the FDAs The Board has determined that private practice at major law firms in Professor of Medicine at Weill Regulatory Science and Medical Judy has recent and relevant Switzerland and the US, having been Cornell Medical College and as an Countermeasures Initiatives and financial experience, and agreed admitted to the bars of the canton Attending Physician at the New York has worked collaboratively with that she has the appropriate of Zurich in Switzerland in 1986 and Presbyterian Hospital Weill Cornell industry, academia, government and qualifications and background to be the state of New York in the US in Medical Center.
Laurie stepped global public health and regulatory an audit committee financial expert.
1990. down from the Board of Bristolpartners to prepare for and respond External appointments Myers Squibb Co BMS in 2017 to major public health threats, External appointments Judy is a Non-Executive Director after serving for 20 years on its including emerging infectious Urs is currently Chairman of the of Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc Board.
Laurie brings scientific and diseases, disasters and terrorism.
Board of Credit Suisse Group and Motorola Solutions Inc. She public health expertise to the Boards He led the FDAs response to West AG and of its Chairmans and is also a Trustee of the Rockefeller deliberations.
Nile Virus and to the 2009 H1N1 Governance Committee.
He is Family Trust, a life member of influenza pandemic and served on also Chairman and member of the External appointments the Massachusetts Institute of the Senior Leadership Team for Board of Trustees of Credit Suisse Laurie is a member of the US Technology Corporation, a member the 2010 White House Medical Research Institute and Credit Suisse National Academy of Sciences and of the American Academy of Arts Countermeasure Review.
Urs was appointed the National Academy of Medicine.
and Sciences and a member of brings scientific and public health Vice-Chairman of the Governing She is a member of the Scientific the Business Advisory Board of expertise to the Boards Board of the Swiss Bankers Steering Committee of the Parker twoXAR.
Institute for Cancer Immunotherapy and a Non-Executive Director of the External appointments Waters Corporation, where she also Jesse, currently Professor of serves on its Corporate Governance Medicine at Georgetown University, Committee.
In addition, Laurie is directs the Georgetown University co-founder and Chair of the Center on Medical Product Access, Scientific Advisory Board of Quentis Safety and Stewardship Therapeutics Inc and a Scientific COMPASS and is an active Advisory Board member of Repare clinician who serves as Attending Therapeutics Inc and the American Physician in Infectious Diseases.
He also serves as President and Member of the Board of the United Key States Pharmacopeia USP and as a member of the Regulatory Working N Committee Chair Nominations Group of the Coalition for Epidemic A Audit & Risk Preparedness Innovations CEPI.
