CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Compliance HUNTING HAS CONTINUED TO APPLY THE PRINCIPLES The Board of Hunting PLC has adopted governance principles OF THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE DURING aligned with the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code THE YEAR.
the Code which can be found at www.
The Company is reporting its corporate governance compliance IN 2017 THE BOARD INITIATED SUCCESSION PLANS TO against this Code.
APPOINT A NEW CHIEF EXECUTIVE AND CHAIRMAN.
FOLLOWING THE EVALUATION OF INTERNAL AND During the year, Hunting became fully compliant with the EXTERNAL CANDIDATES, JIM JOHNSON, HUNTINGS provisions of the Code following the audit tender process and CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER, WAS PROMOTED TO the appointment of an independent non-executive Chairman.
THE BOARD ARE DELIGHTED THAT JIM ACCEPTED THIS OPPORTUNITY, Governance Framework GIVEN HIS LONG SERVICE AND KNOWLEDGE OF THE Subject to the Companys Articles of Association, UK legislation GROUPS ACTIVITIES.
and any directions prescribed by resolution at a general meeting, the business of the Company is managed by the Hunting PLC IN SEPTEMBER, RICHARD HUNTING RETIRED AS Board.
The Board is responsible for the management and CHAIRMAN AFTER HOLDING THIS ROLE FOR 26 YEARS.
strategic direction of the Company and to ensure its long-term WE THANK HIM FOR HIS COMMITMENT AND SERVICE success, as prescribed by UK law.
RICHARD REMAINS ON THE BOARD AS A NON-INDEPENDENT, NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR.
The Board has three committees to which it delegates key governance and compliance procedures: the Nomination Committee, whose report can be found on pages 64 and 65, the JOHN F. GLICK CHAIRMAN Audit Committee, whose report can be found on pages 66 to 70, and the Remuneration Committee, whose report can be found on pages 71 to 92.
Responsibilities of the Board The Board of Hunting PLC has clearly defined areas of responsibility, which are separate to those of the Chairman, executive management and of the Committees of the Board.
The Directors approve the strategic aims and objectives of the Company, as set by executive management, and approves all major acquisitions, divestments, capital investments and annual budgets.
The Board has overall leadership of the Company, sets the values of the Hunting Group providing a strong tone from the top, to which all businesses within the Group and its employees are encouraged to adopt.
The Directors monitor Huntings trading performance, including the progress against the Annual Budget, the review of monthly management accounts and forecasts, comparing forecasts to current market consensus and reviewing other financial matters.
They review and approve all public announcements, including financial results and trading statements, and sets the dividend policy of the Group.
The internal control and risk management framework and associated procedures are reviewed by the Board, however, key monitoring procedures are delegated to the Audit Committee.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive, as noted in the table following: HUNTING PLC 58 2017 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION As an independent, non-executive Chairman, Jay Glicks Responsibilities of the Chairman appointment has brought Hunting in line with the To lead and build an effective and complementary Board: recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code, To chair meetings of the Board, ensuring agendas and following the retirement of Richard Hunting.
Mr Glick also materials are fit for purpose: chairs the Nomination Committee.
Following his retirement To ensure the Directors are provided with accurate, as Chairman, Mr Hunting remains on the Board as a nontimely and clear information: independent, non-executive Director and has been appointed To encourage good dialogue between all Directors, to the Audit Committee.
with strong contributions from all Board members: To meet the non-executive Directors without the executive As at 31 December 2017, excluding the Chairman, the Board Directors and to discuss training and development: comprised 50% independent non-executive Directors.
Including To arrange appropriate Director induction programmes: and the Chairman, 57% of the Board is comprised of independent To arrange an annual board evaluation and to act on Directors.
All the non-executive Directors, including the Chairman, have Responsibilities of the Chief Executive access to professional advisers, at the Companys expense, To manage the day-to-day activities of the Group: to fulfil their various Board and Committee duties.
To recommend and implement the strategic direction of the Group to the Board: The Group has procedures in place to manage Conflicts of To identify and execute new business opportunities, Interest.
Each Director is required to declare any potential acquisitions and disposals: conflicts that exist, or may arise, which are formally recorded by To ensure appropriate internal controls are in place: the Company Secretary.
Appropriate decision making, in light of To report to the Board regularly on the Groups this declaration, is undertaken, which could include a Director not performance and position: and participating in a Board decision or vote.
Each Director is required To present to the Board an annual budget and to complete a declaration of known Conflicts of Interest annually.
Company Secretary The Board approves all key recommendations from the The Company Secretary is appointed by the Board and supports Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees and approves the Chairman in providing all materials and information flows all appointments to these Committees.
between the executive and non-executive Directors, specifically on matters of governance and regulatory compliance.
The Company Governance principles of the Company are set by the Board Secretary is also available to the Board and all its Committees for and key Group-level policies are reviewed and approved by advice and ensures that all procedures are followed.
Work Undertaken by the Board During 2017 Board Composition The Board met 10 times in 2017, on six occasions as regularly The Board comprises the independent non-executive Chairman, timetabled, and on four further occasions to discuss Chief Executive, Finance Director, three independent nonrecommendations from the Remuneration and Nomination executive Directors, one of whom is the Senior Independent Committees.
Director, and one non-independent, non-executive Director.
The attendance of the Directors at Board meetings during 2017 The independent non-executive Directors are a key source of is detailed in the table below: expertise and contribute to the delivery of the Companys Number of meetings held 10 strategic goals.
Number of meetings attended actual possible : Non-executive Directors are chosen from the oil and gas industry Annell Bay 10 10 and regulatory sectors in which Hunting operates.
The expertise Jay Glick 10 10 and competencies of the non-executive Directors is noted in the John Hofmeister 10 10 table below, and underpin the balance of skills and knowledge Richard Hunting 10 10 that contribute to the Group Think of the Board: Jim Johnson from 1 September 2017 2 2 Director Expertise John Nicholas 10 10 Annell Bay Upstream oil and gas, US energy market Dennis Proctor to 1 September 2017 8 8 development and US quoted companies.
Peter Rose 10 10 Jay Glick Oilfield services and manufacturing, US energy market development and Each Board meeting follows a prescribed agenda and agreed US quoted companies.
John Hofmeister Upstream oil and gas, Human Resources, US energy market development and At each meeting, the Chief Executive updates the Board on key political environment.
operational developments, provides an overview of the market, Richard Hunting UK Corporate Governance, reports on health and safety, and highlights important milestones Investor Relations.
reached towards the delivery of Huntings strategic objectives.
John Nicholas Accounting and Auditing, UK Corporate Governance and Regulatory Developments.
The Finance Director provides an update on the Groups financial performance and position, banking arrangements, legal issues, analyst discussions and statutory reporting developments relevant Board Independence and Conflicts of Interest to Hunting.
These topics lead to discussion, debate and challenge The Directors, together with brief biographical details, amongst the Directors.
are identified on pages 56 and 57.
HUNTING PLC 59 2017 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED During 2017, the standing items and other items for regular Board As prescribed by the Code, all the Directors submit themselves meetings included the following business: for annual re-election at the Companys AGM and at the 2017 AGM all Directors were re-elected by shareholders.
Feb Apr Jun Aug Oct Dec Standing items Board Induction and Training Chief Executive Update As part of the formal induction process for the new Chief Executive and Chairman, the Company Secretary organised a Finance Director Report number of briefing sessions by the professional advisers to the Operational Reports Group.
Immediately following their respective appointments, both Quality Assurance and HSE Reports Mr Johnson and Mr Glick also undertook investor meetings to Shareholder Report discuss the Groups operations, strategy and governance.
Other items Annual Report and Accounts In June, the Board received a corporate governance and Board Evaluation accounting briefing that highlighted the regulatory and financial reporting changes to occur over the next few years.
Risk Review AGM Preparation The Chairman also met with the non-executive Directors Trading Statement throughout the year to discuss and agree, among other matters, Strategy training and development.
Financial Personnel Succession Half Year Report Board Evaluation Annual Budget The Directors undertake an annual evaluation of the Board and Non-executive Director Remuneration its Committees, which includes completion of a detailed questionnaire on the operation and governance responsibilities Chairman Senior Independent Director in relation to the Companys governance framework.
Both the Investor Feedback executive and non-executive Directors are appraised collectively and individually, with the results of the process reported to the Directors and Officers Liability Insurance Board through the Chairman.
This process was undertaken in Hunting maintains insurance against certain liabilities, which December 2017, with the Board concluding that each Director, could arise from a negligent act or a breach of duty by the the Committees of the Board and the Board itself remained Directors and Officers in the discharge of their duties.
a qualifying third-party indemnity provision that was in force throughout the year.
Furthermore, the Chairmans performance was evaluated in a separate exercise by the non-executive Directors led by Board Appointments John Hofmeister, the Companys Senior Independent Director.
All appointments to the Board are in accordance with the The non-executive Directors concluded that Mr Glick had been Companys Articles of Association and the Code and are made an effective and able Chairman of the Company since his on recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
In April, the Board commenced a succession process to appoint In 2015, the Company completed an externally facilitated a new Chief Executive.
On 1 September 2017, Hunting appointed evaluation that was managed by IDDAS.
This process will be Jim Johnson as the new Chief Executive of the Group.
Proctor stepped down as a Director on the same date.
More information on this process can be found in the Nomination Board Accountability Committee Report on pages 64 and 65.
The Board has procedures in place to review all shareholder communications, including the financial statements and Stock In August, the Nomination Committee recommended to the Exchange announcements issued by the Company.
Huntings Board the appointment of Jay Glick as Chairman to succeed business model and strategy is detailed on pages 30 to 46.
Mr Glicks appointment was effective from Board has delegated the responsibility of assessing whether the 1 September 2017. financial statements are fair, balanced and understandable to the Audit Committee.
Further details of the responsibilities of the For the appointment of executive Directors, the Company Audit Committee can be found within its report on pages 66 and 67. enters into a Service Contract with the Director, which reflects the terms of employment, remuneration and termination, taking Going Concern Basis and Viability Statement into account country of residence and applicable local The Audit Committee and Board review the Going Concern Basis employment laws.
For more information on the Service Contracts twice a year and the Groups Viability Statement annually, in of the current executive Directors, please see page 80 of the parallel to supporting reports from the executive Directors and Remuneration Committee Report.
On appointment, each non-executive Director is provided On 26 February 2018, the Board approved the Going Concern with a letter of appointment, outlining the time commitments, Basis and Viability Statement for the 2017 year end, which is responsibilities and fiduciary duties required under Company detailed on page 55.
Law and, following Company policy, are normally appointed for a three-year term.
All appointment letters are available for inspection at the Companys AGM or at Huntings registered office.
Due to the small size of the Hunting Board, non-executive Directors are paid fees that are above the UK market median, reflecting a higher level of time commitment required for Company matters.
HUNTING PLC 60 2017 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Risk Management Procedures Shareholders The Board acknowledges its responsibility for monitoring the The Company uses a number of processes for communicating Groups principal risks and system of internal control and for with shareholders, including Stock Exchange announcements, reviewing its effectiveness as required by the Code, with key the annual and half-year reports, webcasts, trading statements authorities being delegated to the Audit Committee.
At the and the AGM to which all shareholders are invited.
In addition, Boards February 2017 meeting, the Directors completed a the Chief Executive and Finance Director meet on a one-to-one robust assessment and review of the Groups risk management basis with principal shareholders at least twice a year, following framework and the principal risks facing the Company.
the Groups annual and half-year results, or when requested to update them on Group performance and strategy.
The Board is Huntings principal risks, risk management framework and in turn briefed by the Chief Executive, when appropriate, on systems of internal control are reviewed by the Board annually matters raised by shareholders.
and are detailed in the Strategic Report on pages 47 to 54.
During the year, the Chairman and Senior Independent Director Annual General Meeting AGM also met with a number of shareholders to discuss strategy, The AGM of the Company will take place on Wednesday, 18 April governance and other matters.
Their comments were passed on 2018 at The Royal Automobile Club, 89 Pall Mall, London SW1Y to the Board by the Chairman.
The non-executive Directors are 5HS, commencing at 10.30 a. m. to which all shareholders are also available to meet shareholders.
Shareholder voting procedures follow the provisions of the Articles of Association and the Code, including a separate The Companys major shareholders, as at 31 December 2017, resolution on each material item of business, the availability of are listed below: voting via proxy and the offer of a vote withheld.
At the 2018 Percentage AGM, all resolutions will be voted on by way of a poll.
Further Number of of issued details of the resolutions and voting procedures are set out in the Ordinary Ordinary Notice of AGM.
Notes shares shares BlackRock 7 24,607,553 15.0 Shareholders can vote by completing the form of proxy sent Franklin Templeton group with the Notice of AGM, or by submitting votes electronically of companies 16,363,892 10.0 via the Registrars website www.
co. uk or via their Hunting Investments Limited 1 4 5 11,073,487 6.7 online portfolio service, Shareview, if registered as a member.
Nordea Asset Management 6 8,144,447 5.0 Alternatively, shares held in CREST may be voted through Wellington Management 7,047,309 4.3 the CREST Proxy Voting Service.
To be valid, all votes must Mensarius 6,721,443 4.1 be received no later than 48 hours before the time set for AXA group of companies 6,552,956 4.0 the meeting.
Slaley Investments Limited 5 6,411,679 3.9 The Directors have been authorised to allot and issue Ordinary J Trafford as trustee 2 5 5,970,864 3.6 shares and to disapply statutory pre-emption rights.
These Lazard Asset Management 5,020,131 3.1 powers are exercised under authority of resolutions of the David RL Hunting 5 194,120 0.1 Company passed at its AGM.
During the financial year ended as trustee 2 5 2,549,117 1.6 31 December 2017, 433,917 Ordinary shares were issued other beneficial 3 5 2,484,583 1.5 pursuant to the Companys various share plans.
Notes: The Company has authority, renewed annually, to purchase up 1.
Included in this holding are 9,437,743 Ordinary shares held by Huntridge to 14.99% of the issued share capital, equating to 24,544,579 Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Hunting Investments Limited.
Any shares purchased will either be cancelled, and the of these companies is owned by Hunting PLC either directly or indirectly.
number of Ordinary shares in issue reduced accordingly, or held 2.
After elimination of duplicate holdings, the total Hunting family trustee interests shown above amount to 5,970,864 Ordinary shares.
During 2017, no Ordinary shares were purchased by 3.
Arise because David RL Hunting and his children are or could become the Company, under this authority.
beneficiaries under the relevant family trusts of which David RL Hunting is a trustee.
These powers are effective for 15 months from the date of 4.
Richard H Hunting non-executive Director of Hunting PLC and David RL Hunting are both directors of Hunting Investments Limited.
shareholder approval, or up to the next general meeting where 5.
In 2014, Hunting Investments Limited, Slaley Investments Limited, certain new authorities are sought.
The Directors will be seeking new Hunting family members, including Richard H Hunting and David RL Hunting authorities for these powers at the 2018 AGM.
and the Hunting family trusts, to which James Trafford is a trustee together known as the Hunting Family Interests entered into a voting agreement.
The voting agreement has the legal effect of transferring all voting rights of Hunting Employee Share Trust PLC Ordinary shares held by the Hunting Family Interests to a voting The Group operates an Employee Share Trust the Trust as a committee.
The beneficial ownership of Hunting PLC Ordinary shares remains vehicle to satisfy share options and awards granted to employees as per the table shown above.
At 1 March 2018, the Hunting Family Interests who participate in the Companys share-based incentive party to the agreement totalled 25,458,715 Ordinary shares in the Company, representing 15.5% of the total voting rights.
At 31 December 2017, the Trust held 656,808 Ordinary 6.
On 8 January 2018, Nordea Asset Management notified the Company shares in the Company 2016 791,852.
The Trust has a policy that on 21 December 2017, its holding had decreased to below 5.0% of the to purchase shares in the market or subscribe for new shares to issued capital.
partially meet the future requirements of these incentive 7.
Between 10 January 2018 and 19 February 2018, the Company received 8 notifications from BlackRock which detailed changes to its shareholding.
During the year, the Trust subscribed for 433,917 February 2018, BlackRocks holding was 26,159,695 Ordinary shares, Ordinary shares at the nominal value of 25 pence per share.
representing 15.9% of the issued share capital.
In accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
4C, the Trust has waived all Further information on Share Capital can be found in note 29 and dividends payable by the Company and voting rights in respect on page 160. of the Ordinary shares held by it.
Total dividends waived by the Trust in the financial year to 31 December 2017 were $nil, due to the Company suspending dividends at present, to comply with its bank facility restrictions.
HUNTING PLC 61 2017 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Diversity Huntings approach to diversity is based on policies that promote prejudice-free decision making and are focused on ensuring the right person is attached to the right role, to further all stakeholder interests.
The Groups diversity policy is located at www.
The policy commits Hunting to build a working environment in which all individuals are able to make best use of their skills, free from unfair discrimination, victimisation, harassment and or bullying, and in which all appointments are based on merit.
Further, the objectives of the policy focus on recruitment, training and development, conditions of work and disciplinary procedures.
While there are no mandatory senior management diversity targets in place, all recruitment policies require fair and prejudice-free appointments, regardless of gender.
Gender The Group has collected annual information on the gender diversity of its Board, senior management and workforce, with the 2017 data noted below: BOARD SENIOR MANAGEMENT WORKFORCE 25 1 539 6 2,071 247 Male 86% Female 14% Male 91% Female 9% Male 79% Female 21% The Board has noted the recommendations of the Hampton-Alexander and Parker Committees regarding gender diversity and ethnicity.
Consideration to these recommendations will be made as the Board is refreshed over the coming years.
Further, the Board has noted the legislation to report on the Gender Pay Gap for companies incorporated in the UK.
Hunting confirms that none of the Groups UK-based companies meet the reporting threshold and as a consequence has not submitted data to the UK governments database.
Ethnicity Huntings global operating footprint now extends to 12 countries and, at 31 December 2017, employed 2,610 people.
Our investments in Asia Pacific and Africa in recent years has diversified the ethnicity of the Group from its traditional North American and European focus and will continue to evolve with the changes to the global energy industry.
The chart below notes the geographic and, therefore general, ethnic evolution of the Group over the past five years.
ETHNICITY % 100 90 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 North America Europe Asia Pacific Rest of World John F. Glick Chairman 1 March 2018 HUNTING PLC 62 2017 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS
