AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 Composition and Frequency of Meetings DURING 2017, THE AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED The Committee currently comprises of four non-executive ITS PROGRAMME OF WORK, WHICH INCLUDED Directors and is chaired by John Nicholas.
REVIEWING AND MONITORING KEY ASPECTS OF FINANCIAL REPORTING, RISK MANAGEMENT AND Jay Glick stepped down from the Committee on 1 September INTERNAL CONTROL, IN LINE WITH RECOMMENDATIONS 2017, on his appointment as Chairman of the Company.
PUBLISHED BY THE FINANCIAL REPORTING COUNCIL.
Richard Hunting, who is not regarded as independent, joined the Committee on the same date.
At year-end, 75% of the Committee A KEY WORK STREAM ACCOMPLISHED DURING was comprised of independent non-executive Directors.
THE YEAR WAS THE COMPLETION OF AN EXTERNAL AUDIT TENDER PROCESS, WHICH LED TO THE Mr Nicholas has a professional accounting qualification and is RECOMMENDATION BY THE COMMITTEE OF DELOITTE considered to have recent and relevant financial experience.
LLP AS NEW AUDITORS TO THE GROUP FROM 1 JANUARY Mr Hofmeister Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and 2019.
THIS RECOMMENDATION HAS BEEN ADOPTED Ms Bay have experience of the global energy industry, with BY THE BOARD OF HUNTING.
WE ARE GRATEFUL FOR particular expertise in the US oil and gas market.
Mr Hunting has THE WORK AND ASSISTANCE OF PWC AS AUDITORS extensive knowledge of the Groups general activities given his SINCE THE COMPANYS INCEPTION IN 1989, AND tenure with the Company.
Further details of the Committees LOOK FORWARD TO BUILDING A RELATIONSHIP WITH experience can be found in the biographical summaries set out DELOITTE OVER THE COMING YEAR.
JOHN NICHOLAS CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The Committee usually meets four times a year and operates under written terms of reference approved by the Board, which are published on the Companys website at www.
In 2017, the Committee met five times in February, April, June, August and December, and the attendance record of Committee members during the year is noted below.
The additional meeting held in 2017 was convened to consider, and recommend to the Board the results of the external audit tender process, which was completed in the first half of 2017.
More details of this process are noted below.
Member Invitation Number of meetings held 5 Number of meetings attended actual possible : Annell Bay 5 5 Jay Glick 4 4 1 1 John Hofmeister 5 5 Richard Hunting 1 1 4 4 Jim Johnson 1 1 John Nicholas Committee Chairman 5 5 Dennis Proctor 4 4 Peter Rose 5 5 The Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director, internal and external auditors are normally invited to attend meetings.
During the year, the Committee reviewed its effectiveness and the Committee Chairman reported these findings to the Board.
Responsibilities The principal responsibilities of the Audit Committee are to: monitor and review reports from the executive Directors, including the Groups financial statements and Stock Exchange announcements: provide to the Board a recommendation about the Annual Report and Accounts, including whether they are fair, balanced and understandable: review the Companys and Groups Going Concern Basis and Viability Statement: HUNTING PLC 66 2017 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION monitor, review and assess the Groups systems of risk Review of the 2017 Financial Statements management and internal control: The Committee reviews final drafts of the Groups Report and review reports from the Groups external and internal auditors, Accounts for both the half and full year.
As part of this process, including details of the audit programmes and scope: the performance of the Groups major divisions is considered, consider and recommend to the Board the appointment or with key judgements, estimates and accounting policies being reappointment of the external auditors as applicable: approved by the Committee ahead of a recommendation to agree the scope and fees of the external audit: the Board.
In addition to briefings and supporting reports from monitor and approve engagements of the external auditors to the central finance team on significant issues, the Committee provide non-audit services to the Group: engages in discussion with the Groups external auditors.
review the external auditors independence, effectiveness of the audit process, and assess the level and quality of service Significant issues reviewed by the Committee in connection with in relation to fees paid: the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts were as follows: monitor corporate governance and accounting developments: monitor the Groups Bribery Act compliance procedures: and Changes to Segmental Reporting Format review the procedures to comply with the UK Modern The Committee noted the change in the segmental presentation Slavery Act.
of financial information, to a geographic-focused reporting format, which had been adopted by the Company in the second Work Undertaken by the Committee During 2017 half of 2017.
Further, it was noted that Hunting Titan was also The Committee discussed, reviewed and made a number of presented as a stand-alone segment, given the size and nature decisions on key areas throughout 2017, which are set out below: of its operations.
The Committee noted the work of the external auditor who reviewed the presentation of the financial information Feb Apr Jun Aug Dec and had confirmed compliance with IFRS 8, the segmental Financial Reporting reporting accounting standard.
Following this, the Committee Annual Report and Full Year Results approved the changes to the reporting format.
announcement Impairment Reviews Going Concern Basis During 2017, the Group reported a return to underlying Viability Statement profitability which was primarily driven by increased activity levels Interim Report and Interim Results in the US.
The Committee noted that the businesses within the announcement Group that are focused on onshore drilling reported good growth Draft Annual Report in the year and, in some cases, had reported a strong return to Review Accounting Policies profitability.
However, those businesses focused on international Internal Control and Risk Management and offshore markets remained subdued.
Given this trading environment, management conducted a review for indicators of Risk management and internal control impairment at the half year and a full impairment test on the report carrying values of assets held on the Groups balance sheet for Key risks and mitigating controls the year end.
Effectiveness of internal controls and internal audit function Property, Plant and Equipment PPE Internal Audit Report The year end balance sheet includes PPE of $383.3m 2016 Procedures for preventing bribery and $419.0m.
This represents approximately 35% of the Groups net corruption assets 2016 37%.
As noted in the Strategic Report, with the Procedures for complying with the Modern closure of the Cape Town facility, the value of PPE was written Slavery Act down by $7.6m to their net realisable value.
No other impairments were charged to the income statement in the year.
The Committee Internal audit programme and resourcing reviewed the PPE impairment tests and, following discussion, External Auditors was satisfied that the assumptions and the disclosures in the Auditor objectivity, independence and year-end accounts were appropriate.
re-appointment Full year report to the Audit Committee Goodwill Final Management Letter on internal controls The year end balance sheet includes goodwill of $230.3m 2016 $229.8m.
This represents approximately 21% of the Groups Auditor performance and effectiveness net assets 2016 21%.
Detailed reviews of the carrying values Proposed year end audit plan including of goodwill held by Huntings relevant businesses were scope, fees and engagement letter undertaken at the half and full year, which confirmed that Interim review report to the Audit Committee Huntings projections supported no impairments.
The Committee Risk of auditor leaving the market considered the appropriateness of the assumptions and Audit Tender Review and Board challenged the discount rates and the factors used in the review Recommendation process.
After discussion, it was satisfied that the assumptions Other Business and the disclosures in the year end accounts were appropriate.
Whistleblowing and Bribery policy review Other Intangible Assets Committee effectiveness and Terms of The carrying value of the Groups other intangible assets was Reference also reviewed resulting in no impairments 2016 $nil being recorded in the year.
The amortisation charge recorded in the income statement was $31.2m 2016 $35.3m.
As with the goodwill impairment review, the Committee considered the appropriateness of the assumptions, discount rates and factors used in the review process.
HUNTING PLC 67 2017 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 CONTINUED Inventory Fair, Balanced and Understandable Assessment At the year end, the Group held $286.2m of inventory 2016 The Committee has reviewed the financial statements, together $259.7m.
The year-on-year increase is attributable to the improved with the narrative contained within the Strategic Report set out trading within Huntings onshore focused businesses in the US, on pages 4 to 55, and believes that the 2017 Annual Report and which have seen substantial improvement in activity during Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and the year.
Due to the improving outlook for the industry, the carrying values In arriving at this conclusion the Committee undertook the following: have been assessed to be adequate.
Further, the Committee reviewed year end inventory carrying values and the work review of early drafts of the Annual Report and Accounts, undertaken by management in assessing and supporting the providing relevant feedback to the executive Directors: carrying values.
Given this, and together with the improved regular review and discussion of the financial results during market conditions and improvement in inventory days, the the year, including briefings by Group finance and operational Committee concluded that inventory carrying values were management: and assessed to be fairly stated.
receipt and review of reports from the external and internal auditors.
Taxation In view of the international spread of operations, the Committee The Committee advised the Board of its conclusion that the 2017 monitors tax risk, tax audits and provisions held for taxation.
The Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, were fair, Finance Director briefed the Committee on developments during balanced and understandable at a Meeting of the Directors on the year.
Exceptional Items Charged to the Consolidated Income Internal Audit Statement The Committee receives reports from the Internal Audit The Group reports a middle column within the consolidated department and reviews the internal audit process and income statement, which includes amortisation and exceptional effectiveness as part of the Groups internal control and risk items.
The Committee considered the accounting policy definition assessment programme.
An annual programme of internal audit of exceptional items and the items included within this column assignments is reviewed by the Committee.
The Committee met to ensure consistency of treatment and adherence to policy.
with the Head of Internal Audit, without the presence of the executive Directors, on three occasions during the year.
The During the year exceptional items totalling $10.0m were effectiveness of the Internal Audit function was also considered recorded, wholly related to the closure of the manufacturing by the Committee at its March meeting.
External Audit Going Concern Basis and Viability Statement The external auditors presented reports at the February, April, The Committee monitored assumptions around Going Concern August and December meetings for consideration by the Audit at the half and full year, as well as those around the Groups Committee.
In February 2018, a full year report was considered Viability Statement for the full year.
Driven by the profitability of the ahead of publication of the Groups Annual Report and Accounts: Group, led by the performance of Hunting Titan, the Committee in April an internal control report was presented, following the believes that good support to Huntings longer-term viability exists.
year end audit, and in August an interim report was presented, which includes the proposed full year audit scope and fees.
An In the year, Hunting remained fully compliant with its bank update to the full year plan was presented at the December covenants which were renegotiated in 2016 and were amended meeting.
The Committee considers the reappointment of the from profit-based to asset-based covenant arrangements.
As auditors annually at its February meeting and makes a noted in the Strategic Report, in December 2017, the Company recommendation to the Board.
The Committee normally meets commenced the process to exit from the asset-based covenant with the external auditors, without executive Directors present, arrangements and revert to its original profit-based covenants.
at the end of each formal meeting.
This process concluded in January 2018.
Audit Scope The Audit Committee also considered the audit scope and This performance supported the Committees assessment of materiality threshold.
The audit scope was planned to cover the Going Concern Statement and the Viability Statement, as Group-wide risks and local statutory reporting, enhanced by contained in the Risk Management section on page 55.
The desk top reviews for smaller, low risk entities.
Approximately 93% assumptions considered by the Committee included reviews of of the Groups reported revenue and over 82% of the absolute the regular forecast updates provided by management and result before tax from continuing operations, adjusted for the reviewing bank covenant compliance reports, as noted above.
impairment of goodwill and other non-current assets, was audited, covering 23 reporting units across seven countries.
On 26 February 2018, the Audit Committee approved the Viability Statement, detailed on page 55 of the Strategic Report, noting that it presented a reasonable outlook for the Group for the next three years.
HUNTING PLC 68 2017 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Materiality During the year, the Committee completed a competitive tender The Committee has discussed materiality with the auditors both process for the appointment of a new statutory auditor to the as regards accounting errors that will be brought to the Audit Group.
The Audit Committee appointed a tender panel Committees attention and as regards amounts that would need comprising of the Audit Committee Chairman, Group Finance to be adjusted so that the financial statements give a true and fair Director and Group Financial Controller to oversee the process.
Overall audit materiality was set at $5.0m 2016 $5.0m.
Following an internal assessment, Deloitte, EY and KPMG were This equates to approximately 5% of the Groups average invited to bid for the appointment.
These firms each met key reported absolute result before tax from continuing operations, management of the Group and visited operations in the US, prior adjusted for the impairment of goodwill and other non-current to the submission of a formal proposal for review by the tender assets, for the past five years.
This is within the range that audit panel.
Interviews between the key engagement personnel and opinions are considered to be reliable.
Furthermore, the auditors the panel were completed in May, leading to the recommendation agreed to draw to the Audit Committees attention all identified, by the Committee to appoint Deloitte.
As noted above, the uncorrected misstatements greater than $0.3m.
Committee met in June to consider and approve the recommendation to the Board of Hunting.
The Directors of Audit Effectiveness Hunting subsequently approved the Committees recommendation The external auditors full year report includes a statement on at its meeting in June.
Transition arrangements to move external their independence, their ability to remain objective and their audit responsibility from  LLP to ability to undertake an effective audit.
The Committee considers Deloitte LLP are underway, with personnel from Deloitte to be and assesses this independence statement on behalf of the invited to key meetings of the Committee in 2018, ahead of Board, taking into account the level of fees paid, particularly for formal appointment.
 LLP have been auditors to the Group The effectiveness of the audit process is considered throughout since the Companys formation on 7 August 1989 and, under the the year with a formal review undertaken at the April meeting of firms audit partner rotation rules, the current Senior Statutory the Committee.
The assessment considers the following matters: Auditor will rotate off the audit following completion of the 2018 statutory audit at the same time Deloitte LLP are appointed the auditors understanding of the Groups business and statutory auditors to the Group from 1 January 2019, subject industry sector: to shareholder approval.
the planning and execution of the audit plan approved by the Committee: Non-Audit Services the communication between the Group and audit The Committee closely monitors fees paid to the auditors in engagement team: respect of non-audit services.
With the exception of audit-related the auditors response to questions from the Committee, assurance services which totalled $0.1m 2016 $0.1m, in 2017 including during private meetings without management present: there were no non-audit services fees paid 2016 $nil.
The the independence, objectivity and scepticism of the auditor: scope and extent of non-audit work undertaken by the external responses to a formal questionnaire on conduct of the audit auditors is monitored by and, above certain thresholds, requires from the senior financial managers of the Group: prior approval from the Committee to ensure that the provision of a report from the Finance Director and the Group Financial such services does not impair their independence or objectivity.
Controller: and finalisation of the audit work ahead of completion of the Annual In line with the EUs Audit Directive, the Audit Committee Report and Accounts.
approved a new policy in 2016 for the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor, in line with the Directives In addition, the Committee reviewed and took account of the requirements.
reports from the Financial Reporting Council on  LLP PwC.
After considering these The Board received copies of all reports submitted to the Committee.
matters, the Committee was satisfied with the effectiveness of the year end audit process.
Financial Reporting Council Audit Quality Review In May 2017,  LLP were notified by the Audit Tender Audit Quality Review panel, part of the Financial Reporting Council, The Committee values the importance of maintaining high that it was to undertake a review of the working papers completed standards in the external audit process.
During the year, the as part of the external audit process during the preparation of Company complied with the provisions of the Statutory Audit Hunting PLCs 2016 Annual Report and Accounts.
The panel Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory provided feedback to PwC in September 2017, noting the good Use of Competitive Tender Process and Audit Committee quality of the papers and that the review had been completed.
Responsibilities Order 2014 the CMA Audit Order throughout the year.
HUNTING PLC 69 2017 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 CONTINUED Financial Reporting Council Review of Annual Report Code of Conduct Disclosures The Groups Code of Conduct contains policies and procedures In late December 2016, the Conduct Committee of the Financial covering how the Group conducts business and maintains its Reporting Council notified the Company that it was to undertake relationships with business partners.
The Code of Conduct is a review of the disclosures relating to Significant Accounting available on the Groups website.
Judgements and sources of estimation uncertainty within the Companys 2016 Annual Report and Accounts.
In October 2017, Whistleblowing the Conduct Committee advised the Company that they had The Companys Senior Independent Director, John Hofmeister, completed their review, with no substantive issues to raise.
The is the primary point of contact for staff of the Group to raise, in Conduct Committee did ask the Company to consider a number confidence, concerns they may have over possible improprieties, of minor matters within future Annual Reports.
The Company has financial or otherwise.
In addition, the Group engages the therefore made a number of changes to its disclosures.
services of Safecall Limited to provide an independent and anonymous whistleblowing service available to staff across all of Internal Controls Huntings operations.
All employees have been notified of these The Group has an established risk management framework and arrangements through the corporate magazine, Group notice internal control environment, which was in operation throughout boards and the Groups website.
The Committee monitors these arrangements on behalf of the Board and these are detailed in the Risk Management section of the Strategic Report on pages 48 and 49.
Bribery Act In compliance with the UK Bribery Act, Hunting has procedures in place, including the publication of Bribery and Corruption policies and detailed guidelines on interacting with customers, John Nicholas suppliers and agents, including specific policies for gifts, Chairman of the Audit Committee entertainment and hospitality.
Senior managers across the Group are required to report their compliance activities, including 1 March 2018 an evaluation of risk areas.
The Group has completed a screening exercise to identify relevant employees who face a heightened risk of bribery, with all relevant personnel completing a formal training and compliance course, in line with the Groups procedures.
The Committee reviews the compliance procedures relating to the Bribery Act at its April and December meetings, which incorporates risk assessments completed by each business unit and gifts and entertainment disclosures made during the reporting period.
The Groups internal audit function reviews local compliance with the Bribery Act and reports control improvements and recommendations to the Committee, where appropriate.
Modern Slavery Act The Modern Slavery Act 2015 was enacted during 2016 and requires companies to evaluate internal and external risks related to human trafficking and modern slavery.
Procedures were introduced during 2016 and continued in 2017, whereby each business unit across the Group completed due diligence on its workforce to highlight employment risks in relation to trafficking and slavery.
All businesses within the Group also completed a risk-mapping exercise of their known supply chain to evaluate those customers and suppliers to the Group who operate in those jurisdictions where trafficking and slavery is more prevalent.
Following a review of relevant material, Hunting published its first Modern Slavery Act report, located at www.
In Q1 2018, a new Code of Conduct training course was rolled out by the Group to all employees that incorporates information on modern slavery and trafficking and other ethics based policies in force across the Group.
HUNTING PLC 70 2017 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS
