86 GSK Annual Report 2017 Our Corporate Executive Team 1 Roger Connor Luc Debruyne 2 President, Global Manufacturing & Supply President, Global Vaccines Roger joined CET in 2012 and was appointed Luc joined CET in 2016 as President, President, Global Manufacturing & Supply Global Vaccines, a role he has held since 2013. in 2013, after working for a year as President He joined GSK in 1991 as a commercial strategy Designate.
Prior to this, he was Vice President, director in R&D, before leading the European Office of the CEO and Corporate Strategy.
In 2006, Roger joined GSK in 1998 from AstraZeneca.
Luc became General Manager in the Netherlands and then in 2010 Senior Vice President and He was appointed to the Board of GSK 3 General Manager in Italy.
In 2012, he was Consumer Healthcare, our joint venture appointed Senior Vice President, Pharma Europe, with Novartis, in April 2017. prior to his current role.
Luc is a member of the Roger holds a degree in Mechanical and International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturing Engineering from Queens Manufacturers & Associations Vaccines CEO University Belfast and a Masters in Manufacturing Roundtable and the Management Committee Leadership from Cambridge University.
of the Belgian Federation of Enterprises.
He holds a Masters degree in Physical Education from University of Leuven.
Emma Walmsley Chief Executive Officer 2.
Simon Dingemans Nick Hirons Brian McNamara Chief Financial Officer Senior Vice President, Global Ethics CEO, GSK Consumer Healthcare 3.
Dr Hal Barron and Compliance Chief Scientific Officer Nick was appointed to CET in 2014 as Senior Brian joined CET in 2016, when he was and President, R&D Vice President, Global Ethics and Compliance, appointed CEO, GSK Consumer Healthcare.
Dr Patrick Vallance responsible for compliance, risk management, He joined GSK in 2015 as Head of Europe corporate security and investigations.
and Americas for GSK Consumer Healthcare, Outgoing President, R&D following the creation of a joint venture between Nick joined GSK in 1994 as an International GSK and Novartis.
Previously, he was head For biographical details, Auditor.
He was later Head of Audit & Assurance, of Novartiss OTC division.
Brian began his see page 83. where he combined five audit functions into an career at Procter and Gamble.
independent team with a common risk-based methodology.
In 2013, Nick relocated to China He is Chairman of the World Self-Medication to establish a governance model for our China Industry Association.
business that created a consistent approach He earned an undergraduate degree in to compliance.
Electrical Engineering from Union College Nick is a fellow of the Chartered Institute in New York and an MBA in Finance from of Management Accountants.
Abbas Hussain was a member of CET before leaving the company on 31 July 2017.
87 GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Luke Miels David Redfern Karenann Terrell President, Global Pharmaceuticals Chief Strategy Officer Chief Digital & Technology Officer Luke joined GSK and CET in September David joined CET as Chief Strategy Officer Karenann joined GSK and CET in September 2017 as President, Global Pharmaceuticals in 2008 and is responsible for corporate 2017 as Chief Digital & Technology Officer, responsible for our commercial portfolio of development and strategic planning.
Previously, responsible for our technology, digital, data medicines and vaccines.
he was Senior Vice President, Northern Europe and analytics strategy.
with responsibility for GSKs pharmaceutical Previously, he worked for AstraZeneca as Previously, she worked for Walmart as Chief businesses in that region and, prior to that, was Executive Vice President of their European Information Officer.
Prior to this, she was at Senior Vice President for Central and Eastern business and, prior to that, Executive Vice Baxter International, where she was Chief Europe.
President of Global Product and Portfolio Information Officer, and before that Daimler Strategy, Global Medical Affairs and Corporate He was appointed Chairman of the Board of Chrysler Corporation.
Before then, he held roles of increasing ViiV Healthcare Limited in 2011 and a Noncareer in General Motors.
seniority at Roche and Sanofi-Aventis.
Executive Director of the Aspen Pharmacare Karenann is a member of the board of trustees Holdings Limited Board in 2015.
He holds a Bachelor of Science degree in for the New York Hall of Science and in 2017 Biology from Flinders University in Adelaide and David has a Bachelor of Science degree from she became a Non-Executive Director of an MBA from the Macquarie University, Sydney.
Bristol University in the UK and is a Chartered Pluralsight LLC.
She earned graduate and post-graduate degrees in Electrical Engineering from Kettering and Purdue Universities respectively.
Claire Thomas Phil Thomson Dan Troy Senior Vice President, Human Resources President, Global Affairs Senior Vice President & General Counsel Claire was appointed to CET as Senior Vice Phil joined CET in 2011.
He was appointed Dan joined GSK and CET as Senior Vice President, Human Resources in 2008.
President, Global Affairs in April 2017, with President & General Counsel in 2008. specific responsibilities for the Groups strategic Claire joined the company in 1996 as Senior He was previously a Partner at the Washington approach to Reputation, Corporate Responsibility, Manager, Human Resources, Sales and Marketing law firm Sidley Austin LLP, where he principally Global Health, China and Britains withdrawal from Group, UK Pharmaceuticals before becoming represented pharmaceutical companies and trade the European Union.
He is responsible for our Director of Human Resources for UK associations on matters related to the US Food engagement with investors, media, government, Pharmaceuticals in 1997.
She was appointed and Drug Administration FDA and government key global community partners and employees.
Senior Vice President, Human Resources, regulations.
Dan was formerly Chief Counsel for Pharmaceuticals Europe in 2001, and Previously, he was Senior Vice President, the FDA.
Senior Vice President, Human Resources, Communications and Government Affairs.
Dan holds a B. S. in Industrial and Labor Relations Pharmaceuticals International in 2006.
He joined GSK as a commercial trainee from Cornell University and a J. D. from Columbia in 1996.
Prior to GSK, she worked for Ford Motor University School of Law.
He chairs the US Company, holding various positions in Phil is Chairman of The Whitehall & Industry Chamber of Commerce Litigation Center and Human Resources.
Group and a Board Member of the China-Britain is a member of the American Law Institute.
Claire has a Bachelor of Science degree It was announced in January 2018 that Dan Troy in Economics, Management and Industrial He earned his degree in English, History and will leave GSK at a later date in 2018 when his Relations from the University of Wales.
Russian Studies from Durham University.
88 GSK Annual Report 2017 Corporate Governance continued Leadership and effectiveness Corporate governance framework The Board has established a corporate governance framework with clearly defined responsibilities and accountabilities.
The framework is designed to safeguard and enhance long-term shareholder value and to provide a platform to realise the Groups strategy through GSKs new Innovation, Performance and Trust priorities.
Our internal control and risk management arrangements, described on pages 20 to 21 and 105 and 106, are an integral part of GSKs governance framework.
For the Board to operate effectively and to give full consideration to key matters, Board Committees have been established as set out below.
Board Chief Nominations Audit & Risk Remuneration Science Corporate Executive Committee Committee Committee Committee Responsibility Officer Committee Corporate Read more on Read more on Read more on Read more on Read more on Executive page 94 page 96 page 114 page 109 page 110 Team See www.
com for terms of reference for each Board Committee.
Scheduled Board and Committee attendance during 2017 Corporate Board Nominations Audit & Risk Remuneration Science Responsibility Total number of scheduled meetings 6 6 6 5 4 4 Members Attended Attended Attended Attended Attended Attended Philip Hampton 6 6 Emma Walmsley 6 Simon Dingemans 6 Dr Patrick Vallance 6 Professor Sir Roy Anderson 6 6 4 4 Vindi Banga 6 6 6 5 Dr Vivienne Cox 5 4 4 Lynn Elsenhans 6 6 6 4 Dr Laurie Glimcher Appointed on 1 September 2017 2 2 2 2 2 2 Dr Jesse Goodman 6 4 3 Judy Lewent 6 6 6 5 4 Urs Rohner 6 5 Sir Andrew Witty Retired on 31 March 2017 2 2 Dr Moncef Slaoui Retired on 31 March 2017 2 2 Total number of ad-hoc meetings 10 1 4 7 0 0 For Directors who served for part of the year, the numbers in brackets denote the number of meetings the Directors were eligible to attend.
See the Committee Reports for other attendees at Committee meetings, such as the Chairman, CEO and other Executive Directors, and the work of the Committees during the year.
These reports are included later in the Corporate Governance Report.
89 GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information 2017 Board programme The Board is responsible for the long-term success of the company and has the authority, and is accountable to shareholders, for ensuring that the Group is appropriately managed and achieves the strategic objectives it sets.
In the performance of these duties, it has regard to the interests of other key stakeholders and is cognisant of the potential impact of the decisions it makes.
The Board discharges those responsibilities through an annual programme of meetings and during the year it focused on a number of specific areas outlined in the table, in line with its new long-term priorities of Innovation, Performance and Trust.
In addition, during the year the CEO met with Non-Executive Directors to discuss various matters, including the evolution of her thinking on the companys strategy, succession planning and the ongoing SFO investigation.
Areas of focus Long-term priorities link Strategy The Boards oversight of the execution of our strategy included: Receiving and discussing reports from our principal three businesses, Pharma, Vaccines and Consumer Briefings on products.
In particular, the Board was keen to oversee launch plans for the Shingrix vaccine, Trelegy Ellipta and Nucala products.
It also reviewed the background to the withdrawal of Tanzeum A joint Board and Corporate Executive Committee strategy day was held to discuss the new Innovation, Performance and Trust priorities against external landscape changes, business performance, competitors and governance arrangements The evolution of our approach and changes to medical engagement with key external experts Conducting a deep dive on the Groups business strategy in China Receiving and discussing reports on our pensions, insurance, tax and treasury strategies.
Performance The Boards focus on performance included: Setting the new CEOs objectives Setting, reviewing and agreeing the annual budget and forward looking three year plan Receiving reports from the CEO on our principal three businesses Scrutinising the Groups financial performance Reviewing Brexit impacts and planning arrangements Reviewing progress of the pipeline.
Governance The Boards approach to discharging its corporate governance duties included: Receiving reports from Board Committees Approving the 2016 Annual Report Reviewing AGM preparation and approving the 2017 Notice of AGM Considering observations and agreeing actions from the internal evaluation of the Boards performance Receiving reports on corporate governance and regulatory developments Undertaking training on GSKs Code of Conduct Approving the appointment of a new Chief Scientific Officer and President, R&D and a new Non-Executive Director and Scientific & Medical Expert.
Cultural The Head of HR briefed the Board on: transformation Aligning GSKs culture and values to support our strategy and long-term priorities.
Link to long-term priorities Innovation Performance Trust 90 GSK Annual Report 2017 Corporate Governance: Leadership and effectiveness continued Key Board roles and responsibilities Leadership Independent oversight and rigorous challenge Chairman Non-Executive Directors Philip Hampton Provide a strong independent element to the Board Leads and manages the business of the Board Constructively support and challenge management Provides direction and focus and scrutinise their performance in meeting agreed Ensures clear structure for effective operation of the deliverables Board and its Committees Shape proposals on strategy and management Sets Board agenda and ensures sufficient time is Each has a letter of appointment setting out the terms allocated to promote effective debate to support sound and conditions of their directorship decision making Devote such time as is necessary to the proper Ensures the Board receives precise, timely and clear performance of their duties information Are expected to attend all meetings required.
Meets with each Non-Executive Director on an annual Independence statement basis to discuss individual contributions and performance, together with training and development needs The Board considers all of its Non-Executive Directors Shares peer feedback that is provided as part of the Board who are identified on pages 84 to 85 to be independent.
evaluation process This includes Professor Sir Roy Anderson, with tenure Meets with all the Non-Executive Directors independently of more than nine years.
They each demonstrate an of the Executive Directors appropriate degree of independence in character and Leads discussions with shareholders to whom he is judgement and are free from any business or other responsible for the Groups performance.
relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their judgement.
The independence and The Chairmans role description is available on www.
com commitment of Professor Sir Roy Anderson and Judy Lewent, who have served on the Board for over six years, Chief Executive Officer has been subjected to a rigorous review.
Emma Walmsley Is responsible for the management of the Group and its Senior Independent Non-Executive Director three businesses Vindi Banga Develops the Groups strategic direction for consideration Acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and a trusted and approval by the Board intermediary for other Directors Implements the agreed strategy Together with the Non-Executive Directors, leads the Is supported by members of the Corporate Executive annual review of the Chairmans performance, taking into Team.
account views of the Executive Directors The Chief Executive Officers role description is available on www.
com Discusses the results of the Chairmans effectiveness review with the Chairman Leads the search and appointment process and recommendation to the Board of a new Chairman Acts as an additional point of contact for shareholders In doing so, maintains an understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders through briefings from the Investor Relations team and the Company Secretary.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Directors role description is available on www.
com Company Secretary Secretary to the Board and all Board Committees Victoria Whyte Supports the Board and Committee Chairs in annual agenda plan setting Ensures information is made available to the Board members in a timely fashion Supports the Chairman in designing and delivering Board inductions Coordinates ongoing business awareness and training requirements for the Non-Executive Directors Undertakes internal Board and Committee evaluations at the request of the Chairman Advises the Directors on Board practice and procedures and corporate governance matters Chairs the Groups Disclosure Committee Is a point of contact for shareholders on corporate governance matters.
91 GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Board induction and development The Company Secretary assists the Chairman in designing and New Corporate Executive Team CET members meet with Board facilitating individual induction programmes for new Directors.
members as part of their induction, and to ensure the Board They are designed with the purpose of orientating and familiarising maintains its connections with the CET.
new Directors with our industry, organisation, governance and our During 2017, Dr Laurie Glimcher, a new US-based Science strategy and Innovation, Performance and Trust priorities.
and Medical Expert, and in January 2018, Dr Hal Barron, a highly Each new Director receives a general induction.
A personalised experienced R&D leader, joined the Board.
Their customised induction is then devised which is individually tailored to each induction programmes are summarised below.
new Directors background, education, experience and role.
2017 Board induction General Board induction Executive Non-Executive All Directors Directors duties and responsibilities Role of an Executive Director Role of a Non-Executive Director GSKs Corporate Governance Build relationship with GSK strategy, competitors and structure Chairman and the Board external environment GSKs Code of Conduct training Fill any capability gaps Meet CET members GSKs financial structure Personal Executive Director induction Personal Non-Executive Director induction Dr Hal Barron Dr Laurie Glimcher Chief Scientific Officer and President, R&D Scientific & Medical Expert Maximise handover opportunity with the outgoing R&D and Vaccines deep dives President, R&D Briefings on R&Ds key therapy areas Detailed review of pipeline assets, including Site visits to: Ware, Stevenage and Wavre R&D governance, processes and team, and Briefing on US business and commercial model business development landscape to inform Audit & Risk and Science Committee inductions updated R&D strategy Board, business and key stakeholder awareness Training To ensure that our Non-Executive Directors develop and maintain The Chairman meets with each Director annually on a one-to-one a greater insight and understanding of the business and key basis to discuss his or her ongoing training and development stakeholders they: requirements.
The Board is kept up to date on legal, regulatory and governance matters through regular papers and briefings are invited to attend internal management meetings, including from the Company Secretary and presentations by internal and meetings of the CET external advisers.
meet employees informally during visits to the Groups operations During 2017, the Board members undertook training on GSKs and at receptions held with staff around Board meetings Code of Conduct.
receive monthly investor relations and stakeholder reports to maintain awareness of investor and stakeholder views measure progress in implementing our Innovation, Performance and Trust business priorities and evolving our culture through an all-employee survey undertaken every six months and through reports on the regular conversations the CET has directly with the workforce through the Lets Talk programme.
92 GSK Annual Report 2017 Corporate Governance: Leadership and effectiveness continued 2017 External evaluation of the Board The Board carries out an evaluation of its performance and that of its Committees every year and the evaluation is facilitated externally every third year.
After a market review, Ms Ffion Hague of Independent Board Evaluation was appointed to independently facilitate the 2017 Board and Committee evaluation.
Neither Ms Hague nor Independent Board Evaluation has any other connection with the company.
Ms Hague met with the Chairman, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director SID, CEO and the Company Secretary, to discuss and agree the scope of the evaluation exercise and the timetable of activities.
The Secretary provided the evaluation The evaluation team attended the Board team with access to Board and Committee and Committee meetings held in December papers and other materials as part of their 2017, to observe Directors and the preparatory work for the evaluation.
operation and dynamics of meetings.
Phase one Phase two Phase three Phase four Phase five Preparation Interviews Observations Review Outcomes During November and December 2017, A report containing the output from the evaluation Ms Hague conducted detailed interviews and a set of draft conclusions was compiled by with each Board member.
These were Ms Hague, which was discussed initially with the based on a clear agenda which was sent Chairman, CEO and the SID.
A report containing to each participant in advance.
The her findings and recommendations was then Company Secretary and the Head of presented by Ms Hague to the whole Board at HR were also interviewed to gain a its main meeting in January 2018. broader perspective.
Separate reports were compiled for: each of the Board Committees, which were presented to the individual Committee Chairs first and were then discussed at the respective Committee meetings in January 2018: each individual Board member, which were presented to and discussed with the Chairman: and the Chairman, which was initially discussed with the SID.
The SID and Ms Hague then discussed this with the Non-Executive Directors before the SID discussed it with the Chairman.
93 GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information 2017 External evaluation of the Board continued 2017 Board review feedback and outcomes In response to the report, Board members are highly engaged and Ms Hagues report had noted the context in which her 2017 Board committed to the best interests of the company and feel that the evaluation has been conducted, where there has recently been Boards work is underpinned by the mechanisms it has established significant change to the composition of the Board, which is still to support its operations.
The Board takes governance very seriously settling down, including: and has chosen to work further on the following areas: a new Chairman appointed in May 2015: A review of R&D strategy following the appointment of the new Chief Scientific Officer and President, R&D.
the new CEO starting her role in April 2017: Enhancing the Boards focus and decision making by agreeing five other members joining the Board within the past three years, its clear priorities to focus on each year.
some of whom, though experienced in their field, did not have previous UK listed company experience: and Succession planning at senior executive and Board level.
welcoming Dr Barron to the Board in January 2018.
Building Board relationships and culture in line with the CEOs culture work across the Group.
Due to the timing of the review, on this occasion the review team only took input from Board members.
In this context, Board members expressed a broad range of views and, as the Board settles down, some issues were identified as the focus for an action plan over the coming year.
The Board is strongly supportive of the new CEO.
It was pleased with the ongoing work to strengthen the focus on science with the new Chief Scientific Officer and President, R&D, NonExecutive Scientific and Medical Experts and the creation of the Science Committee which is in its formative stages.
2017 Board performance Progress against the conclusions of the 2016 Board evaluation review, internally facilitated by our Company Secretary, is set out below.
Areas of focus for 2017 Progress Achievements Create more opportunities for deeper During the year, the Board considered a detailed review of the companys strategy with management in the strategic discussions, particularly on the context of the operating environment, the companys culture and industry dynamics in global healthcare.
evolution of the pharmaceuticals industry, the competitive landscape, therapy areas and GSK culture and performance.
Identify ways to further improve the All papers submitted to the Board have been streamlined and re-shaped to align with the new Innovation, Boards decision making.
Performance and Trust long-term business priorities to allow continuing oversight and more focused decision-making.
Further increase Board oversight of Good progress was made in establishing the Science Committee, further details of which can be found in the science and innovation in collaboration Science Committee report on page 109. with the new Science Committee.
Consider how data from the new IT Reporting to the Board has been enhanced in this area within a new Innovation, Performance and Trust systems can contribute to greater long-term business priorities framework and dashboards aiding the Boards oversight of the companys key understanding and hence help evolve performance indicators.
94 GSK Annual Report 2017 Corporate Governance: Leadership and effectiveness continued Nominations Committee report Dear Shareholder Philip Hampton The Committee has worked over the last few years to refresh the Nominations Committee Board and replace retiring directors.
Following the CEO transition, Chair Emma Walmsley has established Innovation, Performance and Trust as the long-term priorities for the business and the Committees focus has turned to supporting the CEO in establishing the team she needs to lead the company for the opportunities and challenges ahead.
Executive management succession When Dr Patrick Vallance, President, R&D informed the Board of his intention to become the UK Governments Chief Scientific Adviser and Head of the Governments Office for Science, the Committee Role engaged Korn Ferry, who had previously conducted a proactive desktop talent mapping exercise for R&D executives.
The Committee, The Committee reviews and recommends to the Board: with full participation of the other Non-Executive Directors, compiled a profile for the next leader of R&D.
The profile contained a brief of The structure, size and composition of the Board the requirements and the desired skill set that a potential successor and the appointment of Directors, members to the to Patrick would need.
The brief was drafted to emphasise the Board Committees and the CET importance the CEO and the Committee placed on identifying and Succession to the Board and the CET.
recruiting a world-renowned R&D leader with a strong track record of developing R&D organisational capabilities and significant new medicines.
On reviewing the profile, the Committee decided that Membership it needed to look externally for such talent.
Committee members Committee member since Korn Ferry then initiated global searches against this agreed profile Philip Hampton Chair from 27 January 2015 27 January 2015 across the pharmaceuticals industry.
Given the importance of this Professor Sir Roy Anderson 1 October 2012 search, the Committee sought a second opinion from Egon Zehnder, Vindi Banga 1 January 2016 who are also experts in the field of executive search.
This yielded Lynn Elsenhans 27 January 2015 a pool of candidates which was reduced to a shortlist of several potential candidates.
These shortlisted candidates met and were Judy Lewent 8 May 2014 subsequently interviewed by the companys designated Scientific Urs Rohner 1 January 2017 and Medical Experts SME, the Audit & Risk Committee Chair and the Chairman, and their feedback on each candidate was compiled.
Details of the Committee members skills and experience The Committee received the CEOs analysis of the candidates and are given in their biographies under Our Board on pages a separate analysis by the Head of HR.
See page 88 for Committee member attendance levels.
The process culminated with the Committee meeting to agree a recommendation to the Board that proposed the appointment The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee of Dr Hal Barron as Chief Scientific Officer and President, R&D.
Other attendees at Committee The recommendation received unanimous Board approval.
On 8 meetings may include: November 2017, it was announced that Hal would join the Board Regular Attends as as an Executive Director with effect from 1 January 2018.
Patrick Attendees attendee required stepped down as President R&D at the end of 2017 and will resign Chief Executive Officer as an Executive Director and CET member from 31 March 2018.
Head of Human Resources The Board was pleased that Hals appointment demonstrated the companys continued ability to attract world class talent to the Appropriate external advisers organisation.
As one of the worlds foremost R&D leaders, Hal Advisory services possesses an exceptional track record of developing significant During the year, Korn Ferry and Egon Zehnder provided new medicines at Roche and Genentech, while recently at Calico recruitment consultancy services to the Committee, in building a research organisation that uses cutting-edge technologies addition to recruitment and HR services which they provide in drug discovery and development.
They are both signatories to the Voluntary In my Committee report last year, we reported that Mr Luke Miels Code of Conduct for Executive search firms on gender had been recruited from AstraZeneca, where he was Executive Vice diversity and best practice.
President of its European business, to succeed Abbas Hussain as President, Global Pharmaceuticals.
Luke subsequently joined GSK and the CET on 1 September 2017.
Luke and Hal had previously worked together at Roche, and their appointments complete the top team for our Global Pharmaceuticals business.
95 GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Nominations Committee report continued Finally, in terms of senior executive appointments, Ms Karenann We are currently meeting the Parker Reports recommendation Terrell was appointed, with the support of Korn Ferry, to the CET in of at least one board director of colour by 2021.
September 2017 as GSKs first Chief Digital & Technology Officer.
At this point, I wish to personally acknowledge how much I and She has a company-wide remit to transform how new technologies everyone involved in the work of the Hampton-Alexander Review are used to improve performance across the Group.
Karenanns will miss Dame Helen, who sadly passed away in August last year.
previous role was Chief Information Officer for Walmart, where she She was an outstanding leader who believed that women could led a multi-year effort to transform Walmart in the use of data, and should be able to contribute far more to business than has ever analytics and digital engagement with its customers.
The Review team and I will continue the work These senior executive appointments underscore the immediate in her memory.
areas of focus for our new CEO since taking up her appointment, The Committee was pleased at the progress made towards our as she continues to build her senior leadership team to drive the female Board representation and combined Corporate Executive Innovation, Performance and Trust agenda.
Team CET and Direct Reports targets of at least 33% by 2020.
New Non-Executive Director appointment GSK ranked 8th in the FTSE 100.
A summary of our standing in the During the year, Korn Ferry also assisted the Committee with a Hampton-Alexander Reviews 2017 FTSE Women Leaders report search for an additional SME Non-Executive Director to further is reproduced below: enhance the Boards scientific capabilities, strengthen the Boards Female Representation as at 30 June 2017 scientific perspective and to join the new Science Committee.
After Combined Executive interviewing suitable SME candidates, the Committee recommended 2017 Report Female Committee and Direct Dr Laurie Glimcher to the Board as a potential Non-Executive Representation Metrics Board Reports Director and SME.
The Board subsequently approved Dr Glimchers 2020 FTSE 100 target 33.0% 33.0% appointment to the Board with effect from 1 September 2017.
Laurie GSK 41.7% ranked 8th 25.7% brings a wealth of expertise in scientific and medical innovation and in FTSE 100 public health which will be invaluable in assisting the Boards focus FTSE 100 average 27.7% 25.2% on delivering its long-term Innovation, Performance and Trust FTSE 100 highest 44.4% 47% priorities.
She was also appointed a member of the Science and Audit & Risk Committees.
We currently have: Board composition and diversity 38% women on our Board 2016 31%, which will rise to 41.7% We have sought to balance the composition of the Board and its on 1 April 2018 after Dr Patrick Vallance has stepped down from Committees over time.
the Board and left the company: and Longer serving Directors maintain an understanding of the Group 21% women on our CET 2016 14%.
and the sector, whilst newer appointees bring fresh external perspectives and insights.
Going forward, closing the gap between the Board and CET gender representation and further increasing the pipeline of female direct Our Non-Executive Directors have experience of a wide range of reports to the CET to achieve our 2020 target is an area of focus.
industries and backgrounds, including the pharmaceuticals industry In support of this approach, GSK has various actions to enhance and R&D, vaccines, consumer products and healthcare, medical our development pipeline: including the Accelerating Difference research and academia, insurance and financial services, as well programme, Womens Leadership Initiative and the Accelerating as complex organisations with global reach.
Importantly, the majority Transitions coaching programme for those joining or re-joining the of our Board have a scientific or mathematical background which company after an extended time of absence.
means they are more attuned to the fundamentals of the industry in which we operate.
The representation of women in management positions is illustrated on page 49 as part of the gender diversity of GSKs global workforce GSK is committed to equal opportunities for all our employees at all and alongside initiatives to promote diversity and inclusion levels of the organisation and the Board is committed to encouraging throughout the organisation.
a diverse and inclusive culture led by the CET.
Committee evaluation A key requirement of an effective board is that it comprises a The Committees annual evaluation exercise was externally facilitated range and balance of skills, experience, knowledge, gender and by Ms Ffion Hague of Independent Board Evaluation and concluded independence, with individuals that are prepared to challenge each that the Committee continued to operate effectively.
It was agreed other and work as a team.
This needs to be backed by a diversity of that the Committees effectiveness could be further improved by: personal attributes, including character, intellect, sound judgement, honesty and courage.
refining the approach to long-term succession planning around key additional skills and capability needs of the Board: and The Committee is responsible for developing measurable objectives to support the implementation of the Boards diversity policy, which improving the dialogue with the full Board on evolving areas of is to meet the measurable targets set out in: focus for the Committee.
the Parker Review Commissions report Beyond One by 21 published in October 2017 to increase ethnic diversity appointments on the boards of FTSE 100 companies: and Philip Hampton the Hampton-Alexander Reviews report, which I worked on with Nominations Committee Chair the late Dame Helen Alexander, published in 2016 to increase the number of women in senior leadership positions in all FTSE 350 12 March 2018 companies.
