96 GSK Annual Report 2017 Accountability Audit & Risk Committee report Dear Shareholder Judy Lewent In the following pages of this report, we aim to share insights into Audit & Risk Committee the activities undertaken or overseen by the Audit & Risk Committee Chair the Committee during the year.
The Committee has worked largely to a recurring and structured programme of activities.
I devise this programme with the Company Secretary and agree its content with management and the external auditors at the start of each year.
It is then adapted as appropriate as the year progresses.
Overseeing a smooth audit transition process was an important focus for the Committee during the year.
This exercise, together with details of the Committees continued scrutiny of further enhancements and simplifications to our internal controls, risk Role management and financial reporting systems and processes, The Committee reviews and is responsible for: are covered below.
External auditors financial and internal reporting processes Last year, we advised shareholders that after the conclusion the integrity of the financial statements, including the of a competitive audit contract tender, the Board appointed the Annual Report and quarterly results announcements Committees preferred choice of Deloitte LLP Deloitte as the the system of internal controls companys new auditors from GSKs 2018 financial year onwards.
identification and management of risks and external The Committee has overseen the significant activity necessary to and internal audit processes transition from  LLP PwC to Deloitte.
This initiating audit tenders, the selection and appointment initially required Deloitte to achieve independence in the first half of of external auditors, setting their remuneration and the year before they could observe PwCs work as statutory auditors exercising oversight of their work.
The Committee has received regular reports on the audit transition and I met regularly with the lead audit partners from PwC and Deloitte to discuss progress.
Membership Committee members Committee member since I was pleased to hear more of the new perspectives that Deloitte will bring to the audit when they presented their audit scoping at the end Judy Lewent Chair from 1 January 2013 1 April 2011 of 2017.
This included the significant opportunities that data analytics Vindi Banga 1 January 2016 can bring.
A full report on the audit transition arrangements is given Lynn Elsenhans 1 January 2014 on pages 103 to 104.
Dr Laurie Glimcher 1 September 2017 I would like to thank the PwC team for their professionalism in Details of the Committee members financial, accounting continuing to deliver a high-quality audit, particularly against the or scientific experience and expertise are given in their backdrop of the transition.
Both audit firms have cooperated to make biographies under Our Board on pages 84 to 85. the transition a smooth one with minimal disruption to the business.
See page 88 for Committee member attendance levels.
I look forward to reporting to shareholders on Deloittes first audit in The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee and GSKs 2018 Annual Report.
The entire Board is invited to attend the Internal framework for control and risk management Committee meetings and other attendees include: developments Regular Attends as This is a core focus for the Committee.
In 2017, the following Attendee attendee required developments in the business units and across the enterprise helped General Counsel strengthen our culture of compliance and risk management.
Financial Controller GSK Values & Expectations: These are a high priority for the Head of Audit & Assurance Committee.
During the year, it oversaw progress driven by Head of Global Ethics and Compliance Global Ethics & Compliance GEC to embed and measure the Chief Medical Officer effectiveness of our values and further integrate these values into Chief Product Quality Officer existing control processes.
For example, the Third-Party Oversight External auditors framework was updated to require third parties to confirm adherence to our values and the third-party Code of Conduct.
In accordance with the Financial Reporting Councils UK GSKs values and Speak Up programme elements were also Corporate Governance Code, the Board has determined included into the General Manager GM certification process that Judy Lewent has recent and relevant financial where the companys GMs confirm their adherence to our Internal experience.
The Board has also agreed that she has the Control Framework.
During 2017, GEC has continued to deploy appropriate qualifications and background to be an audit the Leader Led discussion programme on GSKs values and right committee financial expert as defined by the Sarbanesfirst time culture and ethical decision making workshops.
Oxley Act of 2002, and has determined that she is independent within the meaning of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
The Committee has, as a whole, competence relevant to the sector in which the company operates.
97 GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Audit & Risk Committee report continued Values Maturity Assessments & Values Assessment Reviews: Monitoring The Committee learned how the outcomes from Values Maturity Monitoring is a key element of our Internal Control Framework.
It Assessments VMAs performed in 2016 had been used to target serves as a continuous source of insights that inform improvements assessments in specific areas during 2017.
The implementation in the control environment and there was significant focus by each of business unit specific action plans to address the areas for of our businesses in this area during 2017. improvement identified by the VMAs was overseen by our local Compliance activities Risk Management & Compliance Boards.
The VMA insights SEC settlement: The Committee continues to review and consider highlighted that overall Patient Focus and Integrity are the values updates to the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC, with which our employees feel most affinity and are well as agreed under the settlement made with the SEC in 2016.
During 2017, a positive shift in perception relating compliance with the terms of the settlement is on track with a final to our values of Transparency and Respect for People was noted report due for submission to the SEC in the summer of 2018. as a result of the Audit & Assurance teams Values Assessment CIA: The Committee also has oversight of the companys Reviews that assess how well our values are embedded in the responsibilities under the CIA entered into with the Office of organisation.
Inspector General OIG of the US Department of Health and The revised GSK Employee Survey: In 2017, more than 84,000 Human Services in 2012.
Last year, the Group reported to the of our people took part in GSKs employee engagement survey, OIG on commercial practices within Global Pharmaceuticals.
whose purpose and outcomes are discussed on page 48 of our Affirmative obligations under the CIA expired in 2017, but the Strategic report.
Group is waiting for official closure once the OIG completes the Written standards & controls: During 2017, work has continued to review of the Groups final CIA Annual Report.
The CIA required harmonise and simplify written standards across several parts of the Group to ensure sufficient internal controls to mitigate risks the enterprise: recognising that improved accessibility and clarity associated with commercial practices involving US pharmaceutical around written standards is an enabler to improved risk products and interactions with US healthcare professionals.
management and informed decision making.
The Group received positive feedback from the OIG, and, consequently, received a release 6 months earlier than the original Training & communication: Our GEC function has continued to 5 year term of the CIA, although commitments with certain focus on personal development, including: US states regarding salesforce compensation extend into 2019.
Ethics and Compliance Academy: In 2017, GEC ran a face-toDuring 2017, the Committee continued to receive quarterly CIA face Ethics and Compliance Academy and launched a Virtual assurance updates from the Head of GEC.
Academy to enable more flexible participation.
The first Virtual Responding to issues: During 2017, an integrated investigations Academy was held at the end of 2017 and will be held each process was developed by GEC, HR and Legal to clarify quarter.
There are currently over 350 certified ethics and accountabilities, further safeguard reporters using our Speak compliance professionals since the inception of the Academy Up channels and deliver improved outcomes and decisions.
These improvements have helped to accelerate the steps taken to Living our Values: In April 2017, Part 1 of an enterprise-wide substantiate an allegation and investigate it to a resolution, as well Living our Values training was issued to a population of over as delivering enhancements in engagement with key stakeholders 100,000 employees and complementary workers.
The training and individuals who raise issues.
Further details on reporting and included scenarios which explored our values and their investigating concerns in GSK are set out on page 50 of our application to the companys ways of working, including the Strategic report.
awareness of our Enterprise Risks and Speak Up arrangements.
Enterprise risk framework and strategies: During the year, the Part 2 focused on several critical risks, including Privacy and Committee considered GSKs Enterprise Risks and the strategies Anti-bribery & Corruption ABAC.
Mandatory training on ABAC to address them.
These reviews were undertaken through: and the US Corporate Integrity Agreement CIA was also completed by targeted areas of our workforce, depending on Annual unit risk and assurance update reports.
Enterprise Risk strategy papers for each of our most significant risks.
Annual risk reviews contained in the Risk Management and Internal Control Report, which is presented by the Head of GEC.
98 GSK Annual Report 2017 Corporate Governance: Accountability continued Audit & Risk Committee report continued As part of its review, the Committee assesses whether the key Financial Reporting framework enhancements Enterprise Risks affecting the unit are being managed and mitigated The Committee continued to improve the clarity of GSKs external in a proportionate way.
The Committee examines whether it is financial reporting by reviewing the companys financial reporting satisfied with the control environment, its operation and effectiveness framework.
The Committee made recommendations to the Board and whether refinements that management propose to ensure the which it approved for adoption in early 2017.
These changes further environment remains fit for purpose are appropriate.
It also assesses improved the way that GSK reports and explains its adjusted results the commitment of the units leadership to maintaining a strong and adjusting items in line with European Securities and Markets controls culture.
In addition, two changes were made to the companys use of Adjusted Performance Measures to The Committee noted that progress has been made in delivering further improve the clarity of our financial reporting.
Finally, our free the enablers to drive an even stronger top down risk management cash flow calculation was adjusted to include all contingent approach for GSKs Enterprise Risks to provide greater consistency consideration payments.
in risk management and drive efficiencies.
This included a common list of Enterprise Risks and sub-risks to be assessed by each unit Global reporting system platforms and a single list of business activities against which these risks can The Committee was pleased to oversee the continued progress be mapped.
being made in moving towards more standardised, global systems which support our end-to-end processes.
The last significant Third Party Oversight programme: The Committee was pleased to deployments under this multi-year programme will have been note that by the end of December 2017, over 96,000 assessments completed by early 2019, with the focus moving to capturing the across 217 countries had been completed since the Third-Party benefits that these new standardised systems and processes can Oversight TPO programme had commenced in 2015, with a generate for GSK.
further 9,500 assessments currently in progress.
The assessments have resulted in the issue of approximately 5,500 My role Corrective and Preventative Actions designed to improve our Finally, my role as Chair of the Committee continues to be busy and third-party engagements.
The TPO framework continues to evolve varied.
During the year, I had significant interactions with key senior so that it is more efficient and easier to use and is currently being executives and our auditors, and attended a range of management embedded in GSKs Making It Easier Buying Goods & Services meetings.
Further details on working with third parties was set The Committee and I have worked closely with Emma Walmsley, out on page 50 of our Strategic report.
GSKs new CEO, as she set her new business priorities of Enhanced Privacy compliance capability: The Privacy Centre of Innovation, Performance and Trust.
The Committee has monitored, Excellence CoE is delivering a change programme to improve and will continue to monitor, the evolution of GSKs culture as the and sustainably manage GSKs data privacy compliance, whilst company sharpens its business performance to ensure performance also complying with the EU General Data Protection Regulations is delivered appropriately.
GDPR that come into effect in May 2018.
During 2017, the CoE Vindi Banga and I are also members of the Remuneration Committee, made good progress defining a privacy risk framework to enable which allows us to provide input on the Committees review of the GSK to design proportionate controls, prioritise deployment, and Groups performance and oversight on any risk factors relevant to make effective decisions about risk.
Whilst the programmes remuneration matters.
purpose is to increase privacy maturity globally, the CoEs Committee evaluation remediation efforts are focused initially on our European The Committees annual evaluation exercise was externally facilitated operations to mitigate the highest near-term risk created by the by Ms Ffion Hague of Independent Board Evaluation.
However, further remediation is expected to be delivered largely positive and confirmed that the Committee covered the by December 2018, at which point GSKs enhanced privacy ground in detail.
After consideration of her report, the Committee operating model will have been deployed globally.
concluded that it continued to operate effectively but agreed to implement further performance improvements by reviewing: the format of papers in terms of their accessibility and considering how to increase the focus of the Committees time in meetings, allowing more opportunity for review and discussion: and with the Nominations Committee, the succession planning for Board and Committee members with financial experience.
Judy Lewent Audit & Risk Committee Chair 12 March 2018 99 GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information What the Committee did during 2017 Areas of Committee focus Items discussed Frequency A Financial Reviewed integrity of draft financial statements, appropriateness of accounting policies and going concern reporting assumptions A Considered approval process for confirming and recommending to the Board that the 2016 Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable A Reviewed and recommended to the Board approval of the 2016 Annual Report and Form 20-F A Reviewed and approved Directors expenses Q Reviewed and recommended approval of quarterly and preliminary results announcements and dividends Q Reviewed significant issues in relation to the quarterly and preliminary results A Considered evolving market practice on the Viability Statement requirements A Reviewed and recommended inclusion of the Viability Statement for the 2016 Annual Report P Reviewed accounting developments and their impacts and key accounting issues.
External Received external auditors transition updates from management S auditors Reviewed and approved audit non-audit expenditure incurred during 2016 A Considered the auditors report on the 2016 annual results A Performed evidence-based assessment of external auditors and the effectiveness of 2016 external audit A Considered qualifications, expertise and independence of the external auditors A Recommended to the Board the re-appointment of the external auditors and for the Committee to agree auditors A remuneration Approved the 2017 audit plan and audit fee proposal and set performance expectations for auditors A Considered initial results of 2017 external audit.
P Global internal Reviewed assurance reports from Global Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines, Consumer Healthcare, R&D, GMS and A control ViiV Healthcare & compliance A Reviewed GSKs internal control framework A Confirmed compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley Act A Reviewed Audit & Assurance work during 2016 and approved the planned work for 2017 A Undertook Corporate Integrity Agreement CIA training Q Received and reviewed CIA compliance and assurance reports Q Reviewed reports on the Operational Excellence programme P Reviewed the implementation of new systems for Group Support Functions S Received litigation reports and updates S Received reports on ongoing investigations and on ABAC issues.
Risk Reviewed risk management framework compliance A Reviewed the risk elements of Group treasury, pensions, risk and insurance and tax policies A Received status reports on the following Enterprise Risks: ABAC, EHSS, Information Protection, Patient Safety, P Privacy, Product Quality, Research Practices and Third Party Oversight Received terrorism and cyber security risk assessment update P Received updates on the implications of Brexit P Received Risk Oversight and Compliance Council meeting updates S Considered emerging risks.
S A Governance and Confirmed compliance with UK Corporate Governance Code other matters A Reviewed the Committees terms of reference and confirmed that they had been adhered to during 2017 P Received corporate governance updates A Reviewed the Committees performance and effectiveness P Reviewed and approved the Groups approach to the Modern Slavery Act 2016 P Met privately and separately with the Heads of Global Ethics & Compliance and Audit & Assurance S Met privately with the external auditors at the end of each meeting as required A Approved the publication of the Groups Tax strategy.
A Q P S Committee Activity Key Annually Quarterly Periodically Standing 100 GSK Annual Report 2017 Corporate Governance: Accountability continued Significant issues relating to the financial statements In considering the quarterly financial results announcements and the financial results contained in the 2017 Annual Report, the Committee reviewed the significant issues and judgements made by management in determining those results.
The Committee reviewed papers prepared by management setting out the key areas of risk, the actions undertaken to quantify the effects of the relevant issues and the judgements made by management on the appropriate accounting required to address those issues in the financial statements.
The significant issues considered in relation to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 are set out in the following table, together with a summary of the financial outcomes where appropriate.
In addition, the Committee and the external auditors have discussed the significant issues addressed by the Committee during the year and the areas of particular audit focus, as described in the Independent Auditors Report on pages 149 to 157.
Significant issues considered by the Committee in relation to the financial statements How the issue was addressed by the Committee Going concern basis for the preparation The Committee considered the outcome of managements half-yearly reviews of current and forecast net of the financial statements debt positions and the various financing facilities and options available to the Group.
Following a review of the risk and potential impact of unforeseen events, the Committee confirmed that the application of the going concern basis for the preparation of the financial statements continued to be appropriate.
Revenue recognition, including returns The Committee reviewed managements approach to the timing of recognition of revenue and accruals for and rebates RAR accruals customer returns and rebates.
The US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines accrual for returns and rebates was 2.8 billion at 31 December 2017 and the Committee reviewed the basis on which the accrual had been made and concurred with managements judgements on the amounts involved.
A fuller description of the process operated in the US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines business in determining the level of accrual necessary is set out in Critical accounting policies on page 76.
Provisions for legal matters, including The Committee received detailed reports on actual and potential litigation from both internal and external investigations into the Groups legal counsel, together with a number of detailed updates on investigations into the Groups commercial commercial practices practices.
Management outlined the levels of provision and corresponding disclosure considered necessary in respect of potential adverse litigation outcomes and also those areas where it was not yet possible to determine if a provision was necessary, or its amount.
At 31 December 2017, the provision for legal matters was 0.2 billion, as set out in Note 29 to the financial statements, Other provisions.
Provisions for uncertain tax positions The Committee considered current tax disputes and areas of potential risk and concurred with managements judgement on the levels of tax contingencies required.
At 31 December 2017, a tax payable liability of 1.4 billion, including provisions for uncertain tax positions, was recognised on the Groups balance sheet.
Impairments of intangible assets The Committee reviewed managements process for reviewing and testing goodwill and other intangible assets for potential impairment.
The Committee accepted managements judgements on the intangible assets that required writing down and the resulting impairment charge of 680 million in 2017.
See Note 19 to the financial statements, Other intangible assets for more details.
Valuation of contingent consideration The Committee considered managements judgement that following the further improved sales in relation to ViiV Healthcare performance of Tivicay and Triumeq it was necessary to increase the liability to pay contingent consideration for the acquisition of the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture.
At 31 December 2017, the Groups balance sheet included a contingent consideration liability of 5.5 billion in relation to ViiV Healthcare.
See Note 39 to the financial statements, Contingent consideration liabilities for more details.
Consumer Healthcare put option The Committee considered managements judgement on the valuation of the liability of 8.6 billion recognised in respect of Novartis put option over its shareholding in the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture.
This included a review of the impact of unwinding the discounting of the liability and the decrease in the liability caused by the significant strengthening of Sterling in the latter part of the year.
ViiV Healthcare put option The Committee reviewed and agreed the accounting for the Pfizer put option and concurred with managements judgement on the valuation of the put option of 1.3 billion at 31 December 2017.
101 GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Auditors appointment External auditors  LLP PwC has been the auditor of the company and the Group since the inception of each in 2000.
Its performance has been reviewed annually and audit partner rotation requirements have been observed.
GSK conducted an external audit tender in 2016 with a view to replacing PwC from our 2018 financial year onwards.
As disclosed in last years report, PwC was not invited to participate in this audit tender process to comply with audit firm rotation requirements.
The audit tender process was completed in December 2016 when the Board announced that it had appointed Deloitte LLP Deloitte as GSKs new external auditors with effect from 1 January 2018.
Effectiveness and quality of external audit process The Committee is committed to ensuring on an ongoing basis that GSK receives a high quality and effective audit from its external auditors.
The effectiveness of PwCs performance and the quality of the external audit process during 2017 was formally evaluated by the Committee in early 2018 against criteria which it agreed, in conjunction with management, in early 2017.
The Committee has undertaken a number of activities during the year to satisfy itself of PwCs continuous external audit quality and effectiveness, particularly in a year of audit firm transition from PwC to Deloitte.
These activities and their timelines are set out below: Recommend PwCs PwCs formal appointment Review PwCs performance, accept appointment and performance approved and 2017 audit its resignation and recommend expectations set process planning Deloittes appointment Matters addressed: Matters addressed: Matters addressed: effectiveness of PwC against expectations effectiveness of PwC against expectations shareholders approved resolutions to appoint set in 2016 was reviewed set in March 2017 were reviewed PwC and to authorise the Committee to determine their remuneration an appropriate level of challenge scepticism an appropriate level of challenge scepticism exhibited by PwC in its work was considered exhibited by PwC in their work was considered 2017 audit plan was reviewed and agreed PwCs independence, appropriate level of PwCs letter of resignation to be received PwCs quality control procedures were qualifications, expertise and resources was considered Deloittes independence, appropriate level reviewed 2017 statutory audit fee was agreed and set of qualifications, expertise and resources a report on PwCs audit of GSKs 2015 was reviewed management feedback on 2016 audit process Annual Report by the Financial Reporting through a survey was received covering: appointment of Deloitte to fill the vacancy Councils Audit Quality Team was reviewed to be recommended to the Board to approve robustness of audit process once satisfied on these matters, the quality of delivery, people and service.
2018 audit plan was reviewed and agreed re-appointment of PwC at the next AGM performance expectations of Deloitte as in May to perform the 2017 audit was auditors for 2018 audit were agreed recommended to the Board the appointment of Deloitte at the next performance expectations of PwC as AGM in May to perform the 2018 audit auditors for 2017 audit were agreed.
was recommended to the Board budget for non-audit services below 50% of audit fee for 2018 was agreed.
March 2017 May 2017 March 2018 102 GSK Annual Report 2017 Corporate Governance: Accountability continued Auditors appointment continued The detailed criteria the Committee used for judging the effectiveness of PwC as the external auditors and its overriding responsibility to deliver a smooth-running, thorough and efficiently executed audit for 2017 are set out below: Performance expectations for GSKs external auditors Specific auditor Discuss audit approach and areas of focus in advance and early engagement on understanding the implications of the new operating model responsibilities Ensure Sarbanes-Oxley Act scope and additional procedures are discussed and endorsed by management and communicated in a timely basis within GSK and PwC Avoid surprises through timely reporting of issues at all levels within the company Ensure clarity of roles and responsibilities between local PwC and GSK Finance Services Respond to any issues raised by management on a timely basis Meet agreed deadlines Provide continuity and succession planning of key staff members of PwC Provide sufficient time for management to consider draft auditors reports and respond to requests and queries Ensure consistent communication between local and central audit teams.
Wider auditor Provide timely up-to-date knowledge of technical and governance issues, including evolving market practice on the viability statement responsibilities requirements, European Securities and Markets Authority and Securities and Exchange Commission SEC guidelines and new IFRS standards IFRS 15 and IFRS 16 Serve as an industry resource, communicating best practice trends in reporting and integrated reporting Adhere to all independence policies GSKs, Financial Reporting Councils 2016 Revised Ethical Standard and applicable SEC standards : Deliver a focused and consistent audit approach globally that reflects local risks and materiality Liaise with Audit & Assurance to avoid duplication of work and Global Ethics and Compliance to ensure a common understanding of audit outcomes Provide consistency of advice at all levels Ultimately, provide a high quality service to the Board, be scrupulous in their scrutiny of the Group and act with utmost integrity.
Specific audit Contribute to a seamless, effective and efficient auditor transition to Deloitte that includes the following actions: firm transition Provide access to all relevant information in respect of the audit of GlaxoSmithKline plc and its subsidiaries in relation to the audit responsibilities of the Groups consolidated accounts Provide information concerning GSK obtained during the course of providing non-audit services, where this constitutes relevant information for the audit of the Groups consolidated accounts Provide factual evidenced based oral or written explanation in a timely manner to aid Deloittes understanding of audit working papers Agree practical: terms of interaction to establish an appropriate environment forum arrangements for providing access to information, including the format, mechanism and response time Liaise with Deloitte to enable their observation of audit activities once independent Provide sufficient analysis of the hours spent in the provision of relevant information Complete any additional ad-hoc handover expectations agreed during the year.
Competition and Markets Authority compliance statement: The Committee considers that, during 2017, the company has complied with the mandatory audit processes and audit committee responsibility provisions of the Competition and Markets Authority Statutory Audit Services Order 2014.
Pages 96 to 104 of this report describes the work of the Committee in discharging these responsibilities.
Non-audit services The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 prohibits the engagement of the ensuring adequate safeguards are in place so that the objectivity external auditor for the provision of certain services such as legal, and independence of the Group audit are not threatened or actuarial, internal audit outsourcing or financial information systems compromised: and design.
Where the external auditor is permitted to provide non-audit ensuring that the total fee levels do not exceed 50% of the annual services such as audit-related, tax and other services, the audit fee, except in special circumstances where there would be Committee ensures that auditor objectivity and independence are a clear advantage in the companys auditor undertaking such safeguarded by a policy requiring pre-approval by the Committee additional work.
There were no contractual or similar obligations The existing policy was reviewed and revised by the Committee restricting the Groups choice of external auditor.
in December 2016 to ensure compliance with the Financial The following core policy guidelines on engaging the external auditor Reporting Councils FRC 2016 Revised Ethical Standard and the to provide non-audit services are observed: EU Audit Regulation new regulations.
The new policy, which was implemented across the Group from the beginning 2017, ensuring all non-audit services over 50,000 are put out to contains the following three policy guidelines: competitive tender with financial service providers other than the external auditor, in line with the Groups procurement process, Fee cap: GSKs existing policy cap of 50% of the annual audit fee unless the skills and experience of the external auditor make them cap was retained in the new policy.
This is more stringent than the the only suitable supplier of the non-audit service under FRCs new fees cap set at 70% of the average fees for the preceding consideration: three year period.
103 GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Non-audit services continued Prohibitions: GSKs new policy includes a black list of prohibited non-audit services in the new regulations.
Audit non-audit services three year comparison graph m Pre-approval: The category-wide pre-approval process was updated to reflect the restrictions in the FRCs 2016 Guidance on Audit Committees, so that all non-audit services: 1.9 27.7 2017 over 50,000 are pre-approved by the Committee Chairman and CFO as delegated by the Committee: between 25,000 and 50,000 are pre-approved by the 2016 3.5 26.6 Group Financial Controller: and under 25,000 are approved by a designate of the Group Financial Controller.
2015 20.1 8.0 5.3 As part of the external audit firm transition arrangements described below, Deloitte has been subject to the restrictions of this policy since it started its required period of independence from 1 July 2017 0 10 20 30 40 in advance of taking on the statutory audit of the Groups 2018 Audit and assurance services financial statements from 1 January 2018.
The fee for audit and assurance services in 2015 included 8.0 million arising from the Novartis transaction and the subsequent increase in complexity of the Fees paid to the companys auditors and its associates are set out Group.
Approximately half of this is expected to be recurring below.
Further details are given in Note 8 to the financial statements, Other services, including tax, regulatory, compliance and treasury-related Operating profit.
services Where possible, other accounting firms are engaged to undertake non-audit services.
Auditors transition This has been a significant activity for the Committee during the Throughout the year, to enhance their understanding of GSK, the year.
The Committee has exercised its oversight responsibilities to Deloitte audit team has engaged extensively with various GSK manage the transition period between PwC and Deloitte and for business stakeholders with a primary focus on the Finance and IT the Committee to satisfy itself that there is a smooth handover of communities.
They have also begun to engage with priority local audit responsibilities from one to the other.
The Committees specific market entities that have been identified as representing higher audit transition performance expectations for PwC are set out on transition complexity, given local regulatory requirements, and with page 101. entities covered by the Group audit.
These local introductions will progress throughout 2018.
The Committee has received detailed transition papers at each scheduled meeting.
To begin with, a primary focus was to oversee Deloitte has held a series of regional academies to on-board their the steps needed for Deloitte to achieve independence by 1 July local teams and communicate the audit vision and approach to all 2017 so that the firm could commence their audit planning activities.
Deloitte has also centrally coordinated introductory meetings between senior finance managers and Deloitte This has involved scrutinising Deloittes plan to achieve partners in every location where statutory audit is required.
independence, together with progress made in overseeing the termination of non-audit services that would be prohibited when Deloitte has, and will continue to take part in the key PwC clearance Deloitte takes up the role of auditor.
For example, this included meetings and targeted PwC walkthroughs to leverage its own work Deloitte stepping down from its role as the Remuneration from existing PwC procedures.
The Deloitte team have performed Committees advisers before the end of June 2017. their initial audit scoping and risk assessment, designed a detailed audit plan and compiled an initial insights report which it presented Since independence has been achieved: to the Committee in December 2017.
Deloitte has been formally observing PwCs work and its PwC will resign after the firm has concluded the 2017 external audit 2017 audit process and the Committee will recommend to the Board that The prospective lead audit partner and his support have been Deloitte be appointed to fill the casual vacancy.
Shareholders will invited to attend all Committee meetings be invited to appoint Deloitte as GSKs new statutory auditors at the 2018 AGM.
PwCs audit partner will make himself available at the The Committee Chair has held a number of meetings with the AGM to answer shareholder questions on the 2017 Annual Report.
The transition process has been thorough with minimal disruption to GSKs business.
104 GSK Annual Report 2017 Corporate Governance: Accountability continued Auditors transition continued 2017 External Audit Firm Transition Process Key phases Pre-Independence Readiness Post-Independence Transition January June 2017 July December 2017 Key steps Relationship Building Detailed Audit Knowledge Transfer Design and Audit planning January June 2017 July September 2017 October December 2017 Key tasks Achieving independence Completing full risk assessment and scoping Building understanding of the GSK organisation structure and business Implementing audit analytics tools units Deepening understanding of business and processes Undertaking appropriate audit team selection and on-boarding Walking through processes and assessing design of controls Agreeing process for data extraction tools On-boarding of global teams and communicating of audit approach Agreeing collaboration terms with PwC.
In-country market introductions Assessing and concluding on key historic accounting judgements Observing PwC interim review process Agreeing terms of engagement.
Fair, balanced and understandable assessment One of the key compliance requirements of a groups financial Code of Conduct and reporting lines statements is for the Annual Report to be fair, balanced and We also have a number of well-established policies, including understandable.
The coordination and review of Group-wide a Code of Conduct, which are available on the Governance section contributions into the Annual Report follows a well-established of our website, and confidential Speak Up reporting lines for and documented process, which is performed in parallel with the reporting and investigation of unlawful conduct.
An updated the formal process undertaken by the external auditors.
version of the Code of Conduct was last published in April 2017.
The Committee received a summary of the approach taken by management in the preparation of GSKs 2017 Annual Report to ensure that it met the requirements of the Financial Reporting Councils 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code.
This enabled the Committee, and then the Board, to confirm that GSKs 2017 Annual Report taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
t R o e P s r p o s o b d l n r e d a m i d n n s s g a l t o S r t n n e o t t C i M M r W o & a g n n n i i t a r o o g t r i i e n T n e h o t e c m g n n m G t a h S e r e g s K u i n s s s v m r a s e t e l a v u n s o e t i s 105 GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Internal control framework The Board recognises its obligation to present a fair, balanced A fit for purpose Framework, in conjunction with our corporate and understandable assessment of GSKs current position and values, behaviours and Speak Up processes, ensures that the risks prospects.
The Board is accountable for evaluating and approving associated with GSKs business activities are actively and effectively the effectiveness of the internal controls, including financial, controlled in line with our agreed risk appetite.
The Framework operational and compliance controls, and the risk management provides reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material processes operated by GSK.
The Internal Control Framework the Framework is a comprehensive GSKs Risk Oversight and Compliance Council ROCC is a enterprise-wide risk management model and the means by which team of senior leaders.
It is mandated by the Board to assist the GSK ensures the reliability of financial reporting and compliance Committee in overseeing risk management and internal control with laws and regulations.
The Framework supports the continuous activities.
It also provides the business units with a framework for process of the Boards identification, evaluation and management risk management and upward escalation of significant risks.
Each of GSKs Principal Risks, as required by the Financial Reporting business unit is governed by a Risk Management & Compliance Councils FRCs UK Corporate Governance Code UK Code, Board RMCB which reports to the ROCC.
The business unit and is designed to enable GSK to achieve its business objectives.
RMCBs are responsible for promoting the local tone from the top and risk culture, as well as ensuring effective oversight of internal controls and risk management processes.
Risk owners, who are members of senior management, are assigned The Framework for each Principal Risk.
Each risk owner is accountable for the management of their respective Principal Risk and for reporting on the risk management strategy to the ROCC and the Committee at least once every two years.
The ROCC and the RMCBs are assisted by Global Ethics and Compliance GEC, which is responsible for advancing risk management across the enterprise and for the development of working practices that are risk based and ethically sound.
GEC actively promotes ethical behaviours within the organisation.
It seeks to establish a framework in which all of its employees can operate in accordance with GSK Values and comply with applicable laws and regulations.
The Audit & Assurance division A&A, in line with an assurance plan agreed by the Committee, provides independent assurance Business to senior management and the Board on the effectiveness of risk Activities management across GSK.
This assurance helps senior management and the Board to meet its oversight and advisory responsibilities in fulfilling GSKs strategic objectives and building trust with patients and other stakeholders.
A&A has a dual reporting line into the Chief Financial Officer and the Committee.
The Committee receives regular reports from business units, Principal Risk owners, GEC and A&A on areas of significant risk to GSK and on related internal controls.
These reports provide an assessment on the internal control environment within each Principal Risk area, including enhancements to strengthen the control environment.
Following the consideration of these reports, the Committee concludes on the effectiveness of the internal control environment and reports to the Board annually.
In accordance with the UK Code provisions, the Committee, on the Boards behalf, has conducted a robust assessment of the Groups Principal Risks.
This includes the consideration of the nature and extent of risk it is willing to take in achieving the Groups strategic objectives.
n s s e a s e u i n e r d d b p k n s r e e e t s x t s p n p C n i e e E e A R c d o t d n a t n I i m o e n p s m e d u n n I t i d n c n e a a t m i e o e n n i c l p r i o c f s n i D E T r a i n i n g Responsibility for implementing 106 GSK Annual Report 2017 Corporate Governance: Accountability continued Internal control framework continued The Board, through the Committee, has maintained oversight to Further information on GSKs risk management approach is provided ensure the effectiveness of the internal control environment and risk in the How we manage risk section of the Strategic report on pages management processes in operation across GSK for the whole year, 20 to 21.
Our management of each Principal Risk is explained in and up to the date of the approval of this Annual Report.
Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 257 to 266.
The Groups viability is discussed in the Group financial review section of the The Boards review focuses on the company and its subsidiaries but Strategic report on page 57. does not extend to material associated undertakings, joint ventures or other investments, although it considers the risk of the companys participation in these activities.
There are established procedures and controls in place to identify entities whose results must be consolidated with the Groups results.
We believe the process followed by the Board, through the Committee, in reviewing regularly the system of internal controls and risk management processes is in accordance with the Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting issued by the FRC.
Governance structure of risk management Responsible for our system of corporate Board of Directors governance, strategy, risk management and financial performance Responsible for reviewing and approving Audit & Risk Committee the adequacy and effectiveness of our risk management and internal controls Supports the CEO in managing our business Corporate Executive Team and activities Authorised by the Board to assist the Audit Risk Oversight and Compliance Council & Risk Committee in overseeing the risk management and internal control activities of the Group Responsible for our system of corporate Business units governance, strategy, risk management and financial performance Ensure that appropriate internal controls for Risk Management and Compliance Boards effective risk management are implemented Complemented by Country Executive Risk Boards to ensure a consistent approach to risk management across local geography level Accountability for monitoring 107 GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Relations with stakeholders Engagement activities In the performance of its duties and as the company seeks to Our major shareholders build on its Trust priority, the Board listens to the views of During the year, after publication of our quarterly results shareholders and other key stakeholders, including our patients, Emma Walmsley and Simon Dingemans gave presentations consumers, customers and employees, and is cognisant of the to institutional investors, analysts and the media by webcast potential impacts of decisions it makes.
In July, Emma Walmsley and her senior team held an investor update event with the same audience at which she Our principal Board Committees have delegated powers that shared her Innovation, Performance and Trust long-term priorities enables a more in-depth assessment of the impacts of the and which concluded with an in-depth Q&A session.
It also provides a means of identifying emerging stakeholder-related issues that Emma and Simon maintain a continual and active dialogue with can be brought the attention of the Board, which in turn enables institutional shareholders on performance, plans and objectives us to further invest in activities to build trust.
through a programme of regular meetings.
During the year, they held a total of 87 individual meetings with major shareholders All shareholders and they have hosted a total of 25 group meetings with major We try to engage with shareholders in several ways.
This includes shareholders and potential major shareholders.
regular communications, the AGM and other investor relations activities.
We announce our results on a quarterly basis and our Philip Hampton also meets with major shareholders to hear annual results are included in our Annual Report.
All shareholders their views and discuss issues of mutual importance.
He then receive an Annual Summary which advises them that our Annual communicates their views to the rest of the Board.
During the year, Report and Notice of our Annual General Meeting are available.
he held over 15 individual meetings with major shareholders on a range of issues.
Our Senior Independent Non-Executive Director SID and our other Non-Executive Directors are available to meet with major shareholders.
On an ongoing basis, our Investor Relations department, with offices in London and Philadelphia, acts as a focal point for communication with investors.
The Company Secretary acts a focal point for communications on corporate governance matters.
Annual Governance event A cornerstone of our investor calendar is the annual governance Aligning culture and strategy event that we hold with institutional shareholders, key investment Board stewardship and stakeholder relationships industry bodies and influential proxy advisory firms.
event was held in December 2017 at the Francis Crick Institute in London and was hosted by the Chairman, our SID, and our Lynn Elsenhans, Dr Jesse Goodman, Judy Lewent and Committee Chairs.
Urs Rohner provided an overview of the work of their respective Board Committees undertaken during the year.
Finally, Vindi We valued prior engagement with and input from the Investor Banga, our SID, provided his insights and perspectives on Board Forum and their members in helping shape the agenda for dynamics and the role and contribution of the Non-Executive the event.
The Chairman shared updates on key areas of focus Directors in challenging and shaping the Groups strategy and for the Board including: business model.
Overview of business performance for 2017 Listening to the views of our shareholders and receiving their Board and CET Succession skills, capabilities feedback during this event held in the run up to the corporate and diversity reporting and AGM season, helps the Board to understand New CEO shareholders views.
Oversight of new business priorities: Innovation, Performance and Trust Capital Allocation 108 GSK Annual Report 2017 Corporate Governance: Relations with stakeholders continued Engagement activities continued Annual General Meeting Our retail shareholders All shareholders are invited to attend our Annual General The Company Secretary acts a focal point for retail investors Meeting, which this year will be held in May at the QEII, and manages key relationships with the companys registrars, London.
Our 2017 AGM had a good level of attendance Equiniti in the UK and The Bank of New York Mellon, who and engagement by shareholders.
All our proposed administer our ADR programme in the US.
resolutions were approved by shareholders.
The level of Our people support ranged from 93% to 99%.
It provides an opportunity The Board is fully supportive of the Groups commitment to being to put questions to our Board and the Chairs of each of our a progressive, modern employer to attract and retain the best talent Board Committees during the formal AGM proceedings, and drive high levels of employee engagement.
In 2017, a key while providing shareholders the chance to meet informally transformation priority for Emma Walmsley and her CET was to with our Board directors who will make themselves available evolve the culture of the company to enhance business performance.
Our strategic success relies on our ability to engage our employees behind the delivery of the companys Innovation, Performance and Trust long-term priorities.
This was discussed at some length by the Board, as well as at a three-day conference in October 2017 attended by 600 senior leaders.
Employee engagement enhancements To help enhance our existing employee consultation activities, the Board supported managements introduction and roll out of the following engagement activities from 2017 into 2018: Lets Talk programme through Employees were encouraged which the CET has regular to input their views through conversations directly with our Lets Talk and other channels on workforce and feedback from these the employee performance system engagement sessions is shared in advance of a new performance with the Board and all employees.
system linked to our Innovation, Performance and Trust priorities and business performance.
2017 2018 Trust A new all-employee survey undertaken every six months, Regular all-employee Further details on our Trust whose engagement levels have newsletter and video from priority, including employee increased significantly since the CEO that rounds up the previous survey, and has news of interest to our engagement and the companys provided valuable insights into employees and encourages approach to developing its employee sentiment.
workforce in a safe, diverse and ethical environment, can be found on pages 48 to 50.
109 GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Science Committee report Dear Shareholder Dr Jesse Goodman I am pleased to present this first report of the Science Committee Science Committee the Committee, which was established by the main Board to Chair consider our science, pipeline and R&D capital allocation priorities.
The Committees core role throughout the first year of its operation has been to provide assurance to the Board on the quality, competitiveness and integrity of R&D.
To discharge this role effectively requires a Committee to be composed of members with strong scientific capabilities.
I am therefore pleased to be joined on the Committee by fellow Scientific and Medical Experts, Professor Sir Roy Anderson and Dr Laurie Glimcher, who, together with Judy Lewent, each have a background in life sciences from either a Role specialist or commercial perspective.
What the Committee did during 2017 The Committ ee : During 2017, the Committee focused on establishing its role and remit and considered the following matters: undertakes periodic reviews of R&D strategy and progress R&Ds Pharmaceutical Strategy, Performance and assesses the overall performance, including relevant Transformation Programme financial metrics, effectiveness and competitiveness Review of vaccines strategy and science of R&D Medical Healthcare Trends helps identify critical emerging trends in science and Anti-Microbial Resistance.
medicine and their potential impact on the company undertakes periodic reviews of the companys An overarching focus of the Committees work has been its appraisal scientific capability and talent of the R&D transformation proposals and associated funding reviews the scientific opportunity in specific large requirements prepared by our new CEO, Emma Walmsley and scale investments or business transactions President, R&D, Dr Patrick Vallance.
The Committee shared its reviews the output of the Groups science advisory feedback with management for incorporation into the proposals boards.
and was pleased to note the key milestones below to date: Driving focus and prioritisation: Core therapy areas have been refocused.
Membership Committee members Committee member since Enhancing pipeline governance: The Committee noted the effect Dr Jesse Goodman Chair from 1 January 2017 1 January 2017 of the changes to strengthen portfolio governance, creating greater robustness of financial, commercial and strategic review Professor Sir Roy Anderson 1 January 2017 following the introduction of a new Portfolio Strategy Committee Dr Laurie Glimcher 1 September 2017 to guide and challenge this work.
Judy Lewent 1 January 2017 Improving Development: Significant progress has been made Details of the Committee members skills and experience in creating the roadmap for improving the companys overall are given in their biographies under Our Board on capability in Development.
In 2017, quick wins included talent pages 84 to 85.
See page 88 for Committee member development, team optimisation and acceleration planning, attendance levels.
in partnership with the commercial organisation.
Committee Evaluation The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee The first annual evaluation of the Committee was externally facilitated and attends all meetings.
Other attendees at Committee by Ms Ffion Hague of Independent Board Evaluation and concluded meetings may include: that the Committee was establishing itself, formalising its structure Regular Attends as and ways of working, including how to continue its oversight of R&D.
Attendee attendee required Next steps Company Chairman The Committee is looking forward to working with Hal.
It will Chief Scientific Officer and President, R&D oversee the development of his plans to further reinvigorate R&D President, Global Vaccines and accelerate the discovery and development of transformational Independent senior external scientific new medicines.
adviser s Finally, I would like to thank Dr Patrick Vallance, who steps down Chief Financial Officer from the Board at the end of March, for his significant contribution in Other company executives helping to establish the Committee, devising its remit and helping me develop a programme of activities as a basis for the Committees deliberations.
I wish him well for the future.
Dr Jesse Goodman Science Committee Chair 12 March 2018
