STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Good governance is key to the successful delivery of our strategy to grow the Group with the Board continuing to provide independent scrutiny and challenge, while maintaining its focus on creating shareholder value.
Philip Rogerson Chairman Last year we revised our remuneration policy Compliance statement INTRODUCTION FROM to drive performance for the Companys next It is the Boards view that, for the year ended PHILIP ROGERSON stage of development and to bring it in line 31 December 2017, the Company has been with current best practice.
We consulted Chairman of the Board fully compliant with all of the relevant extensively with our largest shareholders At Bunzl we believe that establishing and principles and provisions set out in the 2016 and their representative bodies and this maintaining the highest standards of version of the Code.
The Companys auditors, resulted in our revised remuneration policy corporate governance is vitally important to  LLP, are required being approved by an overwhelming majority the long term success and sustainability of to review whether this statement reflects the at the Annual General Meeting AGM held in the business.
The Board recognises that Companys compliance with those provisions April 2017.
Details of the new policy are set good governance is about more than just of the Code specified for their review by the out in the Remuneration report on pages 71 compliance with rules and regulations: Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules to 95. it is about culture, behaviours and how and to report if it does not reflect such we do business and the Board is therefore compliance.
No such report has been made.
The Company is subject to the Financial committed to ensuring that the Groups Reporting Councils FRC UK Corporate values and high standards are set from the Board composition Governance Code the Code, which was top and embedded throughout the Group.
As at 31 December 2017, the Board was lastupdated in April 2016.
The Code contains Integrity and accountability are at the heart made up of nine members comprising a broad principles together with more specific of everything that we do and I believe that Chairman, a Chief Executive, two other provisions which set out standards of good this, together with our robust governance executive directors and five non-executive practice in relation to Board leadership and framework, allows the Board to lead the directors.
David Sleath, our former Senior effectiveness, accountability, remuneration Company in the right direction as we develop Independent Director, retired from the Board and relations with shareholders.
and pursue our future strategy, while following the conclusion of the Companys ensuring that good governance principles AGM on 19 April 2017 having served as a The reports that follow provide an overview and practices are adhered to.
non-executive director from September of the work undertaken by the Board and 2007.
Vanda Murray, an independent its Committees in fulfilling our governance As detailed on page 62, an externally non-executive director and Chair of the responsibilities and describe how the facilitated evaluation of the Board and its Remuneration Committee, assumed the role principles and provisions of the Code have Committees was once again undertaken of Senior Independent Director upon David been applied by the Company during the during 2017 and I am pleased to report that Sleaths retirement.
Lloyd Pitchford was year ended 31 December 2017.
A copy of as a result of the evaluation, the Board appointed to the Board on 1 March 2017 and the 2016 version of the Code is available concluded that both it and its Committees Stephan Nanninga joined the Board on 1 May at www.
Brief biographical details of the continues to work closely with the executive directors are given on page 57.
None of the Philip Rogerson management team and offers support and Companys non-executive directors had any Chairman robust challenge as appropriate.
previous connection with the Company or its 26 February 2018 executive directors on appointment to the Board and all of them are considered by both the Board and the criteria set out in the Code to be independent.
The Chairman and each of the non-executive directors have a breadth of strategic, management and financial experience gained in each of their own fields in a range of multinational businesses.
In accordance with the terms of the Code, each of the directors will be subject to re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
58 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE The Board has ultimate responsibility for the overall leadership of the Group.
To ensure directors maintain overall control over strategic, financial and operational and compliance issues, the Board meets regularly throughout the year and has formally adopted a schedule of matters which are required tobe brought to it for decision.
Further details of the matters reserved for the Board can be found below.
The Board has established three Committees, all of which comply with the provisions of the Code and play an important governance role through the detailed work they carry out to fulfil the responsibilities delegated to them.
Briefing papers are prepared and circulated to Committee members in advance of each meeting.
Further information relating to the Board Committees is set out below and in the Committee reports which follow this Governance report.
BOARD AUDIT REMUNERATION NOMINATION COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Chairman Chairman Chairman Lloyd Pitchford Vanda Murray Philip Rogerson Members Members Members Vanda Murray Eugenia Ulasewicz Frank van Zanten Eugenia Ulasewicz Jean-Charles Pauze Vanda Murray Jean-Charles Pauze Lloyd Pitchford Eugenia Ulasewicz Stephan Nanninga Stephan Nanninga Jean-Charles Pauze Lloyd Pitchford Key responsibilities Key responsibilities Stephan Nanninga Reviews and monitors the integrity of the Sets the remuneration policy for the Key responsibilities Companys financial reports, risk processes Chairman and executive directors and and internal controls and the effectiveness of monitors the policies and practices applied Reviews the structure, size and composition the internal audit function and external tosenior management remuneration.
of the Board with regard to diversity and auditors.
toensuring a balance of skills, knowledge and experience.
For more information see pages 67 to 70 For more information see pages 71 to 95 For more information see pages 65 and 66 MATTERS RESERVED FOR THE BOARD The table below summarises some of the matters which are required to be brought to the Board for decision: CAPITAL ALLOCATION POLICIES AND SHAREHOLDERS AND STRUCTURE STATEMENTS Matters requiring M aterial Group policies and statements S ignificant capital expenditure disposals.
and major changes thereto, for example: Significant business acquisitions Ci rculars and significant disposals.
M aterial changes to the Groups Treasury policy: capital structure.
Modern slavery statement: M ajor property leases.
Equality and diversity policy: and M aterial increases in borrowing Risk appetite.
PEOPLE AND STRATEGY AND FINANCIAL REPORTING, LEADERSHIP MANAGEMENT RISK AND CONTROLS A ppointment removal of directors and T he Groups strategic aims F inancial results and announcements Company secretary.
A nnual budget and strategic plan.
B oard Committee constitution and Auditor appointment removal.
R isk management and internal controls.
59 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED BOARD ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES The following table summarises the role and responsibilities of the different members of the Board: Role Responsibilities The primary job of the Chairman is to be responsible for the leadership of the Board and Chairman ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role.
The Chairman: takes overall responsibility for the composition and capability of the Board and its Committees: consults regularly with the Chief Executive and is available on a flexible basis to provide advice, counsel and support to the Chief Executive: and ensures corporate governance is conducted in accordance with current best practice, as appropriate to the Group.
There is a clear division of The Chairman is also viewed by investors as the ultimate steward of the business and the responsibilities guardian of the interests of all the shareholders.
between the The Chief Executive is responsible for the leadership and the operational and performance Chairman and the Chief Executive management of the Company within the strategy agreed by the Board.
Chief Executive, which is set out in The Chief Executive: writing and has been manages the executive directors and the Groups management and day-to-day activities: agreed by the Board.
prepares and presents to the Board the strategy for growth in shareholder value: sets the operating plans and budgets required to deliver the agreed strategy: ensures that the Group has in place appropriate risk management and control mechanisms: and communicates with the Companys shareholders and analysts on a day-to-day basis asnecessary.
The Chief Executive is also the designated member of the Board responsible for environmental, social and governance matters and reports to the Board in relation to such matters.
The Finance Director supports the Chief Executive and is responsible for managing the Groups funding strategy, Other executive directors financial reporting, risk management and internal controls, investor relations programme and the leadership of the finance function.
The President and CEO, North America has a specific responsibility for managing the North America business area which represents 59% of the Groups total revenue.
A key role of the Senior Independent Director is to be available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through Senior Independent the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director has failed to resolve or for which such contact is Director inappropriate.
The Senior Independent Director is also available to the other directors should they have any concerns which are not appropriate to raise with theChairman or which have not been satisfactorily resolved by the Chairman.
The non-executive directors play a key role in corporate governance and accountability through both their attendance Independent nonat Board meetings and their membership of the various Board Committees.
The non-executive directors bring a broad executive directors range of business andfinancial expertise and experience to the Board which complements and supplements the experience of the executive directors.
Thisenables them to evaluate information provided and constructively challenge managements viewpoints, assumptions and performance.
Executive and non-executive directors Board gender Non-executive director tenure 2 3 2 2 6 7 2 Executive Male 0 3 years Non-executive includes Chairman Female 3 6 years 6 years 60 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Board calendar is planned to ensure that Board activity in 2017 Board in action Board and the directors discuss a wide range of topics The Board meets formally at least seven strategy meetings in Atlanta, US throughout the year and the Board has times a year and normally at least two of The June 2017 Board and Committee formally adopted a schedule of matters these meetings are held at or near Group which are required to be referred to it for meetings and the annual strategy locations in the UK and overseas where the decision.
A non-exhaustive list of such directors have the opportunity to meet and meeting were held in Atlanta, US matters can be found on page 59. interact with senior executives from different andthe directors used the opportunity businesses within the Groups portfolio as Meetings toenhance further their well as observe the operations in situ.
In addition to regular Board meetings, the The Board met on seven occasions during understanding of the Groups directors meet annually to review and 2017.
Directors attendance at those operations in North America by discuss the Groups overall strategy.
As part meetings is set out below: visiting the Bunzl Atlanta site.
of this process, presentations are made by Meetings attended the Chief Executive, the Finance Director and The Bunzl Atlanta site is part of the Groups the heads of the business areas together with Philip Rogerson 7 North American business area.
During the Director of Corporate Development.
Frank van Zanten 7 theirvisit, the directors were taken on a Patrick Larmon 7 comprehensive site tour and were given During 2017, a number of the Groups Brian May 7 presentations by regional and divisional 1 seniorexecutives made presentations to David Sleath 3 managers.
The presentations gave an theBoardabout a variety of different and Eugenia Ulasewicz 7 overview of the different businesses in the  reviews of potential Jean-Charles Pauze 6 southeast region, including the Bunzl Atlanta acquisition opportunities, the postVanda Murray 7 site, and covered topics such as key financial 2 Lloyd Pitchford 5 acquisition performance of businesses metrics and information related to 3 Stephan Nanninga 4 acquired in prior years, the Groups employees, customers, suppliers and the financingfacilities and treasury policies, Notes: markets served.
The directors were also taxrisks, cyber security risks and controls, 1 David Sleath retired as a director on 19 April 2017 informed of the challenges and opportunities supplier audits carried out and health and having attended all of the Board meetings held faced by the businesses during 2017 and between 1 January 2017 and that date.
theefforts and initiatives undertaken to 2 Lloyd Pitchford was appointed as a director on overcome these challenges.
The Board 1March 2017 and attended all of the Board meetings The Board also reviewed and formally believes that site visits play an important held between that date and the end of the year.
approved the Groups equality and diversity role in directors development by giving 3 Stephan Nanninga was appointed as a director on policy, further details of which are set out in 1May 2017 and attended all of the Board meetings them better insight into the Groups the Our people section of this Annual Report held between that date and the end of the year.
businesses and the environments in which on pages 38 to 41. they operate as well as providing an opportunity to meet local management.
Governance in action acquisition process Expanding the Group through acquisition is an important part of Bunzls strategy to grow and develop.
Our markets are very fragmented which results in numerous opportunities to expand through purchasing businesses in both existing and new markets and countries.
The Board plays a critical role in ensuring that a robust and rigorous process is followed in respect of the more material acquisitions andthose involving the entry into new countries or market sectors to ensure that the proposals are carefully considered and challenged before being taken forward.
This process is summarised below and details of the acquisitions made by the Group during 2017 can be found on pages 138 to 140.
1 2 3 4 Presentation made to the The Board considers the The Board agrees whether to The Board undertakes a Board by management acquisition proposal, including proceed with the proposed post-acquisition review regarding the relevant potential the financial performance of acquisition and sets any approximately two years after acquisition, due to its material the target company, the relevant parameters completion of the transaction size or because it represents projected synergies, the concerning the transaction, to evaluate whether all desired the Groups first step into a new regulatory, political and including in relation to the objectives and benefits have country or market sector.
competitor landscapes, the purchase price and any specific been realised, measured Companys existing operations due diligence requirements.
against the relevant investment and market presence in the case at the time the acquisition relevant country, employee was approved.
matters and any potential risks and managements proposals for mitigating these.
61 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Information and support In accordance with the requirements of the Performance evaluation Board agendas are set by the Chairman in Code an external performance evaluation The Company has a formal performance consultation with the Chief Executive and was first carried out in 2012 and the evaluation process for the Board, its with the assistance of the Company results were subsequently presented to Committees and individual directors Secretary, who maintains a rolling the Board.
The facilitator of the external overseen by the Chairman.
This includes programme of items for discussion by the evaluation, Lintstock, does not provide any individual discussions between the Board to ensure that all matters reserved other services to, or have any other Chairman and each director when their forthe Board and other key issues are connection with, the Company.
Although individual training and development considered at the appropriate time.
The the Code only requires that the evaluation needsare reviewed.
Led by the Senior Board is supplied with full and timely of the Board and its Committees should be Independent Director, the non-executive information, including detailed financial externally facilitated at least every three directors also meet without the Chairman information, to enable the directors to years, the Board has decided to appoint present at least annually to appraise the discharge their responsibilities.
To enable Lintstock to carry out an annual Chairmans performance including a informed decision making, briefing papers performance evaluation and accordingly review of his other commitments to are prepared and circulated to directors external evaluations have been completed ensurethat he is able to allocate sufficient approximately one week before the each year since 2012.
By doing so, the time to the Company to discharge his scheduled Board meeting.
All directors Board is able to ensure that there is responsibilities effectively.
The Chairman haveaccess to the advice and services consistency and continuity in the also periodically holds meetings with of the Company Secretary who is tasked evaluation process and the presentation thenon-executive directors without the with ensuring that Board procedures are of the results from one year to the next.
All of these complied with and the Board is fully briefed Following the evaluation, the Board processes were carried out satisfactorily on relevant legislative, regulatory and identifies a number of key priorities in during the year.
order to improve the Boards performance.
Directors may also take independent professional advice at the Companys expense where they judge this to be Key priorities identified in 2016 necessary in the furtherance of their 1.
Continuing to keep the key strategic issues dutiesto discharge their responsibilities facing the Group under review both as part asdirectors.
ofthe Boards annual strategy meeting and at other times of the year as appropriate.
Providing ongoing support to the new Chief All new directors receive a tailored induction Executive as appropriate.
on joining the Board, including meetings withsenior management and visits to some The Board is satisfied that the 3.
C ontinuing the focus of the Nomination of the Groups locations.
They also receive Committee on the management succession priorities identified following the adetailed information pack which plans for the Group, including in particular includesdetails of directors duties and evaluation carried out in 2016 maintaining the Boards exposure to the responsibilities, procedures for dealing Groups senior management below have been adequately addressed inBunzl plcs shares and a number of other Boardlevel.
The successful recruitment and subsequent continually updated on the Groups appointment of an additional non-executive businesses and their markets and the director and overseeing the induction and changes to the competitive and regulatory integration of such director.
environments in which they operate.
Key priorities identified in 2017 Training and development needs of the Board are kept under review and directors attend 1.
Continuing to keep the key strategic issues external courses where it is considered facing the Group under review both as part appropriate for them to do so.
D eveloping a greater understanding of The directors are required to avoid situations therelevant digital and technological where they have, or could have, a direct or developments affecting the Groups indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly businesses.
As a result of the performance may conflict, with the Companys interests.
evaluation process carried out in Inaccordance with the Companies Act 2006, 3.
F ocusing on the operational initiatives required in order to maintain or improve the Companys Articles of Association allow 2017, the Board concluded that theGroups operating margins.
the Board to authorise potential conflicts of both it and its Committees are interest that may arise and to impose such 4.
C ontinuing the focus of the Nomination operating effectively.
limits or conditions as it thinks fit.
Committee on the management succession plans for the Group, including in particular maintaining the Boards exposure to the Groupssenior management below Boardlevel.
62 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Directors are required to give notice of any regulations of the countries in which Risk management and potential situational and or transactional the Group operates: internal control conflicts which are then considered by the a well-established consolidation and The directors acknowledge that they have Board and, if deemed appropriate, reporting system for the statutory overall responsibility for identifying, authorised accordingly.
A director is not accounts and monthly management evaluating, managing and mitigating the however permitted to participate in such accounts: principal risks faced by the Group and for considerations or to vote in relation to their continual investment in IT systems to monitoring the Groups risk management own conflicts.
ensure the production of timely and and internal control systems.
However, such accurate management information systems are designed to manage rather The Board has considered and authorised a relating to the operation of the Groups than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve number of potential situational conflicts all businesses: and business objectives and can only provide ofwhich relate to the holding of external detailed manuals covering Group reasonable and not absolute assurance directorships and have been entered on the accounting policies and policies and against material misstatement or loss.
No actual procedures for the Groups treasury accordance with Principle C. 2 of the Code conflicts have been identified during the year.
operations supplemented by internal and the related guidance, the Company has The Board considers that these procedures control procedures at a business established the procedures necessary to operate effectively.
ensure that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating, managing and Some of the procedures carried out in order Financial and business reporting mitigating the principal risks faced by the to monitor the effectiveness of the internal The responsibilities of the directors in Group and for determining the nature and control system and to identify, manage and respect of the preparation of the Group and extent of the principal risks it is willing to mitigate business risk are listed below: parent company financial statements are set take to achieve its strategic objectives its out on page 148 and the auditors report on risk appetite.
The directors confirm that central management holds regular pages 149 to 154 includes a statement by the such procedures have been in place for the meetings with business area management external auditors about their reporting year ended 31 December 2017 and up to the to discuss strategic, operational and responsibilities.
As set out on page 105, date of approval of these financial statements financial issues including a review thedirectors are of the opinion that it and that the Groups risk management oftheprincipal risks affecting each of isappropriate to continue to adopt the andinternal control systems have been thebusiness areas and the policies and goingconcern basis in preparing the monitored during the year.
procedures by which these risks are financial statements.
managed: Further information about the Groups the Executive Committee meets twice per The process of preparing the Annual Report approach to risk management and the month and also reviews the outcome has included the following: principal risks and uncertainties facing of the discussions held at business area theGroup can be found on pages 51 to 54. meetings on internal control and risk comprehensive reviews undertaken at Asummary of the principal control management issues: different levels in the Group in order to processes and procedures in place to the Board in turn reviews the outcome ensure the accuracy, consistency and manage such risks is set out below.
of the Executive Committee discussions overall balance of the Annual Report: and oninternal control and risk management procedures to verify the factual accuracy The Board has delegated to an Executive issues which ensures a documented and of the Annual Report.
Committee, consisting of the Chief Executive, auditable trail of accountability: Finance Director and other functional each business area, the Executive The Board considered whether the 2017 managers, the initial responsibility for Committee and the Board carry out an Annual Report, taken as a whole, was fair, identifying, evaluating, managing and annual fraud risk assessment: balanced and understandable and provided mitigating the risks facing the Group and for actual results are reviewed monthly sufficient information to enable the reader deciding how these are best managed and against budget, forecasts and the previous to assess the Groups position and to establish a system of internal control year and explanations obtained for all performance, business model and strategy.
appropriate to the business environments significant variances: In carrying out its review, the Board in which the Group operates.
The principal all treasury activities, including in relation considered the information and assurance features of this system include: to the management of foreign exchange provided by the ongoing work of the internal exposures and Group borrowings, are audit department, the reviews conducted by a procedure for monitoring the reported and reviewed monthly: the external auditors in relation to both the effectiveness of the internal control the Groups bank balances around the half year and full year results, the Boards system through a tiered management world are monitored on a weekly basis understanding of the Groups business and structure with clearly defined lines of and significant movements are reviewed the information provided by the senior responsibility and delegation of authority: centrally: executive management team.
The Board clearly defined authorisation procedures the internal audit department periodically alsotook account of the preparation and for capital investment and acquisitions: reviews individual businesses and verification processes that had been strategic plans and comprehensive procedures, makes recommendations to undertaken, including the review that had budgets which are prepared annually improve controls and follows up to ensure been carried out by one of the Companys by the business areas and approved by that management implements the senior executives who had not been involved the Board: recommendations made.
The internal in the Annual Reports preparation.
formal standards of business conduct audit departments work is determined on As a result of its deliberations the including a code of ethics and a risk assessment basis and their findings Boardconcluded that, taken as a whole, whistleblowing procedure based on are reported to Group and business area the2017Annual Report is fair, balanced honesty, integrity, fair dealing and management as well as to the Audit andunderstandable.
compliance with the local laws and Committee and the external auditors: 63 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED an annual self-assessment of the status health & safety risk assessments, safety Assessment of the prospects of the of internal controls measured against a audits and a regular review of progress Company and its viability statement prescribed list of minimum standards is against objectives established by each In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the performed by every business and action business area are periodically carried out: Code, details of how the directors have plans are agreed where remedial action is and assessed the prospects of the Company, over required: developments in tax, treasury and what period the prospects have been the Audit Committee, which comprises accounting are continually monitored by assessed and the Companys formal viability all of the independent non-executive Group management in association with statement are included in the Strategic directors of the Company, meets regularly external advisers.
report on page 55. throughout the year.
Further details of the work of the Committee, which includes The directors confirm that they have On behalf of the Board a review of the effectiveness of the reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys Companys internal financial controls and risk management and internal control Paul Hussey the assurance procedures relating to the systems in operation during 2017.
Secretary Companys risk management system, are 26 February 2018 set out in the Audit Committee report on The external auditors are engaged to express pages 67 to 70: an opinion on the financial statements.
The regular meetings are held with insurance audit includes a review and evaluation of the and risk advisers to assess the risks system of internal financial control and the throughout the Group: data contained in the financial statements to a management committee, known as the the extent necessary for expressing an audit Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability opinion on the truth and fairness of the Committee, which oversees issues relating financial statements.
principally to environment, health & safety and business continuity planning matters, sets relevant policies and practices and monitors their implementation: discusses analysts and brokers reports Relations with shareholders and surveys of shareholder opinions As required by the relevant laws and conducted by the Companys own brokers.
regulations, the Company reports formally to shareholders twice a year with the half Notice of the AGM is sent to shareholders year results announced normally at the During the year, the Company atleast 20 working days before the endof August and the annual results hosted a Capital Markets event meeting.
All shareholders are encouraged announced normally at the end of February.
to participate in the AGM, are invited to ask which was attended by more In addition, during the year, the Company questions at the meeting and are given the has published, on a voluntary basis, two than 70 representatives from opportunity to meet all of the directors quarterly trading statements and two other shareholders and analysts.
Shareholders unable to attend trading statements prior to entering its are encouraged to vote using the proxy card Presentations were given by the close periods at the end of June and the mailed to them or electronically as detailed endof December in order to keep the heads of the Companys in the Notice of Meeting.
Shareholders are Companys shareholders and the financial businesses in North America, given the option to withhold their vote on markets periodically updated on the the proxy form.
As in previous years, at the Continental Europe, UK & Companys trading performance outside forthcoming AGM each of the resolutions ofthe regulatory announcements made in Ireland and Latin America on a put to the meeting will be taken on a poll relation to the half year and annual results.
diverse range of topics relating rather than on a show of hands as the directors believe that a poll is more to the Companys strategy and The Chief Executive and Finance Director representative of shareholders voting have regular meetings with representatives service offering and included a intentions because shareholder votes are of institutional shareholders and report to number of testimonials from counted according to the number of shares the Board the views of major shareholders.
held and all votes tendered are taken into customers about the Companys Additional forms of communication include account.
The results of the poll will be presentations of the half year and annual value proposition.
A webcast of publicly announced and made available results.
The Chairman and the Senior the event and copies of the onthe Companys website as soon as Independent Director and the other practicable following the AGM.
presentations made are non-executive directors are available to meet with major shareholders on request.
available on the Companys The Board also periodically reviews and website, www.
