STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Corporate Governance Report STATEMENT OF CODE COMPLIANCE The Company was compliant with the provisions of the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code throughout the year.
The Code can be found on the FRCs website www.
uk The information required under DTR 7 is given on pages 46 to 86 and forms part of this report.
GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE The Board of Inchcape plc Collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Company Audit Remuneration Executive Nomination CR Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Delegated authorities: Delegated authorities: Delegated authorities: Delegated authorities: Delegated authorities: Financial Reporting Remuneration Policy Group Strategy Board Composition CR Strategy Risk Management Incentive plans Operational Diversity Internal Control Performance Targets Management Succession Planning Committee Report Committee Report Committee Report Committee Report page 50 page 59 page 56 page 58 Delegated authorities: Delegated authorities: Risk oversight Oversight of Group iPOM Group Capital Minimum Control capital expenditure Committee Committee Framework Board meeting Key activities January South American acquisition update March Full year results, Annual Report and Ignite strategy Lead in customer experience Accounts, final dividend, share buyback, 2017 AOP update Modern Slavery Statement 2016 internal Board evaluation results May Annual Strategy Review Annual General Meeting July Interim results, interim dividend, share buyback Market review Continental Europe Talent planning October Overseas visit to Santiago, Chile Ignite strategy OEM partner of choice Annual Risk Review Market review Emerging Markets December 9 3 update, 2018 Annual Operating Plan Market review Ethiopia Delegated Authorities Policy Defence Planning External Board evaluation inchcape.
com 47 Corporate Governance Report continued The Board also has strongly governance-focused committees which give assurance to the Board on the matters delegated to them.
I also see the Boards very open and constructive relationship with the Chief Executive, Stefan Bomhard, and the rest of the Executive Committee as one of its strengths.
As such, the Board has a deep understanding of the Ignite strategy, how this is being delivered, and the risks to the Group.
Preserving this transparent dialogue and way of working is very important to me.
What do you see as the main focus for your first year as Chairman?
My first priority will be to ensure there is a smooth, seamless transition when Ken steps down in May.
I want to make sure we keep a strong Board and Executive team, with good succession plans for both, therefore the diversity agenda at Board and Executive level will be as much of a focus for me as it has been in the past.
Im very much looking forward to my first year as Chairman, especially as the Group is growing and the pace of change in the industry is accelerating.
This is an exciting time and its important for the Board to keep the strategy in focus to ensure Inchcape is well-positioned to seize the opportunities which will arise.
Nigel Stein As Chairman, clearly I also want to ensure Inchcape Non-Executive Director maintains its reputation for strong corporate governance and as a Board we will spend time considering the implications of the upcoming governance changes during 2018.
What are you most looking forward to when you become Chairman?
What is the importance of the Boards role in I feel honoured to be given the opportunity to Chair shaping, monitoring and overseeing Inchcapes Inchcape, a company with a fantastic history and track company culture?
In my time on the Board I have found The tone of any organisation starts at the top.
I believe everyone I have worked with to be of the highest quality.
the culture and behaviours of an organisation need to Iam looking forward to working with them to take be demonstrated at all levels and the Board has a pivotal Inchcape on to even greater success, in an evolving role to play shaping Inchcapes culture, in support of industry, which Im sure will be both challenging and Stefan and the Executive team as they seek to deliver extremely rewarding.
the strategic and operational objectives.
After the AGM in May, as part of my induction as Inchcapes Ignite strategy, centred around our vision Chairman, I will travel to some of our global operations of becoming the most trusted automotive Retailer and that I have not previously visited, to meet more colleagues Distributor, ultimately helps to steer our people to deliver and develop an even deeper understanding of how we against our objectives in the right way.
And Stefan is do business at Inchcape.
During 2018, I also plan to very clear in setting expectations and leading by meet shareholders and other investors to hear their example every day by fostering a culture of trust views on Inchcape.
Youve been on the Board for two years now.
What do As the Board, we also seek to foster a culture of trust you think the strengths of the Inchcape Board are?
and respect amongst our team.
This means having open, Inchcape has a strong Board led by Ken Hanna, constructive and supportive discussions whilst recognising an excellent Chairman.
During his many years with our accountability for our actions.
In this way I believe we Inchcape, Ken has built a Board with a good mix will provide the best service to all Inchcape stakeholders of Directors, some of whom are very experienced in and drive long-term value creation.
the Company or industry, some of whom bring new perspectives to the NED role.
This balance of skills and experience increases the Boards effectiveness.
48 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OVERSEAS VISIT In 2017, the Board visited the businesses in Santiago, Chile which included the existing BMW business, William Balfour, and the South American businesses acquired from Indumotora in December 2016.
The Board were given regular updates on the integration of the South American businesses throughout the year and the Emerging Markets leadership team have managed a smooth and successful transition.
Initial on-boarding was completed by 31 March 2017 with emphasis on functional alignment with the Inchcape Group and communication of the Inchcape culture cascaded down the organisation.
In addition, a new regional communication channel was launched The new businesses quickly became part of the Inchcape family and it was a pleasure to meet our new colleagues in October.
Inchcape Lighthouse made from spare parts by Alejandro Urra, Evelyn Vergara and Ester Campos, Inchcape LatAm for the Board visit.
of strength were felt to be shareholder relationships, and BOARD EVALUATION the clarity of the Ignite strategy, which was thought to be The 2017 Board evaluation was externally facilitated in well understood and executed through the Company, accordance with provision B6.2 of the 2016 UK Corporate and well monitored and scrutinised by the Board.
Several consultants were considered by the Chairman and Company Secretary and it was During the course of the review, IBE made a number determined that Independent Board Evaluation IBE of recommendations for the Boards consideration.
be appointed to perform the external review.
IBE has Of those, the Board has identified the following for its no other connection to the Company.
immediate action plan for 2018: After a comprehensive briefing and the provision of Ensuring that future Board composition always support material from the Chairman and Company maximises challenge to management as they Secretary, Lisa Thomas of IBE carried out the review crystallise the longer-term strategy beyond Ignite, from July to September with the results presented to the by keeping Board skills and terms under regular Board at the November meeting.
Lisa observed the July review and in line with strategy.
Board and Audit Committee meetings followed by one Expanding the work of the Nomination Committee to to one interviews over the next few months with the enable broader discussions amongst Board members Board members.
In addition, IBE met with the Company about NED and Executive succession, development Secretary, Chief HR Officer, Chief Marketing Officer, Chief and learning, and maintain the balance between Business Development Officer and the CEOs of Emerging experienced Directors, future Chairs and newer Markets and Europe.
IBE also spoke with the external PLC NEDs.
auditors and remuneration consultants to obtain a Expanding the work of the Nomination Committee to comprehensive view of the operation of the Board.
cover items of governance to ensure appropriate Feedback was taken on the main Board, each of the focus for the Group.
committees, the Chairman and the individual Directors.
Reports were based on the information and views Reviewing the Board pack to broaden the spectrum supplied during interviews.
IBEs recommendations of information provided to the Board, for example on for the Boards action plan were based on the UK competitors, or international territories, especially as Corporate Governance Code and best practice.
The broad message from the Directors during the course The Senior Independent Director reviewed the feedback of the review was that they were very satisfied with many on the Chairman, which was universally positive.
Board areas of the Boards operation.
A particular strength was members have appreciated the Chairmans Company felt to be Board culture, which was described as open, experience and guidance, his open and inclusive respectful and transparent, allowing the Board to support chairing style, as well as his excellent and balanced management and challenge them in a constructive relationships with the Executive Directors.
Board processes were said to be smooth The Chairman reviewed the individual Directors and well-functioning, and agendas focused on the reports and discussed the feedback with each Director, right issues over the last year.
The consensus view was in order to formulate personal development plans for that whilst the Board is collaborative and focused, it 2018 and develop goals for each with regard to their nonetheless presented tough challenge.
com 49 Audit Committee Report ENSURING INTEGRITY AND CONTROLS DEAR SHAREHOLDER I am pleased to present the report of the Audit Committee for the year ended 31 December 2017.
Certain disclosures, including how the Committee has complied with the UK Corporate Governance Code, are detailed in the Compliance Report on pages 82 to 86 which should be read in conjunction with this report.
Audit tender During the year the Committee successfully completed an audit tender process which is detailed on pages 54 to 55.
PwC and its predecessor firms have been the Groups auditor for over 20 years and I would like to John Langston take this opportunity to thank PwC for their hard work Chair of the Audit Committee and dedication to the Company over the years.
COMMITTEE MEMBERS I am pleased that Deloitte LLP has agreed to accept the role of auditor subject to shareholder approval at the Alison Cooper Nigel Northridge 2018 AGM in May.
The team from Deloitte shadowed resigned February 2017 Nigel Stein PwC during the 2017 year-end audit in order to ensure Rachel Empey a seamless transition.
Internal Audit and risk management The Committee approved an Internal Audit Charter and agreed that an external evaluation of the Internal Audit FINANCIAL REPORTING function would be considered in 2019.
Further information The Committee monitors the integrity of the financial on Internal Audit can be found on page 52. statements by: The Risk Management function refreshed the risk Assessing and reviewing the final and interim management approach and framework which were results by reviewing supporting papers and approved by the Committee and the Board.
Further assessing key disclosures to ensure adequacy, information can be found on page 51 and in the clarity and completeness.
Risk Management Report on pages 30 to 38.
Considering key audit issues, accounting treatment The Internal Audit and Risk reports are now considered and judgements by assessing information presented separately by the Audit Committee in order to enhance by management to ensure issues have been dealt focus on enterprise risk management and further the with appropriately.
independence of the Internal Audit team.
Challenging management on the assumptions and judgements that had been applied including the The key activities of the Committee are given in the table assessment of viability given on page 38 and going on page 51 and the following pages set out the work concern given on page 80 and considering reports of carried out by the Committee during the year, the the external auditor.
significant issues considered, and the key decisions made by the Committee.
In addition to the significant issues considered by the The Company confirms that it complied with the Committee which are given on page 53, the Committee also considered the following matters for the year ended provisions of the Competition and Markets Authoritys Order for the financial year under review.
31 December 2017: Information security: and A review of the South American businesss tax governance.
John Langston Chair of the Audit Committee 50 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Committee meeting Key activities Annual Report and Accounts including financial statements, accounting judgements, IFRS 8, March changes to KPIs, impairment review, going concern, viability statement and acquisition accounting see page 53 PwC auditor report, PwC independence review Internal Audit and Risk Management Report Tax update, Group Litigation update Approval of Non-Audit Services Policy and review of non-audit services PwC Internal controls review, PwC effectiveness review May Internal Audit and Risk Management Report Information Security Report Risk and Compliance Resourcing Group Audit tender Interim results including accounting judgements and going concern July PwC interim report, PwC 2017 Audit Plan Internal Audit and Risk Management Report Non-Audit Services update, Tax update, Group Litigation update Group Audit Tender Group Audit tender November Impairment testing review, ERP systems useful life review PwC Audit Plan update Internal Audit Report including IA strategy, IA charter and 2018 Internal Audit Plan Risk Management Report Inchcape LatAm Tax update Review of terms of reference and committee membership, adoption of new terms of reference for 2018 This approach allows the Audit Committee and the RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL Board to provide effective risk oversight.
Regular reports The Committee is responsible for ensuring that: from Internal Audit and the external auditors give an There is an appropriate mechanism in place to identify overview of the control environment including findings the risks the Group faces: from its reviews of the Minimum Control Framework and Management teams have the correct focus on those other financial, operational and compliance controls.
risks and, in particular, action plans to mitigate or Further information is given on page 53. respond to those risks: Risk management A compliance programme is in place in all During the year the Committee: markets and offices that meets or exceeds external Reviewed and approved the risk management benchmarks and is appropriate in terms of legal approach and framework further details are given in requirements, content, sector, cost and resources: the Risk Management Report on pages 30 to 38 : Internal controls are appropriate, well designed Received a report on the refreshed incident response and operating consistently across the Group: and plan which was updated to provide guidance to The Groups fraud and whistleblowing programme is each market on how to prepare and deal with appropriately managed to reduce the risk of fraud, or major incidents and when to escalate to Group: respond quickly and decisively in the event the Group Received an update on the Health & Safety falls victim to fraud.
Framework further details are given in the The Group has adopted the three lines of defence CR Report on pages 39 to 43 : and model.
The first line of defence is the Groups Received regular updates on all reports made organisational activities, policies and procedures to the InConfidence whistleblowing service to implemented by local management teams.
The second ensure the issues raised are being dealt with and line of defence comprises oversight functions and Group considered by the appropriate person to ensure or regional management who set direction and define independent investigation.
Further information can be found in the Risk Management Report on pages 30 to 38.
The Committee assesses managements response to any identified risk areas and, where necessary, challenges The third line of defence is Internal Audit.
Each the suggested mitigating plans to ensure that suitable function provides independent challenge to the levels actions are being taken.
of assurance provided by the first two lines of defence.
com 51 Audit Committee Report continued To assist the Audit Committee with the assessment of INTERNAL AUDIT PwCs effectiveness, management complete an annual In July 2017, a new Head of Internal Audit joined the effectiveness survey.
This approach provides the Audit Group and introduced an updated Global Internal Committee with information on the overall efficiency, Audit Strategy.
The key components of the new strategy integrity and effectiveness of the external audit, views include a specific focus on internal control governance, of the senior finance personnel in each of the Groups setting up a regional presence of the audit function principal territories together with Group Finance, Tax globally, and further improvements to the audit process and Company Secretariat.
The survey consisted of a two in line with expected professional development and page questionnaire in which respondents were asked to the Ignite strategy.
answer a number of questions about PwCs performance This approach was approved by the Committee in and give feedback on what could be improved.
November and will be rolled out in 2018.
The results from the 2016 audit, reviewed by the Audit During the year the Committee also: Committee in 2017, indicated that the overall score remained broadly consistent with the prior year which, Reviewed and approved the Internal Audit Plan in the context of significant corporate activity during for 2018: the year with the South American acquisition, impairment Monitored progress against the 2017 plan throughout of certain iPower assets and the restructuring the year: programme, is a satisfactory result.
Reviewed the status of open audit issues: Two areas were identified for improvement, Chile and Reviewed and approved the Internal Audit Charter: UK Retail.
Scores in Chile declined year-on-year whilst Received updates on internal control failings and the average score in the UK Retail business was below reviewed the appropriateness of mitigation actions the Group averages, and PwC reported on the put in place by management: opportunities for improvement in these areas.
Received updates on risk based reviews for Treasury PwC also updated the Committee on the areas for activities, incentives and Finance and Insurance.
improvement identified in the prior year and the actions The effectiveness of the Global Internal Audit Strategy will taken to resolve the issues, reporting that the scores in be assessed by the Committee in 2018. these areas had improved year-on-year which include improving efficiency of audit procedures and the The Group Head of Audit attends every Audit Committee approach to the year end cycle.
meeting and also meets with the Audit Committee without the presence of management to discuss the The Committee is satisfied that PwC is independent, findings of the Group Internal Audit team, if required.
It reached this conclusion by reviewing PwCs internal control procedures, its EXTERNAL AUDIT reports to the Committee and the challenges it made Auditors effectiveness and independence to managements treatment and findings on key The Committee is responsible for assessing the robustness accounting issues.
The review included consideration of the external audit process.
It does this by: of PwCs confirmation that it remained independent and objective within the context of applicable Monitoring the implementation and fulfilment of the professional standards.
The current audit partner, Neil Grimes, has been in place Reviewing and assessing the auditors reports on the for three years.
significant accounting judgements and its challenge to management.
Reviewing the level of support and service provided by PwC.
Reviewing the results of the external audit effectiveness survey.
The Committee satisfied itself that PwC remains independent and objective by: Reviewing the safeguards operating within PwC.
Considering PwCs Independence Report presented to the Committee.
Assessing the level and type of non-audit services provided by PwC.
52 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SIGNIFICANT ISSUES The following issues were identified by the Committee as being significant in the context of the financial statements or as matters of significance to the Group and were debated by the Committee during the year.
Acquisition The issue and managements view Management presented details on the acquisition accounting for the South American business acquired in accounting December 2016, together with other acquisitions in the period, and the judgements applied in preparing the see note 28 Groups results for the year ended 31 December 2016 and 2017 and the period ended 30 June 2017.
These on page 151 judgements included the initial purchase price allocation, the alignment of accounting policies and the determination of any associated fair value adjustments.
Conclusion reached by the Committee The Committee concluded that the business combination had been accounted for appropriately and in line with the principles set out in IFRS 3, Business Combinations.
Rationale for the Committees conclusion The Committee received reports from management which covered the acquisition accounting process and which demonstrated how the accounting principles had been applied.
The Committee reviewed the judgements made and considered the application of the accounting principles to be appropriate.
Asset impairment The issue and managements view Management presented a detailed overview of impairment testing to the Committee covering goodwill: see notes 11 and 12 a number of properties: and the indefinite life intangibles arising as a result of business acquisitions.
The on pages 129 to 132 Committee reviewed and challenged value-in-use calculations, sensitivity analysis and a review of the draft disclosure in the financial statements.
Conclusion reached by the Committee The Committee concluded that the value-in-use of the goodwill, indefinite life intangibles and properties reviewed exceeded book value and as such no impairment was required.
Rationale for the Committees conclusion The Committee noted that there had been a decrease in new vehicle registrations in the UK in the second half of the year, that the sensitivity analysis prepared by management on the UK goodwill value-in-use model incorporated reasonably possible changes to the key assumptions and that the outcome of the sensitivity analysis indicated that value-in-use continued to exceed book value.
Changes to KPIs The issue and managements view The Key Performance Indicators KPIs disclosed in the Strategic Report provide insight into how the Board monitors the Groups strategic and financial performance.
Management reviewed the existing KPIs in light of the change of leadership and the Ignite strategy and proposed certain changes.
Conclusion reached by the Committee The Committee reviewed the proposed changes and managements rationale for change.
The Committee agreed to the addition of ROCE, which is a key measure of the Ignite objective to invest to accelerate growth as it demonstrates the Groups ability to drive better returns for investors on the capital invested.
The Committee also agreed to the replacement of trading margin with operating margin and cash from operations with free cash flow.
The Committee also agreed to the removal of trading profit, working capital and like-for-like sales.
Rationale for the Committees conclusion The Committee concluded that the changes to the KPI disclosure better align the KPIs with the Ignite strategy and management have strengthened the KPI disclosure by adding a short narrative for each, highlighting why it is measured and its link to the Ignite strategy, which provides enhanced understanding for stakeholders.
Minimum Control The issue and managements view Framework MCF The Committee conducted a detailed review of the progress against the MCF in each market including a review of inventory controls in significant markets.
The 2017 internal audits were based on the MCF as the core and consistent scope for all markets which includes a more objective grading of compliance based on prescriptive and defined controls evidence.
Conclusion reached by the Committee The Committee concluded that engagement with and adherence to the MCF standards had improved with follow-through and implementation of standards in all markets continuing.
Rationale for the Committees conclusion The Committee received updates from the Group Head of Internal Audit at each meeting setting out the compliance across the Group, detailed findings from audits and recommended mitigation plans for identified control gaps.
com 53 Audit Committee Report continued process in 2017 which is set out below.
The Audit AUDIT TENDER Committee recommended to the Board that Deloitte LLP Recent EU audit reforms require companies to put their be appointed as the Groups auditor for the year ended audit out to tender at least every 10 years and to change 31 December 2018.
A resolution to appoint Deloitte LLP their auditor at least every 20 years.
As disclosed last will be put to shareholders at the AGM on 24 May 2018. year, the Audit Committee commenced a tendering AUDIT TENDER PROCESS November 2016 Audit tender process commences Audit Committee and management consider suitable audit firms to determine their capabilities and prospective audit partners A short list of audit firms is agreed including two audit firms outside of the big four.
May 2017 Two of the firms confirm they will actively participate in the audit tender.
July 2017 A Decision Making Panel consisting of John Langston and Nigel Northridge along with the Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial Controller and Group Head of Internal Audit was appointed Selection criteria agreed by the Audit Committee August September 2017 Request for proposal document drafted and approved by the Decision Making Panel Scoring matrix agreed by the Decision Making Panel Sent to audit firms for their consideration September 2017 Site visits scheduled for Russia, Chile, Singapore and UK October 2017 Meetings held with key stakeholders including Tax, Treasury and Group IS functions.
Secure online data room made available to audit firms to support tender submissions.
November 2017 Tenders submitted and formal presentations made to the Decision Making Panel Results of the selection criteria scoring matrix presented to the Audit Committee Audit Committee makes its decision on preferred firm and makes a recommendation to the Board for approval Board approved the appointment of Deloitte LLP May 2018 Resolution to appoint new auditor put to shareholders at the 2018 Annual General Meeting.
General aspects of the audit firm geographical SELECTION CRITERIA coverage, office size in relevant markets, A range of candidates was considered, including audit independence, conflicts of interests firms outside the big four accounting firms.
The Decision Understanding of the business and industry audit Making Panel agreed the selection criteria and agreed credentials in Automotive Distribution, demonstration which firms would be invited to tender.
The selection of understanding of Inchcapes business, industry criteria included: thought leadership Key elements of the proposal and why it meets company needs 54 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Audit approach proposed scope, coverage The provision of permitted non-audit services will only be and rotation, approach to technical judgements, approved by the Audit Committee if: approach to testing controls, availability of audit tools, Engagement of the auditor to provide the services time management does not impair the independence or objectivity of Audit planning timetable, regional teams, approach the external auditors: to working with management, internal quality The skills and experience of the external assurance processes, approach to resolving issues.
auditorsmakes it the most suitable supplier of the Partner and team details of lead partner and nonauditservice: their skill set, team structure, continuity and The auditor does not have a conflict of interest due succession planning to a relationship with another entity: and Fees and terms.
The aggregate fees incurred for permitted non-audit INVITATION TO TENDER services relative to the audit fee do not exceed 70% of KPMG LLP and Deloitte LLP were invited to tender.
EY the average audit fee over the previous three years.
were also invited to tender but decided not to participate Permitted non-audit services above a certain level due to other services they currently provide to the Group are approved on a case-by-case basis by the Audit including tax advice and other non-audit services.
During 2017, PwC carried out the interim the Groups global footprint, the Committee decided review.
No other permitted non-audit services were not to invite firms outside of the big four which were provided by PwC.
TERMS OF REFERENCE Each firm submitted a detailed tender document which included a presentation and a proposal for external Companies are required to go through a formal audit services setting out technical expertise, scope process of considering their internal audit and control and practical audit approach.
procedures, assessing the effectiveness of the external audit process and overseeing the relationship with their FINAL SELECTION external auditors.
As part of this process, it is essential that The Committee agreed that both firms submitted the audit committee is properly constituted with a clear excellent, professional and thorough tender proposals.
remit and identified authority, and that it has processes However, after taking into account the process as a in place to enable directors serving on audit committees whole, the views of colleagues who met with each firm to perform their role.
and the presentations and results of the scoring matrix, The Audit Committees responsibilities are set out in the Committee identified Deloitte LLP as the preferred its terms of reference.
Compliance with the terms of new external auditor.
Deloitte LLP shadowed PwC reference is reviewed annually.
During 2017, ICSA: during the 2017 external audit process.
the Governance Institute updated its model terms of NON-AUDIT SERVICES reference for audit committees.
The updated terms The policy for non-audit services has been updated to of reference reflect the April 2016 revisions to the UK Corporate Governance Code and the FRC Guidance take into account the new EU audit regulations and was approved by the Committee in February 2017.
The policy on Audit Committees.
They also take into account the changes to the Code in 2014 which required directors sets out the permitted and non-permitted non-audit services as well as the approval levels required by the to publish a viability statement.
The terms of reference are based on updated guidance and best practice Audit Committee.
The policy is designed to ensure that the external auditors objectivity is not compromised by as carried out in UK listed companies.
earning a disproportionate level of fees for non-audit The Audit Committee carried out a review of its terms of services or by performing work that, by its nature, may reference during the year and approved the adoption of compromise the auditors independence.
However, the updated terms for 2018.
The new terms can be found using advisors who have an understanding of the on the website at www.
Groups business can be a benefit and the Committee will consider non-audit services supplied on an ongoing basis.
com 55 Nomination Committee Report ENSURING AN EFFECTIVE BOARD DEAR SHAREHOLDER I am pleased to present the report of the Nomination Committee for the year ended 31 December 2017.
This report should be read in conjunction with the Compliance Report on pages 82 to 86.
In order to ensure that the Company is headed by an effective Board, now and in the future, the Committee reviews the following on an annual basis: Length of time served to ensure that progressive refreshing of the Board is considered on an ongoing basis.
Skills and experience to ensure that the Directors have the appropriate skills to assist with the delivery Ken Hanna of the Ignite strategy.
Chair of the Nomination Committee Time commitment to ensure that the Non-Executive Directors are able to give sufficient time to COMMITTEE MEMBERS the Company.
Jerry Buhlmann joined March 2017 Nigel Northridge Other appointments to ensure that the number of Rachel Empey Nigel Stein other directorships held do not affect a Directors ability John Langston Till Vestring to commit the appropriate time to the Company.
Coline McConville BOARD COMPOSITION The review of skills and experience is carried out by the Committee annually by way of a skills assessment Nigel Northridge will complete nine years service in July completed by the Board members.
During the year, the 2018, however he has agreed to remain on the Board for skills review identified the technology sector as an area a further 12 months to assist with the Chairman transition.
which could be further strengthened on the Board.
Due to the changing nature of the business and the evolution Jerry Buhlmann joined the Board in March 2017.
Jerry is of the Ignite strategy, this is an area which is likely to currently Chief Executive Officer of Dentsu Aegis Network become increasingly important over time and as and brings extensive Asia, B2B, digital and marketing such was also a key consideration when planning experience which will further strengthen the skills and the succession of Board members.
experience on the Board to fully deliver on the Ignite strategy.
Jerry Buhlmanns induction consisted of The length of service of the Non-Executive Directors meetings with key senior management.
He also met with and the Boards diversity policy are also considered the Groups remuneration consultants, Kepler Associates, by the Committee to ensure the appropriateness of to gain an understanding of the Groups remuneration succession plans.
structure and culture for rewarding performance, and 5 4 2 1 3 1 4 1 Length of 2 Gender Nationality Experience service 3 2 3 1 2 1 0 3 years 4 1 1 German 2 1 Finance 4 Male 8 2 2 2 2 3 6 years 4 Australian 1 Retail 2 Female 2 3 6 years 2 3 British 6 3 Automotive 1 4 Irish 1 4 Consultancy 2 5 Media & Digital 1 56 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Committee meeting Key activities Appointment of Jerry Buhlmann as a Non-Executive Director.
March Approval of the Nomination Committee Report in the Annual Report and Accounts, time commitment, policy on multiple board appointments, election re-election at AGM, length of service.
Review of skills and experience, update on Board and Chairman succession, independence of November Non-Executive Directors, review of terms of reference and committee membership.
Makinson Cowell, to gain an understanding of The Board philosophy on diversity is also reflected the views of the Groups shareholders.
To provide an throughout Inchcape where we employ a diverse understanding of the Groups operations inductions for workforce across 29 countries.
We value the unique new Directors also include a visit to a dealership.
James contribution that each person brings to Inchcape and Brearley, CEO UK Retail, gave Jerry an in-depth tour of the we aim to employ people who reflect the diverse nature of flagship VW dealership in Chiswick which included a society, regardless of age, sex, disability, sexual orientation, comprehensive overview of the UK businesses.
race, colour, religion, ethnic origin and political belief.
The Group has not set specific targets, however the case study APPOINTMENT PROCESS shows the work carried out during in 2017.
The Lygon Group was appointed to assist with the search for Non-Executive Directors during the year.
The Lygon Group has worked with the Group for several years and is familiar with the current Boards skills set and the potential requirements for the future.
During the recruitment Ken Hanna process, I meet with the consultants to review our needs Chairman and to draw up a long-list of suitable candidates for consideration.
When a short-list has been established, potential candidates will meet with other Board CREATING DIVERSE OPPORTUNITIES IN members, after which the Committee will decide on THE WORKPLACE the most suitable candidate and recommend the appointment of the Non-Executive Director to the Board We have made good progress on further for its approval.
The Lygon Group is a signatory to strengthening and diversifying the talent pool the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search during the year.
The focus on ensuring we have Firms and does not have any other connection to the diverse short-lists has meant we have increased Company.
The Company continually updates its list of our gender diversity in the business while going for potential candidates, taking into account the Ignite the best candidate for the job.
We have recruited strategy, the business needs of the Group and the women to the following senior positions: General Boards diversity policy, and should the situation arise Manager, Singapore: Managing Director, Greater when a Director departs unexpectedly, the recruitment China: General Manager PSA Australia: Group process can begin immediately.
Financial Controller, Group Head of Internal Audit and Head of Investor Relations.
Progress is also Nigel Northridge, Senior Independent Director, led the being made in initiatives for revised role definition Chairman succession planning process during the year.
and reward to help the business attract The Nomination Committee met without the presence of candidates from other sectors.
In the UK, Nigel Stein to consider the Chairman succession and we are also: formally approved his appointment in January 2018.
Actively engaging with key forums, the wider DIVERSITY POLICY community and education bodies to promote The Committee recognises the benefits of having a diverse and encourage more females into the Board and sees this as an essential element in delivering automotive profession the Groups strategic objectives.
We value diversity of skills Examining labour flows and female progression and industry experience as well as background, race, age within the business and gender as we believe this adds fresh perspectives Reviewing the Diversity and Inclusion culture which enrich our decision making and the aim of the across the business and identifying potential policy is to reflect this ethos.
The Boards policy on diversity opportunities and obstacles is a verbally agreed principles based policy.
It is clearly understood by our recruitment consultants and is taken Considering setting goals for greater into account when considering succession planning and female inclusion representation throughout external hires.
The Board considers all aspects of diversity the recruitment process both internal to be relevant and all Board appointments are made and external on merit and in the context of the skills and experience Reviewing family friendly policies and needed for the Board to be effective.
The Board has working practices to identify opportunities not set specific targets, however aims to achieve the Reviewing the requirement for unconscious recommendations in the Hampton-Alexander and bias training.
com 57 CR Committee Report ENSURING FOCUS ON SUSTAINABILTY DEAR SHAREHOLDER I am pleased to present the report of the CR Committee for the year ended 31 December 2017.
I am delighted that Jerry Buhlmann joined the Committee in 2017.
Jerry is the Chief Executive of Dentsu Aegis and his experience gained from their own sustainability strategy will no doubt add a new focus to our sustainability discussions and development in the future.
Maintaining a robust and transparent approach to CR is important for the long-term sustainability of our business, and we take our responsibilities towards all Till Vestring our stakeholders and the world at large seriously.
This is Chair of the CR Committee why this Committee consists of both independent NonExecutive Directors and Executive Committee members, COMMITTEE MEMBERS to ensure that we have a clear understanding of what CR means to the business and how we can ensure that Stefan Bomhard Ken Hanna an effective CR culture is embedded within the whole of Jerry Buhlmann Coline McConville the organisation.
Alison Clarke The key stakeholders for the Group: People, OEM brand Partners and Customers, have detailed updates in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 43.
Committee The Committee also reviewed progress in the meeting Key activities following areas: CR Committee Report in Annual Report March Health & Safety and Accounts During the year we continued to drive a Health & Safety Review of CR strategy culture within the organisation.
A detailed evaluation Update of CR strategy, agreeing key CR themes, November of the current processes was undertaken which has outline of reporting process, review of terms of resulted in: reference and committee membership.
A refreshed, overarching policy statement which sets out accountabilities and responsibilities.
Environment Detailed Health & Safety standards, to serve as an The Committee has continued to look at the ways we operational benchmark raising our processes to a can manage and reduce our carbon emissions and common standard.
understand what the environmental impacts of our A more comprehensive self-audit process which operations are globally and concrete initiatives are enables all markets to evaluate their own compliance being evaluated on the work done.
We continue to work with The Carbon Trust to explore A comprehensive accident reporting procedure which how adopting a science-based target approach to includes hazards and near misses.
carbon reduction would work for us.
During the year an A clear resourcing plan to oversee compliance and comprehensive energy audit pilot was completed for continuous improvement.
Continental Europe which will be reviewed during 2018 to ascertain where we can make a difference.
We have Communities a very diverse business and it is important to us that we The Committee has been excited to hear about the adopt the approach which will not just deliver short-term inspiring community work carried out by so many of results but will help us build an effective reduction Inchcapes businesses.
programme for the next 30 years and beyond.
The Company encourages community involvement, Further information on these key stakeholders is given in fund raising and donations through both Company the CR Report on pages 39 to 43. partnership and by individuals.
We are now building an internal community where colleagues can share their stories and best practice.
Till Vestring Chair of the CR Committee 58 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2017
