I II DIRECTORS' REPORT III OTHER GOVERNANCE RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS INDEMNIFICATION Details of the current Directors can be found on pages The Trust provides insurance for legal action brought against 28 and 29.
Although the Articles of the Trust provide for its Directors as a consequence of their position.
In addition re-election every three years the Board has decided that separate deeds of indemnity have been agreed with each all the Directors will be subject to re-election every year.
Director indemnifying them as permitted by company law.
The indemnity and insurance do not extend to cover claims The individual performance of each Director and their brought by the Trust itself which are upheld by the Courts, ongoing suitability for election or re-election was considered nor to criminal fines or penalties.
and endorsed by the Chairman and the Board.
All are recommended for re-election at the forthcoming Annual ACCESS TO ADVICE General Meeting.
Each of our Directors has confirmed that All Directors have access to independent professional advice they remain committed to their role and have sufficient time if necessary.
available to meet what is expected of them.
RELATIONSHIP WITH SHAREHOLDERS DIRECTORS IN 2017 All Directors normally attend the Annual General Meeting Name Designation Appointed where they have the opportunity to meet shareholders.
Lord Smith Chairman 3 2 2016 Meetings also take place throughout the year with major Anthony Brooke Non-Executive Director 24 6 2015 and institutional shareholders.
Clare Dobie Non-Executive Director 26 5 2016 INVESTMENT TRUST AND COMPANY STATUS Chris Samuel Non-Executive Director 23 9 2015 Alliance Trust PLC is a public limited company limited by Karl Sternberg Non-Executive Director 23 9 2015 shares.
HM Revenue & Customs has confirmed that Gregor Stewart Non-Executive Director 1 12 2014 Alliance Trust PLC has investment trust status for all financial periods from 1 January 2012.
All the Directors served the full financial year and remained in office at the date of signing these Accounts.
ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENT FUND MANAGERS DIRECTIVE MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS Until 1 April 2017 the manager had been Alliance Trust As at 28 February 2018 the Trust had received the following Investments Limited.
Upon completion of the sale of Alliance notification from shareholders holding an interest in more Trust Investments the Trust appointed Towers Watson than 3% of the voting rights of the ordinary shares in issue of Investment Management Ireland Limited as manager.
the Trust: The Trust has appointed National Westminster Bank plc as its Depositary under the Directive for the purpose of Shareholder Nature of interest Number of shares strengthening the arrangements for the safe custody of DC Thomson & Shares 12,610,000 3.7% Company Limited assets.
Regulatory disclosures, including the Trusts Investor Disclosure Document, are provided on the Trusts website at www.
Disclosures on Remuneration as The above notification made on 8 February 2018 superseded required under the AIFMD can also be found on our website.
DC Thomson & Company Limited previously notified holding of 15,010,000 shares.
POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS The largest shareholder in the Trust is the nominee company On 24 January 2018 the Trust sold 4,060,792 shares in for Alliance Trust Savings which holds its shares on behalf of Liontrust Asset Management PLC at a price of 520p per share.
These shares were part of the consideration paid to the Trust on the sale of its subsidiary Alliance Trust Investments.
Shareholder Nature of interest Number of shares Alliance Trust Savings Shares 116,870,789 34.1% Nominees Limited DIVIDENDS The dividend payable to shareholders on 3 April 2018 is disclosed on page 21.
USE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Information on the use of financial instruments can be found in Note 22.3 on page 78 of the Accounts.
| Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2017 49 OTHER GOVERNANCE CONTINUED INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT AGREEMENT AGREEMENT IN RESPECT OF VOTING RIGHTS Under the terms of the Management Agreement with There are no agreements in respect of voting rights.
Towers Watson Investment Management Ireland Limited SHARE BUYBACK AUTHORITY the AIFM, the AIFM will be entitled to a management fee together with reimbursement of reasonable expenses At the last Annual General Meeting the shareholders renewed incurred.
The fee equates to the sum of i 1.5m per annum the authority for the repurchase of up to 14.99% of the issued increasing in line with UK Consumer Prices Index CPI each shares and also authorised that shares repurchased may be year plus 0.055% per annum of the market capitalisation held in Treasury.
These authorities fall to be renewed at the of the Trust after deduction of a the value of non-core next Annual General Meeting.
assets, b the value of the Trusts subsidiaries: ii such fees The Trust made use of this provision during the course of as are agreed from time to time by the Trust in respect of the year as detailed above.
The Trust will seek the renewal of third-party managers: and iii fees paid to the managers these authorities at the Annual General Meeting.
Each of the third-party managers is entitled to a base management fee rate, CONFLICTS OF INTEREST generally based on the value of assets under management.
No performance fees are payable.
The Directors have previously provided details of all interests which potentially could cause a conflict of interest to arise.
The AIFM also receives a fixed administration fee in respect The unconflicted Directors in each case noted the declarations of the provision of certain underlying administration services by the Directors of their other interests and confirmed that which is capped at 0.92m per annum increasing in line with at that time none of the interests disclosed was reasonably the CPI.
The Management Agreement may be terminated by likely to give rise to a conflict.
An annual review of all interests either party on not less than six months notice or, if terminated was undertaken as part of the year-end process and this was by the Trust earlier, upon the payment of compensation.
The considered by the Board in February 2018.
Procedures are Management Agreement may also be terminated earlier by in place to allow Directors to request authority should it be either party with immediate effect and without compensation required outwith the normal Board meeting schedule.
on the occurrence of certain events.
On termination the AIFM is entitled to receive its fees pro rata to the date of termination.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Under the investment management agreement with Alliance In addition to formal business, there will be the opportunity Trust Investments ATI it was entitled to receive a fee for for questions to be put to the Directors.
This year, in addition its services equal to 0.35% of the Trusts adjusted net asset to the normal business there will be proposals to: value excluding holdings in ATI managed funds and the fair Renew the share buyback authority and requesting the value of Alliance Trust Savings and ATI.
The agreement was power to hold shares purchased under that authority to terminable by either ATI or the Trusts giving to the other be held in Treasury or cancelled with power to reintroduce not less than six months written notice and it terminated any shares held in Treasury to the market but not at a on 31 March 2017. discount to net asset value: and DIRECTOR DEVELOPMENT Confirm the notice period for convening general meetings Every new Director receives an individually tailored induction.
other than Annual General Meetings.
The Board as a whole received updates on relevant topics.
After the formal meeting we expect to have presentations from two of our equity managers, Bill Kanko from Black Creek SHARE CAPITAL AND WAIVER OF DIVIDENDS Investment Management and Andrew Headley from Veritas The Trusts issued share capital as at 31 December 2017 Asset Management.
comprised 347,592,156 Ordinary 2.5p shares of which 456,886 have been acquired by the Trustee of an Employee Benefit Trust the Trustee with funds provided by the Trust in connection with its employee share plans.
The Trustee has elected to waive all dividends payable in respect of those shares.
The Trustee holds a further 98,002 shares deposited by recipients of awards under the LTIP.
Each Ordinary share of the Trust is entitled to one vote but the Trustee does not vote in respect of the shares held by it on behalf of the Trust.
In the course of the year the Trust acquired and cancelled 145,111,776 shares for 1.003bn.
There are no preference shares or shares held in Treasury.
| Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2017 50 I II DIRECTORS' REPORT III are therefore regarded as under its control for the purposes of TOTAL GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS DATA reporting emissions.
Our carbon footprint has been calculated We report here on all the emission sources required under the based on the WRI WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Corporate Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Accounting and Reporting Standard GHG Protocol and Defra Regulations 2013.
These sources relate to offices occupied by guidelines.
We have adopted an operational control approach.
our subsidiaries and to travel undertaken by their employees.
The emissions reported below have been verified by Carbon Although these subsidiaries do not fall within our consolidated Footprint Limited.
Details of our verification statements are financial statements they are wholly owned by the Trust and available on our website.
Year to Year to Year to Year to % Change Tonnes CO2e 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2017 year-on-year Natural gas Refrigerant loss 157 163 131 136 4% Scope 1 Company cars Scope 2 Location based 457 422 379 326 -14% Purchased electricity Scope 2 Market based - 54 37 207 559% Downstream leased assets Scope 3 316 247 205 171 -17% Business travel Total all Scopes 930 832 715 633 -11% Total Scope 1 2 location based 614 585 510 462 -9% Total Scope 1 2 per full employee equivalent FTE 3.1 2.4 2.0 1.4 -30% All figures in the above table have been restated to reflect the removal of Alliance Trust Investments from the Group in 2017.
REPORT OF DIRECTORS AND RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT The Report of the Directors, including the Directors responsibility statement on pages 30 to 39, the going concern statement on page 40, the indications of future developments contained on pages 4 and 5 of the Strategic Report and pages 49 to 51 of the Annual Report and Accounts, has been approved by the Board.
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face: and the Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position, performance, business model and strategy.
Lord Smith of Kelvin Chairman 7 March 2018 | Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2017 51
