STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT During 2017, the Committee focused on the integrity of the Groups financial reporting and financial control, while ensuring that an appropriate level of challenge was applied to the Groups risk management and compliance processes.
Lloyd Pitchford Chairman of the Audit Committee guidance, laws and regulations.
The Code PRINCIPAL RESPONSIBILITIES Meetings includes a number of provisions relating to OF THE COMMITTEE The Committee met on four occasions the role and reporting requirements of audit during 2017.
Members attendance at committees and accordingly this report has those meetings is set out below: been prepared in accordance with the Reporting relevant provisions of the 2016 edition of Meetings attended Monitoring and reviewing the integrity theCode which applied to the financial year 1 Lloyd Pitchford 3 of the Groups financial results and the ended 31December 2017.
In carrying out its 2 David Sleath 1 significant judgements contained duties, the Committee also operated in Eugenia Ulasewicz 4 therein.
accordance with the recommendations Jean-Charles Pauze 4 setout in the FRCs Guidance on Audit Vanda Murray 4 Risk management and 3 Committees, which was published Stephan Nanninga 3 internal control inApril2016.
1 Lloyd Pitchford was appointed as a director on Reviewing: 1 March 2017 and became Audit Committee the Groups risk management The principal responsibilities of the Chairman on 19 April 2017.
He attended all of processes, procedures and the Committee meetings held between 1 March Committee include monitoring and reviewing controls: 2017 and the end of the year.
the integrity of the Companys financial the effectiveness of the Companys 2 David Sleath retired as a director on 19 April reporting, together with the related internal internal financial controls: and 2017 having attended all of the Committee controls, and ensuring that the assumptions meetings held between 1 January 2017 and the Groups whistleblowing and judgements made by management thatdate.
inpreparing the financial results are 3 Stephan Nanninga was appointed as a director challenged as appropriate.
The significant on 1 May 2017 and attended all of the Internal audit Committee meetings held between that date accounting matters considered by the Overseeing the Companys internal and the end of the year.
Committee in relation to the 2017 financial audit activities.
statements were the accounting for business Monitoring and reviewing the combinations, the carrying value of goodwill effectiveness of the internal audit INTRODUCTION FROM and customer relationships intangible function.
LLOYD PITCHFORD assets, defined benefit pension schemes and taxation.
These are discussed in detail in the External audit Chairman of the AuditCommittee Making recommendations to the report that follows and the Committee is I am pleased to present the Audit satisfied that these matters have been Board in relation to the appointment Committees report for the year ended re-appointment removal of the properly recorded in the Companys books 31December 2017.
This is my first report as and records and accounted for appropriately.
Committee Chairman, having succeeded Reviewing the Companys relationship The Committee will continue to review its David Sleath who retired from the Board in activities in the light of regulatory and best with the external auditors and April 2017.
I also wish to welcome Stephan monitoring their independence and practice developments to ensure that we are Nanninga, who joined the Board as a able to maintain high standards of financial objectivity.
non-executive director on 1 May 2017, Agreeing the scope, terms of governance going forward.
as a member of the Committee.
engagement and fees for the statutory audit.
The information on the following pages sets The purpose of this report is to give out in detail the activities of the Committee Initiating and supervising a shareholders an overview of the role of the competitive tender process for the during the year.
I hope that you will find this Committee, to provide a meaningful insight report useful in understanding the work that external audit as required from time into our activities during the past year and to time.
todemonstrate how the Committee has Developing and implementing a policy discharged its responsibilities effectively.
on the engagement of the external Lloyd Pitchford Chairman of the Audit Committee auditors to supply non-audit services.
This report reflects the requirements placed 26 February 2018 on committees by the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and applicable 67 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED In the performance of its duties, the receiving and considering reports from Composition Committee has independent access to the the Head of Internal Audit in relation The Committee members are all of the services of the Companys internal audit to the work undertaken by the internal independent non-executive directors who function and to the external auditors and may audit function and reviewing and approving were appointed to the Committee by the obtain outside professional advice as the internal audit work programme for Board following recommendations by the necessary.
Both the Head of Internal Audit the coming year: Nomination Committee.
While the other and the external auditors have direct access considering the extent to which the directors, being the Chairman of the to me as the Chairman of the Committee and recommendations previously made by the Company and the executive directors, I held a number of meetings with each of Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors are not members of the Committee, they them during the year outside formal IIA in 2016 regarding the effectiveness normally attend meetings of the Committee Committee meetings.
I also liaise with the of the internal audit function had been by invitation together with the Head of Finance Director as necessary to ensure addressed: Internal Audit and representatives from the robust oversight and challenge in relation reviewing the effectiveness of both the external auditors.
The Secretary to the to financial control and risk management.
external auditors and the internal audit Committee is the Company Secretary.
function following completion of detailed The Committees performance and questionnaires by both the Board and The Committee members bring an effectiveness is reviewed annually by both senior management within the Company: appropriate balance of financial and the Committee and as part of the Board reviewing the effectiveness of the commercial experience in multinational performance evaluation.
I also meet with Companys internal financial controls and organisations, combined with a good each Committee member independently the assurance procedures relating to risk understanding of the Companys business toensure that their individual views about management systems: and are therefore considered by the Board theoperation of the Committee are taken reviewing the Companys annual controls to be collectively competent in the sector in intoaccount.
self-assessment process and making which the Company operates.
As the serving recommendations in relation to the Chief Financial Officer of Experian plc, I am improvement thereof: considered by the Board to have recent and Activities reviewing the arrangements by which staff relevant financial experience.
I consider As Chairman of the Committee, I hold may, in confidence, raise concerns about independent thinking to be crucial in preparatory discussions with the Companys possible improprieties in matters of assessing the work of management and the senior management, the Head of Internal financial reporting or other matters and assurance provided by the internal and Audit and the external auditors prior to receiving periodic reports relating to the external audit functions and believe that Committee meetings to discuss the items to matters raised through such arrangements: each of the Committee members brings an be considered at the meetings.
In addition, reviewing the Committees terms of appropriate mind-set to their role.
separate discussions are held during reference: Committee meetings between the reviewing the Committees effectiveness Committee and the Head of Internal Audit Role following an externally facilitated and the external auditors without Audit committees have a clearly defined role in performance evaluation: management present.
In 2017, David Sleath the corporate governance framework of listed reviewing the policy for the provision of attended the AGM and going forward I will companies.
We, as the Audit Committee, act non-audit services by the external attend to respond to any shareholder independently of management to ensure that auditors: questions that might be raised on the the interests of our stakeholders are properly reviewing and approving the level and Committees activities.
The Committees protected through the Committees oversight, nature of non-audit work which the activities in 2017 included: review and challenge of the Companys external auditors performed during the financial management and its reporting year, including the fees paid for such work: making recommendations to the Board processes and procedures.
There are a reviewing the principal tax risks applicable concerning the re-appointment of the number of key aspects to this, including the to the Company and the steps taken to external auditors and approving the use of appropriate accounting policies manage such risks: and remuneration and terms of engagement of andpracticesandthe implementation of a reviewing the Companys internal audit the auditors, including the audit strategy robust assurance framework in which the risk charter.
and planning process for the current management and internal control systems, the financial year: Following each Committee meeting, I report internal and external audit functions and the receiving and, where appropriate, any significant findings to the Board and regular internal reporting of the Companys challenging reports from management copies of the minutes of the Committee performanceagainst budgets, forecasts and and the external auditors in relation to the meetings are circulated to all of the directors prior year results are all very important.
half yearly financial report and the annual and to the external auditors.
financial statements: The Committee ensures that the Company has reviewing the half yearly financial report An area of particular focus during the year effective governance over the Groups financial and the annual financial statements and included the Companys risk management reporting, including the adequacy of related the formal announcements relating processes and procedures, which had been disclosures, the performance of both the thereto: reviewed by a professional services firm internal and external audit functions and reviewing the effectiveness of the risk against industry peers and best practice.
the management of the Groups systems management process: The Committee considered the results of of internal control and business risk receiving and considering a report from a the review, which concluded that there is a management and related compliance professional services firm relating to their good understanding of the risk management activities.
The Committees terms of reference, assessment of the Companys risk process within the Group, with established which were reviewed by both the Committee management processes and procedures: routines for risk reporting at both the and the Board in 2017, are available on the business area and Group levels, and a Companys website, www.
commitment to risk management within the Companys management and the Board.
68 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED While the findings in the report were positive, these assets and liabilities, including the The Committee is satisfied that each of the the Committee has continued to oversee the degree to which such valuations are above mentioned significant accounting enhancement of the Companys approach to supported by professional advice from matters have been properly recorded in the risk management.
This has been achieved by external advisers.
Details of the Companys Companys books and records and accounted monitoring the implementation of their approach to accounting for acquisitions are for appropriately, including relevant suggested improvements, all of which have set out in Note 24 to the consolidated disclosure in the Annual Report.
been satisfactorily implemented, and which financial statements.
included the development of a risk In previous years, in addition to those management policy, the identification and matters referred to above, supplier rebates The carrying value of goodwill and assessment of emerging risks and an have also been considered to be a significant other customer relationships analysis of risk interconnectivity, together accounting matter which have accordingly intangible assets with oversight of a formalised risk appetite been reviewed by the Committee.
However, Goodwill is allocated to cash generating statement that was approved by the Board having reviewed the matter again in 2017, units CGUs and is tested annually for inJanuary 2018. theCommittee is satisfied that substantially impairment.
During the year the Committee all of the Groups supplier rebate income critically reviewed and discussed The Committee also considered the isunconditional and non-judgemental.
managements report on the impairment preparations being made by management for As a result, supplier rebates are no testing of the carrying value of goodwill and the future implementation of new accounting longerconsidered by the Committee to customer relationships intangible assets of standards IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, be a significant accounting matter.
each of the CGUs including the sensitivity of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with the outcome of impairment testing to the use Customers and IFRS 16 Leases and the Internal control and risk of different assumptions and considered the potential impact on the Group.
management external auditors testing thereof.
After due As mentioned above, the Committee is challenge and debate, the Committee As a Committee we will continue to keep our responsible for reviewing on behalf of the concluded that it was satisfied with the activities under review and focused on the Board the effectiveness of the Companys assumptions and judgements applied in audit, assurance and risk processes within internal financial controls and the assurance relation to such testing and agreed that the business.
By doing so, we will ensure that procedures relating to the Companys risk there was no impairment to goodwill or in the future we are able to maintain high management system.
These controls and customer relationships intangible assets.
standards of financial governance in line with procedures are designed to manage, but not Details of the key assumptions and the regulatory framework as well as market eliminate, the risk of failure of the Company judgements used are set out in Note 9 to the practice for audit committees.
to meet its business objectives and, as consolidated financial statements.
such, provide reasonable, but not absolute, Financial statements and significant assurance against material misstatement Defined benefit pension schemes accounting matters or loss.
During the year, the Committee The Committee considered reports from During the year and prior to the publication of monitored the effectiveness of the internal management and the external auditors in the Groups results for 2017, the Committee financial controls framework through relation to the valuation of the defined benefit reviewed the 2017 half yearly financial report reports from the Finance Director, the Head pension schemes and reviewed the key and related news release, the 2017 Annual of Internal Audit and the external auditors.
actuarial assumptions used in calculating the Report including the financial statements, In particular the Committee considered the defined benefit pension liabilities, especially the 2017 annual results news release and the scope and results of work of the internal in relation to discount rates, inflation rates reports from the external auditors on the audit function, the findings of the external and mortality life expectancy.
The outcomes of their half year review and their auditors in relation to the year end audit, Committee discussed the reasons for the audit relating to 2017. the assessment of fraud risk carried out decrease in the net pension deficit and was by management, the controls over the satisfied that the assumptions used were As part of its work, the Committee Companys financial consolidation and appropriate and were supported by considered the following significant reporting system, the treasury controls, independent actuarial experts.
Details of the accounting matters in relation to the the tax risks and the processes for setting key assumptions used are set out in Note 20 Companys financial statements and strategic plans and budgets and for to the consolidated financial statements.
challenged the judgements being made monitoring the ongoing performance in relation thereto.
Taxation The Committee reviewed a report and In relation to the risk management system, Accounting for business received a presentation from the Head of Tax in addition to considering the results of the combinations highlighting the principal tax risks that the external assessment referred to above, the For business combinations, the Group has a Group faces and a detailed risk assessment Committee reviewed the process by which long-standing process for the identification relating to the tax risks identified including significant risks had been identified by of the fair values of the assets acquired and the judgements underpinning the provisions management and the Board, the key controls liabilities assumed including separate for potential tax liabilities.
The Committee and other processes designed to manage identification of intangible assets using also reviewed the results of the external andmitigate such risks and the assurance external valuation specialists where auditors assessment of provisions for provided by the internal audit function, the required.
The Committee reviewed this income taxes.
Having done so, the external auditors and other oversight from process and discussed with management Committee was satisfied with the key management and the Board.
and the external auditors the methodology judgements and proposed disclosures and assumptions used to value the assets related to tax made by management.
Internal audit and liabilities of the acquisitions completed in The Company has an internal audit 2017.
The Committee concluded that it was department which comprises nine in-house satisfied with managements valuations of auditors, including the Head of Internal Audit 69 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED who reports jointly to me, in my capacity as Chairman of the Audit Committee, and the Auditors effectiveness reviews Finance Director.
The scope of work of the During 2017 the Committee undertook reviews of the effectiveness of both the Companys internal audit function covers all systems external audit process for the 2016 financial statements and the Companys internal audit and activities of the Group.
Each of the reviews followed a broadly similar process, as summarised below: prioritised according to the Companys risk profile with the annual audit plan being Detailed Questionnaires Results of Action plan and approved by the Committee each year.
questionnaires completed by: questionnaires implementation Internal audit reports are regularly provided of different considered and timeframes directors: and to the Committee.
These reports include aspects of discussed by the agreed.
senior managers details of the audit findings, and the relevant external audit Committee.
at Group and management actions required in order to process internal business address any issues arising therefrom, as audit function.
well as updates on the progress made by management in addressing any outstanding recommendations from previously reported findings.
In addition, the internal audit Internal audit function function reports on any significant issues The questionnaire covered a total of 35 different relating to the processes for controlling the aspects of the internal audit function including: activities of the Group and the adequacy and purpose, authority and responsibility: Following these assessments, effectiveness of such processes.
Overall the independence and objectivity: quality theCommittee concluded assuranceprocesses: adequacy of resources: work of the internal audit function provides that it was satisfied with the auditors skills and capabilities: and the the Committee with a further means of qualityof reporting.
monitoring the processes and actions to effectiveness of the external audit manage and mitigate those risks identified as The Committee also considered the extent to process relating to the 2016 posing the greatest threat to the Company.
which the recommendations from the IIAs financial statements and that the assessment of the effectiveness of the internal internal audit function continued audit function in 2016 had been addressed.
External auditors independence The Committee ensures that the external tobe effective, efficient and External audit process auditors remain independent of the Company The questionnaire covered a total of 24 different appropriately resourced.
and receives written confirmation from aspects of the external audit process, grouped under four separate headings: the robustness the external auditors as to whether they The Committee will carry out ofthe audit process: the quality of delivery: the consider themselves independent within similar effectiveness reviews in quality of people and service: and the quality the meaning of their own internal and the ofreporting.
2018 in respect of the audit of the relevant regulatory and professional requirements.
Key members of the audit 2017 financial statements and the team rotate off the Companys audit after internal audit function.
In order to ensure that the objectivity and services.
However, if the provision of a As previously reported, following a detailed independence of the external auditors is not service by the Companys auditors is not tender process,  compromised, the Company has a detailed prohibited and adequate safeguards are in LLP PwC were first appointed as the policy relating to the provision of non-audit place, it is sometimes appropriate for this Companys external auditors in 2014.
While services by the external auditors which is additional work to be carried out by the the Company has no current retendering overseen by the Committee.
As reported last Companys auditors.
Details of the fees paid plans, in accordance with The Statutory Audit year, this policy was updated in 2016 to the external auditors in 2017 in respect of Services for Large Companies Market following the implementation of the EU Audit the audit and for non-audit services are set Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Directive and Regulation which changed the out in Note 4 to the consolidated financial Tender Processes and Audit Committee rules relating to the provision of non-audit statements.
The ratio of the fees relating to Responsibilities Order 2014 CMA Order services by the external auditors.
Under the non-audit services to audit services in 2017 the Company will be required to put the revised policy the only non-audit services was 9%.
external audit contract out to tender by 2024. that have been pre-approved by the In addition, PwC will be required to rotate the Committee are those which are not audit partner responsible for the Companys External auditors re-appointment prohibited or otherwise restricted and which audit, who is currently Paul Cragg, every five In considering whether to recommend to the are considered to be trivial due to the value of years.
Accordingly, the Company confirms Board the appointment or re-appointment of the services.
Apart from such pre-approved that it has complied with the provisions of the the external auditors, the Committee takes services, a permitted service requires CMA Order for the 2017 financial year.
into account the tenure of the auditors in specific authorisation from the Committee or addition to the results of its review of the myself as the Committee Chairman.
It is the As a consequence of its satisfaction with the effectiveness of the external auditors and Companys policy to assess the non-audit results of its review of the external auditors considers whether there should be a full services to be performed by the Companys activities during the year, the Committee has tender process either as a result of that auditors on a case-by-case basis to ensure again recommended to the Board that a review or as may be required by the relevant adherence to the prevailing ethical standards resolution proposing the re-appointment of regulations.
There are no contractual and regulations.
In the main, other firms are PwC as external auditors for the year ending obligations restricting the Committees used by the Company to provide non-audit 31 December 2018 be put to shareholders at choice of external auditors.
