CORPORATE GOVERNANCE We report here on how the Board runs your Trust and the with historic share award schemes and the Trust now has changes that we have made during the year to simplify five employees.
The terms of reference of the two standing governance.
Committees Remuneration and Audit and Risk can be found on our website www.
co. uk The board of Alliance Trust Savings is independent from that of the Trust.
The Board and Audit and Risk Committee The Trust has complied with the recommendations of the AIC however still maintain oversight of the performance of this Code of Corporate Governance issued in July 2016 except that operating subsidiary.
due to the outsourced investment and administration model and appropriate reporting from WTWs Risk and Compliance The Board seeks to ensure that the Trusts new investment functions the Board feels that there is no requirement for management and operational arrangements are functioning an internal audit function.
We report on pages 34 to 40 the effectively.
We have taken the opportunity to remove two of checks and controls that we have in place and on pages 49 our Committees, the Management Engagement Committee to 51 the disclosures required under 7.2.
6 of the Disclosure and Nomination Committee, and any decisions that would and Transparency Rules.
This report will describe how the have formerly been taken by these Committees will now be Board applies the 21 principles of the AIC Code in practice.
We decided to retain our Remuneration Committee as, while we now no longer have Executive Lord Smith of Kelvin Directors, there are still decisions required in connection Chairman Principle 1.
The chairman should be independent.
Lord Smith was appointed in February 2016.
He had no previous involvement with the Trust and the Board considers that Lord Smith is, and has been since his appointment, an independent Non-Executive Director.
As at 31 December 2017 the Board comprised six independent 2.
A majority of the Board should be independent Non-Executive Directors.
All of the Board are independent of of the manager.
executive management and are wholly independent of the Trusts various investment managers.
WTW has appointed Jupiter Asset Management as one of the underlying portfolio managers.
Karl Sternberg is a director of Jupiter Fund Management PLC.
However, the engagement and removal of portfolio managers is discretionary on the part of WTW and the Board considers that this does not impact on Karl Sternbergs independence.
The Remuneration Committee approved an additional payment to Clare Dobie to reflect time spent over and above what would normally be expected of a Non-Executive Director details can be found on page 43.
The Board did not consider that the making of this payment in any way impacted on the independence of her as a Director.
Each Director is subject to annual re-election by shareholders at the 3.
Directors should be submitted for re-election Trusts AGM.
Directors are submitted for re-election only if the Board at regular intervals.
Nomination for re-election considers that they continue to be independent, contribute effectively should not be assumed but be based on disclosed to the work of the Board and have confirmed that they have sufficient procedures and continued satisfactory performance.
time to devote to the work of the Board.
The Board should have a policy on tenure, New Directors are appointed with an expectation that the Directors term of appointment shall normally be for the period commencing which is disclosed in the annual report.
with his or her appointment to the Board and ending on the seventh Annual General Meeting of the Trust following appointment.
Following that term the Director may be appointed for a further term of between one and three years.
Each Director is however required to stand for re-election each year and their appointment will terminate should they not be re-elected by the shareholders.
Details of the Directors are set out on pages 28 and 29.
There should be full disclosure of information have a broad range of investment, professional and commercial about the Board.
expertise and experience, gained overseas as well as in the United Kingdom.
| Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2017 30 I II DIRECTORS' REPORT III Principle The Board considers that it has achieved this aim.
The Board should aim to have a balance of skills, experience, details of each Director are set out on pages 28 and 29 along with length of service and knowledge of the Company.
the Boards policy on diversity.
The Board should undertake a formal and rigorous The external review of the Boards effectiveness is reported on in more detail on page 33. annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and individual directors.
Director remuneration should reflect their duties, The Directors Remuneration Report on pages 42 to 45 details the process for determining the Directors remuneration and sets out the responsibilities and the value of their time spent.
The Board oversees the recruitment process, which will include the use 9.
The independent directors should take the lead in of a firm of recruitment consultants, with all the Directors having the the appointment of new directors and the process opportunity to input into the process.
The Senior Independent Director should be disclosed in the annual report.
would lead the process of selecting a new Chairman.
Directors should be offered relevant training Directors newly appointed to the Board are provided with an introductory programme covering the Trusts strategy, policies and and induction.
operations, including those outsourced to third parties.
Thereafter, Directors are given, on an ongoing basis, key information on the Trusts investment portfolios, financial position, internal controls and details of the Trusts regulatory and statutory obligations and changes thereto.
The Chairman and the Board should be brought This principle does not apply to the Trust, being a long-established investment trust.
into the process of structuring a new launch at an early stage.
The Board is scheduled to meet on four occasions during the year 12.
Boards and managers should operate in a supportive, with the investment manager present for each meeting.
All the co-operative and open environment.
Directors have made themselves available throughout the year for additional meetings both as a Board or Committee but also with members of the Executive function and the investment managers.
The primary focus at regular Board meetings WTW monitors investment performance and all associated matters on an ongoing basis and presents regular reports to the Board should be a review of investment performance both at formal meetings and during the interval between meetings.
and associated matters such as gearing, asset At each meeting presentations are given and reports made covering allocation, marketing investor relations, investment performance, asset allocation and gearing.
The Executive peer group information and industry issues.
function supports the Board in relation to marketing and investor relations which are also considered at Board meetings.
In addition there is a Working Group comprising Directors and representatives from the Executive function, WTW and marketing and PR agencies that meets on a monthly basis to discuss and agree marketing and PR activity.
As previously reported the Board has undertaken a significant review 14.
Boards should give sufficient attention to of its operation and has implemented major changes.
continues to keeps its overall strategy and performance under review.
The Board should regularly review both the The Board reviews the performance of the investment manager in terms of both investment performance and cost on a regular basis performance of, and contractual arrangements against agreed service levels.
with, the manager or executives of a self-managed The Remuneration Committee reviews the performance and the company.
contractual arrangements of the Executive function.
The Board should agree policies with the manager The Board has set out in its agreement with WTW certain key operational controls through a Service Level Agreement and Key covering key operational issues.
WTW in turn sets out how the equity managers it appoints make their investments as set out on page 8.
| Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2017 31 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Principle The Board uses its corporate broker to monitor the share price and 17.
Boards should monitor the level of the share price the discount to Net Asset Value NAV on a daily basis.
The Board discount or premium if any and, if desirable, makes use where appropriate of its share buyback authority to take action to reduce it.
purchase shares at a discount in order to add to the NAV per share and to support management of the discount to NAV.
The Board should monitor and evaluate other The Executive function monitors and evaluates the performance of the Trusts various service providers.
The Board receives reports on service providers.
the performance of significant service providers from the Executive function and internal control assurance reports from material suppliers.
Regular review meetings are held with significant suppliers.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that there is effective 19.
The Board should regularly monitor the shareholder communication with the Trusts shareholders.
The shareholder profile of the Company and put in place a system for register is monitored and analysed and there is a programme for canvassing shareholder views and for communicating meeting or speaking to significant investors and private client the Boards views to shareholders.
stockbrokers, wealth managers and advisers.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee is available to discuss remuneration matters.
The Trust encourages attendance at its Annual General Meeting as a forum for communication with individual shareholders and may organise occasional investor forums or webinars details will be provided on the Trust website.
The Directors may be contacted through the Company Secretary at the address shown on page 90.
The Board has a process under which all major communications and 20.
The Board should normally take responsibility for, changes to the website are approved by at least one Director and and have a direct involvement in, the content of a member of the Executive function.
Such communications would communications regarding major corporate issues normally be made by the Trust and not the investment manager.
even if the manager is asked to act as spokesman.
The Board seeks to communicate effectively with its shareholders.
The Board should ensure that shareholders are The Annual Report and Accounts, Interim Report and monthly provided with sufficient information for them to factsheets are issued to all shareholders who request a copy.
understand the risk: reward balance to which Through its subsidiary Alliance Trust Savings, the Board affords each they are exposed by holding the shares.
of Alliance Trust Savings customers who holds shares in the Trust the opportunity to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting and to be treated, so far as possible, as shareholders in their own name.
All this information is readily accessible on the Trusts website.
BOARD AND COMMITTEE ATTENDANCES The Board has moved to having four scheduled Board meetings and up to four scheduled Board Committee meetings in the year, supplemented with ad hoc meetings to discuss matters arising between these meetings.
Other than the Chairman, who is not a member of the Audit and Risk and Remuneration Committees, all Directors are members of all Board Committees.
Scheduled Meeting MANAGEMENT Attendances BOARD AUDIT AND RISK REMUNERATION NOMINATION ENGAGEMENT Director Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Lord Smith 4 4 - - - - 1 1 1 1 Anthony Brooke 4 4 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 Clare Dobie 4 4 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 Chris Samuel 4 4 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 Karl Sternberg 4 4 1 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 Gregor Stewart 4 4 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 In addition to the above scheduled meetings, members of the Board met either in person or by telephone on 20 occasions during the year and there were four additional Audit and Risk Committees held.
| Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2017 32
