STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT The Committee is committed to ensuring that the skills, knowledge and expertise at Board level meet the changing demands of the business and take account of the existing and future challenges and opportunities facing the Company.
Philip Rogerson Chairman and Chairman of the Nomination Committee Composition PRINCIPAL RESPONSIBILITIES Meetings The Nomination Committee comprises OF THE COMMITTEE The Committee met on four occasions the Chairman of the Company, who chairs during 2017.
Members attendance at the Committee unless the Committee is those meetings is set out below: dealing with the matter of succession of Composition the Chairman of the Company, the Chief Reviewing the structure, size and Meetings attended Executive and all of the independent noncomposition of the Board with regard Philip Rogerson 4 executive directors.
In accordance with to maintaining a balance of skills, Frank van Zanten 4 theprovisions of the UK Corporate experience, knowledge and diversity.
1 David Sleath 3 Governance Code, the majority of the Eugenia Ulasewicz 4 members are independent non-executive Succession Jean-Charles Pauze 4 directors.
The Secretary to the Committee Considering succession planning, Vanda Murray 4 isthe Company Secretary.
taking into account the challenges and 2 Lloyd Pitchford 1 opportunities facing the Company and 3 Stephan Nanninga 1 the skills and expertise required by Role 1 David Sleath retired as a director on 19 April the Board in the future.
The Committees principal role is to consider, 2017 having attended all of the Committee Reviewing annually a succession and make recommendations to the Board meetings held between 1 January 2017 and planning presentation in relation to concerning the composition of the Board that date.
and its Committees including proposed 2 Lloyd Pitchford was appointed as a director on appointees to the Board, whether to fill 1 March 2017 and became Audit Committee Appointments Chairman on 19 April 2017.
He attended all of any vacancies that may arise or to change Identifying and nominating appropriate the Committee meetings held between 1 March the number of Board members.
It is the 2017 and the end of the year.
individuals to fill Board vacancies as Committees role to ensure that the Board 3 Stephan Nanninga was appointed as a director they arise.
and its Committees maintain the appropriate on 1 May 2017 and attended all of the Approving the appointment of any balance of skills, knowledge, experience Committee meetings held between that date senior executive who is to report and diversity to ensure their continued and the end of the year.
directly to the Chief Executive.
The Committee meets as Making recommendations to the necessary throughout the year to discharge Board as to the continuation in office its responsibilities.
The Committees and or re-appointment of directors.
terms of reference, which were reviewed by both the Committee and the Board in Evaluation 2017, are available on the Companys website, Considering the commitment required www.
of non-executive directors and reviewing their performance.
Activities One of the Committees main responsibilities during the year related to the process of identifying and selecting two new nonexecutive directors.
Having taken account of the challenges and opportunities facing the Company currently and in the future and after identifying the background, skills, knowledge and experience that will be required of non-executive directors in the future, the Committee prepared and agreed detailed specifications for the roles and appointed external search consultancies, 65 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED The Zygos Partnership and Korn Ferry, to Looking beyond the Board to the Groups Succession planning assist them in the recruitment processes.
wider workforce, Bunzl is committed to The Committee recognises that having the The consultancies used do not provide any treating people fairly and equally and by right directors and senior management is other services to, or have any connection crucial for the Groups success and a key task accepting and embracing their diversity, and with, the Company.
of the Committee is to ensure that there is ensuring there is an inclusive and positive a robust and rigorous succession planning working environment for all employees.
For a The Committee agreed that the search process, over both the medium to long term, number of years in the annual succession criteria for candidates should include, in to ensure that there is the right mix of skills planning reviews there has been a particular particular, successful senior business and experience as the Company evolves.
focus on diversity within the business areas executives with extensive international and one of the key objectives is to ensure management experience across a range of During the year the Chief Executive there are no barriers preventing talented businesses operating in the distribution or presented his annual management people from succeeding.
There is also a service sectors and, in the case of the succession plan to the Committee for its range of initiatives within the Group to help successor to David Sleath, someone who consideration.
In addition, the Committee had recent and relevant financial experience provide learning and development reviewed and took account of the balance of as the appointee was expected to become opportunities for female executives and to skills, knowledge, experience and diversity Chair of the Audit Committee.
It was ensure unbiased career progression of the Board, the time commitment expected important that the chosen candidates were opportunities.
The Board has formally of the non-executive directors and the able to play a supportive role to the executive conclusions of the formal performance approved an equality and diversity policy, management team, while at the same time evaluation process which was carried out which applies to the wider workforce of the provide the strategic input into the Companys when considering and recommending the Group, further details of which are included direction and development.
It was also a nomination of directors for re-election at the in the Our people section on page 40. requirement that the prospective directors 2017 AGM.
could provide wise counsel and independence Monitoring and reporting of mind and to challenge management Diversity policy constructively by offering impartial, The Nomination Committee is responsible for Within our business, the Board is committed independent and objective advice.
regularly reviewing the structure, size and to greater diversity, in its broadest sense, composition of the Board, including the skills, whether in terms of ideas, skills, knowledge, The Committee carried out an extensive knowledge, experience and diversity experience, education, ethnicity, gender, or search and selection process, overseen of the directors.
It is also responsible for any other relevant measure.
by a sub-committee of the Committee, identifying and nominating appropriate and a number of candidates were considered.
individuals to fill Board vacancies as they When considering Board appointments, All members of the Committee had the arise.
The Committee will report annually, one of our objectives is to maintain a opportunity to meet the shortlisted in the Companys Annual Report, on the diverse Board.
While we will continue to candidates following which recommendations process followed in relation to any Board follow a policy of ensuring that the best were made to the Board, which were people are appointed for the relevant roles, appointments made during the relevant subsequently unanimously approved, based on merit by assessing candidates period.
The Board is responsible for keeping that Lloyd Pitchford be appointed as a against objective criteria, we recognise the its diversity policy under review and making non-executive director with effect from benefits of greater diversity and will take changes thereto when appropriate to do so.
1March 2017 and that Stephan Nanninga be account of this when considering any appointed as a non-executive director with particular appointment.
However, our effect from 1 May 2017.
The Board also Philip Rogerson primary responsibility when making new accepted the Committees recommendation Chairman appointments is to ensure the strength that they both be appointed to each of the 26 February 2018 of the Boards composition.
The overriding three Board Committees and that Lloyd aim is to select and recommend the best Pitchford should assume the role of candidate for the position, having regard to Chairman of the Audit Committee upon all of the different stakeholders that Bunzl David Sleaths retirement in April 2017.
Further information about the Companys has as a global organisation, while ensuring workforce diversity is set out on pages 38 that the Board members are able to provide to 41 a range of perspectives, insights and challenge required to support effective decision making.
