AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE In this section we provide information on the main areas focused on by the Audit and Risk Committee over the year.
The Committee plays a significant role in ensuring that the Trusts financial statements are properly prepared and that the systems of internal controls in place are effective and appropriate.
The Committee monitors how effectively risk is managed and reviews and challenges the appropriateness of the Trusts Risk Appetite, its application and the investment managers assessment of the risk outlook for the portfolio.
We provide more detail on these matters on the next pages.
The key areas of focus and the decisions taken during the year are summarised in the table below.
Gregor Stewart Chairman, Audit and Risk Committee Areas of focus in 2017 Risk Appetite The Committee considered and updated its risk appetite and this is reported on in more detail on pages 22 to 25.
Final Salary Following the Boards decision in 2016 to derisk the Trusts final salary pension scheme the Scheme Pension Scheme through the purchase of a bulk annuity policy, the Trustees of the Scheme are now arranging for individual annuities to be issued to all members.
The Committee has been kept updated on progress being made by the Trustees and with all Group companies now having ceased to participate in the Scheme it is expected that the winding-up of the Scheme will be completed in 2018.
Regulatory The Committee reviewed a number of items required to ensure the Trusts regulatory compliance.
Compliance These included the consolidated Group Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP and the consolidated Group Individual Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process ILAAP which involved analysing the risks to the business and the level of capital required to reflect those risks and the way in which any liquidity concerns would be addressed.
It also reviewed the content of the Key Information Document prepared by WTW in accordance with the requirements of the Packaged Retail and Insurance Based Investment Products PRIIPs Regulation.
Internal and The Committee considered both its internal and external audit requirements.
Due to the Trusts outsourcing External Auditors its investment and administrative arrangements, the Committee concluded that there was no need for an internal audit function.
The Committee evaluated, and was satisfied with, the performance of the external auditor.
In keeping with legislation the Committee has decided to tender the external audit function in 2018.
The existing external audit firm will be included in the process.
Valuation of The valuation methodology used to value the investments in the subsidiaries and private equity investments Unlisted can be found in Note 22.9 of pages 81 to 84.
The Committee took advice from an external valuer in arriving Investments at the fair value for Alliance Trust Savings.
The Committee challenged the range of values provided and after fully reviewing the methodology and assumptions adopted determined its value.
Review of Annual The Committee considered the content of the Interim Accounts and the Annual Report and Accounts and Interim Accounts of the Trust before recommending approval to the Board.
The Committee concluded that the Trusts accounts were fair, balanced and understandable.
Alliance Trust Savings The Committee received quarterly reports from the Chief Risk Officer of Alliance Trust Savings on its risk and compliance environment and, in particular, on regulatory compliance and customer service issues.
Alliance Trust Savings also reported on cyber-security and the steps taken to protect it, and the Trust, from cyber incidents.
Outsourcing The Committee considered a number of papers setting out how financial controls and risk would be managed following the appointment of WTW and set out the extent of reporting that it required to be assured that appropriate risk management and internal controls would be in place.
| Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2017 34 I II DIRECTORS' REPORT III INTERNAL CONTROLS The Board has an ongoing process for the identification, evaluation and management of the significant risks faced by the Group.
This process was reviewed during the year as detailed on page 22.
It helps the Board to carry out a robust assessment of the principal risks to the Trust, and assist its review of the internal controls that are in place to ensure its are designed effectively to facilitate operations as well as ensure: The assets of the Group are safeguarded: Proper financial and accounting records are maintained: and The financial information used for reporting to stakeholders is reliable.
The Committee also receives regular reports from the Chief Risk Officer and the Chief Executive Officer of Alliance Trust Savings, so that the impact of risks affecting that business can be taken into consideration when managing the risks affecting the Trust.
The performance of the Committee was considered as part of the Board evaluation which is reported on page 33.
BOARD Responsible for determining the risk appetite level the Group is willing to take to meet its strategic objectives.
Oversight of the Groups risk management framework and internal control systems.
AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE Regular review of all material financial, operational and compliance controls, including their effectiveness.
During 2017, the Audit and Risk Committee challenged the risk positions and internal controls put in place by the Trust and its various service providers.
Its review included consideration of whether any risk appetite levels approved by the Board had been breached.
After the year end the Committee received WTWs report on the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control systems: including an Independent Service Auditors Assurance Report ISAE 3402 Type 1 on Internal Controls prepared by KPMG LLP.
The Committee also received reports from the Custodian and the Administrator.
| Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2017 35 AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE CONTINUED WTW performs operational due diligence on the underlying CHANGES TO THE INTERNAL CONTROLS portfolio managers and reports to the Audit and Risk GOVERNANCE ARRANGEMENTS IN 2017 Committee on a quarterly basis on a Risk Profile Snapshot Prior to 1 April 2017, the Trust relied on the internal control of the portfolio supported by stress-testing analysis on the systems put in place by Alliance Trust Investments ATI.
Trusts risk parameters and portfolio reporting.
The Committee received reports from the Risk and WTWs Compliance team also reports on a quarterly basis Compliance functions of ATI which included findings from to the Audit and Risk Committee on compliance issues the combined risk assurance and internal audit approach affecting WTW and the Trust.
The Trust appointed WTW on 1 April and since that date has relied on the internal controls systems In addition to the reports from WTW, the Audit and Risk put in place by WTW.
Committee receives and considers a quarterly Risk and Compliance report from the Trusts Executive function which The Audit and Risk Committee reviews reports on a regular highlights any breaches of the Trusts risk appetite measures.
basis from WTWs risk management and compliance functions which set out its risk management responsibilities Alliance Trust Savings continues to operate a three lines under the Three Lines of Defence model, as follows: of defence model.
The Internal Audit function, which is outsourced, provides independent assurance arrangements, 1.
Line management and staff in business units maintain including execution of responsibilities to ensure an effective effective controls on a day-to-day process: risk and control environment.
This is executed through the 2.
Risk team in the risk management function facilitates and Internal Audit programme which adopts a risk-based audit monitors the implementation of risk management policies approach to provide a regular review of key processes and and processes and monitors adherence to regulation: and activities.
The Alliance Trust Savings Chief Risk Officer reports to the Audit and Risk Committee on a quarterly basis.
Other independent assurance functions Depositary functions which provide external and or independent challenge.
Depositary Agreement Depositary Alliance Trust PLC National Westminster Bank plc AIFM Agreement Manager Towers Watson Investment Management Custodian Ireland Limited The Bank of New York Mellon SA NV Discretionary IMA Investment Manager Administration Towers Watson Investment Management Limited Administrator Agreement The Bank of New York Mellon International Ltd Alliance Trust Portfolio Investment Managers Black Creek, FPA, GQG, Jupiter, Lyrical, River and Mercantile, Sustainable Growth Advisers, Veritas Assets | Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2017 36 Sub-IMAs I II DIRECTORS' REPORT III DEPOSITARY INTERNAL CONTROLS OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING The Trust has appointed a Depositary, National Westminster One of the risks to the Group is Financial and Prudential Bank plc.
The Depositary is responsible for: Reporting the risk of misstatement of the accounting policies and ineffective controls over financial and regulatory reporting.
The safekeeping of all custodial assets of the Trust: As part of the outsourcing arrangements with WTW, the Ensuring its cash flows are properly monitored: financial reporting process is managed by WTW, which has delegated certain accounting responsibilities to The Bank Verifying and maintaining a record of all other assets of of New York Mellon.
WTW performs full oversight over the the Trust: and activities of The Bank of New York Mellon and reports to the The collection of income that arises from the Trusts assets.
It is the duty of the Depositary to take reasonable care to This risk and the mitigating controls are assessed regularly ensure that the Trust is managed in accordance with the FCA by management.
Controls over the preparation of the FUND Sourcebook, the Trusts Articles of Association and the consolidated accounting include, but are not limited to: AIFM Directive.
A formal review and sign-off of the annual accounts by ANNUAL REVIEW OF INTERNAL CONTROLS WTW including verification of any statements made: AND FINDINGS Adoption and review of appropriate accounting policies Any system of risk management and internal control is by the Board: and designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of Review and approval of accounting estimates by the Board.
failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable assurance and not absolute assurance against The Audit and Risk Committee also considered whether regulatory breaches, material misstatement or loss.
the Annual Report, taken as a whole, was fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for The Audit and Risk Committee conducts an annual review shareholders to assess the Trusts performance, business on the effectiveness of the risk management framework and model and strategy.
In arriving at its conclusion that the internal control systems in place to mitigate any significant Annual Report satisfied this standard the Committee took risks.
The findings of this review are communicated to the into account the process adopted in the preparation of the Board and actions proposed for the future are approved.
document which included: The Board recognises that the environment in which the The establishment of a working group of the Board and Group and Alliance Trust Savings operate is complex and members of the Executive function and WTW as well constantly evolving.
The Board supports and guides the as marketing and PR advisers to review drafts prior to Group in the ongoing development of the risk management consideration by the Committee: tools which are in place to enhance the control environment of the business and to ensure the business continues to be Verification of all factual statements contained within well positioned to comply with operational and regulatory the narrative section of the Annual Report, with evidence changes.
The Board of Alliance Trust Savings carries out the required from the author: same function in relation to Alliance Trust Savings.
Statements which cannot be verified typically opinions The 2017 assessment and internal controls assurance reports or forward-looking statements specifically brought to did not highlight any significant weaknesses or failings in the the Committees attention: and risk management framework and internal control systems.
The Board does however recognise that these are early days under the new structure and that there are areas where The Committee considered the steps outlined above and improvements can be made.
the content of the document.
After review the Committee was satisfied, taking care to ensure that the narrative parts of the Annual Report were consistent with the numerical disclosures in the audited accounts, that the Annual Report satisfied the required standard, and recommended approval to the Board.
| Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2017 37 AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE CONTINUED INDEPENDENCE OF AUDITOR APPOINTMENT OF AUDITOR The Committees policy is to allow the audit firm to be Following a tender, Deloitte LLP was appointed after approval instructed to undertake non-audit work only where there of the members at the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
Deloitte is no threat to independence.
Any assignment must be LLP has been reappointed at subsequent AGMs and is approved on behalf of the Committee by its Chairman.
proposed for reappointment at our AGM in April 2018.
The Such assignments are normally put out to tender.
Last year recommendation to reappoint Deloitte LLP is not automatic.
30,550 was paid to the Auditor, in respect of work done on In the course of the year the Chairman of the Committee the interim report and in relation to supporting the buyback has met the Auditor outwith the formal structure of of shares from Elliott and associated regulatory notifications.
The Committee has considered the Each year the Committee considers the independence performance of the Auditor and is satisfied with the rigour that of the Auditor.
It has done so this year and confirms the it applies to the audit process and has recommended the Auditors independence.
reappointment of Deloitte LLP for a further year.
In keeping with legislation a tender will be carried out for the role of External EFFECTIVENESS OF AUDIT PROCESS Auditor during 2018 with approval for the appointment of the preferred firm being sought from shareholders at the AGM to During the course of the year the audit engagement partner be held in 2019. and other members of the engagement team met the Committee Chairman and members of the Executive function.
The Trust confirms its compliance with the provisions of These meetings provide an opportunity for matters relating The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market to the conduct of the audit, including the performance of the Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes External Auditor, to be raised and addressed at the time.
and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 for the year to 31 December 2017.
Following completion of the external audit of the financial statements for the period ended 31 December 2016, an DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITOR evaluation of the External Auditors effectiveness was undertaken.
The Committee concluded that it was generally The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this satisfied with the performance of the External Auditor.
Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Auditor is The Financial Reporting Councils Audit Quality Review unaware: and each Director has taken all steps they ought to team selected to review the audit of the 31 December 2016 have taken as a Director to make themselves aware of any financial statements as part of its 2017 annual inspection relevant audit information and to establish that the Auditor of audit firms.
The focus of the review and its reporting is aware of that information.
is on identifying areas where improvements are required rather than highlighting areas performed to or above the expected level.
The Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee received a full copy of the findings of the Audit Quality Review team and has discussed these with Deloitte.
The Audit and Risk Committee confirms that there were no significant areas for improvement identified within the report.
The Audit and Risk Committee is also satisfied that there is nothing within the report which might have a bearing on the audit appointment.
The Audit and Risk Committee also received and reviewed the FRC 2016 2017 Audit Quality Review on Deloittes audits generally and discussed the findings with the engagement partner.
| Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2017 38 I II DIRECTORS' REPORT III The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any The Directors are responsible for preparing the financial time the financial position of the Trust and to enable them statements in accordance with applicable law and to ensure that its financial statements comply with the regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility financial statements for each financial period.
By law, for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to the Directors are required to prepare the group financial safeguard the assets of the Trust and to prevent and detect statements in accordance with International Financial fraud and other irregularities.
Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also Union EU and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have responsible for preparing a Directors Report and a Strategic elected to prepare the parent company financial statements Report that complies with that law and those regulations.
under IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
The financial statements are required by law and IFRSs as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position of the Trust and the performance for that period: the Companies Act 2006 provides, in relation to such financial statements, that references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the Trusts ability to continue as a going concern.
| Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2017 39
