64 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Nominations Committee Report Composition of the Nominations Committee Dear Shareholder Carl-Peter Forster, Birgit Nrgaard, Isobel Sharp and I were members of the Committee throughout the year.
Ross McInnes was a member until I am pleased to make my report as Chair of 30 September 2017 and Bob Stack was a member until his sad death the Nominations Committee.
For the purposes of the UK Corporate Governance intended to give an account of the Committee Code, all of the non-executive directors on the Committee are regarded and its activity in support of the Board.
The as independent non-executive directors.
core responsibilities of the Committee are for succession planning and appointments Attendance at Board level and oversight of the same at Director Nominations % attended where Executive level.
The full terms of reference Committee meetings eligible of the Committee can be found in the IMI Carl-Peter Forster 3 3 100 Corporate Governance Framework on the 1 Ross McInnes 2 3 100 Companys website.
Birgit Nrgaard 3 3 100 Isobel Sharp 3 3 100 Lord Smith 3 3 100 2 Bob Stack 2 3 100 1 Ross McInnes stepped down from the Board on 30 September 2017.
2 Bob Stack ceased to be a director on 7 December 2017.
Main areas of activity Board changes and recommendations for election and re-election The Committee played a full part in the internal appointments among the nonexecutive directors and recommended to the Board the senior independent director appointee and the Audit and Remuneration Committee chair appointees.
A new non-executive director, Thomas Thune Andersen, has been appointed following a full search process overseen by the Committee.
All of the directors standing are recommended for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
The Board approved all of the recommendations made by the Committee for the renewals of appointment for continuing directors.
Introduction Strategic Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 65 Succession planning Committee effectiveness The Committee reviews Board composition and has formulated a structured, The Nominations Committee reviewed its own performance and terms medium-term plan for Board succession.
Following Bob Stacks sad death on of reference and received positive feedback from the evaluation exercise 7 December 2017, Carl-Peter Forster was appointed as senior independent carried out in respect of the Board and each of its committees which was director and Birgit Nrgaard became chair of the Remuneration Committee.
These appointments were in line with the pre-existing succession plans of The Committee approved this report on its work.
Ross McInnes stepped down from the Board on 30 September 2017 and Yours faithfully Isobel Sharp was appointed to succeed him as chair of the Audit Committee Lord Smith of Kelvin following a recommendation by the Committee.
This appointment was in Chair of the Nominations Committee line with the succession planning put in place by the Committee.
1 March 2018 To strengthen the remaining non-executive element on the Board, a wideranging search for two new non-executive directors was conducted using Zygos Partnership Limited as search consultants and resulted in the appointment of Thomas Thune Andersen with effect from 1 July.
A further non-executive director appointment is planned and the search and selection process continues.
During the year we reviewed talent development and succession planning for the top 220 roles in the Group with the support of the Chief Executive and Group Human Resources Director.
We were encouraged to see that significant progress continues to be made in terms of cultivating a stronger pipeline of high-calibre talent.
Further details of our leadership development and succession planning processes are set out in the Corporate Responsibility section on pages 36 to 39. Review of time commitments and contributions The appointments of the Chairman and non-executive directors are made on the basis of a formal letter of appointment including a stated minimum time commitment judged appropriate by the Committee.
The Committee considers that the time given to IMI by each non-executive director is sufficient.
The Board is satisfied that I have the necessary time to devote to my role as Chairman.
Diversity The Board recognises the benefits a diverse pool of talent can bring to a boardroom and remains committed to increasing diversity in the businesses by voluntary measures.
We will continue to review the composition of our management teams and the Board to ensure that we have the right mix of skills and experience while maintaining our effectiveness and execution capabilities.
At Board level, there are five nationalities, two of the four non-executive directors are female and there is a broad mix of backgrounds and experience.
Currently 29% of directors are female.
We are supportive of the need to improve gender diverse representation at Board and senior executive levels and are working hard to this end.
Further information on workforce diversity matters is given in the Corporate Responsibility section on pages 36 to 39.
