Overview Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 61 Corporate Governance Report Compliance statement Role of the Board Leadership With Rakesh Sharmas resignation as Chief The role of the Board is to provide effective The Board provides leadership to the Group Executive on 10 November 2017, and Douglas leadership and direction in delivering the key and rigorously challenges strategy, performance, Caster exercising the role of Executive Chairman corporate objective of generating shareholder responsibility and accountability to ensure that from the same date, the Board does not comply value.
The Executive Directors set the Group the right decisions are made in the right way with A.
2.1 of the UK Corporate Governance strategy, which is subject to challenge by the and in consideration of the long-term success of Code currently in effect the Code, which states Board before final agreement.
The Board ensures the Group.
that the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive that adequate controls are in place, including Read more about the Boards leadership on should not be exercised by the same individual.
calibrating risk appetite and maintaining oversight pages 62-65.
The Boards decision to make these directorate of Ultras risk management processes.
The Board changes followed a period of reflection by the also receives and reviews regular Compliance Non-Executive Directors on the future leadership Reports.
The Board encourages the Groups Effectiveness of Ultra, and its conclusion that Douglas Caster businesses to behave ethically and properly at all Directors are appointed on merit, following a was ideally qualified to lead the Group until a times and engenders a culture of fairness to rigorous and transparent process.
The Board successor could be appointed.
Although there customers, suppliers and employees.
It is the evaluates the balance of skills, experience, were potential internal candidates that could function of the Groups management, through knowledge and independence of the Directors have allowed immediate succession, the Board the Executive Chairman and his Executive Team, through an externally facilitated evaluation thought it important to embark on a search to run the operations of the Group.
process and ensures that all new Directors process to benchmark those internal candidates undertake an induction programme.
In addition to the nine scheduled Board meetings, against other best-in-class industry leaders and the Board held a number of unscheduled Board Read more about the Boards effectiveness on ensure that the best possible person is appointed.
meetings in the year to, amongst other things, pages 66-67.
Ultras search is now well underway, and the review progress and next steps on the proposed Board is confident that it will be compliant with Sparton acquisition, to evaluate potential Accountability A.
2.1 of the Code in the near future.
directorate changes, and to release a trading Effective risk management is fundamental to On 10 November 2017, the Board also asked statement ahead of its year end on 31 December achieving the Companys objectives.
Decisions Sir Robert Walmsley, whose term as a 2017.
Following such reviews, the Board are based on the Boards appetite for risk.
Non-Executive Director was due to expire in April implemented the directorate changes see pages Read more about the Boards accountability on 2018, to remain on the Board for a further year 7 and 9 for further details, and released a trading page 68. as Senior Independent Director.
This extension statement both on 10 November 2017. means that Sir Robert will have served on the A summary of how the Board spent its time in Board for more than nine years from the date of Relations with shareholders 2017 is set out on pages 62-63.
The full range his first election, and would therefore not be We maintain strong relations with shareholders of Board responsibilities are detailed in the considered independent for the purposes of through events and consultations.
document entitled Terms of Reference for Main B.
The Board acknowledges this, Board, which is available from the Investors Read more about shareholder relations on but considers Sir Roberts experience, skills and section of the Groups website www.
ultrapages 68-69. knowledge invaluable in providing Non-Executive electronics.
continuity and leadership during this time of Remuneration significant change.
Executive Directors remuneration is designed Throughout the financial year ended 31 to promote the long-term success of the December 2017, the Board considers that it, Company.
The Board ensures performanceand the Company, has complied with the other related elements are transparent, stretching provisions set out in the Code.
The Code is and rigorously applied.
issued by the Financial Reporting Council and is Read more about the Companys remuneration publicly available on their website on pages 78-91. www.
Summarised below and explained in detail throughout this report, we have described how we have applied the main principles of the Code.
Ultra AR&A 2017 Governance AW Layout 1 09 03 2018 11:25 Page 5 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 62 Corporate Governance Report continued Leadership How the Board spent its time in 2017 Group strategy Review the Groups strategies for growth In addition to the scheduled and unscheduled Board meetings held in the year, a full-day Board and the market segment strategies.
strategy session was held on 1 August 2017, which focused on the divisional and market segments Monitor the performance of the Group strategies.
Presentations were given by the Executive Team and Segment leads and discussions were against these strategies.
held on significant matters identied in respect of each of the segment areas.
After Douglas Caster had assumed the role of Executive Chairman of the Group on 10 November 2017, he undertook a full set of strategic and budget reviews with each of the Ultra businesses, reporting his findings back to the Board.
This continued monitoring and oversight of the Ultra businesses provided the Board with a valuable insight into the financial health of the Group as a whole, thereby enabling it to evaluate the performance of the Group against its named strategy for facilitating organic growth.
Financial reporting and controls Agree the final budget.
Review the At each scheduled Board meeting, the Board received a: financial results and forecasts, reports on Chief Executive Executive Chairmans Report, which covers the Groups operational performance and particular performance issues in each division: and performance against budget, Shareholder Group Finance Directors Report which covers financial forecasts for the half year and full year engagement and analysis, and treasury and reviews of financial performance, banking covenants and analysts views of the Group, and tax activities.
major shareholdings and major share buyers and sellers.
As part of its annual work plan, the Board approved the annual and interim financial statements and accompanying regulatory announcements, reviewed and approved the annual budget and approved the Groups dividend policy, payment of the interim dividend and the recommendation of the final dividend.
The Board reviewed reports from the Boards Committees, including recommendations from the Audit Committee in respect of: the effectiveness of the Companys risk management and internal control statement: the adoption of the going concern statement: the long-term viability statement: impairment: and the reappointment of the External Auditor.
The Board approved the Group tax and treasury strategy, with country-by-country tax lings being made for the first time over the past year.
Market analysis and major bids Receive market reports.
Review major bid At each scheduled Board meeting, the Board received a Group Marketing Director Corporate wins and losses and significant current and Marketing Directors Report providing a brief on market developments, order intake and bids future bids.
including information in respect of missed bids.
Improvements were made to this report in the year to improve order pipeline visibility.
A significant amount of time was spent by the Board in discussing and evaluating the proposed acquisition of Sparton Corporation and the associated placing of new ordinary shares to part-fund the acquisition see page 19 for further details of the proposed Sparton acquisition, including complianceand governance-related issues such as the necessity of maintaining insider lists and ensuring compliance with the Market Abuse Regulation.
Overview Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 63 Group risk framework and management Set the Groups risk appetite and monitor The Board either by itself or through the Audit Committee conducted an annual refresh of the the Groups significant risks.
Group risk register including risk appetite, and reviewed the Groups principal risks to determine the nature and extent of the risks it is willing to take and to review the management of those risks.
A deep dive review of the cyber security risks facing Ultra, and the Groups ability to mitigate such risks, was conducted.
The Board continued to consider the potential impact of political developments including Brexit on the Group.
The Board received a health, safety and environment report summarising the position across the Group and considered reports on externally reportable health and safety incidents and evaluated the adequacy of the correction and mitigation plans.
The Board approved the Groups insurance programme.
People, Board effectiveness and succession planning Receive reports on changes in senior At each scheduled Board meeting, the Board received an update on changes in senior management.
Review Board succession The Board took part in an annual Board evaluation see page 67 for further information on this.
planning and undertake an annual Board evaluation.
Significant transactions, matters and expenditure Consider, review and approve significant At each scheduled Board meeting, the Board received project reports on major contracts and transactions, matters and major capital programmes including the S3 and ERP Programmes and evaluated acquisition opportunities.
Monitor The risk prole of major projects, focusing on the proposed Sparton Corporation acquisition, was significant litigation disputes.
considered and strategies to mitigate surrounding risks were evaluated.
Quarterly reports on the Ultra Electronics Herley integration plan were considered.
The Board received regular briengs on the arbitration between Ultra Electronics in Collaboration with Oman Investment Corporation LLC Under Liquidation and the Government of the Sultanate of Oman represented by the Ministry of Transport and Communications in relation to the termination of the Oman Airport IT contract in 2015, and, based on the information it received, the Board determined to cease funding of the arbitration in November 2017.
Corporate governance and legal regulatory compliance Review and approve the annual report Biannually, the Board reviews the Compliance Reports prepared by Divisional Managing Directors and accounts.
Receive reports from each MDs and Presidents which summarise the compliance matters in the Business Performance Reports Committee and on legal and regulatory submitted each month by the Business MDs and Presidents see page 94. developments.
The Board considered and approved Group policies, including Ultras dividend policy and professional advice policy.
The Board reviewed the annual corporate governance update prepared by the General Counsel & Company Secretary, and approved recommended associated actions.
The Board considered, evaluated and approved actions in respect of material upcoming legal and regulatory updates, including the EU General Data Protection Regulation GDPR, gender pay gap reporting and US tax reforms.
The Board undertook corporate governance compliance training, covering topics including Directors duties, compliance with certain relevant aspects of MIFID II, and significant transactions.
The Board reviewed reports on the Groups offset policy.
Ultra AR&A 2017 Governance AW Layout 1 09 03 2018 11:25 Page 7 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 64 Corporate Governance Report continued Leadership Board priorities for 2018 Conclude the search for, and appoint, Continue to develop and maintain best practice a new Chief Executive standards in corporate governance and compliance with legislation the Board will Establish and fully embed an Executive Risk oversee the Groups compliance with the Committee chaired by the Executive Chairman.
GDPR, gender pay gap reporting, payment Monitor implementation of the Groups practices reporting, and any changes following strategies for growth on from the Governments response to the BEIS Support further development of talent and green paper on corporate governance reforms.
succession planning across the Group with particular focus on the sales and marketing, project management and commercial functions How Ultras governance supports the delivery of its strategy Good governance is crucial to ensuring that Ultra is well managed and can deliver its strategy.
The Board Executive Chairman: Douglas Caster: Senior Independent Director: Sir Robert Walmsley.
All the Directors are collectively responsible for the success of Ultra.
In addition, the Non-Executive Directors are responsible for exercising independent and objective judgement and for scrutinising and challenging management.
The Board is responsible for approving strategy and policies, for oversight of risk and corporate governance, and for ensuring expected returns on investment are made from leveraging portfolio strength.
The Board is accountable to shareholders for the proper conduct of the business and for Ultras long-term success: it represents the interests of all stakeholders.
Members of the Board and their biographies are shown on pages 58 and 59.
The Board has delegated certain key responsibilities to the Nomination Committee see page 71, to the Audit Committee see page 73 and to the Remuneration Committee see page 78.
The Committees make recommendations to the Board for approval.
However, ultimate responsibility lies with the Board.
The responsibilities of each Committee are in line with the recommendations of the Code and the detailed terms of reference of each Committee, which are reviewed annually by the relevant Committee and approved by the Board, are available from the Investors section of the Groups website www.
Executive Chairman: Douglas Caster The Executive Team comprises: Executive Chairman: Group Finance Director: Corporate Marketing Director: Chief Operating Officer: General Counsel & Company Secretary and Divisional Managing Directors Presidents.
The Executive Team is the body through which the Executive Chairman exercises the authority delegated to him by the Board.
It considers major business issues, makes recommendations to the Executive Chairman and typically reviews those matters which are to be submitted to the Board for its consideration.
The Executive Chairman is responsible for establishing the Executive Team and chairing the Executive Team meetings.
Ultra is committed to ethical business conduct.
In this regard, the Group has the benefit of an independent Ethics Overview Committee.
The Group has issued a Policy Statement on Ethics and Business Conduct available from the Corporate Responsibility section of the Groups website: www.
Ethics Overview Committee Three independent members: David Shattock Chairman : Martin Bell: and Major General retired Tim Cross Three Ultra members: Executive Chairman: General Counsel & Company Secretary: and Divisional Managing Director Communications & Security Further details about the Ethics Overview Committee are given on page 55.
Overview Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 65 Board meetings The Executive Team as a whole meets the Board Financial results for each operating business, annually to present the proposed Strategic Plan Division and the Group are presented at every for the next five years.
This is then debated with scheduled Board meeting.
Comprehensive the Directors, changes are agreed and a final briefing papers are circulated to the Directors in plan is approved.
During 2017, the Board visited advance of each Board meeting to enable an two operating businesses in the UK.
Martin informed debate to take place.
Acquisition Broadhurst individually undertook site visits of opportunities are presented to the Board by the some of Ultras North American Businesses and appropriate Divisional Managing provided a report of his findings to the Board.
Product demonstrations and Director President and or the M&A Director.
This Such visits provide a useful cultural barometer enables a full discussion of the merits and risks of and enable the Board to see the Groups site tours take place, giving any acquisition proposal to take place at an early capabilities first-hand and to engage with the Non-Executive Directors stage.
The Executive Chairman and Group Finance colleagues formally and informally.
a good practical insight into Director explain the significance of any major At scheduled Board meetings, the Board receives impacts on the Groups financial performance operating businesses.
They presentations by Ultras businesses detailing and draw the Boards attention to any significant recent performance, key opportunities including also conduct individual visits trends or deviations from budget revealed by in respect of specific bids or programmes and monthly forecasts of future performance.
This gives the Non-Executive Other significant matters that require formal Directors a good, practical insight into the Board approval, which are routinely presented operating businesses.
by the appropriate business include major bids, updates on key strategic initiatives, tax strategies and major capital and private venture development expenditure proposals.
When a scheduled Board meeting is not held in the month, the Directors receive a summary financial report for the Group comprising consolidated financial information and business financial information, summary financial reports from each of the businesses, forecast for the half and full year, and a shareholder analysis summary report on Ultra.
Meeting attendance 2017 The table below shows attendance by Directors at Board and Committee meetings.
To the extent that Directors were unable to attend meetings, because unscheduled meetings were called at short notice or because of prior commitments, they received and read papers for consideration at the relevant meeting, relayed their comments in advance and, where necessary, followed up with the Chairman on the decisions made.
Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Maximum Actual possible inclusive of inclusive of unscheduled unscheduled Maximum Maximum Maximum Board meetings Board meetings Actual possible Actual possible Actual possible Executive Chairman Douglas Caster 18 18 - - - - 5 5 Chief Executive 1 Rakesh Sharma 16 16 - - - - - - Executive Directors 1,2 Mark Anderson 6 7 - - - - - - 2 Amitabh Sharma 17 18 - - - - - - Non-Executive Directors 2 Martin Broadhurst 18 18 5 5 5 5 5 5 1,3 Geeta Gopalan 12 12 3 3 2 3 4 4 2 John Hirst 17 18 5 5 5 5 5 5 2 Victoria Hull 11 12 3 3 2 2 4 4 2 Sir Robert Walmsley 17 18 5 5 2 5 5 5 1 Geeta Gopalan attended all Board meetings after her appointment and Mark Anderson and Rakesh Sharma ceased to attend Board meetings following their departure.
2 Mark Anderson and John Hirst were each unable to attend one Board meeting and Victoria Hull, Martin Broadhurst, Amitabh Sharma and Sir Robert Walmsley were each unable to attend one unscheduled Board meeting.
3 Geeta Gopalan was unable to attend one Remuneration Committee meeting.
Ultra AR&A 2017 Governance AW Layout 1 09 03 2018 11:25 Page 9 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 66 Corporate Governance Report continued Effectiveness Board skills and experience The Board has a balance of skills, Executive Directors are permitted to accept one understanding, perspectives and experience appointment as a Non-Executive Director other relevant to the Groups activities.
Collectively, than Chairman in another listed company.
The the Board members possess an understanding Board considers that such roles enrich the skills of the Groups core defence, security, transport and experience of its Executive Directors to the and energy markets.
This is complemented by overall benefit of the Company.
Executive members experience and expertise in other Directors are permitted to retain any fees they industries and disciplines including procurement, receive from such external appointments.
accountancy, financial management, financial services, legal and growing international Board composition Board of Directors businesses.
This range of skills and experience Executive Chairman 1 Female 29% informs the Boards decision-making and Executive Directors 1 Male 71% enables it to provide effective leadership.
The particular skills and experience that each Director Non-Executive brings to the Board are described in their Directors 5 biographies on pages 58-59.
Board tenure and independence normal practice to engage the services of Experience on independent external search consultants in Tenure years Independence other plc boards recruiting new Directors.
Executive Chairman The executive search firm Inzito was engaged to Douglas Caster 7 No Yes assist with the recruitment process for the Non-Executive Directors appointment of Victoria Hull and Geeta Gopalan Martin Broadhurst 5 Yes No as Non-Executive Directors.
The Company does not have any other connection with Inzito.
Geeta Gopalan less than 1 Yes Yes Ultras succession planning process is described John Hirst 3 Yes Yes on page 53.
Victoria Hull less than 1 Yes Yes Directors induction and training Sir Robert Walmsley 9 No Yes All new appointments to the Board receive an Executive Directors induction to the Group covering: the Groups Amitabh Sharma 1 No Yes strategy, governance framework, policies and procedures, the products and services of the Groups businesses, the key markets in which the Douglas Caster holds Non-Executive Director position at Morgan Advanced Materials plc since businesses operate, the key risks which the January 2015 and a Chairman position at Metalysis Limited since February 2014.
Group faces together with the actions and plans which are in place to mitigate these risks, Non-Executive Directors Executive Directors on behalf of stakeholders.
corporate and organisational structure, financing Martin Broadhurst, Geeta Gopalan, Victoria The Non-Executive Directors met without the principles, and legal and regulatory matters.
Hull, John Hirst and Sir Robert Walmsley are the Executive Chairman or Executive Directors being Visits to operating businesses are arranged.
The Board present during the year to discuss aspects directors are encouraged to meet business and considers all Non-Executive Directors with the relating to the Board and the Company and divisional management teams to gain a feel for exception of Sir Robert Walmsley, who will have gave appropriate feedback.
the Groups style and culture.
served a nine year term in April 2018 to be On behalf of the Company, the Non-Executive independent.
In assessing independence, the Opposite is a summary of what Geeta Gopalan Directors are active in developing relationships Board considers that they are independent of and Victoria Hulls induction programmes involved.
at a senior level with the Companys key management and free from business or any suppliers, customers and business partners.
The General Counsel & Company Secretary other relationship, which could interfere with presents to the Board annually on corporate Insurance the exercise of independent judgement, now or governance.
The Board is briefed on significant The Group maintains an appropriate level of in the future.
changes in the law or governance codes affecting Directors and Officers Liability insurance cover The Executive Chairman has also considered the their duties as Directors.
Experts present to the in the event of any legal action against its Non-Executive Directors performance in the Board on specialist areas, such as pensions and Directors and Officers.
year and has determined them to be effective tax.
Specific training is arranged for Directors as Board appointments the process and to have demonstrated commitment to their and when appropriate, and as may be requested In making appointments to the Board, the roles.
The Board considers that any by any member of the Board.
The Directors are Board, through the Nomination Committee, is shareholdings of the Executive Chairman and able to call on independent professional advice careful to identify the skills, knowledge and Non-Executive Directors serve to align their at any time should this be necessary in order for experience needed for each role and to interests with those of its shareholders.
them to carry out their duties.
complement the existing skills mix provided by The key role of the Non-Executive Directors is to other Board members.
To ensure selection from provide an appropriate level of challenge and the widest possible talent pool, it is Ultras constructive criticism to the plans of the Ultra AR&A 2017 Governance AW Layout 1 09 03 2018 11:25 Page 10 6.
Overview Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 67 Inductions for Geeta Gopalan Board evaluation and Victoria Hull The Executive Chairman commissions externally Following the appointment of Geeta Gopalan facilitated annual Board evaluations.
Board and Victoria Hull to the Board in April 2017, evaluations run on a two-year cycle.
One year, both Non-Executive Directors are undertaking the effectiveness of the Board and its a comprehensive induction programme.
This Committees is evaluated: the following year, includes meeting with Committee Chairs and individual Directors performance is evaluated.
advisors, meeting senior executives and visiting Early in the year, Mr Telfer of Auxesis Consulting some of Ultra's businesses.
Ltd facilitated a Board discussion on the evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees that was conducted in 2016 and reported upon in the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts.
An update on the progress made on these actions is set out in the table below.
Board evaluation action points Focus Actions Progress Increase the level of diversity on the Board Board diversity will be actively considered Board diversity has increased following the by the Nomination Committee in appointments in April 2017 of Victoria Hull reviewing succession planning for the and Geeta Gopalan to the Board.
Development of Senior Managers Creating opportunities to increase the Over the course of the year, a number of exposure of potential successors to the update sessions and board presentations Board, such as attending Board dinners have been delivered by Senior Managers: the and presenting to the Board.
Board intends for this practice to continue.
Increasing Senior Managers exposure to shareholders.
Ensure correct balance at Board meetings Scheduling Board reviews of major decisions Two competitor analysis presentations between operational and strategic matters made by the Board.
were delivered to the Board in 2017.
Competitor analysis presentations will be As planned, the number of scheduled made to the Board.
Board meetings was reduced from ten to nine in 2017 to accommodate further Reducing the number of scheduled Strategic Board meetings.
Board meetings in a year from ten to nine to accommodate Strategic Board meetings as required.
In November 2017, following directorate changes The assessment concluded and the Board Accordingly, an Executive Risk Committee to be and Douglas Casters appointment as Executive considers that each Director contributes chaired by the Executive Chairman is in the Chairman, Mr Telfer also facilitated the Boards effectively and demonstrates commitment to process of being set up.
Key business risks, self-assessment of individual Directors the role.
In addition, there is an appropriate including cultural and corporate governance risks, performance.
All Directors completed a detailed balance of skills, experience, independence, will be closely monitored by the Risk Committee questionnaire requiring them to give feedback diversity and knowledge of the Company to which will report directly to the Executive Team.
on their perception of Board members enable the Directors to discharge their respective Mr Telfer has considerable experience working contribution.
The objective of the process was duties and responsibilities effectively.
He was the Group Human to encourage the improved performance and Commitment of time by all Directors to Board Resources Director of Ultra up until June 2004 effectiveness of the Board.
A report of the and Committee meetings and other duties is when he left Ultra to set up his own results was given to the Executive Chairman, also considered sufficient for the effective consultancy and so is able to facilitate the detailing any significant points pertaining to the discharge of their responsibilities.
evaluation from a position of having a good individual Directors and broader issues regarding Notwithstanding the conclusions drawn in respect understanding of the foundation of the Groups the combined strengths and weaknesses of the of the valuable contributions made by each culture.
He provides a valuable insight into Board as a whole.
Mr Telfer reviewed the report Director and the balanced composition of the Ultras challenges and needs and is able to with the Executive Chairman to discuss possible Board, in light of the significant organisational assess the Board and its Committees in the actions arising and the feedback to be provided changes faced by the Group, the Board agreed context of the Groups development.
Individual feedback that a robust oversight of the Groups risk reports were given to each Director.
management and internal controls was required.
Ultra AR&A 2017 Governance AW Layout 1 09 03 2018 11:25 Page 11 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 68 Corporate Governance Report continued In 2017: Accountability Relations with shareholders Main institutional shareholders those with Risk management and internal control Commitment to dialogue a 3% shareholding or more were consulted The Board is responsible for the Groups risk The Board is committed to a high-quality dialogue about the proposed acquisition of the management framework and internal control with shareholders.
The Executive Directors lead Sparton Corporation in this respect.
The Senior Independent Director systems and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The Executive Chairman and the Group The Group has internal control systems across and other Non-Executive Directors are available Finance Director held meetings and calls with a finance, operations, human resources and to meet with shareholders on request.
number of institutional shareholders following compliance and key controls have been Annual programme the directorate changes and release of Ultras identified.
The Board, via the Audit Committee, A full programme of engagement with trading statement on 10 November 2017. monitors the internal control systems on an onshareholders, potential investors and analysts is going basis.
The risk framework and internal undertaken each year by the Executive Directors.
control systems play a key role in the Ultra organises focused events and or site visits to management of risks that may impact the provide greater insight into the strengths and All shareholders are fulfilment of the Boards objectives.
They are potential of its extensive portfolio of specialist designed to identify and manage, rather than capabilities.
Visits and presentations in the year invited to attend the eliminate, the risk of Ultra failing to achieve its included various roadshows, investor conferences business objectives and can only provide Annual General and hosted visits for analysts.
These range from reasonable, not absolute, assurance against introductory briefings on the Group as a whole to material misstatement of losses.
Meeting on 27 April presentations on specific areas of capability.
Details of the processes the Board has in place Ultra invited investors and members of the 2018, where they will to identify, evaluate and manage the principal financial community to the DSEI Exhibition in risks faced by the Group can be found in the September 2017, where a significant have the opportunity risk section of the Strategic Report.
proportion of the Groups products and In accordance with the Code, the Board capabilities were exhibited.
to meet with Directors confirms that: Meetings are held with institutional investors and and to ask questions.
There is a continuing process for identifying, financial analysts after the release of the interim evaluating and managing the principal risks and full year financial results, at which detailed faced by the Group briefings are given.
These briefings are also The systems have been in place for the year available from the Investors section of the Groups under review and up to the date of approval website www.
com, together of this Annual Report and Accounts with copies of all regulatory announcements, press releases and copies of the published full year and The systems are regularly reviewed by the Board and the Board considers them to be interim Reports and Accounts.
effective The Board is regularly updated by the No significant failings or weaknesses have Companys stockbrokers on analysts and major been identified shareholders views on the Company.
The Board The systems accord with the FRC guidance on receives a report at each Board meeting on any risk management, internal control and related changes to the holdings of the Companys main financial business reporting.
In light of developments during the year, the All shareholders are invited to attend the Annual Board have reviewed risk management and General Meeting on 27 April 2018, where they internal control processes and consider that they will have the opportunity to meet with Directors continue to be effective.
Further details on the and to ask questions.
process for financial controls can be found in the Voting at the Annual General Meeting is Audit Committee Report.
conducted by way of a show of hands.
Proxy votes lodged for each Annual General Meeting are announced at the meeting and published on the Groups website www.
Electronic communication with shareholders is preferred wherever possible since this is both more efficient and environmentally friendly.
However, shareholders may opt to receive hard copy communications if they wish.
P38-45 Principal risks & uncertainties Read about risk assessment processes, risk appetite statement, principal risks and viability statement.
P73-77 Audit Committee Report Ultra AR&A 2017 Governance AW Layout 1 09 03 2018 11:25 Page 12 6.
Overview Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 69 Shareholder analysis The majority of Ultras shares are held by institutional shareholders.
The Executive Chairman and other members of the Executive Team have significant holdings in the Company, including shares awarded through share option or long-term incentive schemes.
Shareholder analysis by category of shareholder as at 31 December 2017 Category Holding % Unit trusts 34,832,078 44.81 Mutual fund 12,680,977 16.31 Pension funds 11,106,771 14.29 Other managed funds 5,269,826 6.78 Investment trust 3,024,314 3.89 Custodians 3,019,085 3.88 Private investor 2,696,731 3.47 Exchange-traded fund 1,815,747 2.34 Insurance companies 1,284,689 1.65 Sovereign wealth 1,009,560 1.30 Charity 550,233 0.71 Hedge fund 440,020 0.57 Other 1,193 0.00 Total 77,731,224 100.00 Shareholder analysis by size of shareholding as at 31 December 2017 Total number Total number % Size of shareholding of holdings % of holders of shares issued capital 1-50 153 8.57 3,196 0.00 51-100 110 6.16 8,918 0.01 101-250 380 21.29 69,534 0.09 251-500 257 14.40 94,979 0.12 501-1,000 257 14.40 186,238 0.24 1,001-5,000 285 15.97 611,929 0.79 5,001-10,000 67 3.75 470,772 0.61 10,001-25,000 79 4.43 1,259,482 1.62 25,001-50,000 48 2.69 1,744,462 2.24 over 50,000 149 8.34 73,281,714 94.28 Total 1,785 100.00 77,731,224 100.00 Financial calendar 21 March 2018 Annual Report & Accounts published 5 April 2018 Ex-dividend date 6 April 2018 Record date 27 April 2018 Annual General Meeting 3 May 2018 Final dividend payment date 6 August 2018 Interim results announced 22 September 2018 Interim dividend payment date Ultra AR&A 2017 Governance AW Layout 1 09 03 2018 11:25 Page 13 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 70 Corporate Governance Report continued Directors responsibilities statement The Directors are responsible for keeping The Directors are responsible for preparing the adequate accounting records that are sufficient Annual Report and the financial statements in to show and explain the Companys transactions accordance with applicable law and regulations.
and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and Company law requires the Directors to prepare enable them to ensure that the financial financial statements for each financial year.
Under statements comply with the Companies Act that law, the Directors are required to prepare the 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding Group financial statements in accordance with the assets of the Company and for taking IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and reasonable steps for the prevention and Article 4 of the International Accounting detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Standards Regulation IAS and have elected to prepare the Companys financial statements in The Directors are responsible for the maintenance accordance with United Kingdom Generally and integrity of the corporate and financial Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom information included on the Groups website Accounting Standards and applicable law www.
Legislation in the including FRS 101.
Under company law, the United Kingdom governing the preparation and Directors must not approve the accounts unless dissemination of financial statements may differ they are satisfied that they give a true and fair from legislation in other jurisdictions.
view of the state of affairs and of the profit or We confirm that, to the best of our knowledge, loss of the Company, as well as the undertakings taken as a whole: included in the consolidation for that period.
The financial statements, prepared in In preparing the Companys financial statements, accordance with the relevant financial reporting the Directors are required to: framework, give a true and fair view of the Select suitable accounting policies and then assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or apply them consistently loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole Make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent The Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the State whether applicable UK Accounting business and the position of the Company and Standards have been followed subject to any the undertakings included in the consolidation, material departures disclosed and explained in together with a description of the principal the financial statements risks and uncertainties that they face Prepare the financial statements on the The Annual Report and financial statements, going concern basis unless it is inappropriate taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and to presume that the Company will continue understandable and provide the information in business.
necessary for shareholders to assess the In preparing the Group financial statements, Companys performance, business model International Accounting Standard 1 requires and strategy.
that Directors: The Annual Report including the Strategic Report Properly select and apply accounting policies The Directors and Directors responsibilities statement on Present information, including accounting pages 6-94 was approved by the Board on are responsible for policies, in a manner that provides relevant, 5 March 2018 and signed on its behalf by: reliable, comparable and understandable preparing the Annual information Douglas Caster, Executive Chairman Provide additional disclosures, when compliance Amitabh Sharma, Group Finance Director Report and the with the specific requirements in IFRS are insufficient, to enable users to understand the financial statements impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position in accordance with and financial performance Make an assessment of the Companys ability applicable law and to continue as a going concern.
