BOARD OF DIRECTORS Our Directors have considerable knowledge and experience of the mining industry and bring other relevant experience to the Board to assist Acacia in achieving its strategic goals.
Kelvin Dushnisky, age 54 Michael Kenyon, age 68 Peter Geleta, age 54 Steve Lucas, age 63 Chairman of the Board Senior Independent Interim Chief Executive Officer Independent Non-Executive Director Year appointed: 2012 Non-Executive Director Year appointed: 2018 Year appointed: 2013 Tenure: 5 years Year appointed: 2010 Tenure: 0 years Tenure: 4 years Tenure: 7 years 2017 Committee membership 2017 Committee membership 2017 Committee membership 2017 Committee membership Nomination & Governance Committee Compensation Committee EHS&S Committee Audit Committee Independent Committee Compensation Committee Nomination & Governance Committee Independent Committee Nomination & Governance Committee Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Mr Dushnisky was appointed Chairman Mr Kenyon has more than 40 years of Mr Geleta was appointed as Acacias Mr Lucas is a Chartered Accountant of the Board in February 2013, having experience in the mining and mineral Interim Chief Executive Officer on with long and wide-ranging financial served as a Director since July 2012. exploration industry and is a geologist 1 January 2018, having previously been experience as an executive and Mr Dushnisky has more than 25 years of by training.
He is Chairman of the Board Head of People.
Mr Geleta joined Acacia non-executive director in the energy and international mining industry experience.
of Directors of Detour Gold Corporation.
He has 35 years of mining extractive industries.
He was finance He was appointed President of Barrick Gold He has previously been Chairman of the industry experience in both operational director at National Grid plc from 2002 Corporation in August 2015 with overall Board of Directors of Troon Ventures Ltd, and corporate leadership positions, and to 2010 and previously worked for responsibility for execution of Barricks President and Chief Executive Officer at has extensive experience on the African 11 years at Shell and for six years at strategic priorities, and was appointed both Canico Resource Corp and Sutton continent.
During his time with Acacia he BG Group, latterly as group treasurer.
to the Board of Directors of Barrick in Resources Ltd, and a Director of has served as General Manager of the He is currently Non-Executive Chairman February 2016.
Cumberland Resources Ltd until their Bulyanhulu mine and helped lead the of Ferrexpo plc and a Non-Executive respective acquisition by third parties.
successful restructuring of the business.
Director of Tullow Oil plc.
Mr Dushnisky represents Barrick at the World Gold Council Chair, Investment Mr Kenyon holds an MSc degree in Prior to joining Acacia Mr Geleta held Mr Lucas holds a BA in Geology from Committee, and the International Economic Geology from the University a number of roles at Barrick, including Oxford University.
Council on Mining and Metals ICMM.
He was also the Organisational Effectiveness Director He is a director of the Canadian Council recipient of the 2005 Developer of the for Barrick Africa, Human Resources for the Americas, and The Business Year award from the Prospector and Director for the Australia Pacific Region Council of Canada.
He is a member of Developers Association of Canada in and General Manager for Barricks Cowal the International Advisory Board of the recognition of his mining development Gold Mine in New South Wales.
Before Shanghai Gold Exchange and the Accenture accomplishments.
joining Barrick, he worked for AngloGold Global Mining Executive Council.
Ashanti for 25 years, where he held a number of roles including Head of Mr Dushnisky holds an Honors Bachelor Human Resources and Sustainability for of Science Hon.
degree from the University AngloGold Ashantis Africa Operations of Manitoba, in addition to a Master of and General Manager of the Navachab Science degree and a Juris Doctor degree Mine in Namibia.
Mr Geleta holds an from the University of British Columbia.
Executive MBA qualification from the He is a member of the Law Society University of Cape Town.
of British Columbia and the Canadian Bar Association.
Board meetings attended Board meetings attended Board meetings attended Board meetings attended 19 19 N A 17 Independent Independent Independent Independent No Yes Not applicable Yes 64 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE Board skills 1 2 4 Geology Rachel English, age 55 Andre Falzon, age 63 Stephen Galbraith, age 46 Financial Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director African and regional affairs Year appointed: 2013 Year appointed: 2010 Year appointed: 2010 Tenure: 4 years Tenure: 7 years Tenure: 7 years Board independence 2017 Committee membership 2017 Committee membership 2017 Committee membership Audit Committee Audit Committee None Compensation Committee EHS&S Committee 3 EHS&S Committee Independent Committee Independent Committee 4 Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Ms English is a Fellow of the Institute of Mr Falzon is a senior financial executive Mr Galbraith has been employed by Chartered Accountants.
Ms English has with over 25 years of financial and Barrick since August 2000 in treasury held senior positions in BG Group and management experience within the and finance functions, and is currently Non-independent Royal Dutch Shell, with responsibilities mining industry, including a period as Managing Director of Barrick International Independent spanning finance, corporate strategy, Vice President and Controller at Barrick Barbados Corporation.
Mr Galbraith mergers and acquisitions, and business between 1994 and 2006.
He is a previously held the role of Audit Manager development.
She began her career Director of Detour Gold Corporation for .
Board diversity at  and and was previously a director and subsequently worked for the World audit committee Chair of a number of Mr Galbraith holds a Bachelor of Arts 1 Bank Group and European Bank for publicly listed gold mining companies.
degree in Accountancy from Strathclyde Reconstruction and Development University, is a member of the Institute EBRD, where she was involved Mr Falzon holds a Bachelor of Commerce of Chartered Accountants of Scotland in policy development and lending degree from the University of Toronto, and is a Chartered Financial Analyst operations.
Currently, Ms English is Canada and is a CPA, CA, CGA Canada.
a Non-Executive Director and Acting 6 Chair of Adam Smith International and a Non-Executive Director of Helios Female Social Enterprise, which she founded Male to develop renewable energy access projects in rural sub-Saharan Africa.
Ms English holds an MA in Politics, Philosophy & Economics from Oxford University.
Board meetings attended Board meetings attended Board meetings attended 18 19 19 Independent Independent Independent Yes Yes No ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 65
