Audit and Risk Committee report Adapting, growing and evolving inthe face of challenges Committee membership meeting attendance is on page 49 Rhian Davies Chairman Philip Howard Robin Buchanan Nichola Pease I am pleased to present the Committees report for the year ended that a change of auditor can bring new challenge but also a 31 December 2017.
The Committee plays a key role in overseeing the heightened risk to audit quality.
integrity of the Companys financial statements and robustness of the Over the past year the Committee and EY have been focused on Groups systems of internal control and financial and risk management ensuring that preparatory work is undertaken to ensure there is a systems.
smooth transition and that a high level of audit quality is retained in An important part of our role is to provide non-executive oversight to their first year, as EY take a fresh look at our controls, estimates and ensure management has an appropriate focus on high quality judgements.
In 2017, the Group received a letter from the FRC, During 2017, both EY and management have invested significant time requesting information regarding investment performance metrics preparing for the more detailed planning activities that will be presented by asset management companies in their annual reports.
undertaken once EY are appointed.
Given the Committees We were able to confirm that we had already considered improving responsibilities relating to financial reporting, risks and controls, the our disclosures and these changes had been adopted in the interim external auditor is a valuable partner for us and we look forward to the results announcement in July 2017. insights that EY will bring.
In October, we were pleased to receive a further letter from the FRC As we transition to EY, I would like to place on record our thanks to that welcomed the changes that had been made to our disclosures PwC for their work as external auditors since their appointment in and the explanations that had been provided in responding to the 1959.
They have brought independent and objective thought and FRCs inquiry.
The FRC also acknowledged the limitations of their demonstrated professional scepticism in challenging our accounts review compared with a more detailed investigation, but concluded production including our estimates and judgements.
We are grateful that the matter was closed and did not warrant further inspection.
The for their contribution for ensuring the integrity of our financial actions taken in 2017 reflect the importance placed by the Group on statements.
enhancing the disclosures where that is considered to be appropriate.
The Committee has an important oversight role to ensure the Groups I am grateful to all members of the Committee for their support focus on high quality corporate reporting continues.
in2017 and I look forward to continuing our work in 2018.
As described in last years Annual Report and Accounts, the Committee Rhian Davies conducted an audit tender process and recommended to the Board Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP EY as the Groups new external auditor for the year ending 31 December 2018, replacing 28 February 2018  LLP PwC.
A resolution will be proposed at the 2018 AGM for shareholders to approve the appointment of EY.
Throughout 2017 we have received regular reports on the work performed to prepare for the transition of the external audit to EY.
The Committee recognises the importance of the external auditor in providing assurance over the integrity of the financial statements and 56 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Private meetings were also held with the Chief Financial Officer Responsibilities of the Committee andthe heads of the Compliance, Risk and Internal Audit functions.
The principal role of the Committee is to assist the Board in fulfilling These meetings provided an opportunity for any matters to be raised itsoversight responsibilities in relation to financial reporting, financial confidentially.
controls and audit, risk and internal controls.
The Committees primary activities are the oversight of: All members of the Committee are independent non-executive Directors.
Biographical details and the experience of Committee members are set out on pages 44 and 45.
The Board has determined Financial reporting, that, by virtue of their previous experience gained in other financial controls Risk and organisations, members collectively have the competence relevant andaudit internal controls tothe sector in which the Group operates.
In addition, the Board considers that Rhian Davies, a chartered accountant, has the recent The content and integrity The Groups risk and control and relevant financial experience required to chair the Committee.
of financial and Pillar 3 framework, including the Groups reporting whistleblowing procedures and At the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee, the Chairman, the Money Laundering Reporting The appropriateness of Group Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and Bruno Schroder Officers reports accounting estimates and attended most meetings.
Other regular attendees who advised the judgements The Groups ICAAP, ILAAP, risk Committee were the Group Financial Controller, the heads of appetite and recovery and Compliance, Risk and Internal Audit and the General Counsel.
Other The effectiveness of the resolution planning members of senior management were also invited to attend as financial control appropriate.
The Chairman of the Committee also met with the framework The Groups regulatory processes Chairman of the Wealth Management Audit and Risk Committee who and procedures and its The effectiveness of the is an independent non-executive Director of Schroder & Co. Limited relationships with regulators external auditor and provides a report to each Committee meeting on matters related The Groups Internal Audit Independence of the to the Wealth Management business.
function external auditor Representatives from PwC, attended all of the Committees scheduled Emerging and thematic risks Recommending to the meetings.
During 2017, two private meetings were held with PwC which may have a material Board the appointment without management present.
impact on the Groups operations of the external auditor in the future Key areas of focus during the year The table below summarises the key issues that the Committee considered at each of its meetings during 2017.
Financial reporting, Meeting financial controls and audit Risk and internal controls February Annual Report and Accounts including financial Key risks and risk management estimates and judgements Internal audit control framework review Viability statement Risk and control framework review Pillar 3 disclosures May External audit plan ICAAP and ILAAP External auditor transition update Money Laundering Reporting Officers annual report Financial controls in respect of net operating revenue Business continuity Oversight of outsource providers Client life cycle July Half-year results including financial estimates and Key risks judgements Risk and control assessments External auditor transition update Fiduciary management MiFID II September External auditor effectiveness review Conduct and people and employment practices risk Tax strategy General Data Protection Regulation Internal Audit Group recovery plan and resolution pack External quality assessment MiFID II November Financial controls Information security and technology risk Accounting policies and judgements including future Wealth Management Switzerland accounting developments Key risks EY audit strategy for 2018 and initial observations Insurance Policies for safeguarding the independence of the 2018 Internal Audit and Compliance monitoring plans external auditor MiFID II Conduct risk Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 57 Audit and Risk Committee report continued ensure that there are no engagements that would restrict their Financial reporting, financial controls and audit appointment.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing the half-year and annual results and the Annual Report and Accounts before recommending In recognition of the change of auditor, the Committee considered and them to the Board for approval.
The Committee reviews whether approved new policies that addressed the restrictions on PwC, as the suitable accounting policies have been adopted and whether outgoing auditor, over the remaining transition period, along with management have made appropriate estimates and judgements longer-term restrictions due to their role as auditor of funds managed including those in respect of the valuation of assets and liabilities, the by Group companies.
determination of defined benefit pension obligations, tax and other Details of the total fees paid to PwC are set out in note 5 to the provisions and the determination of entities that are consolidated into accounts.
Non-audit fees, excluding audit related assurance services the Group where these are subject to judgement.
required under regulation, were equivalent to 51% 2016: 37% of audit The Groups financial control environment is set out in reports fees.
Non-audit fees payable to EY, as the Groups incoming auditor, reviewed by the Committee.
The documents provide a comprehensive during 2017 were equivalent to 20% of audit fees payable to PwC.
summary of the controls that exist across the Finance function globally Non-audit services, excluding audit related assurance services and support the Groups risk and control assessments.
For more required under regulation, payable to PwC principally comprise details see page 34. controls reports issued under International Standard on Assurance During the year, the Committee received reports from Finance on the Engagements 3402, or similar principles, which are normally operation of the controls over the financial reporting process including conducted by the Groups auditor but are not required by regulation.
control enhancements, particularly in respect of revenue, cost of sales In 2017, PwC also undertook specific work relating to the Groups and accounting for deferred compensation.
In 2017, Finance and the investigation of robotics and cognitive science and the deployment of Committee also focused on the integration and oversight of recently industry practices to develop operational efficiencies.
PwC were acquired businesses including Benchmark Capital and Schroder Adveq.
appointed to these roles as they were successful in competitive tender processes and after a full assessment of whether the provision of The Committee reviewed the report from Finance which set out the these services was in compliance with independence principles.
judgements made in respect of the adoption of new accounting standards that are applicable for the Group from the 2018 and 2019 In July the Group acquired Adveq Holding AG Adveq.
Prior to the year ends, along with the Groups preparations for these changes.
Groups acquisition PwC were not auditors to Adveq but provided a range of non-audit services, some of which are not permitted under The Committee receives regular reports from PwC on the audit scope, the Schroders Group policy on non-audit services provided by the progress against the audit plan, their independent assessment of Groups external auditor.
Where these services were not permitted, the managements conclusions on key areas of estimates and judgement services were terminated within three months of acquisition date, as and any findings from other audit procedures.
The Committee also allowed under the UK Ethical Standard that governs auditor reviews PwCs audit opinion on the Annual Report and Accounts and independence.
These services comprised accounting and book on their independent report on the half-year results.
keeping, payroll services, tax compliance, regulatory advice and The Committee reviews the Groups tax strategy annually and it is employee tax services.
discussed with the external auditors.
For more details see page 33.
Non-audit services payable to EY in 2017 principally comprised The Committee is required to report to shareholders on the process it ongoing services relating to Global Investment Performance Standards follows in its review of significant estimates and judgemental issues verification work, and business acquisitions, as well as certain tax and that it has considered during the year.
These issues are set out on the other services that are not permitted under the Groups policy but next page.
which were completed prior to EY confirming their independence.
These non-permitted services were identified during the audit tender The Committee considers the Groups financial projections and the process and have been completed in line with EYs independence application of stress scenarios in order that the Board can make the transition plan outlined during that process.
viability statement, as set out on page 36, and to support the going concern basis of preparation of the financial statements.
The Committee was satisfied that the quantity and type of non-audit work undertaken throughout the year did not impair either PwCs A key focus of the Committee is its work in assisting the Board in independence or EYs ability to be appointed as the Groups external ensuring that the Annual Report and Accounts when taken as a whole auditor at the 2018 AGM.
This assessment was made based on the is fair, balanced and understandable and whether it provides the nature and importance of the services provided with regards to the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position Groups financial statements and the conclusion that whilst certain and performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee services were only permitted due to the UK Ethical Standards considered the key messages being communicated in the Annual transitional arrangements for business acquisitions, appropriate Report and Accounts, as well as the information provided to the procedures were in place to mitigate the risk to PwCs independence.
Committee and the Board as a whole during the year and their discussions on these.
The Committee, having completed its review, Oversight of the relationship with the external auditor recommended to the Board that, when taken as a whole, the 2017 The Committee places great importance on the quality, effectiveness Annual Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable and and independence of the external audit process.
provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the The Committee is responsible for evaluating the performance of the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
To assist the Committee in fulfilling these Non-audit services responsibilities, an assessment of the external auditor was carried out The Committee maintains a policy on the engagement of the auditor with feedback collected from key stakeholders by way of a for the provision of non-audit services in order to safeguard their questionnaire.
The content of the questionnaire was prepared in independence and objectivity.
This prohibits the provision of certain accordance with the FRCs guidance and comprises four criteria: non-permitted audit services and contains rules regarding the mindset and culture: skills, character and knowledge: quality control: approval of permitted non-audit services.
As the Groups incoming and judgement.
The overall quality of the 2016 audit was assessed as auditor, EY have been subject to the policy since 1 January 2017 to good and no areas of significant concern were identified.
Areas for improvement in respect of 2017 were communicated to PwC.
58 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Significant estimates and judgements Action Accounting for the fair value of assets and liabilities in respect The Committee considered reports from Finance that set out the of business combinations key assumptions used to determine the fair value of assets and liabilities acquired, the purchase price consideration and the During the year the Group made a number of acquisitions.
These amounts attributable to acquired intangible assets, goodwill and acquisitions required estimates to be made in respect of the fair third party interests.
The Committee considered the work value of assets and liabilities acquired and parts of the purchase performed by Finance and a valuation specialist in establishing the consideration.
The main area of judgement was in relation to the key assumptions, including the market growth assumptions, the determination of the fair value of rights to carried interest income profit before tax and the discount rate.
Having considered the from private equity vehicles.
This included values attributable to supporting information, the Committee was satisfied with the third parties through the sale and purchase agreement and third initial carrying value of the relevant assets and liabilities and the party interests relating to the value of entities that own the carried basis for reassessing the carrying value of assets and liabilities at interest rights.
Carrying value of assets and liabilities The Committee considered reports that set out relevant considerations in assessing estimates used in the determination of The Group holds material balances in respect of previously the fair value of certain assets and liabilities.
completed acquisitions, the UK DB pension scheme surplus and certain actual or potential liabilities which are subject to estimation Acquisition related items comprising goodwill and intangible assets regarding their carrying value particularly with respect to mortality were assessed against the performance and outlook of the rates.
relevant cash generating units and the application of growth assumptions and discount rates.
The calculation of the Groups tax charge each year necessarily involves a degree of estimation, given the many jurisdictions in Finance Reports included key financial assumptions that had been which it has operations and the complexity of the applicable rules used by the independent qualified actuaries, Aon Hewitt Limited, to in each of those jurisdictions.
determine the UK DB pension scheme surplus.
The Group Head of Tax presented an update on the Groups tax See notes 6, 10, 13, 17, 18 and 25 strategy and associated governance processes to the Committee in totheaccounts.
The Committee reviewed and approved the Groups updated tax strategy, which is published on the Groups website, along with the announcement of the tax position at each reporting date.
The basis for determining the carrying value of certain assets and liabilities, including those in relation to carried interest rights as referred to above, was also considered in the Finance reports.
Having considered the supporting information, the Committee was satisfied with managements conclusions regarding the carrying values of the relevant assets and liabilities and that appropriate disclosures have been included in the accounts.
Presentation of profits The Committee considered and was satisfied with the continued presentation of exceptional items within a separate column in the Since 2013 the consolidated income statement separately presents consolidated income statement.
This presentation is considered exceptional items which is permitted by accounting rules for appropriate as it provides a transparent view of certain items and specific items of income or expense that are considered material.
the underlying performance of the business.
For 2017, exceptional This presentation represents a judgement by the Group that the items principally comprised amortisation of acquired intangible items presented warrant specific disclosure in accordance with assets and costs associated with acquisitions and disposals.
See note 1 b to the accounts.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 59 Audit and Risk Committee report continued Audit effectiveness is also assessed throughout the year using a MiFID II number of measures including: reviewing the quality and scope of the proposed audit plan and progress against the plan: responsiveness to In preparation for the implementation of MiFID II in January 2018, changes in our businesses: and monitoring the independence and updates were provided to the Committee to monitor progress and transparency of the audit.
MiFID II has a very broad scope, touching many aspects of the business including requirements for investor Following the audit tender process conducted by the Committee in protection, organisation and governance, market trading 2016, EY will be recommended by the Board for appointment as the transparency and market infrastructure.
Groups external auditor for the 2018 financial year at the 2018 AGM.
At the July Committee meeting, updates were provided by the The Committee confirms that the Company has complied with the Chief Technology Officer, the Chief Operating Officer for provisions of the Competition and Markets Authority Order 2014 Distribution and the Chief Operating Officer for Portfolio Services relating to the UK audit market for large companies throughout the on how their areas of the business were working towards being year under review and as at the date of this report.
The thematic risks relevant to the project, particularly those connected to third party dependencies, Risk and internal controls were discussed.
Technology projects with a long lead time, such as The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys system of elements of the front office technology platform, were realigned internal controls, the ongoing monitoring of risk and internal control and configured in order to be MiFID II compliant.
The Committee systems and for reporting on any significant failings or weaknesses.
noted that although this added pressure to the technology change The system of control is designed to manage rather than eliminate programme, resource was available and the organisation was therisk of failure to achieve our strategic objectives and can only working collaboratively, demonstrating a high level of provide reasonable assurance against material misstatement or loss.
engagement from all areas of the business.
TheBoard has delegated to the Committee responsibility for Subsequent programme updates were provided at the September reviewingthe effectiveness and monitoring of the risk and internal and November Committee meetings.
The Committee was controls framework.
confident that the Group was doing all that it could to be On behalf of the Board, the Committee carried out the annual compliant by the deadline and that any outstanding challenges assessment of the effectiveness of internal controls during 2017, were common across the industry primarily due to market-wide including those related to the financial reporting process.
The issues and dependencies which would evolve and be completed Committee also considered the adequacy of the Groups risk during 2018. management arrangements in the context of the Groups business The Committee will continue to monitor progress of the and strategy.
In carrying out its assessment, the Committee implementation and embedding of MiFID II requirements in 2018. considered reports from the Group Financial Controller and the heads of Compliance, Risk and Internal Audit and also from PwC.
This enabled an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Groups internal control framework.
Information Security The Committee recognises the importance of Information Security Risk to the Group particularly in the light of high profile cyber attacks Risk reports set out changes in the level or nature of the risks faced by which have increased in recent years.
There has also been greater the Group, developments in risk management and operational events, interest from regulators around the world regarding technology.
including significant errors and omissions.
Separate reports allowed An external review of Schroders Information Security controls was the Committee to consider a range of factors when determining the undertaken by PA Consulting which benchmarked the maturity of key risks and uncertainties faced by the Group.
These included the Groups Information Security framework against other assessments of risk tolerance and stress testing of the Groups capital financial services organisations.
This showed that there had been position, as well as the production of the Groups ICAAP, ILAAP and the further strengthening since the last review conducted by KPMG in Groups Recovery Plan and Resolution Pack.
2015 and that Schroders is in the top quartile of financial services firms surveyed.
The Committee also considers emerging and thematic risks that may have a material impact on the Group.
During the year, the Committee Given the pace of technology change, the Committee recognises reviewed the Groups arrangements in the areas of business that continuous improvement is required to meet the challenges continuity, information security, outsourced providers, client life cycle, of the consistently evolving environment.
The Committee will MiFID II, conduct risk and fiduciary management.
Set out on this and continue to review and assess the Groups capabilities in this area.
the following page are summaries of the Committees activity in four areas where members of the first line of defence attended and Compliance presented to the Committee in relation to emerging and thematic risks.
Compliance reports describe the status of our relationships and dealings with our principal regulators and material changes in the regulatory environment in which the Group operates.
The reports also outline key compliance issues, and the planning and execution of the compliance monitoring programme.
Compliance monitoring is carried out globally to assess the Groups compliance with local regulatory standards and requirements.
The Committee considered the FCAs Asset Management Market Study final report including the proposed remedies with respect to governance, costs and charges and the implications this would have on the business.
The Committee received reports on the enhancement work that had been undertaken in relation to FCA client money rule compliance by its outsourced UK fund transfer agency provider and the strengthening of our oversight arrangements.
The compliance position in relation to these arrangements remains under close review.
60 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Internal Audit Outsource providers The Committee has authority to appoint or remove the Group Head of The Group retains responsibility for services provided on its behalf Internal Audit, who reports directly to the Chairman of the Committee.
During 2017, the Committee conducted its annual The Chairman of the Committee is accountable for setting the review of the Groups material outsource providers.
None of our objectives of the Group Head of Internal Audit, appraising his key relationships needed to be changed during 2017.
Ongoing performance against those objectives and for recommending his improvement programmes were in place to address service remuneration to the Remuneration Committee, with advice from the quality issues identified in prior years, including with respect to a Group Chief Executive.
third-party provider engaged to provide the transfer agency and The Committee also has responsibility for approving the Internal Audit other services for the Groups UK-domiciled mutual fund ranges.
budget and being satisfied that the Internal Audit function has As in previous years, none of the findings gave the Committee appropriate resources and continues to be effective.
The Committee reason to believe that there had been any client detriment.
satisfies itself as to the quality, experience and expertise of the function through regular interaction with the Group Head of Internal TheCommittee will continue to provide oversight of the Groups Audit, both when the Committee meets and also through other outsource arrangements as these develop in 2018. meetings outside the formal meeting schedule.
In 2016, the Committee approved the appointment of an independent Evaluating the performance of the Committee third party to conduct an effectiveness review of the Internal Audit The annual evaluation of the Committees effectiveness was function.
The review assessed the Internal Audit functions undertaken as part of the overall Board evaluation process by conformance with the International Standards for the Professional Independent Board Evaluation.
The findings relating to the Committee Practice of Internal Auditing Standards and its compliance with the were discussed with the Committee Chairman.
Overall, the Committee guidance on Effective Internal Audit in the Financial Services Sector, is considered to be performing well, is rigorous and effective in aswell as identifying any opportunities for improvement.
The findings discharging its responsibilities and providing the Board with from the review were presented to the September Committee meeting assurance.
Interms of areas for possible improvement, achieving and were positive.
Within Schroders, Internal Audit is seen as a valued theright level ofdetail when considering matters was something assurance function throughout the Group, it is appropriately tofocus on.
resourced and has generally conformed with the Standards.
There were some opportunities for improvement, including enhancements Priorities for 2018 to audit documentation and agreeing the correct level of coverage for As well as considering the standing items of business and overseeing future internal audits.
the transition of external auditors, the Committee will also focus onthe following areas during 2018: Internal Audit reports to the Committee set out progress against a rolling plan of audits approved by the Committee on an annual basis.
Cyber security: These reports include any significant findings from audits performed Conduct and culture: and their subsequent remediation and recommendations to improve Oversight of outsourced services: the control environment.
During the year the Committee agreed to proposed amendments to the internal audit plan to meet the evolving GDPR: risks faced by the business.
Additional audit work was carried out in MiFID II: and Luxembourg and on the Fiduciary Management team.
The transition to new technology platforms.
Both the annual compliance monitoring and Internal Audit plans Committees assessment of internal control and risk aredeveloped on a risk weighted basis to provide proportionate reassurance over the Groups controls for the key risks set out management arrangements onpages 37 to 43.
In light of its work, the Committee was content with the effectiveness of the Groups processes governing financial and regulatory reporting and controls, its culture, ethical standards and its relationships with General Data Protection Regulation GDPR regulators.
The Committee was also satisfied with the appropriateness During 2017, the Committee reviewed the Groups preparations and adequacy of the Groups risk management arrangements and for the introduction of GDPR from 25 May 2018.
The Corporate supporting risk management systems including: the risk monitoring General Counsel and the Chief Information Security Officer processes, internal controls framework and the three lines of defence presented to the Committee in September on progress in model.
The obligations under GDPR build on those in existing law already applicable to Schroders EU-based businesses.
In some areas the changes introduced require the Group to make adjustments for new concepts, particularly around enhanced individual rights.
We have not identified any fundamental changes to our business models that will be required.
Areas of focus include business development and marketing, human resources and Wealth Management, enhancing the functionality of relevant technology systems and developing our oversight of material third party arrangements.
Preparations for the implementation of GDPR are continuing and the Committee will be kept up to date with progress during 2018.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 61
