EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP TEAM Jaco Maritz, age 42 Charlie Ritchie, age 48 Chief Financial Officer Head of Legal & Compliance Jaco Maritz was appointed as Chief Financial Officer on 1 January 2018.
Jaco has Charlie Ritchie joined Acacia as Head of Legal & Compliance in January 2017.
Charlie been with Acacia and its predecessor companies since 2001 in a range of increasingly came to Acacia after more than 20 years in corporate and private legal practice across senior finance roles covering all aspects of the finance function.
He was initially Australia, the UK and the USA.
His legal career includes 13 years at the Rio Tinto employed by Placer Dome, which was acquired by Barrick in 2006, and was part Group, including considerable experience in the African mining sector.
of Acacia at its inception.
In 2013, Jaco spent six months acting as Interim Chief Financial Officer for the business.
Jaco is a member of the South African Institute Until the end of 2016, he served as Rio Tintos General Counsel Diamonds & Minerals of Chartered Accountants.
and the United States, based initially in London and then Salt Lake City.
Prior to this, he was Legal Counsel and Company Secretary for the ASX-listed Energy Resources of Australia Limited Rio Tinto: 68% between 2007 and 2010, and he first joined Rio Tinto in 2004 to manage significant disputes and litigation in the Australia-Pacific region.
Before joining Rio Tinto, Charlie worked at private law firms in London and Melbourne, specialising in international commercial litigation and dispute resolution.
Professionally qualified in both the United Kingdom and Australia, Charlie holds Bachelor of Laws Hons.
and Bachelor of Arts degrees from the University of Melbourne.
Hannes Henckel, age 67 Head of Discovery Hannes Henckel has been with Acacia and its predecessor companies since 2002 and prior to becoming Head of Discovery was involved in Africa wide target generation, project evaluation and exploration as Chief Geologist Discovery.
He has extensive experience in the field of exploration, covering various commodities.
After a short stint at the University of Munich he worked at the Chamber of Mines Research Organisation of South Africa doing research on Witwatersrand gold deposits.
He then joined Goldfields working on exploration projects in Southern Africa.
He was seconded for several years to South America as Chief Geologist for Goldfields Latin American Operations.
From 2002 he was part of Placer Domes Platinum Division which was acquired by Barrick in 2006.
Hannes holds an MSc and PhD in geology from Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich.
He is a fellow of the GSSA and SEG.
FRAMEWORK DISCUSSIONS WITH In light of Barricks position as a controlling shareholder of Acacia, and its role in the discussions that have taken place to date with the THE GOVERNMENT OF TANZANIA Government of Tanzania, the Board has established specific governance In October 2017, Barrick announced that it had agreed with the arrangements to protect the interests of all shareholders, including Government of Tanzania a proposed framework for a new partnership the establishment of an independent committee of the Board the between Acacia and the Government of Tanzania.
Acacia was not directly Independent Committee, chaired by Michael Kenyon.
The Independent involved in the discussions between Barrick and the Government of Committee has been established to oversee all aspects and implications Tanzania that resulted in the announcement of the proposed framework.
of the discussions between Barrick and the Government of Tanzania, The Government of Tanzania informed Barrick that it wished to carry on and any related proposals.
The Independent Committee and the dialogue solely with Barrick.
However, Barrick has engaged with the Company have engaged with Barrick during Barricks discussions with Company during Barricks discussions with the Government of Tanzania the Government of Tanzania.
In addition, Michael Kenyon has engaged and has stated that it will continue to do so.
with a number of shareholders on matters related to these discussions, No formal proposal has been put to Acacia at this stage.
Barrick has including governance arrangements to ensure the Companys indicated that it expects a detailed proposal to be put to Acacia during independence is maintained throughout this process.
The key features of the proposed framework announced by Barrick are described on page 9.
Any proposal agreed in principle between Barrick and the Government of Tanzania will require Acacias approval.
66 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017
