CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code A.
Provision of information and support A.
The Boards role The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, ensures that all The Boards role is to lead the Group with a view to the creation of strong, Board members receive accurate and timely information.
All the Directors have sustainable financial performance and long term shareholder value, to review access to independent professional advice, at the Companys expense, when and approve the Groups strategic plan, and to monitor management the Directors judge it necessary to discharge their responsibilities.
The Board also sets the Groups risk appetite, and oversees the Groups risk management processes.
Board and committee performance evaluation schedule of matters reserved for its specific approval, including a framework for An external evaluation of Board and committee performance will be held in those decisions which can be delegated to committees or otherwise.
A thorough exercise to review the working of the Board, how it could details can be found in the Corporate Governance Report starting on page 49. be improved and how lessons from the past could be learnt was completed by the incoming Chairman during January and February 2017, the results of which A.
A clear division of responsibilities are summarised on page 51.
The Boards policy is that the roles of Chairman and CEO should be performed by different people.
The division of responsibilities is documented and clearly B.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and effectiveness of All Directors were subject to shareholder vote at the AGM.
the Board and the CEO is responsible for leading the day-to-day management of the Company, formulating the strategy and delivering against the strategy when C. Accountability approved by the Board.
Financial and business reporting The Statement of Directors Responsibility is set out on page 75, and the A.
Role of the Chairman Independent Auditors Report commences on page 76.
The Companys The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and effectiveness of the business model is explained on pages 10 and 11.
He sets the agendas for meetings and manages the meeting timetable.
The Chairman facilitates open and constructive dialogue between Executive C. 2.
Risk management and internal control systems and Non-executive Directors and also ensures effective communication The Board, through the Board Risk Committee, conducts a robust assessment with shareholders.
The Chairman has held regular meetings with the Nonof the principal risks.
An annual review of the effectiveness of the Groups executives in the absence of Executive Directors, providing an opportunity risk management and internal control systems is undertaken by the Audit for any concerns to be discussed.
Further details on the risk management and internal control systems can be found on page 59.
Role of the Non-executive Directors The Board has appointed a Senior Independent Director to provide a sounding C. 3.
Role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee board for the Chairman and to serve as an intermediary for the other Directors Details of the composition of the Audit Committee and how the Committee where necessary.
The Board has appointed six other Non-executive Directors has discharged its responsibilities during the year are provided in the Audit whose role is primarily to constructively challenge and help the CEO formulate Committee Report on pages 56 to 61.
The terms of reference for the Audit proposals on strategy.
They also scrutinise the performance of management Committee are reviewed annually and are available on the Company website.
in meeting agreed objectives, monitor the reporting of performance and satisfy themselves on the integrity of the financial information and that D. Remuneration financial controls and risk management processes are robust and defensible.
Levels and components of remuneration The Board believes that the Groups Remuneration Policy is appropriately B.
Effectiveness designed to promote the long term success of the Company, while enabling the B.
The Boards composition Group to attract, retain and motivate the executive talent required for the The Board currently consists of ten individuals: the Chairman, two Executive delivery of its business strategy.
For further information, see the Directors Directors and seven independent Non-executive Directors, reducing to four Remuneration Report on pages 62 to 71. after the 2018 AGM.
The composition of the Board is reviewed regularly by the Nomination Committee to ensure that there is an appropriate mix of skills, and D. 2.
Development of remuneration policy and packages a range of diverse experience.
Board members biographies are provided on The membership of the Remuneration Committee is made up of Nonpages 46 and 47 and identify the experience that each Director brings to the executive Directors only.
The terms of reference for the Remuneration Board.
A table identifying the skills and experience of the Board members Committee are reviewed annually and are available on the Company website.
The Board determines, through the Nomination The Remuneration Committee has delegated authority for setting the Committee, the independence of its members.
Conflicts of interest are also remuneration of Executive Directors and the Chairman.
The fees payable to monitored and updated at least annually and more frequently as and the Non-executive Directors are determined by the Board, on recommendation whenrequired.
from the Executive Directors Committee.
Board appointments E. Relations with shareholders The appointment of new Directors to the Board is led by the Nomination E. 1.
Shareholder engagement and dialogue Committee.
The Nomination Committees terms of reference, as published on Effective communication and engagement with investors is of paramount the Company website, document its responsibility regarding Board appointments.
importance to the continued success of the Company, and roadshows are Further details of succession planning, including the Boards policy on diversity, held during the year between investors and the Chairman and Director of including gender, can be found on page 55.
The CEO and CFO have held meetings with existing shareholders through the shareholder relations programme during 2017.
Time commitments Further details can be found in the Corporate Governance Report on page 52.
The time commitments of Non-executive Directors are defined in their appointment letters and are regularly reviewed.
The impact of any new role E. 2.
Constructive use of general meetings proposed by a Non-executive Director on existing time commitments is The Board values all general meetings as an important opportunity to engage considered by the Chairman before approval is granted.
Attendees at general meetings have the opportunity to ask questions to the Board and to speak to individual Directors following the formal B.
Training and development business of the meeting.
A structured induction programme is available to each new Board member, which is supplemented by visits to key locations and meetings with senior executives.
Further training for Directors is offered when taking a new role on a committee and is otherwise available as required.
Further details can be found in the Directors professional development section on page 55. www.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 53
