60 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Audit Committee Report Composition of the Audit Committee Dear Shareholder Birgit Nrgaard, Carl-Peter Forster and I were members of the Audit Committee throughout the year.
Ross McInnes was Chair of the Committee I am pleased to present my first report as until 30 September 2017.
All of the Committee members are regarded by Chair of the Audit Committee which outlines the Board as independent non-executive directors.
I have chaired the Audit the Committees composition, main Committee since 1 October 2017 and became a member on 1 September responsibilities and key areas of focus.
I spent my earlier career in the accounting and audit profession and I have significant recent and relevant financial experience.
I also currently The core responsibilities of the Committee chair the audit committee at The Bankers Investment Trust PLC and Winton are oversight in relation to financial reporting, Group Limited.
My colleagues on the Committee also have experience at audit internal financial controls and assurance committee level and collectively the Committee has the skills, experience and processes.
The full terms of reference of objectivity to be an effective Audit Committee and to challenge constructively.
the Committee can be found in the IMI The Committee generally asks the following to join its meetings: the Chairman, Corporate Governance Framework on the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the Group Financial Controller, the Companys website.
the Director of Risk and Compliance, the Group Assurance Director and the external auditor, EY.
I consult with the Finance Director, the Company Secretary and other key staff and with the external auditor ahead of meetings to ensure issues are well understood and meeting papers are appropriate.
The Committee holds at least part of several meetings each year alone with the external auditor and with the Director of Risk and Compliance and the Group Assurance Director.
The Committee has the power to call on any employee to come before it.
The Secretary to the Committee is the Company Secretary, who is also the Group Legal Director.
Main areas of activity The Audit Committee met four times in 2017, including two results reporting meetings and two planning and review meetings.
The Committee reviewed the effectiveness of internal financial controls and assurance processes.
Financial controls continued to be a key focus area for the Committee and during the year management has made further progress in strengthening internal financial controls and risk management processes.
Based on its review of selected key controls, EY agreed with managements assessment that the level of control effectiveness at the locations assessed in the audit remains high at 95% although there was a slight drop from last years 98% due to transition issues arising from personnel changes at a few locations.
Management and the Committee reviewed this result and Introduction Strategic Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 61 the Committee was pleased to note the action taken to mitigate personnel The Committee reviewed the assumptions and calculations used by transition issues going forward.
The IT investment and infrastructure management in the assessment of any impairment of goodwill and programme is bolstering the control environment, and as the implementation intangible assets and agreed that no impairment charges were required.
progresses, it facilitates increasing efficiency improvements in the audit.
Impairment was also a key audit matter for EY which reported its findings to the Committee.
Section 3.2 to the financial statements on page 111 The Committee has received and challenged reports on the six-monthly provides details regarding the Groups intangible assets and goodwill.
Internal Control Declarations which are submitted by each business unit and cover internal controls on financial affairs, IT, human resources and other Revenue and profit recognition key areas.
The process is managed by Group Assurance, which follows up The Committee discussed the timing of revenue and profit recognition on declarations to review scores and appropriate improvement actions.
some of the Groups larger contracts.
In addition, this is a key audit matter for which EY reported to the Committee.
The Committee reviewed and approved for submission to the Board the statements on going concern and viability, which appear in the Directors Having reviewed managements process and EYs report, the Committee Report on pages 146 to 149.
The Committee advises the Board on the concluded that revenues and profits were appropriately reflected in the fair, balanced and understandable requirements in respect of the Annual financial statements.
Section 5.4 note C to the financial statements on Report and the Committee has made a positive report to the Board in this pages 141 to 142 provides further information.
This is also an area for review by the external auditor in relation The Committee also reviewed managements assessment of the impact of to which it did not report any exceptions.
The statement of Directors IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers which comes into effect responsibilities on page 150 includes confirmation by the Board that it from January 2018 and is discussed further in Section 1 on page 98. considers the Annual Report, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable.
During the year, Committee members received updates Inventory valuation covering changes in accounting standards and other key topics.
The Committee reviewed the judgements applied to standard costing valuations and provisions against excess and obsolete inventory and Attendance concurred with managements assessment.
This was a key audit matter for Director Audit Committee % attended where EY, in respect of which it reported to the Committee that inventory valuation meetings eligible across the Group is considered appropriate.
1 to the financial Carl-Peter Forster 4 4 100 statements on page 110 provides details of inventory valuation.
1 Ross McInnes 3 4 100 Other judgement areas Birgit Nrgaard 4 4 100 The Committee reviewed the appropriateness of the accounting treatment in Isobel Sharp 4 4 100 respect of pension scheme liabilities, including the actuarial assumptions used 1 and the impact of one-off special pension events.
The Committee also reviewed Ross McInnes stepped down from the Board on 30 September 2017. reporting from the external auditor, which concurred with the accounting for pensions proposed by management.
The Committee supported managements Oversight of financial reporting on-going efforts to fide-risk the Groups pension obligations which in 2017 The Committee acts in an oversight role in respect of the Annual Report included the buy-out by an insurance company of 429m of UK defined benefit and other announcements with financial content all of which are prepared obligations.
Further details can be found in Section 4.9 on page 128. by management.
The Committee received reports on the annual and interim financial statements from management and the external auditor.
The In addition the Committee reviewed the appropriateness of restructuring costs auditors report including a summary of key audit matters is set out disclosed as adjusting items, property sales, leasing arrangements and the on pages 151 to 157. adequacy of taxation provisions.
Further details on these matters can be found in Sections 2.2 and 2.4, respectively on pages 104 and 106.
Significant judgements related to the The Financial Reporting Review Team of the Financial Reporting Council FRC financial statements reviewed specific disclosures relating to alternative performance measures in In preparing the accounts, there are a number of areas requiring the IMIs 2016 Annual Report as part of its thematic review on this topic.
The exercise by management of judgement and estimation.
The Committee FRC provided its comments to the Group and the changes proposed by reviews the most significant accounting areas involving such judgements the Group in response have been welcomed by the FRC.
In particular, in its and estimates and these are described below.
reporting the Group has now replaced the term reported with adjusted as the way of referencing the alternative performance measures used by the Impairment of goodwill and intangibles arising from Group and has renamed the exceptional items category as adjusting items.
acquisitions These two changes have been made in this Annual Report and are explained We considered the level of goodwill held on the Groups balance sheet in further in notes 1.1 and 2.2 to the Financial Statements, respectively on respect of a number of past acquisitions and whether, given the future prospects pages 98 and 104. of these businesses, the value of goodwill in each case remains appropriate.
62 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Audit Committee Report External audit independence and Auditor choice, tenure and tendering performance review The Committee recommended and the Board approved the proposal to seek The Committee approved the proposed external audit approach and its scope approval to re-appoint EY as the external auditor at the forthcoming Annual based on the size and level of risk of the entities concerned.
The Group and General Meeting.
EY was first appointed as auditor for the year-ending 31 EY take a risk based approach to audit and other assurance activity.
The key December 2009, following a competitive tendering process, after which it audit matters identified by EY are set out in its report on pages 152 and 153 replaced the previous external auditor.
The term of appointment is annual and were reviewed by the Committee in approving the audit scope and plan.
and there are no contractual restrictions on the Committees choice of external auditor.
The Committee considered the independence and objectivity of the external auditor to be satisfactory.
In assessing auditor independence the Committee To maintain the objectivity of the audit process, the external audit partner had regard to the Financial Reporting Councils latest best practice guidance responsible for the Group is rotated within the audit firm at least every five for audit committees.
In addition, the external auditor confirmed that its ethics years and the current Senior Statutory Auditor, Andrew Walton, has now been and independence policies complied with the requirements of the Institute of in place for four years and will change following completion of the 2017 audit.
Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Succession planning has been carried out and a new audit partner designate, Simon ONeill, has been approved by the Committee.
The policy on the use of the auditor for non-audit work was reviewed and updated by the Committee in 2016 to take account of developments in Pursuant to the statutory requirement for audit tendering after ten years i. e. regulatory requirements and ethical guidelines for the audit profession.
in time for the 31 December 2019 audit, the Committee initiated an audit The policy requires approval by the Committee for any non-audit engagement tender process in 2017, considered and, after amendment, approved the list which is more than trivial.
The Finance Director monitors any proposed of firms invited to tender.
The Committee will make a recommendation to the non-audit engagement of EY and refers to the Committee for approval as Board in the summer of 2018 to allow adequate time for transition if there is appropriate.
The policy does not allow work to be placed with the auditor if to be a change of external audit firm.
it could compromise auditor independence, such as, functioning in the role of management or auditing its own work.
Non-audit fees paid to the auditor Internal audit were 0.1m 2016: 0.2m, which represents 4% of the audit fee and The Committee also receives reports from and monitors the work of the demonstrates the tight control which is maintained in this area.
No non-audit internal audit function, known as Group Assurance.
Group Assurance reports engagements involved fees above 30,000 and the main area of activity was through the Director of Risk and Compliance to the Chief Executive.
Group the interim results review.
The Committee considers that the level and nature Assurance also has a direct reporting line to the Committee.
Assurance work of non-audit work does not compromise the independence of the external is primarily directed towards financial control audits but has been broadened auditor.
Benchmarking of the audit fee was conducted to ensure that it is into other areas including project planning and implementation for major appropriate and competitive and the Committee approved the proposed business changes and internal control declarations.
The principal projects audit fee payable to EY.
reviewed in 2017 were major computer systems implementations in each of three divisions and a factory relocation.
We formally reviewed the effectiveness of the external audit process.
A questionnaire was used to review the external auditor and was completed by Group Assurance works closely with the divisions to implement improved each member of the Committee and by the Finance Director, with the Group monitoring and review processes to complement the internal and external Financial Controller, who coordinated the review.
Feedback was also received audit coverage.
The annual plan and resourcing for internal audit were from the Chief Executive, the Head of Group Finance, Group and Divisional approved by the Committee and take account of the enhanced monitoring Management.
The output from this process was considered by the Committee and review activity planned within the divisions.
In 2017 the scope of internal and was provided to the external auditor.
As a result of this exercise the audits has been extended to cover certain other operational and commercial Committee believes the external auditors performance has been satisfactory risks.
To achieve this, experienced financial managers in the divisions have and the external auditor is considered to be effective.
To enhance further the worked with the Group Assurance team on combined reviews covering external audit process, certain improvement actions were identified in the financial, operational and commercial matters.
Group Assurance has also effectiveness review and plans have been put in place by EY to address these.
trained divisional finance managers in financial control auditing skills and These included improved processes for monitoring the completion of the provided a toolkit to enable them to take a wider role in supporting internal statutory accounts of the subsidiaries and sufficient training to support audit activity from 2018. any EY staff transitions.
The Committee reviewed the effectiveness of Group Assurance with Management and received input from the external auditor.
The Committee was pleased to note that Group Assurance had provided the training, tools and process required for the divisions to assume more responsibility for monitoring and assurance around internal financial controls, and that involving experienced financial managers from the divisions is enhancing both the effectiveness of Group Assurance and the skills of those managers.
Introduction Strategic Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 63 Compliance hotline The Committee reviews the operation of the independent compliance hotline for reporting concerns, oversees the more significant reports received and considers how these are investigated and followed up.
The Committee believes that the hotline process and investigations are effective and that proportionate action is taken by management in response.
Committee effectiveness The Committee reviewed its own performance and terms of reference and received positive feedback from the evaluation exercise carried out in relation to the Board and each of its standing committees by Egon Zehnder.
The Committee approved this report on its work.
Yours faithfully Isobel Sharp Chair of the Audit Committee 1 March 2018
