Overview Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 71 Nomination Committee Report I am pleased to present the Nomination Committee Report, which summarises our work over the past year.
Douglas Caster, Chairman of the Nomination Committee Dear Shareholder Rakesh Sharma stepped down as Chief Executive challenging debate around the boardroom table.
The Nomination Committee met five times in on 10 November 2017, our main focus has been The Boards skills are illustrated on page 66.
At the start of the year, our focus was on on ensuring a robust selection and recruitment The Committee has written terms of reference, undertaking a rigorous review of the tenure of process for a new Chief Executive.
which include all matters recommended by the long-serving Non-Executive Directors, and We currently believe that the Board and its Code.
These terms of reference are reviewed succession planning to ensure a balance of skills, Committees continue to have the appropriate and approved annually and are available from experience and knowledge was maintained on mix of skills and experience to operate effectively, the Investors section of the Groups website the Board and its Committees.
We also reviewed but of course this is kept under regular review.
the succession planning and career progression Collectively, the Directors bring a range of of senior employees, and the recruitment and Douglas Caster, expertise and experiences to Board deliberations development of talent across the Group.
After Chairman of the Nomination Committee which help to ensure constructive and How the Nomination Committee spent its time in 2017 Board composition Regularly review the structure, size The Committee considered the composition of the Board.
Sir Roberts tenure as Non-Executive and composition including the skills, Director was due to expire in April 2018, but he was asked by the Board to remain for a further year knowledge, experience and diversity as Senior Independent Director.
In line with the Code, the Committee considered his performance of the Board in line with the Codes and ability to continue to contribute to the Board.
Sir Robert is actively involved in the defence requirements.
market and the Committee considers that he continues to bring relevant knowledge, skills and experience to the Board, all of which was considered to be especially invaluable in a time of significant organisational change.
Succession planning Consider succession planning for Directors Succession planning continued to be an area of focus for the Committee during 2017, and in and senior executives below Board level.
particular, the search for a new Chief Executive.
The executive search rm Korn Ferry was engaged to identify potential candidates for the position of Chief Executive after Rakesh Sharma stepped down on 10 November 2017.
The Company does not have any other connection with Korn Ferry.
The role specication and selection criteria was determined by the Nomination Committee.
The curricula vitae of the candidates were considered by the Nomination Committee.
A sub-committee of the Committee is currently in the process of interviewing the short-listed candidates and will select those candidates it considers should go through to final interviews.
Each member of the Nomination Committee will be invited to attend the final interviews.
Following this process, the Nomination Committee will meet to agree upon the successful candidate before any recommendation is put to the Board.
In consideration of Executive-level succession planning, the Committee received a report explaining the annual Organisation, Succession & Development Plan OSDP process, the output from which is reviewed annually by the Executive Team.
The aim is to have a successor identied for all senior positions.
Where a permanent successor has not been identied, key roles would be covered by colleagues on an interim basis whilst external recruitment is undertaken.
The success of the OSDP process is evidenced by the balance between internal and external appointments at senior levels.
For Managing Director President appointments, approximately 80% of appointments have been internal over recent years.
Individuals with the potential to ll more senior roles over the medium and long term are also identied through this process.
A number of actions were taken in the year to strengthen the succession pipeline, including: Developing the Chief Executives Mentoring Club Addressing the demographic imbalances that exist in some businesses Taking advantage of the larger pool of talent below Managing Director President level as a result of business consolidations and providing employees with increased scope to broaden their experience within the business.
Continued overleaf Ultra AR&A 2017 Governance AW Layout 1 09 03 2018 11:25 Page 15 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 72 Nomination Committee Report continued How the Nomination Committee spent its time in 2017 continued Board pipeline Identify and nominate suitable The Board appointments of Geeta Gopalan and Victoria Hull were agreed with effect from candidates for appointment to the 28 April 2017.
Board, including chairmanship of the Board and its Committees, against a specification for the role and capabilities required for the position.
Board evaluation Consider the results of the annual The results of the Board performance evaluation process were considered.
The Committees focus for 2018 The Board believes that this is best achieved by In 2018, the focus of the Nomination continuing its broad, diversity-aware best person The Board will Committee will be to: for the role approach to recruiting, regardless of age, disability, gender re-assignment, marriage or Appoint a new Chief Executive ensure Directors civil partnership, pregnancy or maternity, race, Identify a replacement for Sir Robert religion or belief, sex or sexual orientation.
For Walmsley as Senior Independent Director have an appropriate this reason, the Board has chosen not to set any Review and consider strengthening the specific objectives, but will instead continue to mix of skills and position of Executive Directors on the Board as maintain its practice of embracing diversity in all part of the Committees regular review of the its forms when compiling a shortlist of suitable experience and Boards composition.
candidates and recommending any future Board Diversity appointments.
bring independent Board Diversity Policy Progress against the Board Diversity Policy The Board Diversity Policy was implemented with character and Following the appointment of Victoria Hull and effect from 29 July 2013.
The key statement and Geeta Gopalan with effect from 28 April 2017, objectives of that policy are set out below.
the proportion of female members of the Board Statement is currently at 29% 2 7 Directors.
There were A Board composed of the right balance of skills, no women on the Board from March 2016 until experience and diversity of views is best placed to the appointments of Geeta and Victoria.
The support a company in its strategic objectives.
The Board believes that these appointments not only Board recognises the benefits of diversity.
Diversity contribute to greater diversity at Board level, but of skills, background, knowledge, international are also important in Ultras business sector, and industry experience, and gender, amongst which until recently has traditionally been many other factors, will be taken into regarded as male, with a lower level of female consideration when seeking to appoint a new participation compared with other industries.
Director to the Board and all Board The Committee recognises that diversity is more appointments will always be made on merit.
than just gender-based, and will continue to Objectives ensure that it uses rigorous recruiting practices The Board will ensure Directors have an to ensure the best candidates are nominated for appropriate mix of skills and experience and appointment to the Board, based on objective bring independent character and judgment.
requirements and assessments, whilst taking into account diversity in its broadest sense.
You can read more about Ultras initiatives to improve diversity across the Group, including information on the gender split across the Board, Executive Team and the Group as a whole, in the Sustainability section of our Strategic Report on page 55-56.
