Overview Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 73 Audit Committee Report As the Chairman of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to present our Audit Committee Report for the year ended December 2017.
John Hirst, Chairman of the Audit Committee Dear Shareholder Composition Throughout the year, the Committee continued The composition of the Committee is set out on to focus on the integrity of financial reporting, pages 58-59.
The Chairman of the Committee internal controls and risk management processes.
has the recent and relevant financial and The Boards report on the systems of internal accounting experience required by the Code.
He control and their effectiveness can be found in is supported in his role by the other members of the Corporate Governance Report on page 68. the Committee who have a wide range of An assessment of the Groups principal risks and business experience and expertise, as reported in uncertainties can be found on pages 38-45 and their biographies on pages 58-59. the going concern and long-term viability Meetings and attendance statements can be found on page 45.
The Committee met five times during the year As we indicated in the 2016 Report, in 2017, the under review.
In addition to the members of the Committee considered the impact of the April Committee, regular attendees included the 2016 version of the Code on the Committees Executive Chairman and the Group Finance work, conducted a deep dive into the Director.
The Chief Executive and the Group delivering change risk amongst others, as Marketing Director each also regularly attended highlighted below, and reviewed Ultras tax Committee meetings prior to their departure strategy statement in line with the Finance Act from Ultra.
In addition, we oversaw the development Secretary is the Secretary to the Committee.
of the Companys Risk Management Framework, Deloitte is the Groups External Auditor.
To with a particular focus on business-level risks ensure full and open communication, Deloitte including approving the appointment of was represented at all scheduled Committee Divisional and business-level risk champions meetings, and the lead director from PwC and reviewing business-level deep dives.
The attended those meetings at which key findings GDPR was, and continues to be, a focus area for from Internal Audit reports were reviewed by the Committee.
In 2017, we also oversaw an external audit During 2017, the Chairman of the Committee undertaken by Deloitte including reviewing the met with Deloitte and PwC in the absence of Ultra is committed to matrix of coverage and ensuring that the audit Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
In scope was in line with the scope of such reviews addition, the Committee met with Deloitte ensuring it has robust undertaken by Ultras peers.
The impact of IFRS without Executive Directors present, where 15 on the Group was assessed by KPMG, across Deloitte reported on its views of the Groups and effective risk each of the 18 businesses in the Group, a process financial management process and any matters that was designed and implemented, and its that they thought should be brought to the management and results reviewed, by the Committee.
The Committee has written terms of reference which include all control processes.
John Hirst, Chairman of the Audit Committee matters recommended by the Code.
These terms of reference are reviewed and approved by the Board annually and are available from the Investors section of the Groups website www.
The Board is kept fully informed of the Committees work and the minutes of each Committee meeting are circulated to Board members.
Ultra AR&A 2017 Governance AW Layout 1 09 03 2018 11:25 Page 17 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 74 Audit Committee Report continued How the Audit Committee spent its time in 2017 Financial statements and accounting policies Review managements significant issues The Committee considered and recommended to the Board for approval the annual and interim and judgements, the Groups financial financial statements and related results announcements.
statements and the formal announcement The Committee discussed the key accounting policies and practices adopted by the Group.
In on the Groups financial performance.
addition, it reviewed the key accounting judgements and matters that required the exercise of Review the Groups going concern and significant management judgement.
The Committee agreed the going concern statement and long-term viability statement.
Internal controls, including the financial reporting control framework and financial reporting developments Assess the effectiveness of the Groups The Committee considered reports on the internal control environment and risk management system of internal control and risk and their effectiveness.
The Committee considered compliance by the businesses with the Groups Business Continuity and IT Disaster Recovery Policies.
The Committee discussed the Internal Controls Status Report which summarised the results from the six-monthly Divisional internal control review meetings.
The Committee reviewed the principal risks, the Groups risk appetite and risk metrics and considered their alignment to the achievement of Ultras strategic objectives.
An assessment was undertaken of the key controls in place and future planned management actions to address the risks.
Risk deep dives were conducted into the following areas: pension and pension strategy, cyber, and delivering change, and improvements in the relevant processes were actioned by the Company.
The Committee considered reports on known or suspected fraud.
Further details of the approach to risk management can be found on pages 38-45.
Internal audit Review the effectiveness of the Internal Following its review of the adequacy of the internal control framework for the Group, the Audit function and discuss control issues Committee agreed the Internal Audit plan for the year.
The Committee considered summary reports from the risk-based and rotational reviews and progress reports on the implementation of remedial actions, and considered the controls around the S3 Programme rollout with the follow-up report due in 2018, the Groups bid review process and month-end process.
External audit, auditor engagement and policy Review the scope and effectiveness of the The Committee considered reports from the External Auditor on the outcomes of their audit External Audit process: including process and the External Audit plan for the year.
negotiating the terms of the External The Committee reviewed the External Auditors engagement policy, independence and Auditors appointment, scope, fees and effectiveness, and audit and non-audit fees.
independence and supervising any audit tender process.
Overview Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 75 Update on the actions reported in the 2016 Annual Report & Accounts Areas of focus Actions taken Considering the impact of the April 2016 Briefing papers in respect of the Committee's continued compliance with the Code were presented version of the Code on the Committees work to the Committee.
Conducting a deep dive into the A deep dive into the delivering change risk was undertaken and the relevant processes delivering change principal risk actioned by the Company.
Reviewing Ultras tax strategy statement in Ultras tax strategy statement was reviewed in line with the Finance Act 2016 and recommended line with the Finance Act 2016 changes were implemented.
The Committees focus for 2018 Conducting risk deep dives into the In addition to the annual routine matters for following areas: innovation and consideration, the main areas of focus for the development and supply chain Committee for 2018 will be: Overseeing the implementation of the GDPR throughout the Group Focusing on the risks highlighted in the 2017 internal audit, including the S3 Programme rollout, the bid review process and the month-end process Significant financial judgements and How the Committee addressed these judgements financial reporting for 2017 Valuation of and impairment testing of The Committee reviewed the methodology and assumptions used to determine the balance sheet goodwill and intangible assets values.
The Committee also considered reports from and held discussions with the External Auditors.
Valuation of Oman Airport IT Contract The Committee considered the level of the provisions for this matter.
termination and Ithra liquidation provisions IFRS 15 The Committee considered the impact of IFRS 15 on the Group.
Long-term contract accounting The Committee considered the judgements taken into the forecast cost to complete estimates for significant contracts.
Financial control In addition, there is a Group-wide process Operational controls The Group has in place internal control and risk specifically for monitoring financial controls and The Group Operating Manual sets out the management arrangements in relation to the risks.
Management have delegated control mandatory Group policies and procedures to Groups financial reporting processes and the ownership to each of the businesses and be followed and is communicated widely across preparation of its consolidated accounts.
The established a framework for reporting whether the Group.
arrangements include procedures to ensure the the controls are designed and operating The Managing Directors and Presidents, the maintenance of records which accurately and fairly effectively.
Every six months, Divisional Internal Finance Directors and the Vice Presidents of reflect transactions to enable the preparation of Control Meeting DICM meetings are attended Finance of each Business are required to give a financial statements in accordance with by the Group Finance Director, the Divisional formal written representation to the Board each International Financial Reporting Standards.
They Finance Director and by Internal Audit.
This representation confirms that they also require reported data to be reviewed and At the DICM meetings, the internal controls accept responsibility for maintaining effective reconciled, with appropriate monitoring internally processes and issues for each business are internal controls in line with the Group and by the Audit Committee.
These include: Operating Manual and that they have disclosed Business Performance Reports comparing actuals, Results from the Senior Accounting full details of any fraud or suspected fraud budget, forecasts and prior year are prepared for Officer review within their business.
all businesses on a monthly basis and reviewed, Self-assessment against the Group where relevant, by the Divisional Finance Directors, Operating Manual the Group Finance Director, members of the Outstanding Internal and External Audit Executive Team and the Board.
recommendations When preparing and reviewing financial Compliance with the Groups Information information, the businesses do not work to a Security Policy.
All variances judged to be Summary results from these reviews are included significant are investigated and explained.
in the Internal Controls Improvement Status Report, which is presented to the Audit Committee biannually.
Following the November profit warning, the Board and Executive Team have implemented enhanced controls and procedures in certain specic areas, including strategic planning and forecasting.
Ultra AR&A 2017 Governance AW Layout 1 09 03 2018 11:25 Page 19 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 76 Audit Committee Report continued Internal audit The Committee concluded that Deloitte had PwC are appointed by Ultra as its internal been sufficiently transparent and incisive and auditor.
The use of an experienced external firm that the audits had been effective.
In addition, provides independent assurance on the the Committee concluded that Deloitte was both effectiveness of the system of internal control.
independent and objective and that the A risk and rotational based approach is taken by reappointment of Deloitte as external auditor the Company in determining its Internal Audit should be recommended to the shareholders.
plan, thereby ensuring that the plan is clearly Accordingly, a resolution to reappoint Deloitte linked to the Companys strategy and is flexible will be put to shareholders at the 2018 Annual enough to highlight and address emerging risks.
The Internal Audit plan and resources are The senior audit partner employed by Deloitte considered and monitored by the Committee, on the Groups audit is subject to a strict policy together with all internal control findings and of regular rotation such that there is a change in remedial actions.
this role at least once every five years.
This is in All newly acquired, individually operating accordance with professional practice guidelines.
businesses are audited within a year of their Deloitte was appointed in 2002.
Where required, additional was appointed in 2016.
The Committee considers audits are identified during the year in response that for an organisation of the size and complexity to changing priorities and requirements.
of Ultra, the tendering of external audit must be well planned to ensure that the Group complies The lead director of PwC reports directly to the with best practice corporate governance as well Chairman of the Committee and presents the as ensuring the Group receives a high quality, findings to the Committee biannually.
Progress efficient and effective external audit service.
reports on follow-up remedial actions are The Committee considers that it would be reported regularly to the Committee.
PwC appropriate to conduct an External Audit tender confirms whether appropriate action has been by no later than 2023 at which point Deloitte taken to address the risks when they next visit would be precluded from being Ultras external the business concerned.
The Company is in compliance with the The effectiveness of Internal Audit is assessed by requirements of the Statutory Audit Services for the review of Internal Audit reports, meetings Large Companies Market Investigation with the Chairman of the Committee without Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes management being present and views from senior and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order management and the Group Finance Director.
External auditor There are no contractual obligations that restrict The performance, The performance, effectiveness and the Committees choice of external auditor.
independence of the Companys External effectiveness and The Auditors engagement letter and the scope Auditor, Deloitte, is reviewed annually by the of the years annual audit cycle is discussed in Committee.
The Committee received a briefing independence of the advance by the Committee, ensuring that any by Deloitte on the firms policies on these changes in circumstances arising since the matters and noted that such policies are subject Companys External previous year are taken into account.
With to external monitoring by the Audit Quality respect to non-audit services undertaken by Review Team, which is a part of the FRCs Auditor, Deloitte, is Deloitte, Ultra has a policy to ensure that the Conduct Division.
provision of such services do not impair Deloittes reviewed annually by In addition, the Committee considered the independence or objectivity.
questions contained in a questionnaire issued by It is the policy of the Group that non-audit the Committee.
the Institute of Chartered Accountants of services provided by Ultras External Auditor are Scotland in October 2007 to assess performance, restricted to regulatory reporting, consultancy effectiveness and independence.
services associated with financial restructuring, The effectiveness of the External Audit process is responding to new reporting requirements, due assessed by the Committee, which meets diligence assessments of potential acquisitions regularly throughout the year with the senior and consultancy work.
In connection with due audit partner and senior audit managers.
Key to diligence work and consultancy, the Board the overall effectiveness of the process is that believes that the External Auditors familiarity both the Company and the auditor make the with Ultras accounting practices and the other aware of accounting and financial techniques that are involved in Ultras long-term reporting issues as and when they arise, and this contracting activities serves them well in carrying exchange is not limited to the period in which out such work.
formal audit and review engagements take place.
The Committee believes that sufficient and appropriate information is obtained to form an overall judgement on the effectiveness of the external audit process.
Overview Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 77 The Group Finance Director has authority to Fraud commission the External Auditor to undertake The Internal Audit process, carried out by PwC, The Internal Audit non-audit work where there is a specific project described on page 76, and the Groups internal with a cost that is not expected to exceed control framework help to protect the Group process, carried out by 50,000.
Any individual assignments with an against fraud.
Regular business reviews take estimated fee in excess of 50,000 must be place at all businesses, in which detailed balance PwC, and the Groups referred in advance to the Chairman of the sheet and cash flow reviews are carried out by Committee for his approval.
The non-audit work the relevant Divisional Managing and Financial internal control has to be reported to the Committee at its next Directors.
In addition, the Group Finance Director meeting.
Before commissioning non-audit and Group Chief Operating Officer each review framework help to services, the Group Finance Director or the the performance of the businesses with the Chairman of the Committee, as appropriate, Divisional team monthly and directly with the protect the Group must ensure that the external auditor is satisfied businesses at least biannually.
Significant that there is no issue regarding independence differences between forecast and reported against fraud.
and objectivity and that other potential providers financial results are highlighted and require are adequately considered.
The fees in relation to explanation by the business unit concerned.
the proposed acquisition of the Sparton The internal control framework that is in place is Corporation were reviewed and agreed in line supplemented by the External Audit process with this process.
In addition, consideration must which represents a second independent review of be given to the provisions of the Financial controls and procedures, with selective transaction Reporting Council Guidance on Audit testing of higher risk areas.
There is a fraud Committees with regard to the preservation of reporting process in place.
All cases of fraud would independence and objectivity.
The external be immediately investigated and the situation auditor certified to the Company that it is acting reported to the Committee and the Board.
independently and that, after review, the Whistleblowing Company through the Chairman of the Audit An independently hosted Employee Hotline Committee and the Group Finance Director has EthicsPoint is used to provide a process for satisfied itself of the auditors independence.
Such concerns can be providing a non-audit service, the external filed anonymously.
Employees are informed of auditor should not: audit their own work: make this process through posters which are management decisions for the Company: create translated into local languages and through the a mutuality of interest: or find themselves in the Group intranet which is accessible by all role of advocate for Ultra.
Employee concerns are forwarded The EU audit legislation came into effect on to the Senior Independent Director or, in the 1 June 2016.
For the year commencing case of issues covered by US security legislation, 1 January 2018, Ultra is subject to restrictions on to the Chairman of the Security Committee of non-audit fees arising from EU audit legislation.
either Ultras Special Security Agreement From 2020, the maximum non-audit fees that company or Ultras Proxy Board company, as the statutory auditor can bill in any one year is appropriate.
During 2017, six reports were filed set at 70% of the average of the audit fees billed via this system three in respect of conflicts of over the preceding three years.
All non-audit interest, one alleging threatening behaviour, one services provided by Deloitte in the year will be relating to perceived discrimination or tracked relative to this cap.
harassment, and one seeking information for a different service.
Each of these reports was The Committee considers that certain non-audit investigated fully at the relevant time, responses services should be provided by the external were provided promptly via the system, and the auditor, because its existing knowledge of the matters were subsequently closed.
business makes it the most efficient and effective way for non-audit services to be carried out.
The Anti-bribery majority of non-audit fees in 2017 were incurred Ultra has robust anti-bribery policies and in respect of the work required on the class 1 procedures in place.
All Directors and employees proposed acquisition of the Sparton Corporation.
are required to sign Ultras code of conduct on In awarding this non-audit work to Deloitte, the anti-bribery and commit to act in accordance Committee took account of Deloittes knowledge with it.
Within one week of joining Ultra, all of the Group as auditor, the benefits of Deloitte Directors and employees undertake anti-bribery reviewing the financial data in detail before training.
Additional anti-bribery training is given announcement, and considered Deloitte able to as appropriate.
Compliance with the code of provide an effective service.
conduct on anti-bribery is mandatory and monitored.
The Group intranet contains a The fees paid to Deloitte in respect of audit and statement regarding compliance with Ultras non-audit services are shown on page 112 of the anti-bribery policies.
The Audit Committee Report Financial Statements.
was approved by the Board on 5 March 2018 The Group has a policy on employment of and signed on its behalf by: former employees of the external auditor.
This requires that any such employment is considered John Hirst, Chairman of the Audit Committee on a case by case basis and takes into account the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards on such appointments.
Such appointments require approval by a combination of the Group Finance Director, Audit Committee and Board, depending on the seniority of the appointment.
