Nomination Committee Report The composition of the Board remains under review, with the Committee focused on the recruitment of new Board members Dear Shareholder As the new Chairman, I have been identifying candidates for appointment to the Board as I committed to do as part of the Rights Issue and in following the programme of changes agreed by the Board at that time.
The first role filled was that of the Senior Independent Director, due to the seniority of this role.
With John McAdams appointment secured in August, the Nomination Committee was slimmed down and now includes me, the Senior Independent Director and the Chairs of both the Audit and Remuneration Committee.
The terms of reference for the Committee are being revisited to incorporate best practice.
In December 2017, the Board announced that Ren Mdori would be joining the Board with effect from 1 January 2018.
Ren Mdori joins the Board with a wealth of financial and listed company experience.
Alan Semple will retire from the Board and as the Audit Committee Chair at the 2018 Annual General Meeting and Ren Mdori will take over from Alan Semple as the Chair of the Audit Committee.
Also in December 2017, the Board announced that General Norton Schwartz would be joining the Board with effect from 1 January 2018.
Norton joins the Board with a US Military background having been Chief of Staff for the US Air Force 2008-2012.
Michael Hagee will retire by rotation at the AGM in April 2018 after serving nine years on the Board.
Full due diligence was completed for all Board candidates, including meetings with Board members before their formal appointment was confirmed.
I have been very conscious that some shareholders have concerns regarding directors taking on too many non-executive roles.
For those members of the Board who have more than one other Board position, I have assessed their ability to be able to meet our time commitments going forward, particularly as we go through the operational turnaround.
I am satisfied that all Board members put forward for election or re-election at the AGM have the capacity to meet the time commitments we need.
All Board members are required to complete their own continued professional development.
As a Board we are also conscious of the need to keep up to date with current regulatory requirements and have, accordingly, built time into the 2018 work plans to receive updates from our external advisors, alongside the routine updates we receive from our Company Secretary and internal subject matter experts.
The Committee focused My thanks go to all of the Board members, including those who have left on the recruitment during 2017 and those leaving after the 2018 AGM.
I would extend particular thanks to the Remuneration Committee Chair, who helped the executive process for the newly management through their induction, the early part of the turnaround and in replacing senior management positions below the Board.
appointed Non-executive Role and focus Directors and a process is The Nomination Committees main duties are to: Review the structure, size and composition of the Board: and underway to complete a Consider succession planning for Directors.
skills review at Board level Key events for 2017 Conducted a complete Board evaluation as I took up the role of Chairman: Reviewed the structure, size and composition of the Board: Reviewed Committee structure: Formed a new Board Risk Committee: Oversight of the search for the new Board members: and Led by John McAdam as Senior Independent Director, conducted a full review of the performance of myself as Chairman.
com 54 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Skills and experience Skills and Experience UK Corporate Human Independence Years with Cobham Governance Engineering Defence Finance US Market UK Listings Resources Michael Wareing 7 John McAdam 0 David Lockwood 1 David Mellors 1 Michael Hagee 9 Ren Mdori 0 Birgit Nrgaard 4 Norton Schwartz 0 Alan Semple 3 Alison Wood 6 All of the Directors, Executive and Non-executive, have leadership, strategy and risk experience.
Priorities for 2018 Diversity and inclusion Complete a Board skills review to inform the structure, size and composition The Committee is aware of the need for diversity when considering the of the Board and to ensure experience and competencies remain aligned composition of the Board.
In recruiting for Board roles, targets are generally with the strategic plan and are appropriately balanced: set around ensuring a proportion of female and ethnically diverse applicants Complete the programme of changes to be made to the Board: and are included in the candidate pool for Non-executive Director positions.
Oversight of a succession planning exercise for the Executive Directors.
The representation of women on the Board as at December 2017 was 20%.
The Committees terms of reference, which are under review, are available on Please refer to page 42 for details of diversity and inclusion initiatives within Cobhams website or by application to the Company Secretary.
Membership and attendance Succession planning for Board members and senior management Two formal meetings were held during the year, attended as follows: Succession planning takes place on a regular basis to ensure that the Group is managed by executives with the necessary skills, experience and knowledge.
The Board has a role to play in overseeing the development of management Michael Wareing 1 resources in the Group.
Specifically, the Board wants to see depth and quality John McAdam in management, and robust processes are in place to help them in this task.
2 Michael Hagee The succession planning process is in need of review, which is a focus area 2 Birgit Nrgaard for 2018.
Alan Semple Alison Wood The Nomination Committee actively manages Non-executive Director succession 3 David Jonathan Flint having regard to anticipated retirement dates for existing Directors and initiates focused searches for Non-executive Directors as positions are required.
Attended M Hagee 1 John McAdam joined the Board on 3 August 2017.
2 The Committee constitution was reviewed and Birgit Nrgaard and Michael Hagee left M Wareing the Committee on 24 July 2017.
3 A Wood David Jonathan Flint retired from the Board on 3 August 2017.
B Nrgaard Directors professional development A Semple On appointment, Directors undertake a structured induction programme in the course of which they receive information about: J McAdam The operations and activities of the Group: R Mdori The role of the Board and the matters reserved for its decision: The Groups corporate governance practices and procedures: N Schwartz Their duties, responsibilities and obligations as Directors of a listed public 2007 2012 2018 AGM 2022 2027 limited company: and 1st term 2nd term 3rd term Specific duties as a member of one of the Board committees.
The Board composition in relation to length of service and current term as at 31 December 2017, is shown above.
This is supplemented by visits to key locations and meetings with, and presentations by, members of the senior management team.
Development for Directors is available as required and is provided mainly by means of internal briefing from senior management or advisors and external courses.
In addition, Directors knowledge of the legal and regulatory Michael Wareing environment is updated through the provision of information by the Groups Nomination Committee Chair advisors and by means of regular updates from the Company Secretary and the 1 March 2018 legal team.
There is also time reserved in the Boards work plan and within those of its committees to receive updates and teach-ins from advisors and subject matter experts.
As mentioned on page 50, site visits are considered critical to ensure that the Directors remain close to the business of the Group.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 55
