Introduction Strategic Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 55 Corporate Governance Report Set out below is the Boards formal report on corporate governance and separate reports from the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
UK Corporate Governance Code - Board diversity Compliance statement The non-executive directors are a diverse group from different backgrounds The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate and nationalities and bring with them a wide range of skills and experience governance and confirms that throughout the year-ending 31 December in commerce, finance and industry in various parts of the world.
There 2017 the Company has applied the principles of good governance contained are five different nationalities on the Board and two of the seven serving in the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and complied directors are female i. e. 29%.
Our approach to diversity is set out in more with its best practice provisions.
Further details appear below, and in detail in the Corporate Responsibility section on pages 36 to 43 and in the the Directors Report and other cross-referenced sections of this Annual Nominations Committee Report on page 64.
Report, all of which are incorporated by reference into this report.
There are no provisions in respect of which an explanation is needed under the Non-executive Gender Nationality comply or explain requirement.
A description of the main features of the executive directors Companys internal control system and disclosures on other regulatory matters including statements on going concern and viability can be found on pages 146 to 149 in the Directors Report.
A summary of our risk management 3 3 5 2 4 3 systems and information about the risks and uncertainties that relate to our business is detailed within the How we manage risk section on pages 46 to 49.
Information on corporate responsibility can be found in the Corporate 3 Independent non- 2 Female 3 British Responsibility section on pages 36 to 43. executive directors 5 Male 4 Other 3 Executive directors Board composition Under the Code, the Chairman is excluded when considering Seven directors served on the Board throughout 2017: the Chairman: the the independent non-executive composition of the Board.
Chief Executive: three independent non-executive directors: the Finance Director and one operational executive director.
In addition, Ross McInnes Dates of appointment was a non-executive director until 30 September 2017 and Bob Stack was a non-executive director until 7 December 2017.
Thomas Thune Andersen Name Date of appointment Date of current letter Anticipated expiry of was appointed as a non-executive director with effect from 1 July 2018. of appointment current term The Board now comprises seven directors.
In line with the Code, all Carl-Peter Forster 1 October 2012 12 December 2017 30 September 2018 continuing directors stand for re-election at each Annual General Meeting.
Birgit Nrgaard 6 November 2012 12 December 2017 5 November 2018 Isobel Sharp 1 September 2015 12 December 2017 31 August 2018 Independence of non-executive directors Lord Robert Smith 7 May 2015 12 December 2017 6 May 2018 The Board considers that all of the non-executive directors are free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with Meetings and use of Board time the exercise of their independent judgement and all meet the criteria The Board met on seven occasions during the year including two results for independence under the Code.
All of the non-executive directors are reporting meetings, a day dedicated to strategy discussions and regular regarded by the Board as independent.
The Chairman was also regarded review meetings at which updates are provided as appropriate to include as independent at the date of his appointment to the Board.
safety, operational and financial matters, investor relations, risk and legal affairs.
One special meeting was convened to approve the acquisition of Bimba Manufacturing Company.
In addition, there were several days spent on Board site visits and attendance at the Group Management Conference.
56 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate Governance Report 2017 Board cycle Board roles and reserved matters A description of Board roles and reserved matters is included in the IMI February Corporate Governance Framework which can be found on the Company website and is summarised in the Directors Report on pages 146 to 149.
Approval of the preliminary results and Annual Report Approval of the final dividend recommendation Induction and continuing development programme Approval of notice of Annual General Meeting including for 2018 the remuneration policy A formal induction process for new non-executive directors is well established and is the responsibility of the Chairman with support from the Chief Executive May and Company Secretary.
Review of trading and other updates Business familiarisation is at the core of induction and continuing development Approval of the interim management statement for non-executive directors at IMI and is centred around gaining an Preparation for the Annual General Meeting understanding of the business and getting to know the wider management July team.
In addition, all non-executive directors attend a corporate induction Approval of the interim results day for senior managers held at head office.
There is also a committee Approval of interim dividend induction process designed to brief new committee members on the relevant committees activity and the issues it faces.
Interim risk review September Non-executive directors are required to visit business units around the Group and to meet face-to-face with senior operating management and Strategy meeting key corporate staff.
There is regular contact between management and Five year business plan review non-executive directors during site visits, formal meetings and other October company events.
Site visit During 2017 all of the non-executive directors made site visits and the whole Review of trading and other updates Board spent two days in Italy, where they visited the IMI Orton business in IMI November Critical Engineering.
Feedback on individual site visits is given to the Board.
Acquisition proposal Appropriate training and other continuing professional development is December available to all non-executive directors and regular updates are given during Budget for 2018 the year where relevant to the business arising at Board and committee meetings.
Non-executive directors are encouraged to undertake training at Updates for review company expense and several did attend external training during the year.
Annual risk review Board evaluation Board visit to IMI Orton, Italy IMI has a substantial presence in Italy which is home to business units in all Board attendance three divisions.
In particular, IMI Critical Engineering has five business units in the country including, IMI Orton in Piacenza near Milan.
IMI Orton is a key Director Board meetings % attended where eligible brand for IMI Critical Engineering and offers a range of isolation valves for LNG and other severe service applications.
In October the Board visited IMI Orton Carl-Peter Forster 7 7 100 1 where it held meetings and toured the manufacturing site.
Ross McInnes 2 4 50 Birgit Nrgaard 7 7 100 The Board commended the investment in the IMI Orton facility and the high Isobel Sharp 7 7 100 standards of operational management.
IMIs core processes were seen to be well embedded and the business has made excellent progress with its Value Lord Smith 7 7 100 2 Engineering programme.
Site visits are an important, regular feature of the Bob Stack 6 7 100 Board calendar.
Each visit provides an excellent opportunity for the Board to Mark Selway 7 7 100 meet a wider group of employees and gain a more in-depth understanding Daniel Shook 7 7 100 of the business.
Roy Twite 7 7 100 During the factory tour, management and staff had the opportunity to 1 showcase a wide range of improvements and local management made Ross McInnes did not participate in one meeting due to family bereavement and stepped down from the Board on 30 September 2017. business presentations.
Senior managers from IMI Orton and other Critical 2 Bob Stack ceased to be a director due to his sad death on 7 December 2017.
Engineering businesses in Italy joined the Board for discussions over dinner.
In 2018 to date the Board has met once with all members in attendance.
Introduction Strategic Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 57 Board evaluation In line with the Code, the Board has agreed that the Chairman should arrange an externally facilitated evaluation process, normally once every three years.
The last such evaluation was conducted in 2014.
In 2017 an  evaluation exercise was carried out with Egon Zehnder, an independent consultancy that has no other business connection with the Company.
A comprehensive brief was given to the assessment team by the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The evaluation also observed Board and committee meetings in July 2017 and subsequently detailed interviews were conducted with every director.
In addition, representatives of Egon Zehnder interviewed members of the senior management team and selected advisers.
All participants completed questionnaires and were interviewed on an individual basis.
Draft conclusions were discussed with the Chairman and subsequently reviewed with the whole Board at its meeting in December 2017 with Egon Zehnder present.
Carl-Peter Forster as the senior independent director received the report on the Chairman which he discussed with him, and the Chairman received a report with feedback on individual directors which was discussed with them.
The chairs of the three non-executive committees each received a report from the external evaluation exercise and reviewed that with 1 their committee.
Based on their review Egon Zehnders overriding conclusion was that the Board is run in an effective manner and the Board was pleased with the highly positive outcome.
Following discussion of the report by Egon Zehnder the Board noted some areas for development over the coming year including routine feedback on site visits, continuing development of strong 2 relationships among Board members and regular M&A updates for the Board to be expanded.
The directors are satisfied that the Board is fulfilling its responsibilities appropriately and that the Board and its committees were effective and that each continuing director demonstrated a valuable contribution and a commitment to their role.
As senior independent director, Carl-Peter Forster conducted a review of the Chairman with the other non-executive directors and shared the results with the Chairman.
During the year the Chairman also met with the nonexecutive directors to review the performance of the Chief Executive.
The Chairman passed on to the Chief Executive appropriate feedback from the review of his performance.
Standing committees of the Board 1 Raoul Gatti, Managing Director of IMI Orton explains the benefits of new The standing committees of the Board are the Audit Committee, the machine tool fixings designed using SMED technologies Single Minute Nominations Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
Each of these Exchange of Dies.
committees operates under written terms of reference which clearly set out 2 Andrea Forzi R, Head of Petrochemical & Isolation, explains IMI Orton products their respective delegated responsibilities and authorities.
The full terms of to IMIs Chairman, Lord Smith.
reference of these committees are part of the IMI Corporate Governance Framework.
The committees report to the Board on their work, normally through their respective chair, following each meeting.
Separate reports from the committees appear in this Annual Report as follows: Audit Committee Report on pages 60 to 63: Nominations Committee Report on pages 64 to 65 and Remuneration Committee Report on pages 66 to 85.
58 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate Governance Report Audit Committee Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee Isobel Sharp Lord Smith of Kelvin Birgit Nrgaard Chair Chair Chair Membership Membership Membership Carl-Peter Forster Carl-Peter Forster Carl-Peter Forster Birgit Nrgaard Birgit Nrgaard Isobel Sharp Main responsibilities Main responsibilities Main responsibilities Financial reporting Board and committee composition Define and recommend the remuneration policy Oversight role in relation to financial statements Oversight of succession plans for the Board and Determine the individual remuneration packages for senior management and corporate roles for the most senior executives and the Chairman Reviewing significant areas of judgement and within the policy approved by shareholders accounting policies Search for and recommendation of candidates for appointment as non-executive directors, Chief Set annual and long-term incentive metrics and Reviewing the proposed statements on Executive and other executive director positions awards and determine the outcomes going concern and viability to appear in the Annual Report Diversity policy and monitoring of progress Report on remuneration matters and constructively engage with shareholders Advising the Board on whether the draft Annual Review and recommendation of proposals for Report is fair, balanced and understandable the assignment of major executive responsibilities Assess risk in respect of remuneration and and the appointment and removal of divisional incentive structures in particular Monitoring announcements in respect of business leaders financial performance Financial control and risk Monitoring the effectiveness of internal financial controls Reviewing financial risk including fraud risk Oversight of internal audit and other key processes for monitoring internal financial control Overseeing the external audit process, its objectivity, effectiveness and cost with responsibility for setting the audit fee Making recommendations to the Board for the appointment of the auditor including oversight of the audit tender process Reviewing the system for confidential whistleblowing and the treatment of reports received Introduction Strategic Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 59 In addition to the Annual Report, the Company issues preliminary results Executive Committee and interim results announcements, as well as two interim management The Executive Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive and the other statements between results announcements.
The IMI website includes members are shown on page 15.
The Committee meets monthly and more recordings of results presentations made by senior management, recent often as may be required.
Regular attendees at its meetings include the annual and interim reports, interim management statements, other corporate Group Financial Controller, Director of Risk and Compliance, and the announcements and links to the websites of the Groups businesses.
The Company has arranged a dealing service for the convenience of The Executive Committee is the senior management body and as part of the shareholders with Equiniti details are shown on page 170.
A sponsored broad remit set by the Chief Executive it monitors and manages business Level 1 American Depositary Receipt programme has been established for performance, reviews progress against strategic objectives and considers which Citibank, N. A. acts as depositary details can be found on page 170. divisional management issues.
It also formulates budgets and proposals on strategy, policy and resource allocation for consideration by the Board.
The Executive Committee is a management committee which takes its By order of the Board authority from the Chief Executive and is not a committee of the Board.
John OShea The Executive Committee plays a key part in risk assessment, risk Group Legal Director and Company Secretary management and monitoring processes and receives regular reports 1 March 2018 on human resources, health and safety, compliance, legal and other corporate affairs.
Investor relations The Board seeks to maintain a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders and to assist them in the stewardship of their investments.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director have primary responsibility at Board level for investor relations and they, and the Head of Investor Relations, report to the Board on shareholder issues at every Board meeting during the year.
Financial analysts notes are circulated to the directors and the Board receives regular feedback reports from the Companys brokers and public relations advisers as well as from management.
Dialogue is maintained with the principal shareholders and the executive directors meet regularly with institutional investors.
During 2017 there were over 130 such meetings with institutional shareholders.
The Chairman and the senior independent director also are available to shareholders as needed and both have had contact with investors during the year.
The 2017 Annual General Meeting was presided over by the Chairman and attended by all of the directors other than Ross McInnes, who gave his apologies for absence due to a family bereavement.
The Chairman encouraged debate and questions at the formal meeting and the directors met shareholders informally afterwards.
Each substantively separate issue was put to the Annual General Meeting as an individual motion.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting was issued more than twenty working days in advance of the meeting and the level of votes lodged for and against each resolution, together with details of abstentions, are shown on the IMI website.
The Board values the support of shareholders and the poll results for all resolutions proposed at the Annual General Meeting were above 90% in favour in each case.
