Nominations Committee report Ensuring diversity in skills, expertise and knowledge Committee membership meeting attendance is on page 49 Michael Dobson Chairman Rhian Davies Ian King Nichola Pease Robin Buchanan Rakhi Goss-Custard Philip Mallinckrodt Bruno Schroder Sir Damon Buffini Philip Howard I am pleased to present the Nominations Committee report for 2017.
In addition to Board succession, the Nominations Committee also considered the composition of the principal Board Committees, Responsibilities of the Nominations Committee particularly in the context of Philip Howards impending retirement.
The Committee is responsible for keeping under review the InJuly 2017 Ian King joined the Remuneration Committee.
It was composition of the Board and its Committees and for ensuring agreed by the Nominations Committee in February 2018 that Nichola appropriate executive and non-executive Director succession plans are Pease would succeed Philip Howard as Chairman of the Remuneration in place.
Her long experience in the asset management industry and her membership of this Committee since 2014 means she is well The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys placed to take over from Philip in this important role.
Following Philip Howards retirement there will be three independent Activities of the Nomination Committee non-executive Directors on the Audit and Risk Committee but we have As we indicated in last years report, our focus in 2017 was to identify concluded that we do not need to make an additional appointment to potential candidates to succeed Philip Howard in 2018. this Committee at present.
Along with the Group Company Secretary, I met with each member of In February 2018 the Committee considered the role of Senior the Committee and the Group Chief Executive to discuss the required Independent Director and proposed that Ian King succeed Philip skills and experience for potential non-executive candidates.
High on asSenior Independent Director.
our list of priorities was experience in financial markets.
The Committee has confirmed that the non-executive Directors At our meeting in July we agreed the role profile and appointed MWM standing for re-election at this years AGM continue to perform Consulting to conduct the search for potential candidates.
MWM effectively, both individually and collectively as a Board, and that each Consulting is a signatory to the Voluntary Code of Conduct on Gender one demonstrates the required commitment to their roles.
Diversity and is independent of Schroders.
As Robin Buchanan, Philip Mallinckrodt and Bruno Schroder have After discussing an initial long list of candidates I interviewed five served on the Board for more than six years, the proposal for their candidates, four of whom went on to meet the Nominations re-election was given particular consideration.
The Committee agreed Committee and the Group Chief Executive.
In January 2018 we that these Directors continue to provide a valuable contribution to the announced the appointment of Sir Damon Buffini.
We look forward to Boards deliberations and recommends their re-election.
As required benefiting from his broad and highly successful experience in the field by the UK Listing Rules, the appointment of independent Directors of private equity in relation to our overall range of strategic must be approved by a simple majority of all shareholders and by a opportunities, and particularly in the area of private assets which is simple majority of the independent shareholders.
Further details are one of our growth priorities.
set out in the 2018 Notice of AGM.
54 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Diversity Diversity for us goes beyond gender or ethnic background.
We look fordiversity of skills and experience which is vital for an effective Board and management team and this will continue to be the primary criterion by which we select candidates for the Board.
Nevertheless, the Board understands the importance of increasing gender and diversity.
Whilst we currently have three female Directors representing 27 per cent of the Board, we aim to have a minimum of 33 per cent of Board positions held by women by 2020.
We also endeavour only to use the services of executive search firms who have signed up to the Voluntary Code of Conduct on Gender Diversity.
The full Board diversity policy is on page 28 and also our website.
Evaluating the performance of the Committee As part of the Board evaluation process in 2017 we used an external firm, Independent Board Evaluation.
Their assessment was that the Nominations Committee was working efficiently and effectively.
Theevaluation process is set out in detail on page 52.
Priorities for 2018 During 2018 we will consider Board composition and succession planning for senior management and non-executive Directors.
Inparticular, we will conduct a search for a successor to Robin Buchanan, who is scheduled to retire as a Director in 2019.
Michael Dobson Chairman of the Nominations Committee 28 February 2018 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 55
