Corporate Governance Report 2017 has seen enhancements to internal control, increased transparency, strengthening of the Balance Sheet and other governance changes Dear Shareholder As we noted in last years report, the early part of 2017 was focused on the actions needed to start the operational turnaround.
As I also noted last year, my fellow Board members and I spent time in the early part of the year considering the Boards strengths and, more importantly, our development areas.
I have also been working on the composition of the Board and we have announced a number of new non-executive appointments, namely: the new Senior Independent Director, John McAdam in August 2017, Ren Mdori, the Audit Committee Chair Elect, and Norton Schwartz, a Non-executive Director, both in December 2017.
Biographies for the new Directors have been included on page 47.
The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, who joined the Board in late 2016 and early 2017 respectively, have settled into their new roles quickly and have been instrumental in formulating the focus for 2017, namely on customer focus: leadership and simplification: and control and execution.
We also recognised the need to improve our succession planning, starting at Board level and then at all levels through the business.
Below Board level, there have been a number of significant senior appointments in the year to enhance our management team which are identified in the CEOs Statement.
During the year we formed a Board Risk Committee, chaired by me and comprising a number of the Non-executive Directors.
Meetings were also attended by our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Operations Officer, VP Risk Management, Group Head of Internal Audit and Assurance and Company Secretary.
We have complied with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code except in relation to the membership of our Remuneration Committee, where, due to the number of Board members being reduced, we could not comply with the Code in terms of numbers of Committee members, although we did comply with our own terms of reference and were therefore quorate.
The Audit Committee membership dropped to two members between the resignation of David Jonathan Flint and Birgit Nrgaard being appointed to the Committee, but no formal meetings were held during that period.
The Directors present their report and the audited Group and Parent Company Financial Statements of Cobham plc for the year ended 31 December 2017.
The focus during the Statement of compliance with the provisions of the Code The ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
In accordance year has been to with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, the Company confirms that throughout the year ended 31 December 2017 and at the date of this Annual address the Groups Report, it was compliant with the provisions of the Code subject to the committee membership point noted above: please refer to page 64 for operational issues and further details.
to enhance controls This part of the Annual Report describes how the Company has applied, and complied with, the Code.
The Code is published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC and is available from its website www.
Responsibility statements The statement relating to the responsibilities of the Directors is on page 75, and that relating to the auditors is on page 82.
Share capital Details of the share capital of the Company and the powers of the Directors inrelation to allotment, issue and market purchases of shares are given on page72.
com 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Financial reporting Corporate Governance Report At its February 2018 meeting, the Board reviewed and was satisfied that the The Board composition Annual Report and Accounts for the 2017 financial year, taken as a whole, is The Board comprises a Non-executive Chairman Michael Wareing, a CEO fair, balanced and understandable and the Board believes that the information David Lockwood, a CFO David Mellors, a Senior Independent Director John contained provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the McAdam and six other Non-executive Directors.
All Non-executive Directors, Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
The Audit except the Chairman, are considered to be independent and the Chairman was Committee, supported by management, has adopted a process to enable the considered to be independent on appointment.
They all held office throughout Board to take this view and this process is set out in the Audit Committee the year except John McAdam who was appointed on 3 August 2017, at which Report on page 61. point the previous Senior Independent Director, David Jonathan Flint retired from the Board.
Ren Mdori and Norton Schwartz both joined the Board as The Directors have adopted the going concern basis in preparing the Annual additional Board members on 1 January 2018.
Report and Accounts as stated in the CFOs Statement on page 33.
Biographies of the Directors, giving details of their experience and other Key events for 2017 significant commitments, are set out on pages 46 and 47.
The attendance of The Company completed a 512m Rights Issue 497m raised, net of Directors at Board meetings is set out on page 46 and attendance at principal costs, strengthening the Balance Sheet and allowing the management Board Committee meetings as members of such committees during the year team to focus on the business aims of: customer focus: leadership and is set out in the reports from each committee on pages 55, 59 and 64. simplification: control and execution: The Board has agreed a different approach to its strategic review process, The rules for the appointment and replacement of Directors are set out in the including more Board time spent on matters of a strategic nature.
The new Companys Articles of Association the Articles, copies of which can be approach commenced in October 2017 with a full day starting to consider obtained from Companies House in the UK or by contacting the Company strategic questions.
2018 will see time spent on reviews of each Sector to Secretary.
Changes to the Articles must be approved by shareholders passing assist the Board in its understanding of the Group: a special resolution.
The Directors and the Company in the latter case by Non-executive Board appointments during the year have included John ordinary resolution may appoint a person who is willing to act as a Director, McAdam as the new Senior Independent Director, the Audit Committee either to fill a vacancy or as an additional Director.
Chair Elect, Ren Mdori and Norton Schwartz: In terms of increased controls, improvements have been made to the risk All the Non-executive Directors have confirmed that they have sufficient time management process, with a focus on management of the accumulated to meet their time commitments to the Group.
Copies of their appointment known risk within the business and the formation of a formal Board Risk letters are available on request to the Company Secretary and will be available Committee, wider mandatory training including more training at Board for inspection at the Annual General Meeting AGM.
level, enhanced disclosure and transparency arrangements and a Corporate Framework and policy refresh, with roll out currently underway including In accordance with the Code, which recommends that all Directors of FTSE 350 training as necessary: and companies seek re-election by shareholders on an annual basis, all Directors We announced on 27 March 2017, that the Company is the subject of an currently in office will retire and those eligible and wishing to do so will seek investigation by the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
That investigation is re-election at the AGM.
The Chairman confirms to shareholders when ongoing and relates to the Companys handling of inside information prior proposing re-appointment that the individuals performance continues to be to its trading update and announcement of its intention to undertake the effective and that the individual continues to demonstrate commitment to the 2016 Rights Issue on 26 April 2016 and subsequent trading updates during role.
Non-executive Directors are subject to Companies Act provisions relating 2016 and early 2017.
The Company is cooperating fully with the FCA and to the removal of a Director.
will update the market on the outcome in due course.
The Chairman is, among other things, responsible for chairing Board meetings Priorities for 2018 and leading the Board.
The CEOs responsibilities include operational Review and challenge the organisational design to support a simplified performance, corporate social responsibility and the development and corporate structure: implementation of the Groups strategy.
He also focuses on long term growth Review and challenge the strategic direction of the Group as we finalise and development of the Group, its people and customer relationships.
The the turnaround: Boards policy is that the roles of Chairman and CEO should be performed by Review the capital allocation and dividend policy: and different people.
Continued focus on the operational and control improvements which commenced during 2017.
The Senior Independent Directors responsibilities include the provision of an additional channel of communication between the Chairman and the Non-executive Directors.
They also provide another point of contact for shareholders if they have concerns that communication through the normal channels of Chairman, CEO or CFO has failed, or where these contacts are inappropriate.
Michael Wareing Chairman 1 March 2018 www.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 49 Corporate Governance Report continued Board proceedings All potential situational and transactional conflicts of interest are disclosed, Board meetings noted and authorised.
Procedures are in place and operating effectively to Board meetings, scheduled in accordance with the annual timetable, were held keep such disclosures up to date.
six times during the year on a face to face basis and three times by telephone.
In addition, there were three short notice meetings to support Board decisions Board committees required between scheduled meetings and for approvals necessary to support The Board is supported in its work by a number of committees.
The Company the Rights Issue completed during the year.
There is also contact between Secretary acts as secretary to all Board committees.
Committee Chairs provide Board meetings to progress the Groups business as required.
Meetings are held oral reports on the work undertaken by their committees at the following in London, Wimborne and at other UK and international operational locations.
Information relating to the activities of each committee may be found on the pages that follow.
All Board committees are provided with sufficient resources to undertake their duties.
Site visits In 2017, the Board visited operational sites in Wimborne in the UK, and Lyngby, Denmark.
Site visits help the Board to understand the business Audit and its strategy better, as well as the problems being faced by the business and how they as Board members may be able to help.
Remuneration Performance reviews John McAdam, the Senior Independent Director, held a meeting with the other Nomination Non-executives, in the absence of the Chairman, to appraise the Chairmans performance.
The Chairman also held meetings with the Non-executives in the absence of the Executive Directors, and one to one performance appraisals Board of Risk with each Non-executive Director and the CEO.
Directors Board appointments Executive Directors At the start of the Board composition review process, the Chairman agreed a role specification and shortlist for the first appointment.
The first role to be filled was the Senior Independent Director SID role, due to the Contracts seniority of this role.
The Chairman undertook the initial screening of the candidates, in consultation with Egon Zehnder, following which further due Disclosure diligence was undertaken which included meeting other members of the Board and reference taking.
The Board approved the appointment of John McAdam to the role of the Senior Independent Director.
A similar process New committee established during the year was followed for the other two new Board appointments made, effective on 1 January 2018.
All new Board appointments will be considered by the The principal Board committees include the Nomination Committee, Audit Nomination Committee.
Committee and Remuneration Committees: please refer to pages 54, 56 and 62 respectively.
The other principal Board committee is the Executive Directors Board Diversity Committee.
The Executive Directors are the only members of this Committee, The Board is, by necessity, a diverse group of individuals, some with business under the chairmanship of the CEO.
The purpose is to assist the CEO in the backgrounds, and others with defence specific or more general management performance of his duties and its terms of reference include: experience.
This level of diversity is needed to make sure the decisions made The discharge of obligations arising under the Companys share plans: at this level have the right input and challenge.
It is also important for the Board The determination of the remuneration of the Non-executive Directors: to try to understand and influence the culture around the business, which The approval of banking facilities: and cannot be achieved solely from inside the boardroom.
The approval of bids and contracts above the limits delegated to the Sectors.
Matters reserved for the Board The Board has adopted a schedule of matters reserved for its specific approval.
This Committee met on 15 occasions during the year and, in addition, decisions The schedule provides the framework for those decisions that can be made by were made as required to respond to business needs and market conditions.
the Board and those that can be delegated.
Among the key matters on which Such decisions were subsequently ratified by the Committee in formal meeting.
the Board alone may make decisions are the Groups strategy, its three year financial plan, its consolidated budget, Group policies, dividends, acquisitions The Board Risk Committee was set up during 2017, providing assurance to the and disposals, and all appointments to and removals from the Board.
Authority Board regarding the management of principal risks as defined in the Annual is delegated to management by way of a delegation matrix in accordance with Report and Accounts, see pages 36 to 39.
It is this Committees intention to the provisions of the Groups Corporate Framework ensuring that proper formally report on its work in the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts.
management oversight exists at the appropriate level.
Matters delegated in this way include, within defined parameters: the approval of bids and contracts: As noted last year, the arrangements to manage disclosure of information capital expenditure and financing arrangements.
to the market were strengthened in January 2017.
A Disclosure Committee comprised of the Executive Directors, the Chairman and the Company Other Board proceedings Secretary has been tasked with ensuring that policies, systems and controls The Board has adopted procedures relating to the conduct of its business, exist to ensure that potential share price sensitive information is escalated, including the timely provision of information, and the Company Secretary is considered, verified and promptly released to the market, where required.
responsible for ensuring that these are observed and for advising the Board A Disclosure Panel, comprised of senior executives has been set up which on corporate governance matters.
The Company Secretary is appointed, and reports up to the Boards Disclosure Committee.
Enhanced disclosure can only be removed, by the Board.
arrangements and transparency training has been delivered through the Group during the year.
This has resulted in the Panel meeting on 28 If a Director were to have a concern that cannot be resolved this would be occasions throughout 2017 to consider potential price sensitive information.
recorded in the Board minutes.
On resignation, Non-executive Directors are invited to provide a written statement to the Chairman for circulation to the Board if they have concerns.
No such statements were made during 2017.
com 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Management committees The CAES Sector SSA Governance The Group Executive Committee and the other principal management The CAES Sector participates in classified US Defense programmes.
It therefore committees are shown in the table below.
In addition, business reviews, operates under a US DoD SSA as required by the US National Industrial Security focusing on financial performance for each business unit, were held on a Program.
In order to protect US national security interests, the SSA is designed monthly basis during 2017. to ensure that foreign ownership, control or influence FOCI does not affect the way that CAES conducts its business affairs or its performance on classified contracts.
There are certain areas in which CAES and the wider Group operate Operational Risk under an Affiliate Operations Plan AOP, pursuant to which certain services such as US Legal support can be provided by the Group to the SSA, or can be shared by the Group and the SSA.
Safety, Health and Environment The CAES Board has undergone a process during the year, led by the CEO of the Group, to strengthen the governance and personnel and is currently made Business Ethics and Compliance Group up of: Executive i the Groups CEO and CFO and General Michael Hagee known as Inside Directors under the SSA, whose biographies can be found on pages 46 Governance and 47: ii t he CAES Sector President and CFO known as Officer Directors under the SSA : and Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability iii a number of other individuals who have no prior relationship with Cobham plc known as Outside Directors under the SSA approved by the US Defense Security Service DSS, identified below: Disclosure Panel Lt. General Thomas McInerney USAF retired who has served in multiple high level military positions under the Secretary of Defense and the Vice President of the United States: Board and committees performance evaluation Admiral Steve Abbot USN retired former Deputy Commander in The Board conducts an evaluation of its activities on an annual basis.
Chief US European Command: Cindy Moran President and managing partner of IT consultancy, During the early months of 2017, the Chairman undertook in-depth evaluation Pikes Way LLC, and former Director of Network Services, US Defense interviews with each individual Non-executive Director to collate learning Information Systems Agency: and points to consider with the full Board at its April 2017 meeting.
The areas Scott Webster Co-founder and Executive Director of Orbital covered included: Sciences Corporation.
Assessment of the challenging market conditions and other developments during 2016, including lessons learnt: Outside Directors and Officer Directors, who must be US citizens with How the Board can ensure that better execution against plan is achieved appropriate US security clearances, also make up the Government Security by the business: Committee GSC of the CAES Board.
The SSA does not permit Inside Directors How the Board can assist the new Executive Directors as they settle to be members of the GSC, which is responsible for maintaining independent into role: and policies and processes facilitating insulation of CAES operations as a US cleared To assess the performance of each individual Board member.
defense contractor from the foreign parent.
As a result of this exercise, a number of changes have been instigated, including: The SSA restricts the level of participation that Cobham can have in certain CAES activities.
For example, it limits Cobhams ability to decide matters affecting the management or operations of the US cleared defense Board evaluation actions contractor CAES in a manner that may result in unauthorised access to classified information.
Observations Actions Improved strategic Adopting a different approach to the Cobham maintains its involvement in CAES activities primarily through input from the Board Boards strategic review process, including participation of Cobhams CEO and CFO as Inside Directors in the deliberations much more Board time spent on matters and decisions of the CAES Board and authorised committees, or interactions of a strategic nature.
October 2017 kicked through a series of shared services provided pursuant to an AOP approved by off the new approach with a full day the DSS.
spent on starting to formulate answers to strategic questions: All CAES Board Directors have a fiduciary duty to Cobham plc, as shareholder, Improved During 2018, half-day sessions will be held and the Outside Directors need to perform their duties reasonably and in good understanding of the with each Sector for a deep dive into their faith in a manner believed to be in the best interests of the SSA but consistent business business in order to support the Board in with the national security concerns of the US, as set out in the SSA.
Cobham its understanding of the business and to plc, as shareholder, retains the right to remove replace any member of the enable deeper insight into the Group: CAES Board, subject to the consent of the DSS in the case of an Outside Director.
In addition, under the current SSA, the CAES Board cannot carry Better Board evaluation Re-energising the Board Nomination out any of the actions listed below without Cobhams express approval: composition review Committee, reducing membership but Sell, lease or otherwise dispose of property or assets otherwise than in increasing involvement in the Board the usual course of business: skills composition review and succession Merge, consolidate, reorganise, dissolve or wind up the business: or planning process: and Terminate the SSA itself.
Improved management The introduction of a Board of the Groups risk RiskCommittee.
The effectiveness of governance and assurance procedures between the management processes Group and the CAES Sector are regularly reviewed.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 51 Jan Corporate Governance Report continued Investor Relations activity during 2017 Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Results Preliminary Annual General Rights Issue Interim Trading AGM Results 2016: Meeting: completed Results 2017 Update Trading Rights Issue Trading Update announced Investor meetings Other Investor Investor Airshow: Trade Show: Investor Investor Investor investor Site Visit Site Visit Investor Investor Site Visit Site Visit Site Visits activities Site Visit Site Visits The purpose of the shareholder relations programme is to keep current and Given the priority to improve the Groups operational performance, the potential investors regularly informed of the Groups prospects and progress shareholder relations programme in 2017 focused on existing shareholders, and significant developments as they occur.
An effective shareholder relations with the aim of maintaining an effective two-way information flow with them strategy will keep the Companys Board regularly informed of investor views so through a period of change.
This has taken the form of meetings with the CEO that there is the opportunity for these to impact Board strategy and objectives.
and CFO and visits to operating locations, with these trips hosted by business Done appropriately, this process should result in an effective two-way flow of unit management.
There have been opportunities for shareholders to view information between a companys owners and its managers.
Cobham products and meet business unit based management at two trade shows attended during the year.
These activities are intended to reinforce The year started with a new executive management team in place as well as the quality of the underlying businesses and of operational management.
There were a number of emerging trading and other issues that were communicated up to and at the 2 March 2017 preliminary results The Chairman has also offered to meet major shareholders during the year to announcement.
In April, this was followed by the Annual General Meeting discuss a range of matters including Board changes and governance and Group and a Rights Issue was announced in March and completed in May.
strategy, and he has elicited feedback from the investors met.
This feedback has been communicated to the Board.
The year continued with further announcements, including the Financial Conduct Authority investigation and three new Cobham Non-executive The Board is interested in the views of smaller investors, who would not Director appointments.
The AGM is a forum for this communication.
Within the scheduled preliminary and interim results announcements and The focus during the year on meeting existing shareholders has meant that trading updates, shareholders were informed of the early progress made so the aggregate number of investor meetings conducted was lower than in the far to turn around the Groups operational performance, including progress previous year at 188 2016: 273. that was being made against the Groups three operational priorities.
A project was undertaken during the year to refresh the Cobham investor website, to improve it visually and sharpen the navigation and messaging.
The results of this can be found at www.
com 52 Annual Report and Accounts 2017
