Audit Committee Report A significant focus area for the Audit Committee during 2017 has been oversight of enhancements to the Groups control environment including assessing progress on major development contracts Dear Shareholder This has been a critical year for Cobham, given the start of the Groups turnaround, including the completion of the 2017 Rights Issue.
The Audit Committee has focused on working with the CEO and CFO in their first year in the Group with an emphasis on improvements in the risk and controlenvironment.
Key issues for 2017 The Audit Committee agreed the scope and reviewed the outcome of the 2016 Balance Sheet review, including key judgements and provisions, and the process undertaken to complete the exercise.
The new CFO led the lessons learnt exercise from the 2016 Balance Sheet review and has updated the Audit Committee on progress.
This exercise identified a number of control improvement actions.
Implementation of these actions by the management team has progressed well with a number of further activities ongoing.
The Committee has monitored the implementation of improvements to the control environment throughout the year.
This has included: An enhanced governance structure and its key components: A revised, proportionate minimum standards of financial control, reporting of control standards at business unit level, and enhanced tracking and reporting of open and overdue Internal Audit recommendations: and Ongoing monitoring and reporting of the usage and adequacy of provisions given the significant charges created for 2016.
Oversight of the key development contracts and programmes has remained a priority throughout the year, and the Committee has been assisted by management enhancing the programme watchlist review process.
Increased assurance has been provided to the Audit Committee over controls in operation within the SSA through changes to the CAES Board and Audit Committee, enhancements to the governance framework and improved reporting.
Oversight of the response to the FRC following their review of Cobhams 2016 Annual Report and Accounts including approval of plans to improve disclosure in this report.
The Committee has worked with management to ensure the lessons learnt from past underperformance are being addressed and support the process of improving the Groups control environment Cobham plc www.
com 56 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE In addition, during 2017 the Committee continued its work plan which included: Priorities for 2018 A review of financial statements and associated reports: Ensuring a successful transition to the new Committee Chair and members.
A review of the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal Completion of a satisfactory audit tender exercise in 2018 with a view to control systems: the new independent auditors commencing as from the 2019 year-end A review of managements readiness to adopt new accounting standards audit.
As previously disclosed, PwC will not participate in this tender.
including revenue recognition IFRS 15 : Continued oversight of the implementation of improvements to risk A review of reports from management on key governance, risk and management and internal controls systems.
compliance activities including LCM, tax, treasury and ethics and Continued oversight of the reporting of, usage and adequacy of provisions, compliance matters: including those created at the time of the 2016 Balance Sheet review.
Oversight of the enhancement of existing IT controls including cyber Ongoing focus on the key programme watchlist review process.
security and disaster recovery, and the requirement for enhanced controls Preparation for the new leasing accounting standard IFRS 16. in certain areas: Continued review and support of the Internal Audit and Assurance Function I will be stepping down from the Board at the 2018 AGM and my successor, with its increased risk based scope including the audit plan, reports and Ren Mdori, who joined the Board on 1 January 2018, will be appointed as the effectiveness: Groups Audit Committee Chair with effect from 26 April 2018.
Ren has A review of all matters relating to external audit including audit scope, valuable financial and commercial experience from his career at both Anglo independence, effectiveness and fees: and American plc and The BOC Group plc and his non-executive experience with Working with PwC to implement improvements to the documentation of both Petrofac Limited, a company listed on the London Stock Exchange, and the audit process identified through the FRCs Audit Quality Review AQR.
I wish him well in his new role.
At the 2018 AGM, I and my fellow members of the Committee will be available to respond to any questions shareholders may wish to raise on this report or the Committees activities.
Alan Semple Audit Committee Chair 1 March 2018 www.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 57 Audit Committee Report continued Financial reporting and significant financial judgements The Committee reviews whether suitable accounting policies have been adopted and whether management has made appropriate judgements and estimates, and also seeks support from the independent auditors to assess these matters.
The Committee identified the issues below as significant in the context of the 2017 Group Financial Statements with regard to the facts and circumstances then existing, on account of the level of materiality and the degree of judgement exercised by management.
Area of focus Key issue Role of the Committee Conclusion Programme Changes in estimates The Committee considered the estimated costs to complete, The judgements of management as watchlist tocomplete and customerschedule requirements, working capital levels and regards estimated costs to complete, customer schedules profitability of material development projects and contracts.
outcome of negotiations with customers Revenue Refer to notes 18 and The new process of monthly business reviews has identified and amounts recoverable and related contract 26 in the Group Financial accounting judgements at an early stage and more readily disclosures were deemed appropriate.
accounting Statements allowed the Committee to monitor conclusions on key judgements and matters.
Provisions and Appropriateness The Committee has had regular updates on the Balance Sheet Whilst the final outcome of a number material disputes andcompleteness review items from 2016, provisions and material disputes ahead of matters is stilluncertain, there has ofprovisions and ofand during the year end process.
been control and consideration ofthese theirutilisation amounts, so that we are satisfied with Refer to note 18 their use and the year end position.
in the Group Financial Statements Inventory Valuation, obsolescence The Committee has had regular updates on balance sheet values Inventory remains a focus for working provisions provisions and and the levels of provisions against these.
capital management, especially linked to recoverability production ramp up on development Refer to note 12 programmes and business units with in the Group Financial short-cycle customer demand.
Adequate Statements provision has been made for risks identified at year end.
Uncertain tax Judgements on The Committee has reviewed the accounting judgements made The Committee is satisfied that the positions and provisions for the open to account for uncertain tax positions.
material estimate made at the year end deferred tax tax years, authority reflects advice that has been taken, by enquiries and changes in management, from relevant experts legislation Refer to note and specialists, while taking into account 6 in the Group Financial that there may be more than one route Statements to settlement.
Goodwill and Measurement of The Committee has reviewed managements computation of The Committee considers the acquired carrying values of the present value of cash flows and has compared to goodwill impairment charges, and reversals for intangible assets goodwill and acquired and acquired intangibles in order to test for impairment.
The change to intangibles relative to the assessment of Cash Generating Units the present value of the at the Sector level is deemed appropriate.
associated cashflows Refer to note 9 in the Group Financial Statements Pensions Sensitivity to changes in The Committee received an update from management on The Committee satisfied itself that all various metrics the changes in assumption for mortality and discount rates.
assumptions were within acceptable Refer to note 20 in the ranges and up to date.
Group Financial Statements Presentation, FRC thematic review, The Committee was involved in the response tothe FRC following Appropriate changes have been made disclosures and ourown correspondence their review ofthe 2016 Annual Report and Accounts.
in this Annual Report to respond to new accounting with the FRC and new FRC comment.
standards accounting standards The Committee reviewed the appropriateness of judgements forIFRS 9, IFRS 15 and for IFRS 15.
The Group is ready for the adoption of IFRS 16 Refer to note 1 IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 from 1January 2018. in the Group Financial Statements Cobham plc www.
com 58 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Objectives and responsibilities Key issues and activities The Committees main objectives and responsibilities are set out in its terms Matters considered by the Committee during 2017 were: of reference, which are available on the Groups website.
The Committees terms of reference are reviewed annually and were updated to take account of Feb Apr Jul Dec the allocation of responsibilities to the newly formed Board Risk Committee.
Financial Statements and reports Full year results Composition The Committee consists of independent Non-executive Directors only.
The Half year results current members, as at the date of this report, are Alan Semple, Ren Mdori, Fair, balanced and understandable assessment Birgit Nrgaard and Michael Hagee.
The Committee membership in 2017 Key accounting matters included David Jonathan Flint, until his departure from the Board.
Birgit Nrgaard joined the Committee officially on 5 December 2017.
External Audit Independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the Biographical details for all of the Committee members may be found on external auditors pages 46 and 47.
The membership of the Committee has been selected Appointment recommendation to the Board with the aim of providing the range of financial, risk and business expertise necessary to meet its responsibilities, and the particular skills and experience Approval of non-audit fees of each member may be found on page 55.
External audit scope and fees Given Alan Semples experience as a Chartered Accountant, and formerly as Independent auditors reports Chief Financial Officer of John Wood Group plc, the Board has designated Internal Audit him as the financial expert on the Committee for the purposes of the Code.
Effectiveness review of Internal Audit Ren Mdori, who joined the Board on 1 January 2018, will pick up the role of Internal Audit report including performance Audit Committee Chair upon Alan Semples retirement at the AGM in April against plan 2018.
Ren has financial and commercial experience from his executive career Annual Internal Audit plan as Finance Director at Anglo American plc for 12 years, having retired at its Governance, risk and assurance AGM in April 2017.
Prior to joining Anglo American he held a number of senior financial positions, including Group Finance Director at The BOC Group plc.
Risk management report The Board will designate Ren Mdori as the financial expert on the Committee Risk management framework and internal controls with effect from the 2018 AGM, for the purposes of the Code.
IT controls including cyber security Meetings Key programme watchlist review oversight Six Audit Committee meetings were held during the year, attended as follows: Compliance, whistleblowing and fraud Alan Semple Chair Other 1 David Jonathan Flint Updates on accounting and corporate governance developments Michael Hagee 2 Audit Committee evaluation Birgit Nrgaard Terms of reference Attended Meetings with senior finance management CFO 1 David Jonathan Flint retired from the Board on 3 August 2017.
2 Birgit Nrgaard attended the July meeting and joined the Audit Committee officially on 5December 2017.
Risk management and internal control systems The Board has the ultimate responsibility for risk management and internal During the year the Committee invited the Chair of the Board, Non-executive control systems, and has delegated to the Committee the review of members of the Board, CEO, CFO, Group Director of Financial Control, Group effectiveness of these systems in order to assist the Board in meeting this Head of Internal Audit and Assurance, the PwC lead audit partner, other responsibility.
The Board Risk Committee, which was established during 2017, representatives from PwC, and other key senior management to attend their is responsible for providing assurance to the Board regarding the management meetings, asappropriate.
At least twice a year, immediately following a Committee meeting, the The Committee reviews internal financial controls, that is, the systems Committee meets separately with the PwC lead audit partner and the Group established to identify, assess, manage and monitor financial risks.
The Group Head of Internal Audit and Assurance to give them the opportunity to discuss Executive GE, chaired by the CEO, retain accountability for the management matters without executive management being present.
In addition, regular of operational risks, includingmitigating actions.
Sector Presidents are required contact is maintained between the Chairman and the PwC lead audit partner to ensure that appropriate processes, including the maintenance of business and the Group Head of Internal Audit and Assurance between meetings, often unit and Sector risk registers, exist to identify and manage risks and to regularly without the presence of management.
carry out formal risk assessments.
Further information on the Groups principal risks and the risk management process may be found on pages 34 to 39.
The Group operates under a system of internal controls which has been developed over time to meet the needs of the business and the risks and opportunities to which it is exposed, recognising differences in the nature and type of each of the Groups operations.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 59 Audit Committee Report continued These controls include: The work must also be permitted under relevant regulations and must not The preparation and consideration of the three year plan: impinge on the independence of the audit firm.
A comprehensive budgeting system with an annual budget which is approved by the Board: Total fees paid to the external auditors 2017 Monthly review of business and financial performance in the month Audit fees 2.1m 91% Non-audit fees 0.2m 9% and year to date and update of financial forecasts for the year: The monitoring of financial performance and key dependencies for the fullyear: The monitoring of project and programme management, through LCM: and The appropriate delegation of authorities to operational management.
Legacy control systems still exist from previous acquisition activity and other key control processes, including IT, are not fully standardised and implemented across the Group.
The implementation and operation of certain key controls is Total fees paid to the external auditors 2016 decentralised in the business units.
Sector, functional and central oversight Audit fees 2.5m 75.8% Non-audit fees 0.8m 24.2% activities and controls are in place to support this.
During the year we have strengthened controls over known areas of weakness.
This has included strengthened financial controls through increased independent review of the most material development contracts: extended governance andregulatory training: monthly Sector and business unit reviews by the CEO and CFO: the communication of a revised delegation matrix and Letter of Representation: the enhanced tracking and reporting of open and overdue audit recommendations and the communication of revised, proportionate minimum standards of financial control and a hard financial close exercise Significant engagements included work related to the interim results inQ4, ahead of the year end.
Delegated authorities and other controls are contained in the Corporate PwC is expected to report to the Committee any material departures from Framework and the Group Finance Manual.
Specifically with regard to the Group accounting policies and procedures that they identify during the course financial reporting process and the preparation of the Group Financial of their audit work.
None were found or reported in 2017.
The Independent Statements, the system includes a semi-annual representation letter from Auditors Report to the members of the Company can be found on page 76. all Sector and business units.
Included in those letters are written acknowledgements that financial reporting is based upon reliable data, that PwCs presentation of their audit plan to the Committee set out the scope and there is compliance with the Groups Minimum Standards of Financial Control objectives of the audit, together with an overview of the planned approach, an and that the results are properly stated in accordance with Group policies.
The assessment of the Groups risks and controls, and proposed areas of audit focus.
Letter of Representation process has not highlighted any material weaknesses.
The Committee reviewed and approved the terms, areas of responsibility and scope of the December 2017 year-end audit.
The Committees review covers all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems, and The Committee received feedback, compiled by the Group Finance Function, is designed to give assurance that the day to day risk management and from each business unit, on the performance of the external auditors internal control systems which are embedded in the business, have operated through the year end process.
On consideration of this feedback, the effectively in the review period notwithstanding that management continues Committee confirmed that they were satisfied with the effectiveness of to implement plans to improve those systems.
The three principal lines of the external auditors.
assurance are outlined on page 34.
The Committee receives assurance from the Inside Directors on the CAES Board on matters relating to CAES.
It should The Committee is responsible for the development, implementation and be noted that due to the restrictions of the SSA our assessment of the control monitoring of the Groups policies on services from external auditors, which environment in CAES differs from that operated elsewhere in the Group.
In are designed to maintain the objectivity and independence of the external order to meet the requirements of the SSA and US DSS, oversight is indirect auditors.
These policies set out the approach to be taken when using the and flows primarily through the Inside Directors.
Further details on how external auditors for non-audit work and regulate the appointment by the governance procedures are maintained in the SSA may be found on page 51.
Group of former employees of PwC.
In addition to an independence review conducted by management, PwC has provided specific assurance and the External audit Committee has considered the arrangements and safeguards that PwC has The Committee is responsible for overseeing relations with the independent, in place to maintain its independence and objectivity.
The external auditors external auditors PwC, including the approval of fees, and makes follow regulatory requirements to maintain the objectivity of the audit recommendations to the Board on their appointment and re-appointment.
process: these stipulate a five year rotation policy in relation to the senior The total fees paid to PwC in the year ended 31 December 2017 equalled engagement auditor.
Pauline Campbell was appointed lead audit partner in 2.3m, with non-audit fees of 0.2m, which included 0.2m of other assurance 2014.
The Committee continues to be satisfied that PwC remain independent services, representing 9% of the total.
An analysis of the fees paid to the andobjective.
external auditors in respect of audit and non-audit work during the year can be found in note 4 to the Group Financial Statements.
The Committee has previously stated its intention to re-tender for the 2019 audit during 2018, to coincide with the next rotation of the PwC lead audit The provision of non-audit services is controlled by a policy which states that partner.
As PwC have acted as external auditors for more than 20 years, the the external auditors will not be engaged to provide any element of non-audit Committee will not be inviting them to re-tender in 2018.
The Committee services, without approval in advance from the CFO for fees up to 10,000, last conducted a tender exercise in 2015 in which PwC were successful.
from the Chair of the Audit Committee for fees between 10,000 and 100,000 and by the Audit Committee for fees over 100,000.
The Committee recognises that there may be some element of non-audit services for which the Group might wish to use the external auditors.
com 60 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Audit Quality Review Following its review, the Committee was of the opinion that the 2017 Annual The Committee considered the findings of the FRCs AQR report into the Report and Accounts was representative of the year and presents a fair, balanced conduct of PwC audits generally.
In addition, the AQR team selected to review and understandable overview, providing the necessary information for the audit of the Groups 2016 Financial Statements as part of its 2017 annual shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model inspection of audit firms.
The Chairman of the Committee received a copy and strategy.
of the findings of the AQR team and PwC has confirmed that those areas identified for improvement have been addressed during the 2017 Audit.
In reporting on Alternative Performance Measures, the Group followed the FRCrecommendation to consider the Guidelines on Alternative Performance Internal Audit and Assurance Measures, as published by the European Securities and Markets Authority, and In December 2017, the Committee conducted a review of the effectiveness specifically addressed points raised by the FRC in its thematic review.
Account ofthe Groups Internal Audit and Assurance Function, taking into account the has also been taken of the disclosures of our peers, and current best practice.
views of Directors and senior management on matters such as independence, proficiency, resourcing, audit strategy, planning and methodology.
The On 26 September 2017, the Group received a request for information from Committee was satisfied with the performance of the Internal Audit and the FRC in relation to the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts.
Performance Measures used in those accounts were one of the items included in the FRC review.
This review also covered Revenue recognition policy, Key The Group Head of Internal Audit and Assurance attended every Audit judgements and estimates and Customer funded research anddevelopment.
Committee meeting throughout 2017 where Internal Audit was on the agenda and in addition, had ongoing contact with members of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee considered managements response and a number of throughout the year with and without management present including private changes have been made in response to that review, the most fundamental sessions with members of the Audit Committee.
being to separate judgements and estimates into two distinct areas within the accounting policies.
The findings of each Internal Audit review are summarised for the Committee, which focuses its discussions on unsatisfactory findings and on the action plans On 22 February 2018, correspondence was received from the FRC concluding in place to address them.
The Internal Audit reports are also made available the review to their satisfaction.
Particular areas of focus for Internal Audit during 2017 included continuation of financial control audits in line with the increased focus The FRCs review did not benefit from detailed knowledge of our business on control improvements, programme related Internal Audits in line with the or an understanding of the underlying transactions entered into but was programme watchlist review process, the introduction of a specialised IT audit conducted by staff who have an understanding of the relevant legal and programme and a number of risk based reviews.
In addition, Internal Audit has continued to maintain a programme of follow-up Code of Business Conduct violations and fraud audits to assess the timely implementation of Internal Audit recommendations The COBC, which incorporates the Groups whistleblowing policy, contains by the businesses and key matters from the Internal Audit reviews.
arrangements for an independent external service provider to receive, in confidence, complaints on suspected violations of the COBC for reporting to The Committee received regular updates against the 2017 Internal Audit the Committee as appropriate.
Details of the COBC are provided in the CRS programme throughout the year.
section of this report, on page 40.
The Committee regularly received reports on matters relating to the COBC.
The Committee approved the Internal Audit plan for 2018, including the proposed audit approach, coverage and allocation of resources.
The 2018 Evaluation of the effectiveness of the Committee plan was prepared considering a number of factors, including the principal risks The Committee Chair initiated an internal review of the effectiveness of the of the Group.
The key points of focus in the 2018 plan include: Committee towards the end of 2017.
The review was conducted by questionnaire, Continued focus on internal financial controls assurance: taking comments from Committee members, regular meeting attendees and Increased focus on non-financial areas of risk, including corporate the independent auditors.
The results were considered and actions required governance and business interruption: are in progress.
Increased focus on IT controls and cyber security including compliance with new regulations: and Continued improvement in the Groups assurance mapping process acrossthe three lines of assurance.
Where the operation of the SSA results in limitations ofvisibility when compared to other areas in the Group, the Audit Committee gains its assurance over CAES internal controls via the CAES Audit Committee of which Cobhams CFO is a member, and with Cobham plcs CEO and CFO representing Cobham on the CAES main Board, in their capacity as Inside Directors.
Further details can be found in the Corporate Governance Report onpage 51.
Fair, balanced and understandable report and accounts At the request of the Board, the Committee considered whether, in its opinion, the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts were fair, balancedand understandable.
In forming its opinion, the Committee reflectedon the information it had received and its discussions throughout theyear.
The assessment was assisted by an internal verification ofthe factual content by management, a review at different levels of the Group to ensure consistency and overall balance, and a comprehensive review by the senior management team and the external auditors.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 61
