GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Board composition Delegation of authority As at 31 December 2017, the Board comprised a Non-Executive The Board has delegated responsibility for certain matters to five Chairman, one Executive Director and five Non-Executive Directors, committees: the Audit Committee, the Compensation Committee, of whom four were independent.
the EHS&S Committee, the Nomination & Governance Committee and the Independent Committee.
The membership, chairmanship and Board changes during 2017 activities of each of these Committees are set out in each Committee There were no new Board appointments during the reporting period.
report on pages 71 to 76 and as part of the Remuneration Report.
Ambassador Juma V. Mwapachu retired from the Board in July 2017 following the expiry of his second three-year appointment term.
Peter Board effectiveness Tomsett retired from the Board following the 2017 AGM.
Brad Gordon Board meetings and attendance resigned as Chief Executive Officer on 31 December 2017.
Peter Geleta Board decisions are predominantly made by achieving a consensus at was appointed as Interim Chief Executive Officer with effect from Board meetings.
In exceptional circumstances, decisions may be taken 1 January 2018 and also became an Executive Director as of this date.
by the majority of Board members.
Questions arising at any meeting are determined by a majority of votes.
In the case of an equality of votes, Retirement and re-election the Companys Articles of Association do not provide the Chairman with In line with the requirements for annual re-election under the UK a second or casting vote.
All Directors are required to take decisions Corporate Governance Code, all Directors will offer themselves for objectively and in the best interests of the Company.
As part of their re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
The Board determines all of these duties as Directors, Non-Executive Directors are expected to apply Directors to be eligible for re-election.
independent judgement to contribute to issues of strategy and Board leadership performance and to scrutinise the performance of management.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer The Board is scheduled to meet at least four times a year, and at In line with best practice, the roles of Chief Executive Officer and such other times as are necessary to discharge its duties.
The Board Chairman, and their related responsibilities, are separated.
The divisions met a total of 19 times in 2017.
Meetings occurred in person and by of responsibility and the specifications of each role are set out in writing teleconference.
Details of individual attendance are provided in the and reviewed periodically as part of annual corporate governance table overleaf.
Responsibilities are divided so as to ensure that the Chairman remains principally responsible for the leadership of the Board and Board briefings and development ensuring that the Board plays a full and constructive part in the The Board receives monthly management reports and quarterly reports development and determination of the Companys strategy and overall outlining all material operational, financial and strategic developments.
The Chief Executive Officer is primarily These ensure that Board members remain properly briefed on the responsible for all executive management matters affecting Acacia performance and financial position of the Group on a continuous basis.
and is principally responsible for running the Companys business.
Board and Committee papers are circulated prior to all meetings to All members of the Executive Leadership Team report directly to him.
allow Directors to be briefed in advance of discussions.
Board meetings include quarterly operational, financial and exploration project Senior Independent Director performance reviews to ensure that, in addition to specific scheduled Michael Kenyon is Acacias Senior Independent Director SID.
The matters and any other business, core business performance is responsibilities and duties of the SID are determined in accordance with monitored and assessed on a continuous basis.
In addition to scheduled the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
In particular, Board meetings, all Directors have access to members of the Executive the SID is required to: Leadership Team and to whatever further information they need to act as a sounding board for the Chairman: perform their duties and to satisfy their responsibilities.
Acacias independent Non-Executive Directors and Committee Chairs meet with act as an intermediary for other Directors, when necessary: members of the Executive Leadership Team to receive more in-depth ensure that an annual appraisal of the Chairman is conducted by the briefings on Board and Committee matters whenever required or Non-Executive Directors, without the Chairman present: and requested.
In addition, all Directors continue to have free access to visit operations outside scheduled Board arrangements.
Board training and be available to shareholders for discussion purposes, in cases where development needs are reviewed on an on-going basis.
Directors may contact between such shareholders and the Chairman and or CEO has take independent professional advice, as necessary, at the Companys been ineffective or is otherwise inappropriate.
expense in the furtherance of their duties.
In addition to this, each Board Matters reserved Committee is entitled to seek independent professional advice at the There is a schedule of matters that the Board has specifically reserved Companys expense, where necessary, to assist or guide the Committee for its decision.
This schedule was reviewed during the year and includes in the performance of its functions.
matters such as setting the Groups strategic aims and objectives, approving significant contractual commitments including merger and acquisition activity, approving capital-raising, approving changes to the Groups share capital and corporate structure, approving financial reports and ensuring maintenance of a sound system of internal control and risk management.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 67 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Internal control In compliance with its obligations, the Board conducted a review of the The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and effectiveness of the Companys risk management and internal control risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In line with this systems for the reporting period.
The review also covered a review of responsibility, the Board has established on-going processes and all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance systems for identifying, evaluating and managing principal risks that controls and considered all significant aspects of internal control for the Group faces, which have been in place throughout the year and the reporting period.
During the course of the review the Board did not up to the date of approval of the Annual Report.
identify or hear of any failings or weaknesses that it determined to be material.
Therefore a confirmation of any necessary actions undertaken The Board principally bases its monitoring and review of the is not required.
effectiveness of risk management and internal control systems on its review of management reports and assessments, and on the quarterly Additional information regarding the internal control and risk reports it receives on the status of the Groups risk management and management process specifically in relation to the financial reporting internal control environment.
This is supported by the risk profile reviews process and the preparation of the consolidated financial statements that our internal audit function carries out to help the Board identify and is provided as part of the Audit Committee report and the notes to the manage the most significant risks and events that could affect the consolidated financial statements.
Companys operations, financials and performance on an on-going basis.
Further detail as regards the governance structure used for Acacias Where necessary, the Board is assisted by its Committees in reviewing approach to risk management and the processes and procedures used internal systems and controls, particularly the Audit Committee, which is in the context of risk management is provided on pages 24 to 29 of this responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal control Annual Report.
The Companys viability statement is also provided in this and risk management framework systems, as components of the context on page 25.
Nomination & Audit Compensation Governance EHS&S Independent 1 Board meetings Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Number Maximum Number Maximum Number Maximum Number Maximum Number Maximum Number Maximum attended possible attended possible attended possible attended possible attended possible attended possible Current Directors Kelvin Dushnisky 19 19 2 2 2 Brad Gordon 19 19 3 3 3 Peter Tomsett 2 3 1 2 1 2 1 1 Ambassador Juma 0 4 0 1 1 1 4 V. Mwapachu Andre Falzon 19 19 5 5 2 2 14 14 Michael Kenyon 19 19 4 4 1 1 14 14 Steve Lucas 17 19 4 5 3 4 1 1 13 14 Rachel English 18 19 5 5 2 2 3 3 13 14 Stephen Galbraith 19 19 1 B rad Gordon stepped down from the EHS&S Committee following the meeting in February 2017 and was replaced by Peter Tomsett.
Brad Gordon joined the EHS&S Committee again to replace Peter Tomsett upon his resignation as a Director.
2 Brad Gordon resigned as Chief Executive Officer, and ceased to be a Director, on 31 December 2017.
3 P eter Tomsett stepped down from the Board during the year and therefore his attendance at Board, Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nomination & Governance Committee meetings reflect the maximum number of meetings attended prior to departure.
Steve Lucas joined the Audit Committee and Rachel English joined the Compensation Committee and the Nomination & Governance Committee to replace Peter Tomsett upon his resignation as a Director.
4 A mbassador Juma V. Mwapachu stepped down from the Board during the year and therefore his attendance at Board, Nomination & Governance Committee and EHS&S Committee meetings reflect the maximum number of meetings attended prior to departure.
Michael Kenyon joined the Nomination & Governance Committee and Andre Falzon joined the EHS&S Committee to replace Ambassador Juma V. Mwapachu upon his resignation as a Director.
68 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE Majority shareholder been delegated to the Independent Committee.
As such, the Board can Barrick is the Group majority shareholder, holding approximately 64% of confirm that Acacia has complied with the independence requirements Acacias issued shares as at the date of this report.
Acacias relationship stated above since their adoption and, so far as the Board is aware, with Barrick is governed by the terms of a Relationship Agreement, the Barrick and its associates have also complied with these requirements.
principal purpose of which is to ensure that the Acacia Group is capable In this regard, all members of the Board support the giving of this of carrying on its business independently of the Barrick Group and that statement and no independent Non-Executive Director has raised any any transactions and relationships with the Barrick Group are conducted objections in this regard.
at arms length and on normal commercial terms.
The Relationship Dialogue with the investment community Agreement will continue for so long as Acacia is listed on the London Acacia has a designated investor relations team which acts as Stock Exchange and Barrick owns or controls at least 15% of Acacias the primary point of contact with the investment community and is issued share capital or voting rights.
responsible for maintaining Acacias on-going relations with investors and The Relationship Agreement provides Barrick with certain Director shareholders.
Acacia conducts regular investor meetings and telephone appointment rights in line with a sliding scale, structured as follows: calls with the investment community to discuss results, and participates in mining conferences to meet with current and prospective investors.
In addition to its annual and half-year reports, Acacia publishes quarterly Barrick percentage shareholding Barrick Director appointment rights reports to the market, which provide further information on production 40% or more The higher of three Non-Executive and financial results, and updates on its business and operations.
Directors and the maximum that may Acacias investor relations team also arranges operational site tours be appointed under the UK Corporate for members of the analyst community, as and when appropriate.
Governance Code AGM 25% up to 40% The higher of two Non-Executive Acacias 2018 AGM will be held on 19 April 2018 at 13.00 BST.
The Directors and one less than the business of the meeting will be conducted in accordance with Companies maximum number of Non-Executive Act 2006 requirements and standards promoted by the UK Corporate Directors that may be appointed under Governance Code.
The Chairman of the Board and the Chairs of the the UK Corporate Governance Code Audit, Compensation, EHS&S and Nomination & Governance Committees 15% up to 25% The higher of one Non-Executive will be available to answer questions put to them by shareholders at the Director and two less than the meeting.
The AGM Notice is included in the documentation that has been maximum number of Non-Executive provided with this Annual Report and is also available on the Companys Directors that may be appointed under website.
In accordance with best practice, the notice has been sent to the UK Corporate Governance Code shareholders at least 20 business days prior to the date of the meeting.
Conflicts of interest In addition to Director appointment rights, and subject to certain Mr Dushnisky and Mr Galbraith are nominee Directors appointed by exceptions, as part of the terms of the Relationship Agreement, Barrick Barrick.
These individuals hold a number of cross directorships with has undertaken that members of the Barrick Group will not carry on the members of the Barrick Group which give rise to situations in which exploration of gold or silver in Africa, or acquire, whether through an asset these Directors could have a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or purchase or the purchase of securities, a gold or silver mining business possibly may conflict, with those of Acacia.
In addition, as a result of in Africa that competes with Acacia, without giving Acacia the option to their employment within the Barrick Group, these individuals also hold exercise certain rights of first refusal for so long as Barrick holds 30% or interests under Barricks restricted stock unit plan and other employee more of the issued share capital or voting rights of Acacia.
given a reciprocal non-compete commitment to Barrick in this regard.
The Companies Act 2006 requires directors to avoid situations where Acacia entered into the Relationship Agreement at the time of its they have, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or may initial public offering in 2010.
It was amended in 2014 to ensure full possibly conflict, with company interests.
However, the Act does allow compliance with the independence requirements introduced to the directors of public companies to authorise conflicts and potential Listing Rules, which took effect in November 2014.
Following these conflicts of interest where a companys articles of association contain amendments the Relationship Agreement expressly provides that: a provision to that effect.
Acacias Articles of Association contain such i any and all transactions with Barrick or its associates shall be provision and a procedure for this.
In accordance with this procedure, conducted at arms length and on normal commercial terms: the conflicts outlined above were declared and authorised by the Board.
The monitoring and, if appropriate, authorisation of any actual or ii neither Barrick, nor any of its associates, will take any action that potential conflict of interest is an on-going process.
Directors are will prevent Acacia from complying with its obligations under the Listing required to notify the Company of any material changes in positions or Rules: and situations that have already been considered and any new situations.
iii neither Barrick, nor any of its associates, will propose or procure In addition, Directors are required to declare interests in potential or the proposal of a shareholder resolution which is intended or appears actual transactions and are required to abstain from voting on such to be intended to circumvent the proper application of the Listing Rules.
transactions, subject to permitted exceptions.
If a question arises as In addition, the Listing Rules require premium listed companies with to whether any interest of a Director prevents him or her from voting controlling shareholders to provide a confirmation in their annual reports or being counted in a quorum in the context of a potential or actual that all of the independence provisions contained in their relationship transaction, the matter is referred to the Chairman, whose findings are agreements have been complied with.
In line with this requirement, final and conclusive.
In the context of questions relating to any such the Board has assessed Barrick and Acacias compliance with the conflict of the Chairman, the question may ultimately be decided by a Relationship Agreements independence requirements as amended, resolution of the other Directors.
The Board reviews conflicts of interest and has sought advice where appropriate from its professional advisers.
on a periodic basis and maintains a record of all declared conflicts.
In this regard, responsibility for monitoring the Companys on-going compliance with relevant independence requirements in connection with the discussions between Barrick and the Government of Tanzania has ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 69 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Specifically as regards nominee Directors appointed by Barrick, the Corporate governance compliance Relationship Agreement provides that if any transaction or arrangement For the year under review, as a UK company with a premium listing on the arises directly between a member of the Barrick Group and a member Main Market of the London Stock Exchange, Acacia is required to make of the Acacia Group and does or could, in the opinion of a majority of certain statements regarding the way it is governed, as required by the Directors excluding any Director s appointed by Barrick, give rise to a 2016 edition UK Corporate Governance Code, which is available at conflict of interest between Acacia and any Director appointed by Barrick, www.
Accordingly, this report explains how Acacia has applied any such matter must be approved and authorised at a duly convened the Main Principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code during 2017.
Board meeting or in writing by a majority of Directors excluding any Generally, Acacia seeks to comply with all relevant provisions of the UK Director s appointed by Barrick prior to the Company taking further Corporate Governance Code wherever possible and for the reporting year action in relation to such matter.
Save for the matters set out on the it is the Boards view that Acacia has complied with all such provisions, previous page, no other conflicts of interest were disclosed to the Board save for the following: during the reporting period.
Mr Kenyon has recently been confirmed as the Senior Independent Performance evaluation Director, a role which Mr Kenyon has effectively discharged following The Board believes that annual evaluations are helpful and provide a Mr Tomsetts retirement from the Board by virtue of Mr Kenyons valuable opportunity for continuous improvement.
In 2015, we engaged position as Chair of the Independent Committee.
During 2017 the Lintstock to undertake our first  performance Independent Non-Executive Directors, through the Independent evaluation of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors Committee, have provided rigorous and constructive challenge to including the Chairman.
This was followed in 2016 with tailored surveys, the Board on strategic, operational and other matters.
In addition, developed with the support of Lintstock, addressing the performance of Mr Kenyon has made himself available for discussions with the Board and its Committees and Directors.
shareholders, including with regard to governance structures in light In 2017, again with the assistance of Lintstock, we developed tailored of Barricks on-going framework discussions with the Government surveys that reflected the Companys specific circumstances in 2017 of Tanzania.
Accordingly, the principal responsibilities of the Senior andbuilt upon the themes and outputs from the 2016 review.
All Board Independent Director, as described in the Corporate Governance Code, members were requested to complete online surveys addressing the have been discharged by Mr Kenyon during the reporting period performance of the Board and its Committees.
The anonymity of all following Peter Tomsetts retirement from the Board Provisions A.
1.2, respondents was ensured throughout the process in order to promote A.
6.3 and E. 1.1. the open and frank exchange of views.
Mr Dushnisky was not independent on appointment as Chairman and an external search consultancy was not used in connection with his Lintstock subsequently produced a report addressing the following areas appointment.
Given Mr Dushniskys experience within the mining of Board performance: sector, his skill set and his familiarity with the operating and The appropriateness of the Boards composition and the attributes that geographical environment in which the Companys assets are located, ought to be prioritised in any new Non-Executive Director appointments.
the Board believes his appointment to be in the best interests of the The Boards understanding of the operating and political environment in Company irrespective of this Provisions A.
2.4. the countries in which the Company is active.
The Company has not adopted a formal diversity policy, given the focus The relationships between Board members and management, and the during 2017 on addressing the operational challenges in Tanzania.
will look to implement a policy during 2018 as part of our review of Board composition and succession planning in light of, among other things, The Boards oversight of the Companys strategy and its Group strategy in the context of any resolution of the current operational implementation.
However, we are committed to diversity.
The Boards focus on risk and the effectiveness with which the Board As a Company we base all recruitment on the premise that we strive to oversees culture and behaviours throughout Acacia.
attract a broad mix of individuals from both the traditional and nonThe Boards oversight of succession plans for members of senior traditional mining labour markets in order to create a diverse workgroup management.
and maintain a unique company culture.
In particular, during 2018, a priority for the business is to increase Tanzanian representation in senior In addition, Directors were asked to provide their views as to the top management positions Provision B.
2.4. strategic issues facing the company and those matters to prioritise in2018.
The UK Corporate Governance Code requires that the Board provides a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of Acacias position The findings were collectively considered by all Directors.
Overall, the and prospects in its external reporting.
Accordingly, the Directors were Board concluded that, notwithstanding the challenges faced throughout responsible for the preparation and approval of this Annual Report and 2017, it had continued to operate effectively throughout the reporting consider the Annual Report and Accounts for 2017, taken as a whole, period.
Nevertheless, opportunities for improvement and specific to be fair, balanced and understandable and believe that it provides the priorities were identified of which the top priorities for 2018 are: information necessary for shareholders to assess Acacias position and i continuing to review all options available to achieve a resolution to performance, business model and strategy.
on-going challenges and disputes affecting the operating environment in Tanzania: ii continuing the appropriate management of the Companys In addition to compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, relationship with Barrick, particularly in the context of Barricks as part of commitments given in connection with Acacias secondary discussions with the Government of Tanzania: iii continuing to attract listing on the Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange, the Board has undertaken and retain key employees: and iv Board succession planning.
to comply with the Corporate Governance Guidelines issued by the Tanzanian Capital Markets and Securities Authority to the extent The effectiveness of each Board Committee was also assessed through that these requirements are equivalent to applicable UK corporate this exercise and feedback provided to each Committee for review and governance standards.
In the case of any conflict between the two, discussion purposes.
the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code prevail.
Acacias external auditors have reviewed those parts of this statement which they are required to review under the Listing Rules.
70 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017
