Corporate governance report A strong governance framework isvital to the continued success ofthe firm I am pleased to introduce our corporate governance report for 2017 in which wedescribe our governance arrangements, the operation of the Board and its Committees and how the Board discharged its responsibilities during the year.
Governance Strategy 2017 has been an important year for corporate governance with the Strategic opportunities and challenges have been the key area of focus publication of the UK Governments Green Paper on Corporate at each of our Board meetings during the year.
Despite the many Governance, the BEIS Committee inquiry, and the Financial Reporting challenges facing the asset management industry, the Board has Councils review of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Our Board confidence in the strategic direction of the Company and our ability to has, with the Group Company Secretary, been closely monitoring deliver strong financial performance and long-term shareholder value.
these developments and assessing how our own governance I would like to thank all my colleagues on the Board for their arrangements may need to evolve.
We firmly believe that having a contribution during the year.
strong corporate governance framework is vital to good decision making and to the continued success of the Company.
Michael Dobson Chairman Board Changes Philip Howard joined the Board in November 2008 and is currently 28 February 2018 Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Philip will stand down at the 2018 AGM.
We began the search to find Philips successor on the Board in 2017, appointing MWM Consulting to assist with the recruitment and we were delighted to announce that Sir Damon Buffini joined the Board on 1 February 2018.
Ian King will succeed Philip as Senior Independent Director and Nichola Pease will succeed him as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
More details on our approach to succession are included in the Nominations Committee Report from page 54.
Culture As I said in my introduction to this report last year, the Board understands the importance of a good culture and we continue to believe that our culture represents a key competitive advantage.
Schroders values integrity and always seeks to act in the best interests of clients, shareholders and wider stakeholders.
Our employees exhibit the firms values of passion and integrity and we always take a long term view in the management of our business.
48 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Directors are expected to attend all meetings of the Board and Committees on which they serve.
Details of Board and Committee attendance are included in the table below.
2017 Board and Committee Audit and Risk Remuneration Nominations 1 meeting attendance Board Committee Committee Committee Michael Dobson 6 6 4 4 Executive Directors Peter Harrison 6 6 Richard Keers 6 6 Non-executive Directors Philip Howard 6 6 5 5 5 5 4 4 2 Robin Buchanan 6 6 5 5 4 5 4 4 Rhian Davies 6 6 5 5 4 4 Rakhi Goss-Custard 6 6 4 4 3 Ian King 6 6 2 2 4 4 Philip Mallinckrodt 6 6 4 4 Nichola Pease 6 6 5 5 5 5 4 4 4 Bruno Schroder 5 6 3 4 1.
There were five scheduled Board meetings held during the year and one additional Board meeting to discuss the acquisition of Adveq.
Robin Buchanan missed the Remuneration Committee meeting on 12 October 2017 due to a prior commitment.
Ian King was appointed as a member of the Remuneration Committee on 25 July 2017.
Bruno Schroder was unable to attend the Board and Nominations Committee meetings in New York due to illness.
Compliance with the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Board composition at 31 December 2017 Code Code Throughout 2017, the Company has applied the main principles and Board composition Length of tenure provisions of the Code with the exception of A.
3.1 as Michael Dobson was not independent on appointment as Chairman in April 2016.
This was fully explained in the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts.
There has been an absolute majority of independent Directors on the Board throughout 2017.
Copies of the Code can be obtained from the FRCs website at frc.
The Board and its Committees The Board has collective responsibility for the management, direction and performance of the Company.
It is accountable to shareholders Executive Directors 18% 0 3 years 37% for the creation and delivery of strong, sustainable financial Non-independent 3 6 years 18% performance and long-term shareholder value.
In discharging its non-executive Directors 27% 6 9 years 27% responsibilities, the Board takes appropriate account of the interests Independent non-executive 9 years 18% of our wider stakeholders including clients, employees, regulators and Directors 55% Since date of first election society as a whole.
Certain decisions can only be taken by the Board, by the shareholders including deciding on the Groups overall strategy, significant new business activities and the strategy for management of the Groups investment capital.
These are contained in the Schedule of Matters The Board believes that it operates most effectively with an Reserved to the Board, which can be found on the Companys Investor appropriate balance of executive Directors, independent nonRelations website.
executive Directors and Directors who have a connection with the Companys principal shareholder group.
No individual or group of The Board has delegated specific responsibilities to Board committees, individuals is in a position to dominate the Boards decision making.
notably the Audit and Risk Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nominations Committee.
The minutes of Committee meetings The Nominations Committee report contains more detail on our are made available to all Directors.
At each Board meeting, the approach to Board Composition.
Biographies of each of the Directors Chairman of each Committee provides the Board with an update of the are set out on pages 44 and 45. work currently being carried out by the Committee they chair.
Membership of the Committees is detailed in each Committee report.
Independence The Committees terms of reference can be found on the Companys The Board has an absolute majority of independent Directors.
All the Investor Relations website.
non-executive Directors are independent in terms of character and judgement.
Michael Dobson, as former Chief Executive, is not There is also a Chairmans Committee whose membership is considered independent under the Code.
Philip Mallinckrodt is not comprised of the non-executive Directors.
The Chairmans Committee considered independent as he is a former executive Director and is a is not a Committee of the Board and serves as an informal forum for member of the principal shareholder group.
Bruno Schroder is not the discussion of such matters as the Chairman considers appropriate.
considered independent as he is a member of the principal During the year, the Chairmans Committee considered Board shareholder group and because he has served on the Board for more evaluation, the performance of the Group Chief Executive, acquisition than nine years.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 49 Corporate governance report continued The Nominations Committee believes that their judgement and Non-executive Directors letters of appointment stipulate that they are experience continues to add value to the Board and the Group.
The expected to commit sufficient time to discharge their duties.
The Board will therefore recommend their re-election at the 2018 AGM.
Board has adopted a policy that allows executive Directors to take up one external non-executive directorship.
Non-executive Directors are Director appointments and time commitment required to notify the Chairman before taking on any additional The rules providing for the appointment, election, re-election and the appointments.
The Board is satisfied that all Directors continue to be removal of Directors are contained in the Companys Articles of effective and demonstrate commitment to their respective roles.
Association and remain unchanged from the previous year.
For details of executive Directors service contracts, termination In accordance with the Articles of Association, Sir Damon Buffini will arrangements and non-executive Directors letters of appointment, resign and offer himself for election at the AGM on 26 April 2018.
All please refer to page 74. other Directors are required to seek re-election on an annual basis unless they are retiring from the Board.
Details of the Directors length of tenure are set out on page 49.
Governance framework Board The Board is responsible for the management, direction and performance of the Company.
Chairman Group Chief Senior Independent Non-executive The Chairman is Executive Director SID Directors responsible for the The Group Chief Executive The SIDs role is to act as a Non-executive Directors leadership of the Board, is responsible for the sounding board for the are expected to provide ensuring its effectiveness executive management Chairman, oversee the independent oversight and setting its agenda.
He ofthe Company and its evaluation of the and constructive is responsible for creating subsidiaries.
He is Chairmans performance challenge to the executive an environment for open, responsible for proposing and serve as an Directors on issues of robust and effective the strategy for the Group intermediary for the other strategy, performance debate.
The Chairman is and for its execution.
He is Directors if necessary.
He and resources including also responsible for assisted by members of is also available as an key appointments and ensuring effective the GMC in the delivery additional point of contact standards of conduct.
communication with ofhis and the Boards for shareholders and shareholders and other objectives for the other stakeholders should stakeholders.
they wish to raise matters with him rather than the Chairman or Group Chief Executive.
Nominations Committee Audit and Risk Committee Remuneration Committee Responsible for reviewing and Responsible for overseeing financial Responsible for the remuneration recommending changes to the reporting, risk management and strategy for the Group and the composition of the Board and its internal controls and external audit.
Chairman: Rhian Davies Chairman: Lord Howard Chairman: Michael Dobson See page 56 for the Committee See page 62 for the Committee See page 54 for the Committee Report.
Group Management Committee The GMC comprises the senior management team and is the principal advisory committee to the Group Chief Executive.
Group Capital Committee Group Risk Committee Assists the Chief Financial Officer in the deployment of Assists the Chief Financial Officer in discharging his operating, seed, co-investment and investment capital.
responsibilities in respect of risk and controls.
50 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Throughout the year, the Board continued to focus on the development of our overall strategy for the Group and the key Key areas of focus during the year individual drivers of growth over the next five years.
As part of this, theBoard had a two day strategy meeting in May.
Particular focus was At each scheduled Board meeting the Board discusses given to our competitive environment, the evolution of our core reports from the Group Chief Executive on the performance business, our capital strategy and an assessment of our strategic risks.
of the business, the Chief Financial Officer on financial performance, the Company Secretary on governance The November Board meeting was held over two days in our New York developments, and, where relevant, a report from each of office.
North America is a key region for strategic growth and this visit the Board Committees.
In addition to these regular matters, gave the Board the opportunity to meet the senior management team specific areas of focus by the Board during 2017 included: and the wider workforce in New York, gain a deeper understanding ofour operations in North America and experience the culture in the Meeting business there.
dates Key areas considered Priorities for 2018 February An update on our overall strategy The Board has agreed a set of high level objectives for 2018 based on The strategy for our Asia Pacific our core responsibility of delivering strong, sustainable financial business performance.
These include: Private Assets strategy Ongoing development of the strategy to enable the continued Annual Report and Accounts growth of the firm: anddividendproposal Developing our talent to help grow the business: Brand update Assessing risks to our business and our business model and how March The acquisition of Adveq weaddress them: May The strategy for evolving our core Getting the right engagement with our key stakeholders to inform assetmanagement business the Board in developing our strategy: and Wealth Management growth strategy Continuing to focus on Board composition to support the growth of Strategic risks the business.
Capital strategy Directors duties compliance with s172 of the Product strategy Companies Act2006 Brexit Section 172 of the Companies Act 2006 requires directors to promote ICAAP and ILAAP the success of the company for the benefit of the members as a whole and in doing so have regard to the interests of stakeholders.
July Fixed Income strategy Capital strategy Onpage 53, we have set out who we regard as our key stakeholders, how we have engaged with them during the year.
Continental Europe strategy Remuneration strategy Board induction and training Halfyear results and dividend proposal The Company Secretary supports the Chairman and Group Chief Brexit Executive in providing a personalised induction programme to all new Directors.
This helps to familiarise them with their duties and the ICAAP Groups culture and values, strategy, business model, businesses, September People strategy operations, risks and governance arrangements.
Multi-asset growth strategy Details of Ian Kings and Rakhi Goss-Custards inductions on joining the Group Recovery Plan and Board are explained on page 54 of the 2016 Annual Report and ResolutionPack Accounts.
Sir Damon Buffini is currently undertaking a similar Regulation induction programme.
Ian King joined the Remuneration Committee Potential acquisitions in July 2017.
A tailored induction was provided that focused on relevant technical matters including Schroders remuneration policies and November Overall North America strategy for plans: remuneration regulation and governance for asset Asset Management, Investment, management firms and financial services more broadly: remuneration Distribution and Product Divisions regulations and governance for UK-listed companies: and Latin America business review remuneration disclosure requirements.
2018 budget The Board believes that the ongoing development and briefing ofDirectors is an important aspect of the Boards agenda.
Briefing sessions are arranged each year which, during 2017, included presentations on investment research, management information systems, the US market and our capabilities in North America.
Members of the Board Committees also receive regular updates on technical developments atscheduled Committee meetings.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 51 Corporate governance report continued 2016 Board evaluation internal Company Secretary The 2016 Board evaluation identified a number of recommendations All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company to maintain and improve the Boards effectiveness: Secretary and can arrange through him to receive professional advice independently of the Company, at the Companys expense.
Recommendations Actions taken progress Shareholder engagement Continue the focus Two day strategy meeting We operate a complete investor relations programme.
the Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer participated in anumber of roadshows in the UK and the US, meeting with our Regular Board deep dives into shareholders to discuss the Groups growth strategy.
The Group was different parts of the Groups also represented at several investor conferences.
meetings and conferences is provided to the Board to ensure that the More opportunities for Senior Management frequently Directors develop an understanding of the views of our major first line attendees at attend the Board and Audit and Risk shareholders.
Board and Committee Committee meetings to present on meetings agenda items and to expose more We also held a capital markets day in October.
This allowed the senior managers to the Board in investment community the opportunity to gain a deeper support of succession planning.
understanding of our strategy around the drivers of future growth, as well as access to senior management who are responsible for Continued emphasis Non-executive Director discussion delivering this.
There were regional presentations on our business in onBoard and executive onexecutive succession planning continental Europe, Asia Pacific and North America, followed by details succession planning carried out.
of our product strategy and of the work of the Data Insights team.
The Nominations Committee continues to consider succession In addition to the capital markets day, the primary means of planning for the executive and communicating with the Companys shareholders are through the .
AGM, the Annual Report and Accounts and the annual and interim results presentations.
All of these are available on the Companys 2017 Board evaluation website and the Annual Report and Accounts is posted to all The Chairman proposed and the Board agreed that the 2017 shareholders who elect to receive it.
Our Group website also contains information on thebusiness of the Company, Corporate Governance, evaluation should be externally facilitated, one year earlier than required under the Code.
Independent Board Evaluation were selected all regulatory announcements, key dates in the financial calendar and other important shareholder information.
They have no other connection with the Company.
The AGM is an opportunity to meet with shareholders, hear their views Representatives of Independent Board Evaluation attended meetings and to answer their questions about the Group and its business.
Allresolutions are voted on by way of a poll.
This allows the Company of the Board and principal Committees and also interviewed each of the Board members, the Company Secretary and members of the to count all votes rather than just those of shareholders attending the meeting.
All resolutions are voted on separately and the final voting senior management team who had attended Board meetings during the year.
The evaluation focused on strategy and succession planning, results are published as soon as practicable after the meeting.
Together with the rest of the Board, the Chairmen of the Audit and these being two areas identified for improvement in the 2016 evaluation.
Independent Board Evaluation provided detailed reports Risk, Remuneration and Nominations Committees will be present toanswer questions.
The 2018 AGM is to be held on Thursday on the Board, its principal Committees, the Chairman and each individual Director.
The Chairman discussed the individual reports with 26 April 2018 at 11.30 a. m. each Director.
Independent Board Evaluation met with the Committee Chairmen to discuss the Committee evaluations.
The main Board report was presented to and discussed by the whole Board.
The overall conclusion of the evaluation was that the Board is on a positive track and performing increasingly well.
It set out anumber of recommendations including: Setting high level Board objectives for the year: Having more informal time outside of Board meetings to strengthen Board relationships: Developing the induction process further to help new Directors, inparticular those from outside the financial services sector: Having Board update calls between Board meetings: Standardising Board papers further: and Reviewing recent acquisitions more systematically.
The Board agreed with these recommendations and has agreed aplan to address them.
52 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Stakeholder interests Stakeholders Why they are important to us How we have engaged Clients Clients are the centre of our business.
Our In Asset Management, our Distribution teams consist of ongoing success is built upon our ability to over 500 people who arefocused on forming principled understand their needs.
We recognise the responsibility entrusted to us by our clients.
We look to build and maintain close relationships with our clients so that we In Wealth Management, our dedicated portfolio managers can better understand their financial and wealth planning advisers, allow us to develop close See page 18. needs and recommend the solutions to relationships and ensure that the investment solutions we build their future prosperity.
provide are well placed to meet our clients financial goals.
Shareholders We rely on the support and engagement Our shareholding structure supports the long-term of our shareholders in order to deliver our approach we take in the management of our business and strategic objectives and grow the enables the Board and management not to be overly business.
We held a capital markets day in October 2017 to allow theinvestment community the opportunity to better See page 20. understand our strategy and speak to seniormanagement.
People Our people are central to the ongoing In January 2017, we completed a firm-wide Employee success of ourbusiness.
Schroders is highly diverse in terms of the We communicate regularly though management briefings, nationalities employed in our local offices videos, an internal magazine and a social intranet.
This is a key strength that Annual Inside Schroders Live meetings are held with the provides us with local market knowledge Group Chief Executive to discuss the progress made by See page 28. and a deep understanding of our clients theGroup and future challenges and objectives.
Launch of our firm-wide employee recognition scheme.
Regulators Regulators have a legitimate interest in As a global business, we nurture positive relationships how we treat our clients andrun our through our local compliance teams with our regulators business.
We believe that our clients across the world.
interests are best served when we work Regulatory and legal change is monitored by the constructively with our regulators.
Compliance, Legal and Public Policy teams.
We believe that we have the responsibility The Board receives regular updates on proposed changes to demonstrate that we provide value for to financial services regulations that are likely to impact us money for our clients and act with and our clients.
integrity as good stewards of capital.
Society We take our societal responsibilities We have a global CR champion network to help us mobilise seriously and weare proud to support the our people, gain local knowledge and give usgreater global communities in whichwe operate.
We recognise that there are high We encourage our people to volunteer with charitable standards for the management of our organisations, sharing their skills and insights.
They receive impact and giving back to the wider up to 15 hours paid volunteering leave each year and time See page 30. community.
matching for volunteering outside workhours.
Integrating ESG considerations into We have set targets to purchase electricity from renewable ourinvestment decisions allows us to sources.
We have exceeded our initial goal of 60% and are deliver long-term sustainable returns and on track to reach 75% by the end of 2020.
We have also set contribute to solving environmental and a target to purchase 100% renewable energy by 2025. societal challenges.
Suppliers Like many global businesses, we use We have a procurement policy which governs the selection external service partners to supplement of major suppliers.
our own infrastructure to deliver our We have a supplier relationship management policy.
Underthis policy we segment our suppliers on a risk based This allows access to lower costs of service approach which sets the required control, reporting delivery and the ability to benefit from the andgovernance of our supplier base.
Key suppliers expertise our partners are able to provide, havesupplier owners who are responsible for a set enabling us to focus on the services we ofgovernance requirements appropriate to the risk are best equipped to provide.
retains responsibility for the performance The Audit and Risk Committee reviews our material of our third party providers.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 53
