NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT The Nomination Committee appointed Spencer Stuart as external search consultants with which the Company has no other connection to assist with this process.
In formulating the candidate profile for the appointment, the Nomination Committee had particular regard to the need for a growth orientated Chief Executive with an engineering background and a strong technical appreciation and international experience.
They also looked for a diverse gender and ethnic list of potential candidates.
The Nomination Committee received a long list of potential candidates from Spencer Stuart.
Following review and discussion, prioritised candidates were identified for interview.
The Nomination Committee were unanimous in their recommendation of the preferred candidate to the Board for approval.
Kevin Hostetlers appointment as executive director, from 12 February 2018, and Chief Executive, from 12 March 2018, was announced on 4 January 2018.
During the year, the Nomination Committee was also responsible for recommending Peter Dilnot as a new non-executive director and member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees following a search for a replacement non-executive director which was commenced in 2016.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for: Leading the process for Board appointments and making recommendations to the Board: Succession planning Succession planning for the Board is continuous and the Nomination Ensuring succession planning is in place for appointments to the Board and senior management: Committee considered during the year the need to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience within the Company and on Reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board, including the Board and to ensure progressive refreshing of the Board.
As Gary its balance of skills, diversity, knowledge and experience and making recommendations as appropriate: and Bullard will have been in office for nine years in 2019 the Nomination Committee have started to plan for the appointment of a replacement Making recommendations concerning the membership of the Audit and Remuneration Committees in consultation with the Chairs of non-executive director and Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
This will be progressed during 2018. those Committees.
A copy of the Nomination Committee terms of reference is available on Diversity policy The Board seeks to attain a diverse mix of skills, experience, knowledge the Rotork website at www.
com en investors index committees.
In considering diversity, gender will play an important role but the Board will take account of ethnicity, nationality, John Nicholas retired from the Nomination Committee on his retirement background, profession and personality.
from the Board on 24 February 2017, Peter Dilnot joined the Nomination Committee on 1 September 2017 and Kevin Hostetler joined on 1 March The Board has formally adopted a diversity policy to encourage diversity 2018.
A majority of the Nomination Committee members are independent non-executive directors.
Biographies of each member of at all levels within the Group.
At Board level, this includes a number of voluntary actions to improve diversity, including only using external the Nomination Committee are set out on pages 54 to 55. search consultants where such consultants are engaged to make an Activities of the Nomination Committee during the year appointment which have signed up to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms on gender diversity and best practice.
The There were five formal Nomination Committee meetings during the year.
The Nomination Committee also met at other times during 2017 in diversity policy also sets out other actions that will be taken to contribute to a more diverse pool of employees throughout the Group.
connection with the recruitment of Kevin Hostetler as Chief Executive Details of further actions to improve diversity are set out on page 38. and Peter Dilnot as a non-executive director.
A summary of principal activities is set out opposite.
The Nomination Committee received a presentation from the Group HR Board appointments Director on improving diversity across the Group during the year.
This followed on from the publication of the Hampton Alexander review on Following the resignation of Peter France as Chief Executive in July 2017, gender diversity and Parker review on ethnic diversity in November the Nomination Committee commenced work on the recruitment of a new Chief Executive.
This process was led by Sally James Senior 2016.
This will remain a focus for the coming year.
A structured timetable was adopted for the process and regular Nomination Committee discussions and updates Details of the proportion of women on the Board, in senior leadership positions and within the Group can be found on page 39.
provided our gender data for the Hampton Alexander follow up review which was published in November 2017.
MARTIN LAMB Chair of the Nomination Committee 5 March 2018 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 66 g overview StrateGic report Governance Financial StatementS company inFormation n i n n a l p n o i s s e c c u S O t h e r Dates of Nomination Committee meetings: Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec 1 1 As at 31 December 2017 Members : Martin Lamb, Lucinda Bell, Gary Bullard, Sally James and Peter Dilnot APPOINTMENT PROCESS SUCCESSION PLANNING Approved the appointment of external search consultants for new Chief Discussed Board composition and succession planning, including Executive search.
consideration of balance of skills and experience and diversity.
Considered the candidate profile for the Chief Executive role.
Approved offer to new Chief Executive.
Recommended Peter Dilnot for appointment as a non-executive director and member of Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE ACTIVITY 2017 OTHER WORK Discussed gender pay gap reporting requirements.
Discussed diversity following presentation from Group HR Director and consideration of the Hampton Alexander Report on gender diversity and Parker review on ethnic diversity.
