CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Introduction from the Executive Chairman The Board has regard to the interests of other stakeholders of the On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to introduce Rotorks Corporate Company in its decision making, in addition to its shareholders.
The aim of this report is to provide a clear of how we have considered the interests of our employees during the and comprehensive explanation of Rotorks governance framework and year are set out on page 38.
In addition, the Chair of our Remuneration how it was applied day-to-day during the year under review, with Committee met with employee representatives in 2017 to discuss particular emphasis on explaining how the principles of the UK executive pay and remuneration more broadly across the Group.
Details Corporate Governance Code have been applied across our Group.
of how we interact with the communities in which we operate, and our environmental impact, are set out in our Corporate Social Responsibility As I highlighted earlier in my report on pages 4 to 5, 2017 was a period Report see pages 44 to 45 and 46 to 49.
In addition, details of our of change for the Group with further changes expected in 2018, with relationships with our suppliers are set out on page 43. the appointment of a new Chief Executive, and as we commence implementation of our plans to accelerate growth.
I believe that strong As reported last year, John Nicholas retired from the Board in February corporate governance has a key role to play in protecting our business 2017.
Following this, Sally James was appointed Senior Independent and its long-term success, particularly during periods of change.
It is Director and Lucinda Bell was appointed Chair of the Audit Committee important for good governance to resonate throughout our entire to replace Sally James.
Peter Dilnot joined the Board on 1 September organisation and at Rotork we seek to apply it across all our activities 2017 as our fourth independent non-executive director and has joined around the world in a consistent and unified way to create and maintain each of the three principal Committees.
Finally, Kevin Hostetler joined the right culture throughout the Group.
the Board as an executive director on 12 February 2018 and became a member of the Nomination Committee on 1 March 2018.
Kevin will As previously reported, there has been a strong focus by the Board on assume the role of Chief Executive on 12 March 2018. broader strategic issues this year as we consider ways to accelerate our revenue growth and return to higher margins.
The Board has overseen As a Board we regularly review and discuss our ways of working and our the strategic reviews of our routes to market, innovation funnel, effectiveness.
Useful Thinking Limited facilitated a Board effectiveness operations footprint, supply chain, talent development and IT systems review in early 2017, following on from the comprehensive review that and will continue to do so in 2018. was conducted in the previous year.
Further details are set out on page 60.
Our robust risk management processes, which were further enhanced in 2017, ensure that the Boards risk assessment and risk appetite are fully Rotork is subject to the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code, and I am considered, both in the development of strategy, and in action plans in happy to report that throughout 2017 Rotork has complied with the furtherance of new business opportunities.
Code in all respects, save that, following Peter Frances resignation as Chief Executive in July 2017, I have acted as Executive Chairman.
Details The Board received a number of presentations on improving diversity of the changes made to the governance structures of the Board in across the Group during the year.
These have followed on from the response to my temporary change in role are set on page 58. publication of the Hampton Alexander review in November 2016, and follow up review in November 2017, which focused on gender diversity MARTIN LAMB at Board and senior management level for FTSE 350 companies.
There Executive Chairman was also the Parker report, which was published in November 2016, 5 March 2018 which focused on the ethnic diversity of Boards.
We provided our gender data for the Hampton Alexander follow up review.
We have also recently published our gender pay report.
The Board is committed to fostering greater diversity at Board and all other levels of Rotork and this will remain a focus for the coming year.
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 56 overview StrateGic report Governance Financial StatementS company inFormation O t h e r l a i c n a n i F a n I d n r t i e s r k n a m l Dates of Board meetings Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec BUSINESS REVIEW AND STRATEGY FINANCIAL Received regular performance and business updates from the executive Received regular financial performance updates from the Finance Director.
Approved 2016 Annual Report and Accounts and Annual General Meeting AGM business.
Set the Groups strategy and vision.
Received presentations from divisional and Group business function Approved 2017 interim report and trading updates.
managers to consolidate understanding and awareness of activities and Approved 2016 final dividend recommendation and 2017 interim dividend performance within the relevant divisions and business functions.
Received a presentation in relation to the competitive landscape.
BOARD ACTIVITY 2017 INTERNAL CONTROLS AND RISK OTHER GOVERNANCE AND STAKEHOLDERS MANAGEMENT Approved appointment of Martin Lamb as Approved entry into an internal audit and risk Series of meetings undertaken between the Executive Chairman.
Executive Chairman, Finance Director and key shareholders following Board changes.
Approved appointment of Peter Dilnot on Received regular reports on risk including recommendation of the Nomination Committee quarterly Executive Risk Summary.
Received regular updates from the Director of and Sally James as Senior Independent Director Strategy and Investor Relations on investor Received regular reports on litigation and and Lucinda Bell as Chair of the Audit relations.
Adopted revised board protocols following the Received regular financial controls selfApproved closure of UK defined benefit scheme appointment of Martin Lamb as Executive assessment confirmations from global locations.
Reviewed effectiveness of risk management and Received a presentation from the Chief Reviewed feedback from institutional internal control systems.
Information Officer on a major review of the IT shareholders.
Approved 2016 and 2017 Modern Slavery Received reports on a third party selling Received presentations on diversity and gender Statements.
arrangement review and agreed a process to pay gap reporting.
Reviewed and discussed the ICSA and rationalise this sales channel.
Investment Association paper on the proper Approved revised Ethics and Values Statement, consideration of stakeholder interests in the updated Whistleblowing Policy and new Gifts boardroom.
Received regular updates on health and safety.
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 57 a c n o a n g t r e o m l s e n w t y e g i v e e t r a r s t s s e n d i s n u a B a n d G o s t v a e k r e n h a o n l c d e e r s CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED UK Corporate Governance Code compliance statement Following a rigorous review, the Board considers all non-executive The UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 the Code is the standard directors to be independent in character and judgement from Rotork.
against which we measured ourselves in 2017.
The Code is available to Details of the length of tenure of the independent non-executive download at www.
directors is set out below.
Gary Bullard is the longest serving nonexecutive director and as he will have been in office for nine years in Throughout the year ended 31 December 2017, Rotork plc fully complied 2019, the Nomination Committee have started to plan for the with the Code, save that from 28 July 2017 it was not in compliance with appointment of a replacement non-executive director and Chair of the Code Provision A.
2.1, which provides that the roles of the Chairman and Remuneration Committee.
Chief Executive should not be performed by the same person.
Rotorks female representation on the Board was 33% as at 31 Martin Lamb assumed the full time role of Executive Chairman on an December 2017.
With the appointment of Kevin Hostetler, female interim basis following the announcement of the resignation of Peter representation now stands at 29%.
The Board is cognisant of the France on 28 July 2017.
Following Martin Lambs appointment, Sally updated Hampton-Alexander Review target of 33% female James, the Senior Independent Director, has taken an increased role at representation on the Board by 2020.
Board level, including chairing the majority of discussions at meetings, in particular those aspects relating to direct review and constructive The biographies of the directors and details of Board committee challenge of the work of the executive directors.
Sally James has also membership are set out on pages 54 to 55. taken greater responsibility for the setting of Board meeting agendas, as described below.
All directors are subject to annual re-election at the AGM in line with the Code.
The Nomination Committee commenced work in August 2017, with the appointment of external executive recruitment consultants, to identify and recruit a new Chief Executive.
The appointment of Kevin Hostetler as Chief Executive was announced on 4 January 2018.
Kevin joined the Board on 12 February 2018 and the Nomination Committee on 1 March Length of tenure of 2018, and will assume the role of Chief Executive from 12 March 2018. independent non-executive Martin Lamb will revert to his role as non-executive Chairman from this directors as at date and Sally James additional responsibilities will also cease.
31 December 2017 The following section on pages 58 to 61 contains a summary of the n 0-3 Years system of corporate governance adopted by Rotork.
n 3-6 Years n 6-9 Years The Board The Board has a duty to promote the long-term success of Rotork for its shareholders: accomplished by entrepreneurial leadership, within a framework of prudent and effective controls and with proper consideration of wider stakeholder interests.
Its role therefore includes Balance of independent approval of strategy, risk reviews, finance matters and internal control non-executive directors and risk management.
and executive directors as at 31 December 2017 The terms of appointment of the Directors are available for inspection n Non-executives during business hours at the registered office of Rotork plc and will also n Executives be available at the AGM.
Board composition Rotork is led by an effective Board which currently consists of seven members: the Executive Chairman, the Finance Director, Kevin Hostetler who will become Chief Executive on 12 March 2017 and four independent non-executive directors.
The non-executive directors are Balance between male appointed for an initial term of three years.
Upon the completion of this and female directors term, the appointment is reviewed and, if appropriate, extended.
on the Board as at 31 December 2017 Rotork Board members come from a variety of professional backgrounds n Male including engineering, legal, accountancy and international sales and n Female collectively possess significant managerial experience, as well as experience of being company directors of other public limited companies.
The appointment of Peter Dilnot as a non-executive director in September 2017 has further strengthened the mix of skills on the Board, in particular given his background in engineering and extensive international business experience.
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 58 overview StrateGic report Governance Financial StatementS company inFormation Directors attendance at Board and Committee meetings How the Board operates effectively during 2017 Board activities As part of Rotorks Board effectiveness, day-to-day responsibility for the No.
of meetings running of the Company is delegated to executive management.
Audit Remuneration Nomination However, there are a number of matters where, because of their Board Committee Committee Committee importance to the Group, it is not considered appropriate to do this.
The i Lucinda Bell 11 12 5 6 3 5 3 5 Board therefore has a formal and documented schedule of matters Gary Bullard 12 12 6 6 5 5 5 5 reserved for its decision.
This schedule can be found on the Companys Jonathan Davis 12 12 6 6 0 0 website at www.
com en investors index theboard.
ii Peter Dilnot 4 12 3 6 3 5 3 5 iii v Peter France 6 12 2 6 2 5 1 5 In 2017, there were nine main Board meetings and three other meetings.
Sally James 12 12 6 6 5 5 5 5 The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director, following Martin v v Martin Lamb 12 12 5 6 5 5 5 5 Lambs appointment as Executive Chairman, through the Company iv John Nicholas 1 12 1 6 1 5 0 Secretary, ensure that the Board agenda and all relevant information is circulated to the Board members sufficiently in advance of the meeting.
Maximum number The format and content of management reporting packs are kept under of meetings 12 6 5 5 review to ensure that the non-executive directors receive focused, i Lucinda Bell missed the meetings of Board, Audit Committee, Remuneration concise and timely information from executive management.
The Committee and Nomination Committee in December for medical reasons.
Chairman together with, following Martin Lambs appointment as ii Peter Dilnot was appointed to the Board with effect from 1 September 2017.
Executive Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and the Company iii Peter France resigned from the Board on 27 July 2017.
Secretary discuss the agenda in detail ahead of every meeting and hold iv John Nicholas retired from the Board on 24 February 2017. a review meeting ahead of each Board meeting.
At least once annually, the Board travels to and meets at one of Rotorks Roles and responsibilities locations other than its head office in Bath.
This allows the Board, and, There is a documented clear division of responsibilities between the in particular, the non-executive directors, the opportunity to gain a Chairman and the Chief Executive to ensure that there is a balance of deeper understanding of other Rotork businesses and their markets and power and authority between leadership of the Board and executive to interact with local management and staff, as well as to view new leadership.
As set out on page 58, Martin Lamb has been carrying out capital investments and acquisitions.
In June 2017, the Board visited the Chief Executive role on a temporary basis following the resignation Rotorks operations in Rotterdam, The Netherlands, and met with, and of Peter France in July 2017.
He will resume his role as non-executive received presentations from, local management.
Whilst there, they Chairman when Kevin Hostetler becomes Chief Executive on 12 March visited a large oil tank terminal in the Rotterdam Europort area, which 2018.
Sally James, the Senior Independent Director, has taken on has about 700 Rotork units installed, to see Rotork actuators in additional responsibilities during this period.
In September 2017, the Board met at Bifolds office in Manchester, UK, where they received a tour of the site and local All directors are entitled to seek independent, professional advice at the management presentations.
Companys expense, and arranged by the Company Secretary, in order to discharge their responsibilities as directors.
Rotork maintains appropriate directors and officers insurance cover.
Board meetings held outside the UK in past five years Location of Board meetings 2017 Rotterdam, The Netherlands 2016 Lucca, Italy 2015 Shanghai, China 2014 Winston-Salem, USA 2013 Lucca, Italy ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 59 C COR ORP POR ORA AT TE E G GO OV five ER RNAN NANC CE E R RE EP POR ORT T C CO ONTI NTINU NUE ED D All non-executive directors constructively challenge executive Risk management and internal controls management at Board meetings and are entitled to unfettered access The Board is responsible for Rotorks system of risk management and to information and management across the Group.
Rotorks executive internal control and the Boards review of the systems effectiveness is directors understand the distinction between their roles as executive completed with the assistance of the Audit Committee.
managers and as Board directors.
During 2017, the Board regularly reviewed the effectiveness of the At Board meetings, the Board receives presentations from senior Groups risk management and internal control systems and can confirm management including all Divisional Managing Directors during the year that no significant failings or weakness were identified in relation to regarding that senior managers area of responsibility.
The principal purpose these reviews.
The systems which were in place for the year under of the presentations is to consolidate the Boards understanding of the review, and up to the date of approval of the report, are in accordance Groups operations, and in particular current strategic and operational with the Code and the FRC Guidance on Risk Management, Internal issues facing divisional and business functional management.
The Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
presentations are structured so that the Board has the opportunity to ask questions and constructively challenge senior management at their Main features of the Groups risk management process presentations.
Management presentations normally take place at the start An established risk review process at a divisional level results in a of the meeting so that any issues raised in them can be considered in wider bottom up assessment of the risks facing the Group.
These are Board discussions, particularly around strategy and risk.
consolidated before the top down review is performed by management and then by the Board to ensure the risk population is The executive directors present to the Board the content of preliminary complete and adequately assessed.
and half year results announcements and the Board also considers trading updates.
An Executive Risk Summary is presented to the Board on a quarterly basis.
This includes a set of Key Risk Indicators which provide a means of Induction and development monitoring the Groups risk exposures and focusses the Board on risks New Board members receive a suitable tailored induction, facilitated by where the Group exceeds, or will potentially exceed, risk appetite.
This includes a combination of reading Quarterly reporting is supplemented as necessary by more detailed materials, external and internal training, meetings with senior monthly reporting to the Board by the executive management team on management and site visits.
new or evolving risks, the effectiveness of existing mitigations and plans to further strengthen mitigations.
Directors are encouraged to continually update their professional skills and knowledge.
During 2017, development activities for the directors included Main features of the Groups internal control systems participation in external training seminars.
All the non-executive directors All members of the Board receive Audit Committee papers and prior are members of the Deloitte Academy which provides a wide range of meeting minutes, which contain the Audit Committees assessment of the training opportunities for FTSE 350 board directors.
effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control systems.
All non-executive directors are members of the Audit Committee and the The level and nature of training given to the Board is considered at least executive directors attend Audit Committee meetings.
Key elements of the framework which enables Rotork to respond Performance evaluations appropriately to financial, operational, compliance and any other risks, The Board is self-critical, and is continuously looking to improve its include: performance.
In this respect, the appointment of new members to the Group wide policies and procedures, including authority levels and Board in recent years has provided a valuable opportunity to review and division of responsibilities: refresh the approach to achieving best practice.
Training of staff on policies and procedures relevant to their roles: Ongoing monitoring of business performance, Key Risk Indicators The formal performance evaluation of the Board in accordance with Code and levels of compliance with procedures: Provision B.
Followingthe full, interview-based A formal schedule of reserved matters for the Board, including Board performance evaluation in 2016, the Executive Chairman asked responsibility for reviewing Group strategy: Useful Thinking Limited, an independent external consultancy, to facilitate a A formal whistleblowing policy revised in 2017 with an external review in 2017 focusing on the key points previously raised and assessing whistleblowing hotline: the Boards satisfaction with the follow up to the 2016 Board evaluation.
Robust assurance processes and controls over financial reporting and This was done by way of written questionnaire.
health and safety procedures: and Regular controls confirmations from the business.
Building on specific feedback from the Boards 2016 effectiveness review, Board workshops were held in March 2017 to consider the acquisition At the start of 2017, Rotorks internal audit function comprised a process and the Groups Risk Appetite Framework and in June 2017 on dedicated central team supported by a team of in-house accountants succession planning, personal development and recruitment.
Unfortunately both members of the central team resigned during the year as they wanted to relocate with their families.
The Senior Independent Director annually arranges a meeting of the As a result, PwC have been retained to cover these roles.
The function is non-executive directors to appraise the Chairmans performance.
This now led by an experienced Head of Risk and Internal Audit from PwC.
feedback is used by the Senior Independent Director to discuss with the Staffing of the central risk and internal audit team will be kept under Chairman his performance.
This review took place in December 2017 and review during 2018. related to Martin Lambs performance as Chairman not Executive Chairman.
During the year, the internal audit team identified improvement recommendations as a result of their work.
Management are charged with implementing the required improvements to controls.
The status and effectiveness of actions are monitored by internal audit and regularly reported to the Audit Committee.
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 60 overview StrateGic report Governance Financial StatementS company inFormation Further details of the Groups internal control and risk management Electronic communications are also used by Rotork to communicate with systems and the process for identifying, evaluating and managing the its shareholders.
All shareholders have been asked whether they would principal risks faced by the Group during 2017, including the Boards risk like to receive the Annual Report and Accounts in electronic form rather appetite, are contained on pages 18 to 24. than in hard copy form.
Any shareholders wishing to receive corporate documents electronically can do this by registering for the service at Relations with shareholders www.
co. uk and clicking on Register under the Shareview Communication with shareholders is a priority for Rotork and the Portfolio section.
Rotork also makes available electronic proxy Company openly engages in a regular dialogue with its major appointment for shareholders who wish to appoint a proxy online to shareholders.
In 2017, the Board, and in particular the Executive vote at the Companys AGM.
Chairman and Finance Director, have engaged with shareholders in a number of ways including: Board Committees Hosting and participating in roadshows, both in the UK and The Board has Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Each internationally: Committee has formal, written terms of reference which are available to Hosting webcasts: download from the Rotork website at www.
com en investors Attending shareholder events: index committees.
All Committees have at least three independent Hosting investor site visits: non-executive directors within their composition.
The Company Attending conferences: Secretary advises and acts as secretary to the Committees.
Hosting conference calls: and Arranging ad hoc one to one and group meetings and calls In addition to the principal Committees outlined above, the Board also with shareholders.
maintains a Disclosure Committee to ensure that Rotork complies with its obligations in relation to the control and disclosure of inside A Director of Strategy and Investor Relations was appointed in January information under the EU Market Abuse Regulation.
Membership of the 2017 to increase the resources available to support existing and potential Disclosure Committee currently comprises the Executive Chairman, the shareholders and enhance our reporting to shareholders.
Finance Director and the Company Secretary and it operates under formal, written terms of reference.
During the year we have reviewed our programme of events and expanded our investor communications programme to include greater participation The Committees have authority to take external, independent with a wider range of shareholders, hosting additional site visits and professional advice at Rotorks expense for matters relating to the roadshows, and attending additional conferences.
We have communicated discharge of their duties.
with all major shareholders regarding the change of Chief Executive and progress regarding our growth acceleration plans, and will keep Chairman of the Board and Chairs of the Committees as shareholders updated on a regular basis as this develops.
at 31 December 2017 In January 2018, MiFID II made up of the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive 2014 65 EU and the Markets in Financial PLC Board Instruments Regulation 2014 600 EU became effective which impacts Martin Lamb how investment fund managers receive research from analysts and how they arrange access to corporates.
We have assessed the likely implications for our wider communications with shareholders and will keep this under review as the investment industrys response evolves.
Audit Remuneration Nomination The Chairman ensures that all directors are made aware of major Committee Committee Committee shareholder issues and concerns by ensuring the Board receives reports Lucinda Bell Gary Bullard Martin Lamb on meetings with analysts and fund managers as well as shareholders.
In addition, the Board receives reports from its brokers which give anonymised feedback from investors.
Rotork makes constructive use of its AGM as an opportunity for the Board to communicate with, and answer questions from, shareholders who attend in person.
The entire Board is normally available during the meeting, and for lunch following the meeting, to allow direct interaction between the directors and the shareholders.
This year, Rotork will again adopt automatic poll voting at its AGM in order to better reflect the views of shareholders: previously voting on resolutions was generally undertaken on a show of hands at the AGM itself.
Automatic poll voting ensures that all votes cast in person or by proxy are taken into account on a particular resolution.
Rotork also maintains a comprehensive investor relations section on its website which provides a variety of resources for investors including current webcasts, presentations and press releases as well as annual interim reports.
The website can be accessed at www.
