Corporate governance report Corporate governance introduction Good corporate governance always has been, and always Our commitments to high standards of will be, important to us at corporate governance have helped guide JustEat.
our Board and its Committees as they steered the Group successfully through It provides the structure and processes within which the Groups entrepreneurial spirit continues ayear of exceptional change.
It enables the Groups ongoing strategy and growth to be achieved in an environment Andrew Griffith thatis both supportive and controlled.
It allows Interim Non-executive Chairman therealisation of our aim to maximise shareholder value and stakeholder interests over the long term.
This structured approach provided the basis of Appointment of Non-executive Director our handling of the exceptional amount of change In April, we announced the appointment of during the past year that I referred to inmy Alistair Cox as an additional Independent Chairmans Statement earlier in this Annual Report.
Alistairs successful Clearly the passing away of John Hughes in June track record in the technology, talent and was both sad and significant.
It is, though, a listed sectors added significant value to the testament to John that under his leadership in the Board through the year.
previous years we had assembled a Board well able to navigate the events of the year successfully.
Appointment of Interim Chairman and InterimCEO Key corporate governance developments in the When John Hughes took a leave of absence for year are discussed below: medical treatment in April, the Board carefully Appointment of Executive Chairman considered the appropriate response in In February, David Buttress, our then CEO, consultation with John himself.
At the Boards notified the Board that he was to step down request, I, as Senior Independent Director, from that role at the end of March to deal with took on the role of Chairman on an interim urgent family matters.
David agreed to remain basis, andPaul Harrison took on the role of on the Board as a Non-executive Director CEO on aninterim basis, in addition to his role following a four-month leave of absence.
With the support of the rest of the management team, Pauls performance in this A fter careful deliberation by both the interim role wasoutstanding.
I would also like Nomination Committee and the Board, we to recognise the support we both received appointed John Hughes, then Non-executive from our other Board colleagues, particularly Chairman, as Executive Chairman until a new during this exceptional period.
This was to maximise the benefit ofJohns knowledge of the business Appointment of CEO and the management team, and to leverage his After a thorough and successful recruitment proven track record of running technology process, in June the Board was delighted to companies.
Although we would not normally appoint Peter Plumb as CEO commencing combine the roles of Chairman and CEO, we inSeptember.
This appointment was on the believed this tobe the appropriate solution in recommendation of the Nomination Committee, the context ofDavids leave of absence and and on terms approved by the Remuneration Johns uniquetalent.
Peters excellent track record of creating value for shareholders in high growth A t the same time, we commenced the search consumer digital businesses made him our forthe new CEO.
preferred choice for the role.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 44 Corporate governance Board meeting in Madrid Future developments The UK Corporate I look forward to our new Chairman reporting In September, we held our first Board meeting Governance Code inMadrid.
As well as the normal Board agenda, toyou in next years Annual Report on the 2016 can be accessed comingyear.
I expect this will include ongoing we received presentations from our local at www.
uk management team and were ableto interact succession planning for the Board.
It will also include updates on how we are addressing the with them on an informal basis.
In addition to learning more about the local operations, it new corporate governance provisions being introduced over the next year.
We consider was great to see their enthusiasm for the business as is typical of our People inJust Eat.
thisprocess of continual development to be asimportant to our governance as it is to our Appointment of Chairman business as we view good governance as a key Having completed the appointment of element of the ongoing success of Just Eat.
PeterPlumb as CEO, we commenced in earnestthe search for a new permanent Chairman.
As with Peter, this is a critically important appointment.
After a thorough recruitment process we are pleased to have Andrew Griffith announced the appointment ofMike Evans.
Interim Non-executive Chairman Mike Evans will join the Board on 6 March 2018 5 March 2018 as an Independent Non-executive Director andChairman elect.
His appointment as Non-executive Chairman will be effective fromthe conclusion of the Company's AnnualGeneral Meeting on 26 April 2018.
UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 Later in this Corporate Governance Report: theCode compliance 1.
An introduction to our Board is given in the biographies This Corporate Governance Report, including ofourDirectors on the next pages.
the sections that follow, sets out how the Grouphas applied the main principles of good 2.
More detail on the role and activities of the Board starts governance contained in the Code.
considers that the Group was in full compliance 3.
Andrew Griffith, the Chairman of our Audit Committee, with the Code provisions that applied during reports onits work commencing on page 56. theyear, with one exception during April.
Andrew Griffith reports, in his role as Interim Chairman of During that period of approximately one month, theNomination Committee, on that Committees activities John Hughes fulfilled the roles of both Chairman commencing onpage 61. and CEO.
Whilst that dual role was not consistent with the recommendation of Code provision 5.
Gwyn Burr reports on the remuneration of our Directors in A.
2.1. for the reasons explained earlier, we hercapacity as Chairman of our Remuneration Committee, considered this to be appropriate in the specific commencing on page 65. circumstances atthe time.
The Group was compliant with this provision throughout the remainder of the year.
