EFFECTIVENESS CONTINUED Board meetings in 2017 continued In addition to the regular items, the key areas of focus were: Topic Activity Discussion Actions arising Progress Governance, Regulatory Reviewed our own processes against the requirements of the Modern Slavery Act and risk environment and approved our modern slavery statement for website publication.
management internal governance Approved updates to the delegated authority matrix.
and internal processes control Board evaluation Assessed the outcome of the 2017 Board evaluation and approved the action plan for 2018.
Half yearly and Received regular reports from the Group Risk Committee.
annual review Reviewed the Group risk register, risk appetite and effectiveness of the risk management ofGroup risk profile process to ensure we have a robust risk management framework which delivers an effective and efficient approach to risk management and positively contributes to effective decision making.
Approved the Group risk register.
Approved updates to the risk management methodology.
Read more about our Risks page 48 People, Succession Discussed succession and talent development for CEO and CEO-1.
culture and planning Received an update on the Executive Committee work on succession planning for roles values atCEO-2 and CEO-3.
Reviewed movements within the Senior Leadership Team.
Employee Approved Board diversity policy and working group to look at diversity across the Group engagement and identify actions to close gaps.
andculture Monitored the launch of the refreshed culture, including regular updates on employee engagement scores.
Approved all employee sharesave offer.
Safety In addition to regular HSE update in CEOs report, received biannual update on HSE and approved HSE priorities for 2018.
Ongoing training, Board visit to South Africa and Zimbabwe in June 2017 to promote interaction between development the Board and employees and provide insight for the Board into the Power Solutions and stakeholder business in Africa.
engagement for Completed induction programmes for Barbara Jeremiah and Miles Roberts.
Board members Shareholders Strong engagement Received regular Investor Relations reports on all Shareholder contact, including with stakeholders an update on a teach-in on our customer business priority: covering how this work andinvestors is refocusingour businesses and providing more detail on some of our key sectors.
Theteach-in included presentations from our senior and operational management.
Following Shareholder feedback on the RSP element of the remuneration policy proposed for the 2017 AGM and withdrawal of associated resolution at the AGM, soughtmore detailed Shareholder engagement on a new remuneration policy toputtoShareholders for approval at the AGM in 2018.
Read more about our Stakeholder and Shareholder Engagement Programme page 74 THIS YEARS BOARD EVALUATION EXERCISE In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, we undertake a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of our own performance and that of our Committees and individual Directors each year.
We operate a three-year cycle of Chairmans review, Company Secretarys review and externally facilitated review.
Aggrekos last externally facilitated evaluationtook place in 2015, so this year the review was carried out by the Company Secretary.
A series of open questions were prepared for one-to-one discussion between the Company Secretary and the Directors, focusing on the actions from the 2016 review: namely, strategy and succession.
The conclusions of this years review have been positive, confirming that the Board and its Committees operate effectively andthat each Director contributes to the overall effectiveness and success of the Group.
64 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 O V E R V IE W BUSINESS STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE G O V ER N A NCE FINANCIAL & OTHER INFORMATION Governance in action S O CI A L Board meeting in South Africa and Zimbabwe, June 2017 Site visits give the Board key insights intothe business: at least one meeting each year is held at a location outside London or Glasgow to give the Directors an opportunity to review operations andmeet local employees.
Employees at the Aggreko site in Harare, Zimbabwe In June 2017, the Board met at our Midrand Industrial depot This gives us the benefit of highly skilled staff, trained in in Johannesburg, a key location for our Sub-Saharan Africa our own equipment and helps us build relationships in business.
During their visit, the Directors received presentations communities where we may be operating for many years.
from the Africa management team and toured the depot.
We also like to support initiatives to improve childrens The depot tour included a number of informative carousels welfareand education, so for the schools within one kilometre to highlight activities and opportunities being explored by of the site, we drilled and equipped boreholes to provide the industrial business in Sub-Saharan Africa.
There were also a safesource of drinking water and built toilet blocks to carousels on health and safety, HR, mining and Aggrekos improvesanitation.
Basic initiatives like this provide a more Remote Monitoring.
The Board hosted a lunch with the stable and secure environment for children, allowing them sales, operations and depot staff and dinner with the Africa tofocus on their education.
management team to give the Board an opportunity to engage with the presenters informally.
Chris Weston also Key priorities for 2018 addressed the lunch audience to update them on Aggrekos Track progress against the actions agreed upon following global plan and the important role the Power Solutions the strategy review discussions in Q4 2017 and ensure Industrial business had to play in achieving growth, inviting goodgovernance around this.
Ensure a thorough induction programme to Aggreko for The Board also visited a large diesel fuelled site in Harare, Heath Drewett, so thathe is able to perform effectively Zimbabwe.
As our largest customer sites are often in remote inhisnew role as CFO.
locations, the proximity of the site in Harare to the depot in Continue to closely monitor the integration of Younicos Johannesburg presented a rare opportunity for the Board to into Aggreko.
visit and understand the operations of a project site.
The Board learned about safety at the site, partaking in a management Plan an externally facilitated Board evaluation.
safety walk, received a presentation from management at Plan a Board visit to Dubai to learn more about the thesite andmet with local employees based there, to hear MiddleEast business and engage with local employees their viewsabout working for Aggreko and answer questions.
This site was built to provide power to the city of Harare.
Monitor the work of the team established to look at diversity Owing to problems with the local infrastructure, the local on a group-wide basis.
utilitycompany was losing a significant amount of power Continue to monitor developments in corporate governance during the transmission process from their power plant reform, amending our processes and procedures 900kmaway, so an efficient solution was to set up a power where necessary.
plant specifically to supply the city.
It took 16 weeks from signing the contract to providing power to the grid, and the delivery of over 300 containers to set up the site.
In keeping with our commitment to support the local communities in which we work, we employ as many local people at the site aspossible and are proud that 90% of the employees at theHarare site are local staff.
We provide extensive on-the-job training for new recruits and give them the skillstobecome technicians.
AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 65
