Corporate governance Report of the Nomination Committee The process followed is summarised below: We assist the Board in determining the succession planning for senior Selection process for theappointment ofnewBoardmembers management.
This report summarises Selection of recruitment consultants our membership and activities Appropriate external executive search consultants are during2017.
As in prior years, the Committee continued to seek diversity, For the Non-executive role in 2017 this was The Zygos including with regard to gender, as part of the overall selection Partnership and for the CEO role this was Russell Reynolds.
of the highest calibre candidates for appointment to the Board, based on merit and objective criteria.
Candidate specification Membership A specification for candidates is prepared setting out the The Nomination Committee comprises four Independent agreed key skills and character profile being sought to fit with Non-executive Directors, Gwyn Burr, Roisin Donnelly, the current balance, membership and dynamic of the Board.
DiegoOliva and myself Andrew Griffith as Interim Chairman.
Potential candidates Role and activities 2017 was a busy year for the Committee.
We met seven A long list of candidates meeting the specification is identified times during the year, which we considered necessary from a specific search as well as the search firms own database.
todischarge our duties efficiently as a Committee.
The This would include candidates from a diverse range of Committee is responsible for evaluating the balance of backgrounds and be gender neutral.
skills, knowledge and experience of the Directors.
It also reviews the composition and structure of the Board, Interviews and selection makesrecommendations to the Board on retirements and appointments of additional and replacement Directors, A shortlist of candidates is then selected by the Nomination andhas a continuous and proactive approach to succession Committee and interviewed.
The Committees succession planning not only takes into consideration the long-term needs and natural Recommendations and confirmation of appointment evolution of the Board in the mid term, but that of the short term for unforeseen departures and contingency The preferred candidates are recommended to the Board forunexpected changes.
Candidates meet with other Directors on the Board as Appointments appropriate prior to Board approval for the appointment The appointments of both our most recently recruited tobemade.
Independent Non-executive Director, Alistair Cox, andour new Chief Executive Officer, Peter Plumb, followed formal, rigorous and transparent recruitment processes.
They were undertaken with the assistance of The Zygos Partnership and Russell Reynolds, respectively, both leading external The Nomination Committee keeps recruitment firms.
Neither of these firms have any other connection with the Company.
the composition of the Board under review, ensures an appropriate balance of skills and experience is maintained and, as in this year, ensures Board succession planning isin place and implemented.
Andrew Griffith Interim Chairman, Nomination Committee www.
com 61 Report of the Nomination Committee continued Key matters considered at each main meetingof the NominationCommittee during the year included: 2017 February two meetings Recommendation to the Board for interim appointment of John Hughes as Executive Chairman.
April Proposed recruitment of CEO after David Buttress Update on CEO recruitment.
stepped down from this role.
Agreement to recommend the appointment Selection of recruitment firm to assist with ofPaulHarrison as Interim CEO.
Review of progress in selection of additional Non-executive Director.
June two meetings and July one meeting Update on CEO recruitment and selection from final two candidates for recommendation for appointment.
1 September Consideration of shortlist of recruitment firms toassist in search for Chairman.
Agreement to the continuation of Andrew Griffith as Interim Chairman until a new Chairman is appointed.
Confirmation of recruitment firm selected toassist with recruitment of Chairman.
Andrew Griffith did not participate in the Board discussions nor decisions regarding his own appointment.
At every main meeting,  reviews: Minutes and actions from previous meetings.
Diversity We consider that they each provide distinct and important One of the pivotal considerations on any appointment to contributions to the overall operation and function of the Board relates to diversity.
takes an active role in setting and meeting diversity This review of the performance of the Non-executive objectives andstrategies for the Company as a whole.
Directors included an assessment of their: TheBoards policy is to continue to seek and encourage diversity within long and short lists, including with regard attendance at meetings: to gender, as part of the overall selection process for continued independence where applicable : and Non-executive Director roles.
Inaddition, the appointment of Peter Plumb was made within the Groups diversity ability to devote ample time to the Company policies for the appointment of employees, as will any outsidemeetings.
future appointments of Executive Directors.
All the Directors being proposed for reappointment attended Further information on diversity in the Group is included on all meetings they were scheduled to attend unless unavoidably page 38. prevented from doing so.
They all devote sufficient time to their duties.
The evaluation also confirmed that the roles Reappointment of the Directors in other companies in no way impede their In accordance with the provisions of the Code, each Director roles within the Company.
Indeed, each demonstrates great retires at the AGM of the Company and, if decided appropriate enthusiasm as well as commitment to their roles.
David by the Board, may be proposed for reappointment.
In reaching Buttress will not be seeking re-election and accordingly its decision, the Board acts on the advice of the Nomination will retire at the AGM.
Following evaluation of their performance I, asInterim Chairman, confirm that the performance ofeach of the Non-executive Directors being proposed forreappointment continues to be effective and demonstrates ample commitment totheir duties.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 62 Corporate governance Board evaluation Performance reviews During 2017, the Board undertook an internally facilitated evaluation of the effectiveness of its own performance and that of its three standing Committees, the individual Directors and the Chairman.
The process undertaken is summarised below along with theconclusions and actions to be taken.
This process took into account the actions and specific areas of interest arising from theprevious years externally facilitated evaluation.
We plan that a follow-up on this will again be internally facilitated during thecurrent year and will be reported on in next years Annual Report.
Comprehensive questionnaire All Directors completed a comprehensive questionnaire, with open questions designed to encourage narrative answers, focused on the following areas: Strategy Succession planning and Chairmans effectiveness Skills, knowledge and talent development experience of Directors Risk appetite Audit, Remuneration and Board dynamics Nomination Committees' effectiveness Full Board discussion The results of the evaluation were reported to the Board in a confidential and non-attributable manner which ensured that theseresponses were as open, frank and informative as possible.
The review of the Chairmans performance was led by the SeniorIndependent Director and the responses to the section on the Chairmans effectiveness were shared only with the SeniorIndependent Director.
Having considered and discussed these results, the Board agreed to follow up with specific actions as part of the continuous enhancement of its governance processes.
Conclusions and actions Conclusions were within three main areas, summarised below with key actions taken: Refine the vision for Just Eat for the next five years, including: Strategy the future purpose of Just Eat: and what its aims should be and how its strategy is best aligned with these.
Marketing strategy, including: ongoing conversion of telephone-based Customer sales to website transactions: and monitoring the developing competitive landscape and ensuring the Companys strategy aligns with this.
Focus on building value in the business over different time horizons, with particular emphasis on the The business long term.
Development and enhancement of the succession planning processes.
Recognising the benefits of ongoing cultural change in line with continued development of the business.
Continue to develop a cohesive Board whose collective vision underpins the Companys strong core The Board belief of who we are.
Consider the diversity of thought on the Board, including: independence of mind, ensuring fresh input in establishing strategy and having a positive impact on the quality of decision making: reinforcement by senior management of the Non-executive Director knowledge of the business including sharing specific details of challenges faced: and increased interaction between the Board and members of senior management who bring specific expertise to introduce a fresh perspective, encourage new ways of thinking and facilitate robust debate within the Board.
com 63 Report of the Nomination Committee continued Governance meetings In line with the Code, during the past year separate meetings took place amongst the Non-executive Directors and the Chairman without the Executive Directors present to assess the performance of the Executive Directors on an ongoing basis: and the Non-executive Directors only although taking account of the views of the Executive Directors to discuss the performance of the Interim Chairman including review of: the time he dedicates to the Companys business: and his contributions, both at and outside formal meetings.
The Non-executive Directors concluded that the Interim Chairman is well able to, and indeed does, devote ample time and attention to the Companys affairs and that his broad past and current experience provide considerable benefit to his role in the Group.
They also confirmed that his external role has no negative impact on the Company.
The Board is greatly appreciative of Andrew Griffith stepping into the Chairman role on an interim basis and recognises his enormous contribution in its performance.
Succession planning Coming year We commenced, with the assistance of The Zygos Partnership We will report to you again next year on the results of our Limited, the search for a new Chairman following the sad ongoing succession planning and other activities we news that John Hughes had passed away in June 2017.
This intend to carry out during 2018. resulted in the appointment of Mike Evans.
I will continue in the role as Interim Chairman until Mike Evans takes up his role on 26 April 2018.
The Committee recognises that our People are critical to Andrew Griffith our continued success and we remain focused on maintaining Interim Chairman a high performing, entrepreneurial culture to attract and 5 March 2018 retain the highest calibre individuals.
The Committee oversees matters in relation to the succession planning for the senior leadership team as well as the Board.
It considers key new appointments as they arise from external sources.
It also oversees the development and management of existing resource within the organisation.
