AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT I am pleased to present the report of the Audit Committee for the year The Audit Committee maintains an annual schedule of work which is ended 31 December 2017.
This year the key areas of focus for the Audit kept under review and forms the basis of its principal meetings Committee have been: throughout the year.
The annual schedule is supplemented by Appointing the new Head of Risk and Internal Audit via the consideration of specific issues as and when they arise.
cosourcing arrangement with PwC: Reviewing the activities of internal audit and the effectiveness of risk The Audit Committee met six times during the year.
There were four mitigating controls for principal risks: main Audit Committee meetings and two other meetings to approve the Scrutinising the carrying value of intangible assets, including the trading statements in April and November.
Details of attendance are set goodwill on acquisition of Bifold: and out on page 59.
Meetings of the Audit Committee are arranged to Monitoring the quality, consistency and integrity of the Companys co-ordinate with the Groups financial reporting timetable to ensure financial reporting, including assessment of whether the Annual appropriate scrutiny by the Audit Committee of such announcements, Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable.
including review of year end and interim financial reports, in addition to other trading updates made during the year.
Committee composition and governance All Audit Committee members are independent non-executive directors.
The Chief Executive, Chairman, Finance Director, Group Financial John Nicholas retired from the Audit Committee on his retirement from Controller, Head of Risk and Internal Audit and representatives of the the Board on 24 February 2017.
On 27 February 2017, I was appointed external auditor including the principal audit partner also regularly Chair of the Audit Committee, replacing Sally James who became the attend meetings by invitation.
I would like to thank Sally for her thorough chairing of the Audit Committee.
Peter Dilnot joined the Committee on As Chair of the Committee, I additionally hold regular meetings with the his appointment as a Director on 1 September 2017.
Finance Director and other members of the management team.
These meetings provide me with a better understanding of key issues and I hold professional accounting qualifications and am deemed to have identify those matters which require meaningful discussion at Audit recent and relevant financial experience.
Biographies of each member of Committee meetings.
I also meet with the Head of Risk and Internal the Audit Committee can be found on pages 54 to 55.
Audit and the external audit partner to discuss any matters of concern that they may have.
The Audit Committee operates under formal terms of reference which are reviewed annually and were last updated in December 2017.
A copy During the year, the Audit Committee received reports from of the terms of reference is available on the Rotork website at management, the Head of Risk and Internal Audit and the external www.
com en investors index committees.
These reports have allowed the Audit Committee to scrutinise and ask questions where further clarification or discussion was required.
The principal responsibilities of the Audit Committee are to review and Further details of the work undertaken by the Audit Committee during report to the Board on: 2017 is set out opposite.
The integrity of financial reporting: Significant accounting policies and judgements: Internal control and risk management systems including monitoring the effectiveness of internal audit: The appointment, independence and effectiveness of the external auditor: The external auditors remuneration: and Whistleblowing and other Group policies as relevant.
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 62 overview StrateGic report Governance Financial StatementS company inFormation t n e s m l o e r t g E n a x o n t c e a l r m a n n a r k l e s a t i u r n I d d i t n a Dates of Audit Committee meetings: Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec 1 1 As at 31 December 2017 Members : Lucinda Bell, Sally James, Gary Bullard and Peter Dilnot FINANCIAL REPORTING INTERNAL CONTROLS AND RISK MANAGEMENT Reviewed the Annual Report and Reviewed the half year accounts Reviewed internal controls and risk Meetings with the Head of Risk Accounts including whether they including material judgments, management, including and Internal Audit without are fair, balanced and estimates and draft half year results consideration of processes and management present.
understandable and the governance announcement.
procedures for risk management, Reviewed anti-bribery and report and draft results effectiveness of internal controls Reviewed the external auditors corruption procedures, including announcements.
report on the year end accounts training and communication, and Reviewed the material judgments and the proposed full year external Reviewed significant internal recommendation of a new gifts and estimates and going concern audit scope, key risks, materiality control reports, findings and and hospitality policy to the Board.
assumption and the viability and year end issues.
Reviewed Whistleblowing Policy, statement in the Annual Report and Reviewed trading updates.
Reviewed internal audit the Whistleblowing Hotline and Accounts.
programme, its remit, resourcing procedures including training and and effectiveness.
communication, and received reports on whistleblowing matters.
AUDIT COMMITTEE ACTIVITY 2017 EXTERNAL AUDIT OTHER WORK Considered and reported to the Reviewed non-audit services Considered accounting and Reviewed revised Ethics and Values corporate governance Statement and recommendation of Board on the external auditors undertaken by the external auditor independence, objectivity and and considered of policy on developments.
statement to the Board for approval.
effectiveness including the annual non-audit work.
Considered audit fees, engagement effectiveness and Terms of Considered resourcing required for Reviewed the external auditors terms and risk of external auditor Reference.
Risk and Internal Audit team, representation letter, views on the leaving the market.
including the appointment of PwC Received presentations from the control environment and fraud risk following departure of the central Considered re-tendering the Group Tax Manager and management.
Meetings with the external auditor Reviewed policies on the without management present.
employment of ex-employees of the external auditor.
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 63 O t g l h a n i e i c t r n r w a o n o p i r e F k r AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Financial reporting The assessment considers: A key role of the Audit Committee in relation to financial reporting is to Any issues arising from the prior year external audit: review the quality and appropriateness of the half year and yearend The proposed external audit plan, including identification of risks financial statements with a particular focus on: specific to Rotork: Accounting policies and practices: External audit scope and materiality thresholds: The clarity of disclosures and compliance with International Financial Staffing continuity and experience: Reporting Standards, UK company law and the Code: The delivery of the external audit in line with the plan: Material areas in which significant judgements have been applied or Matters arising during the external audit and the communication of where there has been discussion with the external auditor: and these to the Audit Committee: Upon request of the Board, advising the Board on whether the Annual Feedback from executive management: Report and Accounts are fair, balanced and understandable and provide Private meetings with the external auditor and the Head of Risk and the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys Internal Audit without management being present: performance as a whole.
The independence, objectivity and scepticism of the external auditor: and To assist the Audit Committee, the Finance Director and the Group Financial The FRC audit quality review report on selected audits undertaken Controller present a detailed report outlining significant matters on the half by Deloitte.
year and yearend financial statements and the external auditor presents a report on the work they have undertaken.
They also present on the scope Having completed this review, the Audit Committee agreed that for the next full year audit for consideration by the Audit Committee.
the audit process, independence and quality of the external audit were satisfactory.
The principal matters of judgment considered by the Audit Committee in relation to the 2017 accounts and how they were addressed were: Consideration was given to the possibility of re-tendering the external Goodwill impairment testing.
The year end balance sheet includes work during the course of the year but given it is only the fourth year the goodwill of 228.0m, this represents approximately 30.9% of the decision was made not to re-tender.
The Audit Committee has Groups assets.
The Audit Committee reviewed the carrying value of recommended that Deloitte LLP be re-appointed auditors for the 2018 goodwill by examining a report from the Group Financial Controller financial year and Deloittes continuing appointment will be subject to which set out the values attributable to each cash generating unit, the shareholder approval at the 2018 AGM.
expected value in use, based on projected cash flows and the key economic assumptions related to growth and discount rates.
The report The 2018 year end audit will be the last year under the Financial included a detailed impairment review paper for Bifold as this was the Reporting Councils APB Ethical Standards that Nigel Thomas will be able cash generating unit identified as being most sensitive to changes in the to hold the role of Senior Statutory auditor.
We will therefore be key assumptions.
The Bifold paper was reviewed by the Board in considering a transition plan during the coming year.
December 2017 and finalised in February 2018.
The Audit Committee discussed the appropriateness of the assumptions used, compared Statement of compliance expected growth rates to historical averages and relevant market data The Company confirms that it has complied with terms of The Statutory and compared the discount rates to the Group weighted average cost of Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory capital and appropriate risk premiums.
Following the discussion, the Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Audit Committee were satisfied with the approach taken by Responsibilities Order 2014 the Order throughout the year.
management which resulted in the impairment of the Bifold 19.8m and Tulsa 1.6m cash generating units.
The Audit Committee also Non-audit services considered the impact of any reasonable change in assumptions that In order to safeguard the independence and objectivity of the external might further increase or reduce the impairments recorded and whether auditor, the Board has adopted a policy on non-audit services which any reasonable change would result in any other cash generating unit restricts the work and fees available to the external audit firm, and the requiring to be impaired.
The Audit Committee reviewed the sensitivities policy is reviewed by the Audit Committee annually to ensure it remains and impairment disclosures in note 10 and were satisfied these are appropriate and in line with applicable requirements.
The Group operates two defined benefit The policy specifies certain activities which the external auditor may retirement plans which were still open to future accrual at the balance not undertake such as work related to the internal audit function and, sheet date.
The UK scheme is in the process of being closed to future from January 2017, work related to certain tax activities.
The valuations are prepared by an independent qualified actuary.
The Audit Committee considered the report from the Group The policy is compliant with EU legislation on permitted non-audit fee Financial Controller and were satisfied the assumptions used were services which came into effect on 17 June 2016.
The detailed disclosure for these schemes under IAS19 are restrictions on the scope of permissible non-audit work: and a cap on shown in note 24 and the Audit Committee is satisfied they are fees for permissible non-audit work which may not exceed 70% of the complete and accurate.
average audit fees paid in the last three consecutive years.
External auditor For work that is permitted under the policy, authority has been The year under review marks the fourth year during which Deloitte LLP delegated to the Finance Director to approve.
This is for fees of up to has been the Groups external auditor following a formal tender process 10,000 per project or 40,000 in aggregate for general work, and in 2014.
Nigel Thomas is the lead audit partner, taking over from Nicola 10,000 for acquisition related work that is permitted under the policy.
Nigel has been on the audit team since Deloittes Non-audit work above these levels requires the prior approval of the appointment as auditor and therefore the transition between lead audit Chair of the Audit Committee or the Audit Committee as a whole.
partners has been very smooth.
The Audit Committee assesses the effectiveness of the external audit process, the scope of the Group audit An analysis of fees paid to Deloitte, including the split between audit and the quality of the audit work throughout the year.
and non-audit is included in note 8 of the report and accounts.
The statutory auditors non-audit related fees reduced from 41,000 in 2016 to nil in 2017.
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 64 overview StrateGic report Governance Financial StatementS company inFormation Risk management The 2018 audit programme has been scoped to include a number of risk The Audit Committee has responsibility for reviewing and monitoring based audits related to the Groups Principal Risks as well as financial the effectiveness of the Groups control environment, risk management audits across a wide range of locations.
Sites to be audited are selected and internal audit process.
During 2017, the Key Risk Indicators have based on a thorough assessment using a number of relevant risk factors.
been updated and enhanced, technology has been introduced to The Audit Committee reviewed the programme at its December 2017 support the facilitation of the risk management process and there has meeting.
The PwC team are also in the process of reviewing the been increased focus on divisional risk mitigations.
development of the internal audit function, an update of work they first performed in 2015.
This exercise will not only note areas of progress Following the resignation of the Head of Risk and Internal Audit in July since the first report but identify the appropriate next steps as the 2017, the Audit Committee oversaw the appointment of PwC to provide internal audit function continues to mature.
external support and specialist skills to the internal audit and risk function including the provision of a Head of Risk and Internal Audit.
Other matters PwC are currently undertaking a risk maturity assessment, looking at all In accordance with its terms of reference, the Audit Committee carried aspects of the Groups risk management processes and the connections out a review of its effectiveness by way of a questionnaire and between those various processes and the day to day operations of the discussion facilitated by the Head of Risk and Internal Audit, including Group.
Any recommendations arising from this review will be considered how it discharged its responsibilities.
There were two main areas for during the coming year and be used to enhance the current risk improvement identified by the review: Audit Committee induction and management framework.
on-boarding for new members: and Audit Committee meeting agendas and papers management.
These will be addressed in 2018.
Internal controls The Audit Committee has continued to monitor the effectiveness of Throughout the year, the Audit Committee also considered relevant internal controls, supported by internal audit.
The internal audit team accounting and corporate governance developments, in addition to report and follow up on controls weaknesses, providing support to those in relation to risk and internal controls discussed above.
management in making operational improvements where needed.
Areas of focus for 2018 Other means of assessing the internal control systems include annual Key areas of focus for the coming year are: letters of assurance from the divisional leadership team, a regular External audit partner transition in preparation for 2019: and process of collating controls confirmations from operating sites and the A core plan of financial and risk-based internal audits.
The teams will risk assessment process.
These controls sit alongside our effective focus on embedding improved working practices across risk and system of governance, including key committees that monitor our internal audit.
processes and controls, such as the Audit Committee and CSR There will also be flexibility in the use of internal audit resource during Committee and its sub-committees.
the year as business transformation activities are expected to impact the Groups risk profile.
During the year, the Audit Committee considered reports on internal control from the Head of Risk and Internal Audit, as well as reports on LUCINDA BELL procedures to prevent bribery and corruption and whistleblowing events Chair of the Audit Committee from the Group Legal Director.
5 March 2018 Internal audit The Group continues to use Rotork staff to undertake audits, and this arrangement encourages the sharing of best practice and provides career development for the staff involved.
Quality assurance procedures ensure consistency both in terms of audit approach and remedial actions.
The Rotork internal audit team is now led by PwC internal auditors, as part of a co-source arrangement, which will bring an independent perspective to our audits and methodology.
Where an audit raises a number of higher risk recommendations which require significant management action, internal audit will perform a follow up audit to ensure actions taken are effectively mitigating the risks.
During 2017, the scope of internal audit was expanded to cover some risk based audit areas as well as the financial audits.
The risk based audits focused on the controls which are in place to mitigate some of the principal risks identified during the Group risk review process, as well as areas where an independent review of operational processes and procedures was considered beneficial.
The areas reviewed during 2017 under the risk based audits included aspects of health and safety, business continuity planning and third party sales channels including agents and commission.
In 2017, a key controls confirmation process was also introduced which is now completed monthly in the larger manufacturing sites and quarterly in the smaller locations.
The Audit Committee continues to receive reports at the main meetings on internal audit activity, any significant matters arising and the management response.
