Report of the Audit Committee I am pleased to present the Report of the Audit Committee, The Audit Committees primary which provides asummary of responsibility is to assist the Board in its the Committees role and oversight and monitoring of financial activities during the 2017 reporting, internal control and risk financial year.
We reviewed those areas under our remit with Andrew Griffith management and internal and external auditors, Chairman, Audit Committee as appropriate.
Our activities help ensure the interests of shareholders are protected and theGroups reporting is fair, balanced andunderstandable.
the Groups accounting policies, significant Further biographic judgements and estimates, including those details are set out on Membership setout on pages 95 to 141: pages 46 to 47 The Committee comprises three Independent the Groups system of risk management: Non-executive Directors: Gwyn Burr, Diego Oliva and myself Andrew Griffith as its Chairman.
All oversight of Group tax activities and review our members have relevant sector competence ofthe Groups tax strategy statement prior to fulfil their roles, as set out in their biographies topublication: on pages 46 to 47.
Through my background as a the Groups material legal matters: Chartered Accountant and as COO and CFO of another FTSE 100 company, I have relevant new regulatory reporting requirements: financial knowledge and extensive experience.
key internal policies including data protection, anti-bribery and related policies and Role and activities whistleblowing arrangements: We met three times as a Committee during theyear.
The CFO and senior representatives the continued development of the Groups ofthe financial management team also attend internal audit function, which reports directly meetings, as do representatives of both the to the Committee, and establishing control external and internal auditors.
The Committee and risk management procedures: also meets privately with the external auditor the disclosures regarding risk, going concern atleast once per year.
Key matters handled by and the viability statement: and the Committee include review of: whether this Annual Report, taken as a whole, the independence, objectivity and provides afair, balanced and understandable effectiveness of the external auditor: assessment of the Groups position and the remuneration and proposed prospects and whether it provides the reappointment of the external auditor: necessary information to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy, the plans for and outcome of the preparation the ultimate decision on which is taken by the and review of the Groups half year results Board.
Prior to approval of the Annual Report, andaudit of the full year accounts including the Committee receives a paper detailing presentations from both management and those steps taken by management to ensure theexternal auditor: the report meets thefair, balanced and the integrity of the financial statements of the understandable requirement.
Company and any formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance: Annual Report & Accounts 2017 56 Corporate governance Key matters considered at each main meeting of the Audit Committee during the year included: 2017 February two meetings Analysis of 2016 full year results.
Review of 2016 full year results by the externalauditor.
Discussion with the external auditor in the July absence of management.
Analysis of 2017 half year results.
Review of the Groups Annual Report for 2016 Review of half-year results by the external auditor.
and recommendation to the Board a draft of the Annual Report is received in sufficient time ahead Review of 2017 half year results announcement and of signing, to enable the Committee to challenge recommendation to the Board.
the narrative and disclosures where required.
Discussion and examination of 2017 audit plan with Assessment of performance and effectiveness the external auditor.
of2016 audit against the audit plan.
Review of assessment for indicators of impairment.
Review of performance of the external Update on technology and information security auditorand recommendation to the Board within the Group presented by the Chief foritsreappointment.
November Review and approval of 2018 internal audit plan.
Commencement of the annual impairment review.
Review of the Groups tax strategy statement before presentation to the Board for approval andpublication.
Update on the external audit including independence of the external auditor.
Plans for future external audit partner rotation anddiscussion of audit fees.
Assessment of risk management including in relation to Brexit.
Review and agreement to recommend the Committees updated terms of reference to the Board for approval.
Update on refresh of the Group's whistleblowingpolicy.
At every main meeting,  reviews: Report of the CFO.
Report of the external auditor.
Minutes and actions from previous meetings.
Review of risk management and internal controls.
com 57 Report of the Audit Committee continued Significant issues Prior to each meeting of the Audit Committee at which it is to be considered, management produces a paper providing details of any significant accounting, tax, compliance and legal matters.
Members of management are also invited to attend these meetings where further guidance is required.
The Groups critical accounting judgements in applying the Group's accounting policies and key sources of estimation uncertainty are included within Note 2 to the financial statements.
The risks the Audit Committee considers to be significant for the 2017 Annual Report are disclosed below.
Significant issues the Committee has considered How the issue was addressed Impairment of goodwill The Committee received detailed reporting from management and challenged the appropriateness of the assumptions made, including: At December 2017, the Group had goodwill balances totalling 544.9 million the consistent application of managements methodology: 2016:725.2 million.
This is an area offocus for the Committee given the the achievability of the business plans: materiality of the Groups goodwill assumptions in relation to terminal growth in the businesses at the end of the balances and the inherent subjectivity planperiod: inimpairment testing.
discount rates: and The judgements in relation to goodwill impairment continue to relate primarily to sensitivity testing.
the assumptions underlying the calculation This remains an area of audit focus and external valuation experts assisted of the value in use of the business, being management in determining valuations required to complete the fair value less costs to the achievability of the long-term dispose of the Australia & New Zealand businesses.
business plan and the macroeconomic and related modelling assumptions The Committee was satisfied with both the appropriateness of the analysis performed underlying the valuation process.
by management that indicated a goodwill impairment charge of 180.4 million in relation to the Australia & New Zealand businesses, and the impairment-related See Note 13 for further detail on our disclosures set out in Notes 5 and 13 to the financial statements.
Global tax environment The Committee reviewed the Groups approach to taxation and the Group Tax Strategy.
Just Eat aims to responsibly manage all Management continually monitors the status of tax risks and relevant legislative taxes and tax risks that arise across the changes and engages with external taxation experts as appropriate.
At each Committee Group, in order to provide a competitive, meeting, management present updates on such matters.
responsible and sustainable outcome in Taxation issues were discussed with senior management and a report prepared by the the interests of all stakeholders.
Just Eat Group's in-house tax team outlining key tax risks and relevant legislative changes aims to pay the right amount of tax, in the wasreviewed.
right place at the right time, by complying with all relevant tax legislation in all The tax positions and key judgements made within the Group were reviewed and Group entities.
challenged by the Committee to ensure that the Groups effective tax rate, tax provisions in particular in relation to the ongoing transfer pricing audit in Denmark However, given the geographical spread and the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities were appropriate.
"of the Groups operations, the varied complex nature of local and global tax The Committee considered the Groups enhanced disclosures, recognising that the rules e. g. OECD's BEPS Actions, EU Financial Reporting Council ""FRC"" has been undertaking a thematic review in Commission reforms and State Aid thisarea."
investigations and the ongoing tax The Committee was satisfied with the Groups approach to tax, the amounts reported disputes and investigations around the as set out in Note 10 in the financial statements and that Group tax issues were being Group, there is significant uncertainty efficiently monitored and dealt with appropriately.
It notes that changes in the global around the interpretation of such tax law tax landscape mean that the Group must continue to work on its ability to respond and we recognise there is risk and quickly to the enhanced global reporting requirements over the next few years.
uncertainty around judgements made by management in the reporting of tax in the ordinary course of business, which may be subject to final decisions taken byvarious tax authorities.
See Note 10 for further detail on our global tax environment.
Internal controls and risk management environment TheBoard is ultimately responsible for the operation of an effective system of internal control and risk management appropriate to the business.
A review of the Groups principal risks and how it manages them is presented on pages 22 to 27.
The Company has complied with the FRC Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting, as applicable, throughout the period and up to the date on which these financial statements were approved.
Day-to-day operating and financial responsibility rests with senior management and performance is closely monitored on a monthly basis.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 58 Corporate governance Internal controls and risk management environment continued The following key elements comprise an appropriate organisational structure with clear lines of responsibility: the internal control environment, which has been designed to identify, a comprehensive annual strategic and business planning process: evaluate and manage, rather than systems of control procedures and delegated authorities which operate within defined eliminate, the risks faced by the Group guidelines and approval limits for capital and operating expenditure and other key in seeking to achieve its business business transactions and decisions: objectives and ensure accurate and timely reporting of financial data for defined segregation of duties across key financial processes, which continue to be made the Company and the Group: more robust as the Microsoft D365 ERP system is rolled out across the Group: defined month-end and quarter-end procedures and controls, designed to assess the ongoing integrity of financial records e. g. reconciliations and to produce management information for regular financial monitoring and review purposes: an established whistleblowing process through which employees may report cases of fraud, impropriety or behaviour contrary to our code of ethics and or in contravention of policies: established operational processes and controls which support the integrity, security and availability of our online services as well as the quality and continuity of Just Eats operations: a robust financial control, budgeting and rolling forecast system, which includes regular monitoring, variance analysis, key performance indicator reviews and risk and opportunity assessments at Board level: procedures by which the Groups consolidated financial statements are prepared, which are monitored and maintained through the use of internal control frameworks addressing key financial reporting risks arising from changes in the business or accounting standards: an experienced and commercially focused legal function that supports the Groups operational and technical functions: established policies and procedures setting out expected standards of integrity and ethical standards which reinforce the need for all employees to adhere to all legal and regulatory requirements: and experienced finance and risk functions that regularly report to the Executive Team to facilitate ongoing assessment and monitoring of key risks and associated potential impacts facing the Group.
Internal audit plan How we manage risk The Company has a robust risk management process that The Committee agreed the internal audit plan to be undertaken prior to the commencement of the year.
At follows a sequence of risk identification, assessment of probability and impact, and assigns an owner to manage each Committee meeting, the progress of, as well as results from, the internal audit plan is reviewed to ensure that it is mitigation activities.
A register is kept of all corporate risks and is monitored by senior management and reported to in line with the Committees expectations.
The plan was approved to ensure that there was appropriate coverage of theAudit Committee.
Throughout the period of review, the the internal control environment, strategic priorities and risk register and the methodology applied is the subject key risks identified by the Board.
ofcontinuous review by senior management and is updated to reflect new and developing areas which might During the year, the audit plan was amended so that impact business strategy.
additional areas were added to the plan based on the changes that gave rise to increased levels of assessed risk.
The Audit Committee actively reviews the risk register and These changes to the previously agreed audit plan were assesses the actions being taken by senior management approved by the Committee.
tomonitor and mitigate the risks.
Those risks which are considered to be the principal risks of the Group are The Director of Internal Audit provides updates to the presented on pages 22 to 27.
Committee at each meeting, summarising the internal audit findings and the progress made against agreed actions from previous audits.
Detailed updates on specific audits are provided at the request of the Committee.
 LLP PwC has continued to be engaged to support our internal audit work.
com 59 Report of the Audit Committee continued Review of effectiveness Assessing the performance and effectiveness The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, reviews the oftheexternal audit The Audit Committee has assessed the performance and effectiveness of the internal control systems and the risk effectiveness of the 2017 external audit process in the past year.
management processes on an ongoing basis.
This process was in place throughout the year and post-year end to include Process the date of approval of the Annual Report.
At each meeting, the Audit Committee receives a paper from management Primarily through dialogue with the senior members of the detailing any whistleblowing activity, any fraud identified finance and company secretarial teams.
and any other issue deemed to be significant.
An internal audit update is also presented, detailing the scope of work Follow-up performed and findings, along with implementation of anyprevious recommendations.
The Committee has not A detailed follow-up was performed where additional feedback identified, nor been advised of, any failings or weaknesses was sought from senior managers around the business that it has determined to be significant.
notlimited to the finance team through the use of audit quality questionnaires.
Independence and performance of the auditor The Audit Committee has set a policy which is intended to Results and appointment maintain the independence and integrity of the Companys external auditor when acting as auditor of the Groups The initial results of the assessment were discussed with the accounts.
The policy governs the provision of audit, Group finance team, before being presented to the Committee, audit-related assurance and non-audit services provided to inform our recommendation to the Board for the annual by the auditor and, in summary, requires approval by the reappointment of the external auditor.
Committee for all projects with an expected cost in excess of 50,000.
Objectivity and independence During the year, other audit-related assurance services The Committee believes that the Groups procedures as provided by the auditor relate to the half year reporting, summarised above safeguard the objectivity and independence audit of the special purpose financial statements in France, of the auditor.
The fees paid for the non-audit services during the year represented 8% of the fees paid for the statutory audit Committee evaluation andaudit-related assurance services together.
Further The Audit Committee undertakes an annual evaluation of details of these amounts are included in Note 6 of the itsperformance and effectiveness.
For 2017, an internal financial statements.
questionnaire was used to evaluate the work of the The Company complies with applicable rules in relation Committee as part of the Board evaluation process please see page 63 for further details of the process.
The review tonon-audit fees to the auditor.
concluded that the Committee had performed effectively.
The external auditor is not permitted to provide internal During the year the Committee also conducted a review of audit services to the Group.
These were updated to reflect changes to the Code and other guidance published during Before any former employee of the external or internal audit team may be employed by the Group, careful consideration the period.
must be given as to whether the independence of the auditor will be adversely affected, and approval of the Coming year During the coming year, we will continue in our reviews of the Audit Committee is required.
This particular circumstance has not arisen in the past year.
The auditor is required regularly financial reporting process, internal controls and enterprise risk management.
In addition, we will monitor the financial to report on and confirm its independence in its role.
Deloitte was appointed as the Groups auditor in 2009 On behalf of the Audit Committee andthe most recent partner rotation took place in 2013.
"The Committee confirms compliance with the provisions ofthe Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014, Andrew Griffith as published by the UK Competition and Markets Authority Chairman, Audit Committee ""CMA""."
A tender is not currently proposed in relation to the 5 March 2018 current financial year as it continues to be a period of significant growth in which the Company benefits from continuity.
However, the Group will put the external audit out to tender to meet the CMA requirements in due course, and the Audit Committee will keep this timing under review.
To comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standard and to maintain objectivity and independence ofthe auditor, the current lead audit partner, Anna Marks, is due to rotate after the 2017 year end.
