EFFECTIVENESS CONTINUED Nomination Committee report Introduction by Ken Hanna, NominationCommittee Chairman Monitoring and reviewing the composition and balance of the Board and its committees is key to the role of the Committee.
By doing so we ensure that Aggreko has the rightstructure, skillsand diversity for the effective management of the Group.
The Nomination Committee is currently made up of all of theNon-executive Directors, each of whom is independent, inaddition to myself as Chairman.
I have been Chairman of theCommittee since my appointment as Chairman of Aggreko inApril 2012, although I would not chair the Committee when it is dealing with succession to the chairmanship of Aggreko.
We also invited the CEO to attend our meetings in 2017.
Ken Hanna Nomination Committee Chairman In 2017 we held three formal meetings: the members also hadseveral discussions on successionplanning, reappointment of Directors and the searchfor our new CFO.
Role of the Nomination Committee The Nomination Committees Review the structure, size and composition including skills, knowledge, experience, diversity and balance of Executive role is to monitor and review the and Non-executive of the Board and its Committees and composition and balance of the make recommendations to the Board.
Board and its committees to ensure Identify and nominate, for the approval of the Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies.
Aggreko has the right structure, Keep under review the time commitment expected skills and diversity for the effective fromtheChairman and the Non-executive Directors.
Main activities of the Nomination Committee Areas of activity in 2017 during the year Recommended the appointments of Barbara Jeremiah and Miles Roberts as Non-executive Directors and oversaw their inductions.
Appointment of a new CFO Recommended the appointment of Heath Drewett as CFO.
In June 2017 we announced that Carole Cran intended to resign Recommended appointment of Barbara Jeremiah as from her position as CFO.
Carole committed to continue in her  Chair.
role until a successor had been identified and was ready to join Reviewed succession plans.
Following this announcement we commenced Recommended the appointment of Uwe Krueger as the process to recruit and appoint a new CFO.
asked our Group HR Director, Anna Filipopoulos, and ChrisWeston to lead the search.
The Committee had a Members in 2017 number of discussions to scope out the key skills, experience, Meetings attended characteristics and requirements for the role.
We invited a number of recruitment firms to participate in a tender process Ken Hanna Nomination Committee Chairman in order to identify the appropriate one to support our search.
We selected Lygon Group as search consultants.
Lygon Group is Nicola Brewer Non-executive Director a leading executive search practice, with whom we have worked 1 on senior placements in the past, butotherwise it provides no Barbara Jeremiah Non-executive Director other services to Aggreko andweregard it as independent.
Russell King Senior Independent Director A structured timetable was adopted for the process and regular Committee discussions and updates held throughout.
2 Uwe Krueger Non-executive Director Lygon Group put together an extensive range of potential candidates for consideration, this was narrowed down to Diana Layfield Non-executive Director a strong short list for interview.
We also discussed and met 3 with potential internal candidates based on our succession Ian Marchant Non-executive Director plan.
Shortlisted candidates met with members of the Board 4 and Chris Weston also spent considerable time with the Miles Roberts Non-executive Director final candidates.
The Committee and CEO were unanimous 1 Barbara Jeremiah was appointed to the Board after the March 2017 meetings intheirfinal selection for CFO.
2 Uwe Krueger was unable to attend the June 2017 meetings owing to a pre-existing workcommitment 3 Ian Marchant was unable to attend the December 2017 meeting In November 2017 we were delighted to announce the 4 Miles Roberts was appointed to the Board after the March 2017 meetings and was unable appointment of Heath Drewett as CFO.
Heath is an experienced toattend the June 2017 meetings owing to a pre-existing work commitment CFO and proven leader with experience in the engineering, Areas of focus for 2018 leisure, transportation and industrial sectors.
He has 28 years of experience within various finance, corporate finance, Induction of Heath Drewett.
business performance, financial and strategic planning roles.
Continued focus on succession planning.
Monitor the work of the team established to look at diversity across Heath alsohas extensive international experience in both the Group.
The Committee believes that Heath is well placed to support Chris Weston Nomination Committee terms of reference: and the team as they deliver on the strategic priorities already www.
Heaths biography is set out in full on page 58.
66 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 O V E R V IE W BUSINESS STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE G O V ER N A NCE FINANCIAL & OTHER INFORMATION The Committee unanimously recommends the election of Senior Independent Director SID Heath Drewett, our newly appointed CFO and re-election of each On 26 April 2018 our existing SID, Russell King, will retire from of our remaining Directors at the 2018AGM, with the exception the Board after serving nine years, and we recommended of RussellKing, who has decided to step down at the conclusion the appointment of Uwe Krueger as SID.
Uwe joined the of this meeting.
In making this recommendation, we evaluated Board in February 2015, his experiencewith other listed each Director in light of their performance, commitment to the companies and knowledge ofAggreko, meansthat Uwe role, independence, and capacity to discharge their responsibilities is well qualified for the role.
In making the appointment, fully, given their commitments to other companies.
the Committee carefully considered the question of the continued independence of Uwe Krueger.
It is clear to the Succession planning Committee that he continues to be independent in character, The Committee met with the CEO and Group HR Director but the Committee gave particular thought as to whether his toreview succession plans.
The focus of these discussions previous working relationship with the CFO, Heath Drewett, was to review our succession plans for the CEO and Executive could affect his independence of judgement.
The Committee also monitors a schedule on the matters, we noted that Uwe Krueger had served on the Board length of tenure of the Chairman and Non-executive Directors of Aggreko for some three years before the appointment and themix and skills of the Directors.
The Committee is of Heath Drewett: that he was considered independent on satisfiedthat adequate succession planning is in place for appointment: and that as part of our Board succession plan theBoard and willkeep succession planning under review.
we had identified Uwe Krueger as the potential successor as SID before the recruitment of Heath Drewett.
Moreover, he Board composition and diversity was not directly involved in the selection process for the CFO.
Aggreko acknowledges the importance of diversity and In conclusion, wedecided that the appointment of a former inclusion to the effective functioning of the Board.
In 2017, colleague asCFOwould not compromise the independence wereviewed our approach to diversity to adopt a formal that UweKrueger had clearly demonstrated during his time policy, extracted below.
We will review this policy annually ontheBoard or lead usto change our view that Uwe Krueger andassess its effectiveness in promoting a diverse business.
was the right choice for SID.
We also acknowledge that diversity extends beyond the We also recommended Barbara Jeremiah to succeed Boardroom and the Board supports management in its efforts  Committee Chair, Barbara is to build a diverse organisation.
In 2018 we will monitor the work anexperienced Non-executive Director and has served of the team established to look at diversity on a group-wide basis, on the Remuneration Committee since her appointment determining what changes need to be madeand working with in March 2017.
Barbara has also taken an active role in our the business to implement them over the nextfew years.
recent Shareholder consultation process on the proposed remuneration policy and is well equipped for this role.
BOARD DIVERSIT Y POLICY Reappointment of Directors Since the Committees last report, the Company has extended the terms of appointment for Uwe Krueger, Diana Layfield A diverse Board makes prudent business sense and makesfor better corporate governance.
the inclusion of different perspectives and ideas and Uwe Krueger has served as a Non-executive Director for ensures that Aggreko has the opportunity to benefit three years, since February 2015.
After review, the Committee fromall available talent.
Aggreko seeks to maintain a recommended his re-appointment for a further three years.
Boardcomprised of dynamic, expert and innovative individuals, who together demonstrate our values and Diana Layfield has served as a Non-executive Director forsix lead our behaviours through a diverse mix of expertise, years since May 2012.
In line with the UK Corporate Governance experience, skills and backgrounds.
We aim to ensure Code, we therefore reviewed her extension with particular care.
thatthe skills and backgrounds collectively represented We concluded that Dianas tenure had not compromised her on the Board reflect the diverse nature of the business independence in any way.
We also agreed that it was important environment in which Aggreko operates.
In particular, to retain her market and financial experience and knowledge welook for a range oftechnical, financial and market of Aggreko in light of anumber of new appointments to the expertise.
We aimtobalance long corporate memory Board over the past 12 months, particularly with the departure withnew insights fromother fields.
For the purposes of our longest serving Non-executive Director, Russell King in of Board composition, diversity is taken to refer, but April 2018.
The Committee recommended her re-appointment is not limited, toprotected characteristics covered by for a further year.
UKlegislation: otherfactors such as business experience My own extension was also reviewed with care: Ihaveserved as and geography will also be relevant.
We monitor our net a Non-executive Director since October 2010 and as Chairman diversity but do notset formal targets or quotas: ourfocus since April 2012.
For this item of business, RussellKing took is on finding talented individuals from as wide arange the Chair and the Committee agreed toextend my term for a ofbackgrounds as possible.
In coming to this decision the Committee Aggreko is committed to a merit based system for considered the number and nature of my other commitments, Boardcomposition within a diverse and inclusive particularly my roles as Chairman on the boards of two other culture, which solicits multiple perspectives and views.
I will be stepping down as Chairman of When assessing Board composition or identifying Inchcape plc in May 2018 and my role as Chairman of Arena suitablecandidates for appointment or re-election Events Group plc, an AIM-listed company whose business is to theBoard, Aggreko will consider candidates on not unusually complex or regulated, should not detract from merit against objectivecriteria having due regard to my ability to perform my role at Aggreko.
Moreover, they the benefitsof diversity and the needsof the Board.
noted that I have a 100% attendance record for Board and Any searchfirm engaged to assist theBoard or a Committee Committee meetings.
of the Boardinidentifying candidates for appointment to theBoard will be specificallydirected to include adiverserange ofcandidatesthat reflects this policy.
AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 67 A C C O U N T A BIL I T Y Audit Committee report Introduction by Ian Marchant, Audit Committee Chairman Ensuring the integrity of the Groups financial statements and determining whether the judgements taken by management are appropriate, are key to the workings of the Committee.
This report provides an overview of the significant issues we considered.
This report also shares some insight into the work we have undertaken this year to assess the independence and effectiveness of the external auditor and oversee the Groups systems for internal control and risk management.
The Committee is currently made up of four Independent Non-executive Directors, including myself as Chairman.
I have been a member of the Committee since November Ian Marchant 2013 and was appointed as Chairman of the Committee Audit Committee Chairman in April 2016.
I am a chartered accountant and, prior to my appointment as Chief Executive of SSE 2002 to 2015, I served as Finance Director of SSE for four years and of Southern Electric for twoand a half years.
As a Committee, we bring an appropriate balance of financial and accounting experience, The role of the Audit Committee is together with a deep understanding of Aggrekos business and market sector.
Diana Layfield, Miles Roberts and I are the to ensure the integrity of the Groups members of the Committee identified with recent and relevant financial reporting and provide financial experience.
oversight of our systems for internal In 2017 we held three scheduled meetings.
The meetings are aligned to the Groups financial reporting timetable, toallow control and risk management.
sufficient time for full discussion of key topics and enable early identification and resolution of risks and issues.
We invited Areas of activity in 2017 the Chairman, CEO and CFO toattend our meetings in 2017, Close monitoring of contract provisions and tax provisions together with the GroupFinancial Controller, Director of throughout the year, receiving detailed updates at the August 2017 Internal Auditand theKPMG Audit Partner.
Risk management oversight: reviewed our cyber security Role of the Audit Committee arrangements, tax risk management framework and management of financial risk inourRental Solutions business.
Monitor the integrity of the financial statements, including Received regular updates on the status of the internal reviewing significant financial reporting issues and control environment.
judgements alongside the findings of the external auditor.
Monitored the closure of outstanding internal audit findings.
Review the effectiveness of the Groups systems for internal Reviewed the findings of the FRCs Audit Quality Review and control, financial reporting and risk management.
agreedactions to address the matters identified.
Advise the Board on the effectiveness of the fair, balanced and understandable review of the Annual Report.
Members in 2017 Oversee the relationship with the external auditor, external Meetings attended audit process, nature and scope of the external audit, including their appointment, effectiveness, independence Ian Marchant Audit Committee Chairman and fees.
Russell King Senior Independent Director Oversee the nature and scope of internal audit, ensuring coordination with the activities of the external auditor.
Diana Layfield Non-executive Director Main activities of the Audit Committee 1 Miles Roberts Non-executive Director during the year 1 Miles Roberts was appointed to the Board after the March 2017 meetings Financial reporting During the course of the year, the Committee met with the Areas of focus for 2018 external auditor and management as part of the 2017 Annual Continued risk management oversight, with presentations and Interim Report approval process.
We reviewed the draft scheduled from the Director of Finance for our Power Solutions financial statements and considered a number of supporting business and the Chief Information Officer on cyber security.
papers, including: information presented by management on Ensure proper application of new accounting standards, impacting significant accounting judgements to ensure all issues raised the Group in 2018 and 2019: IFRS 9, 15 and 16. had been properly dealt with: key points of disclosure and Monitor the review of the Speaking Up Policy and improvements presentation to ensure adequacy, clarity and completeness: toassociated procedures planned for 2018. external audit reports: documentation prepared to support the viability statement and going concern statements given on pages 55 and 116: and information presented bymanagement on the process underpinning the fair, balanced and understandable assessment and confirmation on page 70.
Audit Committee terms of reference: www.
com 68 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 O V E R V IE W BUSINESS STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE G O V ER N A NCE FINANCIAL & OTHER INFORMATION THE PRIMARY AREAS OF JUDGEMENT CONSIDERED BY THE COMMITTEE IN RELATION TO THE 2017 ANNUAL REPORT WERE: Area of Reporting How did the Audit Committee Conclusion judgement issue address the judgement?
and outcome Contract One of the biggest risks facing the The Committee addressed contract provisions by We concluded that the provisions Group is non-payment by customers considering an accounting judgements paper at the judgements and estimates Power under some of the larger contracts in August 2017 and February 2018 meetings, which was were reasonable and Solutions our Power Solutions Utility business.
tabled by the Chief Financial Officer.
Utility The Group policy is to consider each the latest position of debtors outstanding at the Overall the contract significant debtor and customer half year and year end, including cash received provision agreed for individually, within the relevant against amountinvoiced during the year, and gave 31December 2017 was environment to which it relates, an assessment of the likelihood of collecting future $86 million.
$23 million takinginto account a number of payments.
We discussed in detail the main movements higher than 31 December factors.
These factors include the in provisions and assessed the adequacy of all of the 2016, mainly driven by political and economic conditions provisions.
In particular, we focused on a handful a handful of customers in the relevant country, duration of customers in Africa and Venezuela where we in Africa and Venezuela and quality of relationship with the continuedto see delays in payments during the year.
where we continued to see customer, ageof debt, cash flows In assessing the adequacy of the provision we delays in payments, as well from the customer and any relevant considered if it was sufficient to cover the risks as worsening economic communication throughout the year.
identifiedand also if it was in excess of the risks conditions, during the identified.
Historically we have had a low level of year.
This movement is baddebt write-offs.
However the Group does operate explained on page 37. in countries, especially in our Power Solutions Utility More information on our business, where payments are unpredictable, where riskprofile and mitigation political and economic conditions mean that there forfailure to collect isarisk of default and that risk can increase quickly, payment orto recover andhas increased this year as set out above, therefore assets can be found the Groups history in this area may not be indicative onpage 54. ofthe likely future outcome.
KPMG reported on these contract provisions at both the August 2017 and February 2018 meetings in the context of the half year review and the year end audit respectively.
In addition, the Committee is aware that the Board and Executive Committee receive a report on contract exposures each month and has assessed the Groups processes for calculating and regularly monitoring contract risk provisions.
Direct and The Groups tax strategy is to The Committee addressed tax provisions by We concluded that the indirect managealltaxes, such that we pay consideringan accounting judgements paper at both judgements and estimates taxprovisions the appropriate amount of tax in each the August 2017 and February 2018 meetings, which were reasonable and country where we operate.
However, were tabled by the Chief Financial Officer.
given the varied, complex and often the changes to the provisions in detail and assessed their Overall the tax provision uncertain nature of tax rules in certain adequacy overall.
Specific discussion was had on the agreed for 31 December countries, in particular in those in which level of provision required in respect of an ongoing tax 2017 was 31 million we have our Power Solutions business, case in Bangladesh.
KPMG reported on these provisions 2016: 39 million.
we recognise that it makes sense to at the August 2017 meeting in the context of the half carry an appropriate level of provision year review, and at the February 2018 meeting in the More information on for both direct and indirect taxes.
The context of the year end audit.
We have also monitored Aggrekos tax strategy tax team monitors the status of tax and assessed the Groups processes for calculating and payments in 2017 can risks monthly and in detail at the half andregularly monitoring tax provisions.
be found in the financial and full year.
This monitoring process, review on page 44. together withconsideration ofany relevant legislative change, is then used to determine the appropriate levelofprovisions.
In addition to the primary areas of judgement, outlined in and IFRS 9 applies to financial instruments, addressing their the table above, the Committee also paid close attention classification, measurement and recognition.
Further detail to the following items during their assessment of Aggrekos isprovided on pages 116 and 117. financial reporting: We also reviewed an initial impact assessment of IFRS16, We considered the appropriateness of carrying a deferred anew accounting standard that will apply to the Group taxasset in respect of tax losses in Brazil and our ability from1 January 2019.
IFRS 16 applies to leases and further touse these in the foreseeable future.
detail is provided on page 118.
We reviewed and agreed the accounting for our acquisitions The Committee also reviewed thecoverage of internal audit of KBT, an Indonesia-based power rental company, and external audit from a risk and geographic perspective.
andYounicos, an integrated energy systems specialist.
Following completion of the above steps, we agreed to Moredetail is provided in Note 29 to the Accounts.
recommend the approval ofthe2017Annual and Interim We reviewed impact assessments for new accounting Reports to the Board.
standards applying to the Group from 1 January 2018.
IFRS 15applies to revenue from contracts with customers AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 69
