Governance EFFECTIVENESS Strong governance enables the Board to pursue The Board evaluation noted that the initiatives which flowed from the Board evaluation last year or in continued to be the Companys strategic objectives and helps to implemented effectively including the expansion to the Directors safeguard the continued success of the Company Training Programme, the continuing succession policy review, for its Shareholders and stakeholders.
the strategy meetings and the successful implementation of the Service Level Agreement between the Board and the Board performance and evaluation Manager.
The Board also noted that larger projects are now Although an externally facilitated Board evaluation is not well administered by the Board and the Manager including, in required by the AIC Code and Guide until, the Board particular, the recent EMTN issue.
decided to appoint Lintstock to undertake an externally facilitated Board evaluation for and.
The The Board considered succession planning for the Company Board evaluation will provide a benchmark for the Board in and intends to update its policy during.
The Board evaluation and it will enable Lintstock to understand the has instructed Korn Ferry to recruit a further Non-Executive Board, the relationships between the Directors and between Director to the Board in.
the Board and the Manager, the Company Secretary and the other key suppliers to the Company as well the Companys Director Training Programme Shareholders and stakeholders.
The Board recognises that it is essential to keep abreast of regulatory and compliance changes.
Accordingly, a bespoke The Board evaluation took the form of a questionnaire training programme was implemented in January following which was sent to each of the Non-Executive Directors and consultation between the Manager and the Board.
It contained a section designed specifically as an training programme was continued in and expanded to appraisal of the Chairman.
The Board was asked to consider: include a presentation from a highly respected journalist in Board composition: Board expertise: Board dynamics: the logistics sector.
The Board also received formal training management of meetings: Board support: Board committees: sessions from some of the Companys external service providers focus of Board meetings: strategic operational oversight: risk as well as Catherine Fry, the Managers Head of Compliance.
management and internal control: and succession planning.
The Board evaluation confirmed that the training programme The outcome of the Board evaluation was generally positive is well structured and highly informative and a real asset to the while noting that there was room to make Board meetings more Non-Executive Directors.
The Company intends to continue with focussed and to summarise lengthy Board papers.
The top the Director Training Programme in.
priorities for change over which were identified were: In addition to the bespoke training programme, each Director is expected to maintain their individual professional skills and is Reviewing the current Board composition with a view to responsible for identifying any individual training needs to help increasing the number of Non-Executive Directors and them ensure that they maintain the requisite knowledge to be welcoming recent appointments Please refer to the able to consider and understand the Companys responsibilities, Nomination Committee Report : business and strategy.
All Directors have access to advice and services from the Company Secretary, who manages the Continuing to review the Companys strategy: and Companys governance procedures, or the Manager.
To reduce the length of Board meetings by reducing the The Directors are also entitled to take independent advice at the formal Board pack.
Companys reasonable expense at any time.
The Company maintains directors and officers liability The Chairmans review was positive and the other Directors insurance, which gives appropriate cover for legal action considered that he had directed the Company well during the brought against its Directors.
Companys initial rapid growth, had overseen the clarification of the application of the AIFMD to the Company well and continued to Chair the Board of the Company effectively.
See Nomination Committee Report, pages - Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report
