Directors Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 66 Board of Directors Board of Directors Ian Davis Warren East CBE Stephen Daintith Chairman of the Board and Chairman, Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Nominations & Governance Committee NG Appointed to the Board in March 2013 Appointed to the Board in January 2014 Appointed in April 2017.
Tenure: less than 1 year and as Chairman in May 2013.
Tenure: 5 years and as Chief Executive in July 2015.
Tenure: 4 years Career, skills and experience Career, skills and experience Career, skills and experience Ian was a partner at McKinsey for 31 years and Warren is an engineer and joined ARM Holdings Stephen trained and qualified as a member of the served as chairman and worldwide managing plc in 1994 where he served as CEO from 2001 until ICAEW with PwC and has considerable financial director.
He brings significant financial and 2013.
He has a deep understanding of technology expertise.
His previous roles include CFO of Daily strategic experience and has worked with and and has proven strategic and leadership skills in Mail and General Trust plc from January 2011 to advised global organisations and companies, a global business.
He is a fellow of the Institute of April 2017.
He worked in New York as the CFO enabling him to draw on knowledge of diverse Engineering and Technology: the Royal Academy and COO of Dow Jones and in London as the issues and outcomes to assist the Board.
of Engineering: the Royal Society: and of the Royal CFO of News International, both part of News Aeronautical Society.
He was awarded a CBE in Corporation.
He also previously held several Other principal roles 2014 for services to the technology industry.
executive positions at British American Tobacco.
BP p. l. c. senior independent director Other principal roles Other principal roles Johnson & Johnson Inc. director Dyson James Group Limited, director 3i Group plc, non-executive director McKinsey & Company, senior partner emeritus Note: Tenures are stated as at 6 March 2018.
Board skills and experience Board members by gender Balance of the Board Executive Directors 10 2 Female 7 4 6 5 4 Male 4 8 Non-Executive Number of Directors with: Directors Chairman CEO CFO experience 10 Related industry operational Financial Non-Executive Directors tenure Board members by nationality Engineering technology Safety regulatory risk Remuneration HR German 1 69 years Singaporean 2 1 Key 03 years NG Nominations & Governance Committee 4 American A Audit Committee 2 R Remuneration Committee 36 years British SE Safety & Ethics Committee 4 8 ST Science & Technology Committee According to the Companys Articles of Full Directors biographies can be Association, at least 50% of its Directors found at: www.
com must be British citizens.
DIRECTORS REPORT Directors Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 67 Board of Directors Lewis Booth CBE Ruth Cairnie Sir Frank Chapman Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Chairman, Audit Committee Chairman, Remuneration Committee Chairman, Safety & Ethics Committee NG A R NG R ST NG R SE Appointed in May 2011.
Tenure: 6 years Appointed in September 2014.
Tenure: 3 years Appointed in November 2011.
Tenure: 6 years Career, skills and experience Career, skills and experience Career, skills and experience Lewis has considerable financial expertise A physicist by background, Ruth has strong Sir Frank has significant industrial and safety and experience and brings an international strategic and commercial experience gained at experience, having worked in the oil & gas perspective from his 42-year career in the motor Royal Dutch Shell Plc where she held a number industry for 38 years including appointments industry.
After gaining a bachelor of engineering of senior international roles, including executive within Royal Dutch Shell plc and BP p. l. c. degree with honours in mechanical engineering, vice president strategy and planning.
Ruth has He has a life-long passion for engineering Lewis began his career with British Leyland.
significant remuneration committee experience and innovation and a deep understanding of He spent 34 years at Ford Motor Company having chaired the remuneration committee at technology.
He was chief executive of BG Group including as executive vice president and CFO.
Keller Group plc from April 2012 to May 2017 and plc for 12 years and chairman of Golar LNG Ltd.
He was awarded a CBE in 2012 for services to the has been a member of the remuneration committee Sir Frank is a fellow of the Royal Academy of UK automotive and manufacturing industries.
at Associated British Foods plc since 2014.
Engineering, the Institute of Mechanical Engineers and the Energy Institute.
He was knighted in 2011 Other principal roles Other principal roles for services to the oil & gas industry.
Mondelez International Inc. director Associated British Foods plc, non-executive director Other principal roles Gentherm Inc. director Myeloma UK, vice chairman ContourGlobal plc, non-executive director POWERful Women, industry chair Irene Dorner Beverly Goulet Lee Hsien Yang Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director NG A SE NG A NG A SE Appointed in July 2015.
Tenure: 2 years Appointed in July 2017.
Tenure: less than 1 year Appointed in January 2014.
Tenure: 4 years Career, skills and experience Career, skills and experience Career, skills and experience Irene was CEO and president of HSBC, US Beverly, a US national, started her career as A Singaporean, Hsien Yang was formerly a member until December 2014.
Her background in risk a securities and M&A lawyer and has spent a of our international advisory board and combines management played a key role in strengthening considerable amount of her career in the airline a strong background in engineering with extensive the financial institutions risk processes and she industry.
From 1993 until June 2017, Beverly was international business experience.
He was chief brings this insight as part of her role on our Audit a key member of the executive team of American executive of Singapore Telecommunications Committee.
During a 30-year career at HSBC, Airlines where she served in a number of Limited for 12 years and served as chairman and she held a number of international roles including senior roles.
Beverly brings valuable operational non-executive director of Fraser and Neave Limited.
Irene was a consultant experience with significant knowledge of He has significant industrial and financial skills.
at PwC, is an honorary fellow of St Annes College, corporate finance and treasury matters.
Other principal roles Oxford and a passionate advocate of diversity Other principal roles Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore, chairman and inclusion.
Xenia Hotels & Resorts, director General Atlantic LLC and associated funds, Other principal roles Dallas Womens Foundation, board member special adviser AXA SA, director Rolls-Royce North America Holdings, Inc.
The Islamic Bank of Asia Private Control Risks Group Holdings Limited, board member Limited, chairman chairman Virgin Money Holdings UK PLC, chair elect and non-executive director Directors Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 68 Board of Directors Bradley Singer Sir Kevin Smith CBE Jasmin Staiblin Non-Independent Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Chairman, Science & Technology Committee ST NG R ST NG ST Appointed in March 2016.
Tenure: 2 years Appointed in November 2015.
Tenure: 2 years Appointed in May 2012.
Tenure: 5 years Career, skills and experience Career, skills and experience Career, skills and experience Bradley, a US national, has an outstanding Sir Kevin has extensive industrial leadership A German national, Jasmin combines a strong record as a business leader.
He brings experience experience and a deep knowledge of global background in advanced engineering and of public companies during periods of change, engineering and manufacturing businesses, as well deep technology knowledge with extensive growth and significant financial outperformance, as the aerospace industry.
He was CEO of GKN plc international business experience, having lived particularly in the US.
He has been senior for nine years.
Before joining GKN, he spent nearly and worked in Switzerland, Sweden and Australia.
executive vice president and CFO of Discovery 20 years with BAE Systems in a number of senior She has been the CEO of Alpiq Holding AG since Communications, Inc. and CFO and treasurer executive positions.
He has an honorary fellowship 2013.
She held a number of senior positions in the of American Tower Corp. Before these doctorate from Cranfield University and is an ABB Group becoming CEO of ABB Switzerland appointments, he worked as an investment honorary fellow of the University of Central from 2006 until 2012. banker at Goldman Sachs.
He provides an investor Lancashire.
He was awarded a CBE in 1997 and Other principal roles perspective drawing on his experience as COO knighted in 2006 for services to industry.
Alpiq Holding AG, chief executive officer of ValueAct.
Other principal roles Georg Fischer AG, board member Other principal roles Unitas Capital, senior adviser ValueAct Capital, partner and chief L. E. K. Consulting, European advisory operating officer board member The Posse Foundation, director University of Central Lancaster, industry McIntire School Foundation, University steering group member of Virginia, trustee Board committee membership NG A R SE ST Ian Davis C C Lewis Booth C Ruth Cairnie C Sir Frank Chapman Pamela Coles Irene Dorner Company Secretary Beverly Goulet Lee Hsien Yang Appointed in October 2014.
Bradley Singer Career, skills and experience Pamela is an expert in corporate governance C Sir Kevin Smith and company law.
She has been a fellow of ICSA: The Governance Institute, since 1997.
She joined Jasmin Staiblin Rolls-Royce from Centrica plc, where she was head of secretariat.
Pamelas previous roles also include group company secretary and a member of the Key executive committee at The Rank Group plc and company secretary and head of legal at RAC plc.
NG Nominations & Governance Committee Other principal roles A Audit Committee E-ACT, non-executive director R Remuneration Committee SE Safety & Ethics Committee ST Science & Technology Committee C Denotes chairman of committee
