STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Governance HOW WE GOVERN THE COMPANY Our Companys success is based upon the The Board is kept fully informed of potential investment opportunities, along with wider property market intelligence, effective implementation of its strategy by the through the Board papers prepared by the Manager which show people who work for and with it.
Our Companys current investment opportunities in the market and quarterly culture is set by the leadership of the Board.
All decisions to invest in or divest of property are made by the Manager following a recommendation Board meetings by the Investment Committee and discussions with the Board.
During, the Board held nine scheduled meetings of which The Manager provides a detailed acquisition paper to the two were strategy meetings, plus a further nine ad hoc meetings Board on any selected potential acquisition and notifies it when to deal with transactional and other specific events such as equity an offer is made for and accepted on a property and regularly raises and debt financing.
The table below shows each individual updates the Board on the progress of the transaction.
When the Directors attendance at the scheduled Board meetings for Company acquires development land, a development appraisal which they were eligible to attend during the year.
Attendance at is presented to the Board and regular updates are provided to Committee meetings is incorporated in each Committee report.
The Board meetings follow a formal agenda, which is approved Representatives of the Manager attend the Board meetings by the Chairman and circulated by the Company Secretary in together with representatives from the Company Secretarial advance of the meeting to all the Non-Executive Directors and team.
Representatives of the Companys other advisers are also other attendees.
At each Board meeting every agenda item invited to attend Board meetings from time to time, particularly is considered against the Companys strategy, its Investment representatives from the Companys Broker, the Companys Objectives and Investment Policy.
Financial Advisers and the Companys Lawyers.
A typical agenda includes: a review of investment performance: a review of investment and divestments and asset management initiatives currently in progress: an update on investment opportunities available in the market and how they fit within the Companys strategy: a review of the Companys financial performance: a review of the Companys financial forecast, cash flow and ability to meet targets: a review of the Companys financial and regulatory compliance: updates on Shareholder and stakeholder relations: and specific regulatory, compliance or corporate governance updates.
Attendance at scheduled Board meetings BOARD MEETINGS SCHEDULED BOARD ELIGIBLE TO ATTEND MEETINGS ATTENDED Meetings held Richard Jewson Jim Prower Mark Shaw Susanne Given Aubrey Adams appointed September Stephen Smith resigned June Includes strategy meetings.
Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report Governance: How we govern the Company In the Board held two strategy meetings.
The meetings Attendance at Board meetings and Committee focused on reviewing and setting the Companys overarching meetings during the year ended December strategy and whether the Company followed its strategy set in All Non-Executive Directors are expected to attend all scheduled.
At the strategy meetings in and in February, meetings of the Board and of the Committees on which they the Board decided that the Company should continue to try to serve, and to devote sufficient time to the Companys affairs to diversify its property portfolio by tenant, asset and geography to fulfil their duties as Directors.
Where Non-Executive Directors are deliver further value to Shareholders: and that this would be best unable to attend meetings, Board papers are provided in advance achieved by the issuance of further equity to fund the acquisition and their comments are given to the Chairman before the meeting of properties as standing investments, as forward funded and shared with the rest of the Board and the Manager.
opportunities or as land development within the Companys Investment Policy which was approved by Shareholders at the Due to the significant number of additional meetings during the Companys AGM in May.
The Company also decided to year it was not necessary for all the Non-Executive Directors to review formally its debt strategy and appointed Lazard to assist attend every meeting, provided that all meetings were quorate with the transition from a secured debt finance model to an which was the case across all meetings held.
The Nomination unsecured debt finance model with greater access to capital Committee is satisfied that all the Non-Executive Directors, via the corporate bond market.
The Board considers that the including the Chairman, have sufficient time to meet their Company is fulfilling its strategic objectives.
raise in May, followed by the careful deployment of capital into further assets: the EMTN and debt re-finance in December : the strong set of results shown in this Annual Report: and the acquisition of the Littlebrook site all support and underpin the Companys strategy.
Board papers are disseminated to the Non-Executive Directors via a secure online platform for reasons of efficiency and cyber security.
During the Board and the Company Secretary have increased the use of the online platform to store relevant Company information to ensure that is always easily accessible by the Board in a secure format.
Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Key activities of the Board during Q Q Approval of financial results and final dividend Instruction of Lazard as debt adviser: declaration : Acquisition of two investment assets : Issuance of a Trading Statement : Regulatory change clarification that the Manager Review of debt strategy and appointment of debt will be responsible for all Investment and Divestment advisory, please refer to the Chairmans Governance decisions : Overview, pages -: Re-tender of the Auditor appointment refer to the Strategy Meeting: Audit Committee Report, pages -.
Consideration of an equity raise for Q : Nomination Committee review and appointment of Korn Ferry to search for a new Non-Executive Director: Acquisition of a forward funded investment asset: Please refer to the Nomination Committee Report, Quarterly review of corporate governance compliance, page -.
Group activity and depositary report: Launch and completion of an equity issue raising Agreed a fixed term loan with PGIM.
proceeds of million : AGM : Dividend declaration in respect of Q : Quarterly review of corporate governance compliance, Group activity and depositary report.
Q Q Exchanged conditional contracts to purchase the site Announced issue of.
billion Euro Medium Term at Littlebrook, Dartford : Note Programme : Approval of Interim Property valuation: million bond issue and simultaneous refinancing, and entry into million unsecured revolving credit Approval of Interim results : facility : Review of Moodys Rating of Baa: Acquisition of seven investment assets : Acquisition of one investment asset : Second half yearly principal risk review and Quarterly review of corporate governance compliance, consideration of risk appetite: Group activity and depositary report: Approval of the updated Financial Prospects, Positions Dividend declaration in respect of Q : and Procedures document: Appointment of Aubrey Adams as Non-Executive Quarterly review of corporate governance compliance, Director.
Group activity and depositary report: Dividend declaration in respect of Q : Extension of loan facility with Helaba.
co. uk about #corporate-governance https: tritaxbigbox.
co. uk news-media See Chairmans Governance Overview, pages - See Audit Committee Report, pages - Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report See Nomination Committee Report, pages -
