Corporate governance Leadership Board Statements Further Requirement Board Statement information Compliance with The principal corporate governance rules which applied to the Company Page 38 to 61 the Code intheyear under review were those set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in April 2016 theCode, the UK Financial Conduct Authority FCA Listing Rules andtheFCAs Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules.
The Board fully supports the principles of good governance as set out in theCode, which is publicly available on the FRCs website www.
uk, and its application of the Main Principles are set out on pages 40 to 61.
Saveasidentified and explained in this report, the Board considers that throughout 2017 it complied with the provisions of theCode.
Going Concern basis The Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Page 79 Annual Report and Accounts.
Viability Statement The Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that Page 52 theCompany will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities astheyfall due over the period of their assessment.
Robust Assessment The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks Pages 20 and 21 of the principal risks facingthe company, including those that would threaten its business model, facing the Group future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Annual review of The Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys Pages 51 and 52 systems of risk risk management systems and internal controls and found them to be management and appropriate for the Group.
internal control Fair, balanced and The Directors consider that the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, Page 81 understandable is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the companys position and performance, businessmodel and strategy.
Modern Slavery The Board has implemented a Modern Slavery Policy which we have Page 35 and Statement communicated to all staff.
The Board is confident that as a result of the ourwebsite Groups management and reporting structure, there are no such practices taking place.
Health and Safety The Board recognises that the control of all health and safety matters arising Page 36 from our activities is an essential feature of our operations and ensures itmeets its civil and statutory obligations.
The Board The Board is assisted by the Audit, Remuneration The Boards composition and responsibilities and Nomination Committees, the terms of areset out in a formal schedule of matters reference for which can be obtained from the specifically reserved to it for decisions.
Company Secretary or our website.
40 CLS Holdings plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements | Additional information CLS Holdings plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Framework The Board HENRY KLOTZ EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN 3 other Executive Directors 4 Independent Non-Executive Directors 2 other Non-Executive Directors Ensuring the Companys growth and shareholder value Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee 3 Independent Non-Executive 2 Independent Non-Executive 3 Independent Non-Executive Directors Directors Directors Monitors the arrangements 1 Executive Director Develops the Companys policies on for corporate reporting, risk 1 Non-Executive Director executive remuneration and sets the management and internal controls Monitors and evaluates the remuneration packages of individual Maintains a direct relationship Boards skills and experience to Executive Directors withthe Auditor ensure full Board discussion Read more p. 56 Read more p. 54 Read more p. 62 Executive Committee Disclosure Committee Reviews the daily running of the Monitors inside information and Groupsbusiness closeperiods Financial Investment Committee Asset Management Committee Health & Safety Committee Analyses financial investment Reviews the Groups property Reviews and moderates the Groups opportunities and reviews investments in each country policy and best practices for Health investmentportfolios and Safety The implementation of Board decisions and Non-executive directors theday-to-day operations of the Group are A formal meeting of the Non-Executives Directors delegated to the Executive Directors.
took place during the year, without the Executive Directors or the Executive Chairman present, at Division of responsibilities which a thorough review of the performance of the The responsibilities of the Executive Chairman, Executive Chairman took place.
It was considered that who is responsible for the overall strategy of the way in which the Board operated had improved, the Group, the Non-Executive Vice Chairman led by changes to the agendas and structure of who supports the Executive Chairman, and the meetings made by the Executive Chairman.
Chief Executive Officer, who is responsible for implementing the strategy and for the day-to-day As highlighted by this years external board running of the Group, are clearly divided.
A written evaluation, the Board was satisfied with the statement of the division of these responsibilities experience, expertise and performance of each isreviewed and approved by the Board each year.
Board member: they continue to add significant value to the operation of the Company through The Company does not comply with provision A.
3.1 their combined knowledge and experience, and of the Code, as the Executive Chairman was not exercise objectivity in decision-making and proper independent on appointment.
There have been control of the Companys business.
no significant changes to the commitments of the Executive Chairman during the year.
41 Corporate governance Leadership Insurance Roles and responsibilities of the Directors The Company has arranged insurance cover The Boards composition and responsibilities are for itsdirectors and officers, as set out in set out in a formal schedule of matters specifically theDirectors Report on page 79. reserved to it for decisions.
Matters reserved for Board decisions include identifying strategic Conflicts of interest long-term objectives, approving the annual The Companys Articles of Association contain Groupbudget, and approving substantial property procedures to deal with Directors conflicts of transactions and investment decisions over interest.
The Board considers that these have 5million.
operated effectively during the year.
The implementation of Board decisions and the day-to-day operations of the Group are delegated to the Executive Directors.
Role Name Responsibility Executive Chairman Henry Klotz Proposing the overall strategy of the Group and ensuring theeffective running of the Board Non-Executive Anna Seeley Supporting the Executive Chairman with developing Group ViceChairman strategy and managing the effective running of the Board Chief Executive Officer Fredrik Widlund Implementing Group strategy and the day-to-day running ofthe Group Chief Financial Officer John Whiteley Implementing Group strategy in relation to and ensuring compliance with all financial matters Executive Director Sten Mortstedt Supporting the Executive Chairman with proposing the overall Group strategy 1 Senior Independent Malcolm Cooper Providing a channel of communication for shareholders Director whodo not wish to approach the Executive Chairman, Executive Vice Chairman or Chief Executive Officer Leading the Non-Executive Directors, and providing feedback to the Executive Chairman on his performance 1 Non-Executive Directors Elizabeth Edwards Providing independent oversight, objectively challenging 1 Christopher Jarvis the Executive Directors in Board discussions and 1 Lennart Sten decision-making 2 Thomas Lundqvist 3 Joseph Crawley 4 Philip Mortstedt 5 Bengt Mortstedt 1 Determined by the Board to be Independent in accordance with Code provision B.
42 CLS Holdings plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements | Additional information CLS Holdings plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Board activity Topic Key activities Key priorities 1.
Reviewed the strategic aims of the Group and 1.
Focus on high yielding properties or portfolios Strategic proposed action plan for growth over the medium andimplement findings of the review of the tolong-term.
D iscussed macroeconomic events and how they may 2.
E nsure risks are adequately managed and impact the Group e. g. Brexit, EU political uncertainty.
monitoredsuch that the Group can react toachangein circumstance.
Received presentations on distribution strategy alongwith input from brokers and advisers.
Change from tender offers to dividend.
Discussed the development of Vauxhall Square andthe financial appraisals for each option.
Key priority to reinvest as per strategy and growth plan.
Reports from HR regarding diversity, turnover 1.
Implemented all key initiatives that staff survey People and andheadcount.
Identifying themes and discussion hadidentified.
Key aspects were flexible working culture astoways to improve culture.
M onitoring implementation of the results 2.
R eview cultural impact of changes and look to ofstaffsurvey.
Discussed the resourcing implications of 3.
Monitor staffing levels to ensure provision of first anexpanding portfolio.
Approval of the annual operating budget and its 1.
Reviewing the Groups cost of debt to ensure it Financial monitoring against key performance metrics remains low.
I n 2017, repaid cost rate debt to secure low rate debt 2.
E nsuring the key risks and uncertainties were and flexibility.
Implementation and upgrade of a number of key 3.
Discussion over the internal controls and risk systems to provide management information management systems.
Approval of the financial statements.
Focus on cost control and restraint to ensure continued low administration costs.
Continual review of all finance, tax and treasury matters, to ensure they are in line with Group strategy.
1. Review of the independence of Mr Cooper and 1.
Focus on Board composition and the alignment Governance MrJarvis, having served more than 9 years.
Implement findings of the report.
Update on governance topics and impact on 3. Review of obligations under GDPR underway, the Group e. g. Government review of Corporate withcompliance for May 2018.
Governance, changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code, GDPR.
Reviewed and discussed the strategic review for all 1.
Focus on portfolio meeting business plan.
Property and properties within the portfolio, taking decisions as to operations 2.
Mitigate risks the business plan for each to deliver the long-term within the portfolio.
D iscussed individual acquisitions and disposals against the Groups investment criteria.
43 Corporate governance Leadership Roles and responsibilities of the Directors continued Attendance table Audit Remuneration Nomination Board No.
of attendance meetings attendance meetings attendance meetings attendance meetings Henry Klotz 5 5 Anna Seeley 5 5 3 3 Fredrik Widlund 5 5 John Whiteley 5 5 Sten Morstedt 4 5 3 3 Malcolm Cooper 5 5 3 3 4 4 Lennart Sten 5 5 3 4 3 3 Elizabeth Edwards 5 5 3 3 3 3 Christopher Jarvis 5 5 3 3 4 4 Bengt Mortstedt Appointed 07 03 17 4 4 Joseph Crawley Resigned 16 05 17 3 3 Philip Mortstedt Resigned 07 03 17 2 2 Thomas Lundvist Retired 31 12 17 5 5 In addition to attending Board meetings, senior management meet regularly to discuss management issues relating to the Group both formally and informally.
Board activity The Board met five times during the year.
Key strategic and February March operational items are discussed at each meeting, and it receives presentations from various Approvals Approvals externalparties during the year.
Approval of 2017 budget Approval of the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts and associated The Board has a strategy meeting Key agenda items responsibility statements each year to review and monitor Report on geopolitical and Approval of the going concern macro-economic impact progress against our strategy andviability statements andthe wider risk environment CFO report on shareholder Approval of the Modern affecting theGroup.
distributions method and SlaveryStatement sharesplit Report from Remuneration Key agenda items Committee Proposal for the sale of VauxhallSquare Presentations Report from Audit Committee on CEO presentation on the 2016 Audit, principal risks and growthstrategy uncertainties and internal controls Report from Remuneration Committee on introduction of LTIP and new Remuneration Policy Presentations UK valuation presentations fromKnight Frank and Cushman&Wakefield 44 CLS Holdings plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements | Additional information CLS Holdings plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Top row left to right: Malcolm Cooper, Christopher Jarvis, Bengt Mortstedt, Anna Seeley, Lennart Sten, Elizabeth Edwards Bottom row left to right: John Whiteley, Henry Klotz, Sten Mortstedt, Fredrik Widlund May August November Approvals Approvals Approvals Report from the Nomination Approval of the Half-Yearly Approval of the 2018 Budgets Committee on Board composition Financial Report andForecasts Approval of the going Review of Internal Controls Key agenda items concernstatement andRisk Management Executive Reports Proposal for the purchase of Key agenda items Key agenda items aGerman property portfolio Report from Audit Committee Report on the Non-Executive Directors Meeting Half-Yearly Financial Report Presentations Report from Audit Committee Update on Group taxation Presentations 2018 Budget and 20192021 French valuation presentation Forecasts fromJLL Principal Business Risks German valuation presentation Review&Internal Controls from Cushman and Wakefield andRisk Management Independence review of Mr Cooper and Mr Jarvis 45 Corporate governance Board of Directors The right skills and experience to deliver our strategy Name Henry Klotz Fredrik Widlund John Whiteley Sten Mortstedt Anna Seeley Bengt Mortstedt Executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Executive Director & Founding Non-Executive Vice Chairman Non-Executive Director Position Shareholder Committee Member, Nomination Committee Founding shareholder membership Chairman, Nomination Committee 2 May 2008 3 November 2014 27 November 2009 14 March 1994 11 May 2015 7 March 2017 Appointment as a Director 9 years 10 months 3 years 5 months 8 years 5 months 24 years 2 years 10 months 1 year CEO to January 2011 Global Commercial Leader, GE Working Finance Officer, Doughty Hanson & Co Real Executive Chairman to March 2016 Director, Skansen Group Limited Director, CLS Holdings plc 19922010.
Auditor, Former Junior District Court Judge Executive Vice Chairman to March 2016 Property-related roles in General Electric European Leasing businesses.
Managing Ernst & Young inSweden and BT Group.
Group Property Director, Director, GE Capital Real Estate.
CFO, CLS Holdings plc GE Capital Equipment Finance.
Various positions with Royal Dutch Shell Engineer Degree in Business Administration, Fellow, Institute of Chartered Accountants.
Entrepreneur Degree in Property Valuation and Finance Degree in Law, Stockholm University Qualifications Stockholm University Degree in Accounting and Business Chartered Surveyor Economist Finance, Manchester University Joined in 1999 to manage the Swedish Business leadership, property and finance Finance and commercial experience in Experience Founded CLS in 1987: listing on London 20 years of property industry and European property market and Group operation.
Established the German experience in global organisations the real estate sector.
Member, Finance Stock Exchange main market, 1994. business experience business.
Developed and runs hotels division and focused on securing new Committee, British Property Federation MD, Citadellet AB listed on Stockholm inStVincent & Grenadines, West Indies business for the Group Stock Exchange, 1981.
Banker, Svenska Non-Executive Director of Catena AB, Handelsbanken, Stockholm.
Chairman of aNasdaq Stockholm-quoted real estate the investment vehicle for the Sten and company in which CLS holds 11.2% of Karin Mortstedt Family and Charity Trust theissued shares Name Malcolm Cooper Elizabeth Edwards Christopher Jarvis Lennart Sten Senior Independent Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Position Non-Executive Director Committee Member, Audit Committee and Nomination Chairman, Remuneration Committee Member, Remuneration Committee membership Chairman, Audit Committee Committee andNomination Committee Member, Audit Committee Member, Remuneration Committee 22 May 2007 13 May 2014 25 November 2008 1 August 2014 Appointment as a Director 10 years 9 months 3 years 10 months 9 years 3 months 3 years 7 months Former roles Project Director then Group Tax and Head, Property Lending, Landesbank Partner, Jarvis & Partners real estate CEO, GE Capital Real Estate Europe.
Treasury Director, National Grid plc.
Senior positions with National consultancy.
MD, President, GE Real Estate Nordic.
CEO Director, Corporate Finance, Lattice Group Australia Bank, Berlin Hyp and Richard Ellis Germany Fabege AB.
General Counsel, GE Capital plc.
Financial roles with BG Group plc.
Partner, Arthur Andersen Consulting Management Consultant, PwC Baker & McKenzie, Stockholm Degree in Pure Mathematics, Chartered Surveyor Chartered Surveyor Degree in Law, Stockholm University Qualifications WarwickUniversity Degree in Estate Management, South Masters in Land Economy, Fellow, Chartered Institute of Bank University CambridgeUniversity CertifiedAccountants Fellow, Association of Corporate Treasurers Experience Corporate finance, accounting and tax with Banking primarily propertyAdvising on all property-related matters, International property industry.
Trustee, Salvation Army from debt financing to asset acquisitions, and CEO of Svenska Handelsfastigheter.
Audit Committee chair, Morgan Sindall plc.
Fellow, Royal primarily in the German market Board member: Bonnier Fastigheter AB NED, Saint Williams Homes LLP Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
and Victoria Park AB: INTEROGO SA.
Member, Association of Property Chairman, Swedish Property Federation Lenders.
PastMaster, the Worshipful CompanyofChartered Surveyors 46 CLS Holdings plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements | Additional information CLS Holdings plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Name Henry Klotz Fredrik Widlund John Whiteley Sten Mortstedt Anna Seeley Bengt Mortstedt Executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Executive Director & Founding Non-Executive Vice Chairman Non-Executive Director Position Shareholder Committee Member, Nomination Committee Founding shareholder membership Chairman, Nomination Committee 2 May 2008 3 November 2014 27 November 2009 14 March 1994 11 May 2015 7 March 2017 Appointment as a Director 9 years 10 months 3 years 5 months 8 years 5 months 24 years 2 years 10 months 1 year CEO to January 2011 Global Commercial Leader, GE Working Finance Officer, Doughty Hanson & Co Real Executive Chairman to March 2016 Director, Skansen Group Limited Director, CLS Holdings plc 19922010.
Chairman of aNasdaq Stockholm-quoted real estate the investment vehicle for the Sten and company in which CLS holds 11.2% of Karin Mortstedt Family and Charity Trust theissued shares Name Malcolm Cooper Elizabeth Edwards Christopher Jarvis Lennart Sten Senior Independent Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Position Composition of the Board Length of tenure of the Board Non-Executive Director Committee Member, Audit Committee and Nomination Chairman, Remuneration Committee Member, Remuneration Committee membership Chairman, Audit Committee Committee andNomination Committee Member, Audit Committee Henry Klotz 9 Member, Remuneration Committee Anna Seeley 2 22 May 2007 13 May 2014 25 November 2008 1 August 2014 Appointment Fredrik Widlund 3 as a Director 10 years 9 months 3 years 10 months 9 years 3 months 3 years 7 months John Whiteley 8 Former roles Project Director then Group Tax and Head, Property Lending, Landesbank Partner, Jarvis & Partners real estate CEO, GE Capital Real Estate Europe.
CEO Sten Morstedt 24 Director, Corporate Finance, Lattice Group Australia Bank, Berlin Hyp and Richard Ellis Germany Fabege AB.
General Counsel, GE Capital Malcolm Cooper 10 plc.
Partner, Arthur Andersen Consulting Management Consultant, PwC Baker & McKenzie, Stockholm Lennart Sten 3 Independent Degree in Pure Mathematics, Chartered Surveyor Chartered Surveyor Degree in Law, Stockholm University Qualifications Elizabeth Edwards 3 Non-Executive 4 WarwickUniversity Degree in Estate Management, South Masters in Land Economy, Non-independent Christopher Jarvis 9 Fellow, Chartered Institute of Bank University CambridgeUniversity Non-Executive 2 CertifiedAccountants Bengt Mortstedt 1 Executive 4 Fellow, Association of Corporate Treasurers Bengt Mortstedt 1 Experience Corporate finance, accounting and tax with Banking primarily propertyAdvising on all property-related matters, International property industry.
PastMaster, the Worshipful CompanyofChartered Surveyors 47 Corporate governance Effectiveness Independence Information, support and development Provision B.
1.2 of the Code recommends that, Board members are sent board packs in advance for FTSE 350 companies, at least half the Board, of each Board and Committee meeting, and senior excluding the chairman, should comprise executives attend Board meetings to present independent non-executive directors.
and discuss their areas of speciality.
In making commercial assessments, the Directors review At the year end, the Board comprised four detailed plans, including financial viability reports Executive Directors, four independent Nonwhich, amongst other things, detail the return Executive Directors and two other Non-Executive on equity and the likely impact on the income Directors.
The Company was not compliant, statement, cash flows and gearing.
However, the Board considers that having a mix of Non-Executive Directors are able to obtain independent Directors who are either independent as defined professional advice at the Companys expense by the Code, or have an in-depth knowledge and have access to the services of the Company of the Company, provides better oversight Secretary.
They are given appropriate training and governance than having predominantly andassistance on appointment to the Board independent non-executive directors.
Of the independent Non-Executive directors, The Company offers all Directors the opportunity MrCooper and Mr Jarvis have served on the to update their skills and knowledge, and Boardfor more than nine years.
In light of familiarity with the Company, in order to fulfil provision B.
1.2 the Board undertook a rigorous their role on the Board.
In addition, meetings with review as to whether it considered them to senior managers within the Company have been remain independent.
The discussion focused on arranged to further familiarise Non-Executive Mr Coopers current non-executive directorships, Directors with the Company.
As part of every new one of which as Chairman of the Audit Committee Board members induction, we encourage them to of a FTSE small-cap company, and Mr Jarviss meet with the Head of Group Property in each of full time role with Jarvis and Partners, together the UK, France and Germany so as to understand with the amount of time dedicated to their roles the portfolio.
Board members also attended site as non-executive directors and their contributions visits to properties.
to the Board in discussions generally.
The Board was satisfied that they maintained the necessary levels of independence in addition to the Codes independence criteria and they continued to remain independent.
Following the retirement of Mr Lundqvist from the Board on 31 December 2017, there were no other non-executive directors that have served more than sixyears.
48 CLS Holdings plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements | Additional information CLS Holdings plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Performance evaluation Company beyond this process.
The evaluation The Board undertakes a formal review of its was based on a questionnaire which addressed performance and that of its Committees each the following key areas: strategy, leadership and financial year, and is required to conduct an accountability, effectiveness of the board, board external evaluation once every three years.
culture, information flows to the board and risk Inaccordance with provision B.
Additional questionnaires covered the Board undertook its first externally facilitated the effectiveness of the Audit, Remuneration and board performance evaluation in November, Nomination Committees but not the performance facilitated by Independent Audit Limited, using of individual directors.
This is carried out through its online assessment service Thinking Board.
individual meetings with the Executive Chairman Independent Audit has no connection with the during the year.
The findings and outcomes of theevaluation are set out below.
Board performance evaluation cycle Year 1 Years 2 and 3 Externally facilitated questionnaire using Independent Audits Internal questionnaire and follow up on results of previous Thinking Board software performance evaluations Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 4 Design and scope of Completion of the Review of results of Presentation of report questionnaire to address questionnaire by the Board, the questionnaire and to the Board for discussion core areas and key themes, Committee members and benchmark findings and prepare a plan for and facilitate the ability the Company Secretary.
against Independent achieving desired outcomes.
to provide confidential Auditscomparable data written responses to whereimprovements couldbe made Findings Outcomes More clarity on succession planning with discussions taking Review the succession planning process to ensure that place during Board meetings.
Board works well, with a good understanding of roles and Implement development programme for Board members responsibilities and range of skills and knowledge, but tospend more time in the business, both on Board-wide coulddo better at keeping up to date with topical issues andindividual site visits, and more indepth information andhaving more insight into what is happening in the ontopical issues within the property industry.
Improvements made in overall strategic decision-making Increase time spent discussing key topics such as risk securing consistency in approach.
Need for more discussion strategy and culture.
on type and level of risk appropriate for the Group.
The Board could improve on assessing and discussing culture.
Need to ensure sufficient time for discussion and challenge.
Improve meeting discipline by assuming board papers As Board papers can be lengthy, there is no need for them areread prior to meetings and restricting presentations.
tobe talked through at the meeting.
Board culture seen as very positive, with good relationships.
Setting aside time for the non-executive directors and There could me more regular contact with executive directors executives directors to discuss how best the Board can away from the business environment.
49 Corporate governance Effectiveness continued Re-election Board gender diversity Under the Articles of Association, which canbe amended by a special resolution of the shareholders, the Board has the power to appoint directors and, where notice is given signed by all the other directors, to remove a director from office.
All directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
In accordance with the Codes requirements for FTSE 350 companies, all directors must seek re-election by shareholders Men 8 annually.
Accordingly, all directors will be seeking Women 2 re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
Their details are contained on the Board of Directors section Board changes onpages 46 and 47.
On 7 March 2017, Bengt Mortstedt, a co-founder shareholder and holder of 6.89% of the shares The terms and conditions of appointment of in the Company, was appointed to the Board as non-executive directors are set out in a letter anon-executive director and Philip Mortstedt left ofappointment, which provides for their removal the Board.
Joseph Crawley, non-executive director, in certain circumstances, including under s168 left the board on 16 May 2017.
Their letters of appointment retired from his position as non-executive director also set out what is expected of them and the time of the Company on31December2017.
expected for them to meet their commitment.
non-executive directors are expected to serve two Appointments to the Board three-year terms, although the Board may invite As recommended by the Code, the Board has them to serve for an additional period, subject aNomination Committee to lead the process for to a rigorous review.
The terms of appointment Board appointments and make recommendations of the Non-Executive Directors can be obtained to the Board.
on request to the Company Secretary and will be available for inspection 15 minutes before, The Nomination Committee report can be found on andduring, the AGM.
Diversity The Groups policy is set out in the Nomination Committee Report, which can be found on pages 54 and 55.
50 CLS Holdings plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements | Additional information CLS Holdings plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Accountability The Board is required to present a fair, balanced Internal controls and understandable assessment of the Companys The Company has an established framework position and prospects, which are explained in this forinternal controls, which is regularly reviewed Annual Report.
and monitored by the executive management andthe Audit Committee, who update the Board The Audit Committee onits effectiveness during the year.
The Board has established an Audit Committee to monitor the formal and transparent The Board is responsible for the Companys arrangements for its corporate reporting and its overall strategy, for approving budgets and major risk management and internal control principles, investment decisions, and for determining the and for maintaining an appropriate relationship financial structure of the Group.
Its annual report can be found onpages 56 to 61.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in the discharge of its duties regarding the Groups Risk management and internal control financial reports and provides a direct link The Company has internal control and risk between the Board and the Auditor through management systems in place for its financial regular meetings.
The Board has requested reporting process and the preparation of the Group thatthe Audit Committee reviews the content accounts.
It considers these systems appropriate ofthe Annual Report and Accounts and advises for the size, diversity and complexity of the Groups iton whether, taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced operations, and they are monitored, reviewed and and understandable and provides the information recommended by the Audit Committee in thefirst necessary for shareholders to assess the instance, and then approved by the Board as Companys position and performance, business awhole on an annual basis.
Following its 2017 review, itrecommended the same to the Board.
It is the Companys aim to manage risk and to control its business and financial affairs There is an established organisational structure economically, efficiently and effectively so as to which has clearly defined lines of reporting and beable to exploit profitable business opportunities responsibility.
The Group has in place control in a disciplined way, avoid or mitigate risks that processes in relation to all aspects of its financial can cause loss, reputational damage or business dealings, such as the authorisation of banking failure, and enhance resilience to external events.
transactions, capital expenditure and treasury The Board acknowledges that the Directors investment decisions.
are responsible for the Groups systems of internal control and risk management and has The Group has a comprehensive system for established procedures which are designed to budgeting and planning whereby quarterly and provide reasonable assurance against material annual budgets are prepared, monitored and misstatement or loss.
These procedures have reported to the Board at Board meetings.
Threeoperated for the entire financial year and up to the yearly rolling cash flow forecasts are updated and date of signing the Annual Report and Accounts.
distributed to the Executive Directors on a weekly basis to ensure the Group has sufficient cash The Directors recognise that such systems resources for the short and medium-term.
canonly provide a reasonable and not absolute assurance that there has been no material misstatement or loss.
The Board regularly reviews the management structure, HR policies and reward systems so as to ensure that management is aligned to the Groups values and supports the risk management and internal control systems.
The key elements of the process by which the systems of internal control and risk management are monitored are set out below.
51 Corporate governance Accountability continued Set out on pages 2 to 37 is the Strategic Report, The Board concluded that the Viability Statement describing the Groups operations and the should correspond with the way in which the strategywhich it employs to maximise returns Group models its forecasts.
The Group produces andminimise risks.
a budget for the current year and forecasts over a further three years reflecting the Groups business Risks model, strategy and risk appetite.
The Board In line with the most recent guidance on risk and considers this period to be the most appropriate internal controls from the FRC, the risks which the as it provides a detailed and realistic forecast.
Group faces are reviewed and monitored in Board The forecast is built up from a tenant level and and executive meetings throughout the financial year.
considers the Groups weighted average lease length 2017: 5.4years and the maturity profile Each business area operates a process to ensure ofthe Groups debt 2017:3.6 years.
that key risks are identified, evaluated, managed and reviewed appropriately.
This process is also applied The forecasts provide a comprehensive view at Board level to major business decisions such as oftheGroups entire operation, covering: property acquisitions and disposals, and significant strategy changes.
Furthermore, a monthly property cash flows activity portfolio update is circulated to the Board financial resources which identifies key business risks, developments long-term funding and opportunities.
Additional risk management capital expenditure commitments processes, which include health and safety and administration costs sustainability risk management, are employed within the businesses and updates are reported Cash flow forecasts are updated weekly and tothe Board at each meeting.
The budget and three yearforecasts are set in November and updated Whilst there were no areas of weakness or failings in May and August to take into account changes identified by the Audit Committee and reported to toassumptions and are reviewed by the Board.
the Board during their review of the Groups risk management and internal controls, management As explained in the Audit Committee report, the has set up a rolling programme to review and forecasts are also stress-tested to reflect our test the principal areas of internal control risks principal risks, ensuring the Group has sufficient throughout the Group.
The results are reported resources in severe cases, such as a steep property tothe Audit Committee and reviewed by the downturn, the loss of key tenants and significant Boardduring the year.
rises in the costs of medium-term funding.
In accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, As a result, the Directors can confirm that they have and as supported above, the Directors confirm a reasonable expectation that the Company will be that they have carried out a robust assessment able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities of the principal risks facing the Group, including as they fall due over the period of their assessment.
those which would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The Remuneration Groups principal risks and uncertainties, the The Board has a Remuneration Committee areaswhichthey impact and how they are whichdevelops the Companys policies on mitigated are described on pages 20 and 21. executive remuneration and sets the remuneration packages of individual Executive Directors.
Viability Statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, the Its annual report can be found on pages 62 to 76.
Board has assessed the prospects of the Group over a longer period than the twelve months that has in practice been the focus of the Going Concern statement.
52 CLS Holdings plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements | Additional information CLS Holdings plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Relationship with shareholders The Company values its dialogue with both All shareholders have at least 20 working days institutional and private investors.
The Boards notice of the Annual General Meeting at which primary contact with institutional shareholders all Directors who are available to attend are is through the Chief Executive Officer and the introduced and are available for questions.
Chief Financial Officer, along with the Head of All shareholders are welcome to attend the Group Property, who have regular meetings with Companys Annual General Meeting and to institutional shareholders.
They also undertake arrangeindividual meetings by appointment.
analyst presentations following the Companys Theviews received at such meetings are half-yearly and annual financial results.
They are fedbackto the Board.
supported by a financial relations adviser and two corporate brokers, all of whom are in regular Proxy voting contact with institutional and retail shareholders, The proxy forms for the Annual General Meeting and with analysts.
A report of feedback from which was held in 2017 included a vote withheld each institutional investor meeting is prepared box.
Details of the proxies lodged for this by the broker who organised it, and a report of meeting was announced to the London Stock unattributed feedback from analysts on analyst Exchange and is on the Companys website at presentations is prepared by the financial www.
Shareholders may also relations advisor.
All such reports and coverage choose to register their vote by electronic proxy of the Company by analysts are circulated to onthe Companys website.
Consequently, all Directors develop an understanding of the views of institutional At the 2018 Annual General Meeting, the Company shareholders and commentators.
will comply with the Listing Rules in respect ofthe voting requirements for the re-election Analyst presentations following the announcement ofindependent Directors where a Company of half-yearly and annual financial results are hasacontrolling shareholder.
webcast and available on the Companys website.
Joint venture and associates The Group issues its annual financial report to This Corporate Governance report applies to the each of its shareholders.
In accordance with the Company and its subsidiaries.
It does not include UK company disclosure regulations the Group associates.
The Group has no joint ventures.
does not distribute its half-yearly financial report toshareholders but makes it available on its website.
Copies are available on request.
All financial reports and press releases are also included on the Groups website atwww.
Key shareholder events Annual General Meeting Analyst presentations 26 Institutional investor meetings March April May August Analyst presentations 27 Institutional Investor 5 Private client broker meetings meetings 53
