STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Governance NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT The Committees role is to review the size, structure and composition of the Board, and to ensure that the Board has the right mix of skills, experience and knowledge to enable the Company to fulfil its strategic objectives.
The Committee is also responsible for making recommendations for new appointments to the Board and for reviewing the performance and terms of engagement for the existing Directors.
The Committee operates within defined terms of Dear Shareholders, reference which are available on the Companys I was delighted to welcome Aubrey Adams to or from the Company Secretary.
Website the Board in September.
Aubrey has almost years experience at board level in the real estate Appointment of a new Non-Executive Director industry and will be a great asset to the Company.
The Nomination Committee identified the need to appoint a will see the Nomination Committee focus on further Independent Non-Executive Director to the Board and succession planning, and particularly with regard the Audit Committee at its meeting at the end of.
The to a future Chairman over the medium term, and recruitment process began soon after that.
ensuring that the Board continues to have the right balance of skills, experience and knowledge The Nomination Committee then evaluated the skills and to independently carry out its duties.
experience considered necessary to complement the existing Membership Board composition.
We particularly wanted the new candidate Richard Jewson Chairman to have strong experience in industrial real estate and logistics Jim Prower, Susanne Given, Aubrey Adams, Mark Shaw, with previous FTSE board experience.
We were clear that Stephen Smith until his resignation from the Company the candidate had to be able to devote sufficient time to the in June position and that we wanted the best candidate for the role.
We instructed Korn Ferry who had successfully worked with us in Priorities for The size, structure and composition of the Board: when we recruited Susanne Given.
Korn Ferry has no other connection with the Company apart from the provision of nonThe appointment of a Non-Executive Director to the Board and to the Audit Committee: and executive recruitment services.
The proposal for re-election of the Korn Ferry presented to the Committee a list of candidates Non-Executive Directors and the election of Aubrey Adams as a Non-Executive Director at the AGM in who had expressed an interest in the role.
identifying those candidates who appeared to hold the correct blend of skills.
A series of interviews were arranged with the Meeting attendance register Board and Colin Godfrey, James Dunlop and Henry Franklin of the Manager.
The Committee considered their skills and MEETINGS ELIGIBLE TO MEETINGS experience, as well as their ability to devote enough time to the PERSON ATTENDED ATTENDED position.
Following the recommendation of the Committee, the Richard Jewson Board decided to appoint Aubrey Adams as a Non-Executive Jim Prower Director of the Company with effect from September.
He will hold office until the Companys AGM on May Susanne Given when he will be submitted for election by the Shareholders as Mark Shaw a Non-Executive Director of the Company.
Aubrey Adams Stephen Smith https: tritaxbigbox.
co. uk about #corporate-governance Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report Governance: Effectiveness Policy on tenure and succession planning Director remuneration review We considered the ongoing independence of each of the As the Company does not have any executive directors it does Non-Executive Directors, their respective skills and experience not have a remuneration committee.
No further changes have and whether each Non-Executive Director is able to commit been made to the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors sufficient time to the Company, as well as any other external during the review period.
Details of the Non-Executive Directors appointments held by the Non-Executive Directors.
We consider remuneration can be found on pages -.. that each Non-Executive Director has contributed a significant amount over the preceding year: a year which has seen the Board diversity Company grow with the first acquisition of prime development The Company does not have any employees.
In respect of the land, its debut bond issue and another equity issue.
The Board, Board of Directors, we consider that each candidate should be following the advice of the Committee and in line with the AIC appointed on merit to make sure that the best candidate for the Code and Guide, will recommend the election and re-election role is appointed every time.
We support diversity at Board level of each Non-Executive Director at the forthcoming AGM.
and encourage candidates from all educational backgrounds and walks of life.
What is important to us is professional Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial period achievement and the ability to be a successful non-executive of two years.
It is the Companys policy of tenure to review director based on the individuals skill set and experience.
individual appointments after seven years of service to consider Qualifications are considered when necessary to ensure whether the Non-Executive Director is still independent and compliance with regulation such as in relation to appointments still fulfils the role.
However, in accordance with the principles to the Audit Committee.
We regularly review the Companys of the AIC Code and Guide, we do not consider it necessary to policy on diversity and consider that the Board of Directors mandatorily replace a Director after a predetermined period of has a balance of skills, qualifications and experience which are tenure.
The Committee is currently recruiting an additional Nonrelevant to the Company.
We support the recommendations of Executive Director with specific finance and audit committee the Hampton Alexander and Parker Reports and recognise the experience.
Korn Ferry was appointed with this mandate in value and importance of diversity in the boardroom but we do and the Committee hopes to be able to make a recommendation not consider it appropriate, or in the interests of the Company to the Board shortly.
and its Shareholders, to set prescriptive diversity targets for the Board.
Pursuant to the Articles of Association of the Company, at every AGM of the Company, one third of the Non-Executive Directors Richard Jewson Chairman of the Nomination Committee who are subject to the requirement to retire by rotation not March including any Non-Executive Director who was appointed by the Board since the last AGM and is standing for election will retire from office and may offer themselves for re-election.
However, notwithstanding the provisions of the Articles, all the NonExecutive Directors will offer themselves for re-election at each AGM in accordance with the provisions of the AIC Code.
When renewing current appointments, all Non-Executive Directors except the individual in question are able to vote at the Annual General Meeting.
See Directors Remuneration Report, pages - Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report
