Corporate governance Audit Committee report Dear Shareholder How the Committee spends its time The Audit Committee reviews and reports to the Board on financial reporting matters, including the valuation assumptions for the property portfolio, internal control and risk management.
It also reviews the performance, independence, effectiveness and annual remuneration of theauditor.
Committee members attendance during the year ended 31 December 2017 Reports from the Auditor 33% Governance 24% Malcolm Cooper Chairman 3 3 Financial reporting 30% Meeting with valuers 13% Chris Jarvis 3 3 Elizabeth Edwards 3 3 Audit Committee regular attendees for part by invitation Georgina Robb Deloitte LLP, independent external auditor Composition of the Committee Fredrik Widlund Chief Executive Officer The Committees membership remains John Whiteley Chief Financial Officer unchanged, and comprises three independent David Fuller Company Secretary and Secretary to the Committee non-executive directors.
For the purposes of Cushman & Wakefield Independent external valuers UK and Germany Knight Frank Independent external valuers Vauxhall Square theCode, Mr Cooper, Ms Edwards and Mr Jarvis Jones Lang LaSalle Independent external valuers France are regarded as having recent and relevant accounting and financial experience, and allhavesector competence.
The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, certain senior management and the Auditor are normally invited to attend the meetings.
At each meeting there is a standing agenda item facilitating the opportunity for the Auditor to meet without management present.
The Company Secretary actsas secretary to the Committee.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website at www.
com Performance of the Committee The Audit Committee undertakes a review of its performance each year.
During 2017 the Committees review was externally facilitated and found that the Committee performed effectively, see page 48 for further details.
56 CLS Holdings plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements | Additional information CLS Holdings plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Audit Committee at a glance Committee objective What we have done Committee focus Monitor the integrity of the financial Reviewed the year end and half-year Reviewed the impact of new statements, and assist the Board results ensuring that they were fair, accounting standards IFRS 9, with other formal announcements.
Review the narrative reporting to Met with each of the Groups Together with the Auditor, ensure, taken as a whole, it is fair, valuers and asked searching ensuredthe valuations and balanced and understandable.
questions on the markets assumptions surrounding the inwhichwe operate.
Review and monitor internal controls Monitoring of Principal Risks and risk management systems.
Received reports and presentations andUncertainties to ensure they from the Auditor at the full and halfApprove the statements concerning remain relevant and appropriate.
year in respect of: principal risks, viability, internal Reviewed and monitored controls and risk management.
property valuations internalcontrols and risk Review the adequacy of significant accounting, reporting management systems.
whistleblowing and anti-fraud and judgemental matters, Maintained good communication arrangements.
including going concern links with the Auditor with a focus Maintain a relationship with the principal risks and uncertainties on the key issues outlined in each Auditor including the setting of fees.
Undertook a review of the internal audit report during the year.
controls and risk management and Monitored impact of relevant requested regular updates from changes to corporate governance.
Undertook a review of whistleblowing arrangements toensure they remained appropriate for the Group.
Together with input from the Auditor, confirmed that there was no requirement for an internal audit function given the size and complexity of the Group.
Received the Auditors planning report, reviewed the year end audit scope and materiality, and agreed 2017 audit fee.
Reviewed and challenged the viability statement to ensure that it remained relevant to the Group and in line with its current budgetary forecasting model.
57 Corporate governance Audit Committee report continued Significant financial judgements Issues How they were addressed Property valuations The Committee met with the Groups valuers, Cushman and Wakefield UK and Germany, and Jones Lang LaSalle France to which it invited the whole Board, and discussed the methodology used for the six monthly valuations of the Groups properties.
Independently, the Auditor also met with the Groups valuers using real estate specialists andprovided the Committee with a summary of their review contained within their report atthe half-year and year end.
The Committee was satisfied with the explanations in relation to the portfolio and its associated key risks, such as specific local market updates, vacancy levels and rental demand, which management were addressing.
Significant transactions The Committee also focused on the managements accounting treatment for significant transactions during the year, such as the sale of Vauxhall Square and the acquisition of the Metropolis portfolio.
The treatments were discussed with the Auditor and the Committee agreed with their accounting treatments.
Accounting for other In conjunction with the Auditor, the Committee reviewed how management accounted financial investments foritsother financial investments, principally in corporate bonds and in the shares in CatenaAB.
The Committee agreed with the approach taken by management and the valueofthese investments.
Brexit The Committee continued to look at the impact of Brexit on the principal risks and uncertainties and provided the full Board with the Committees views in their wider discussionas set out in the Strategic Review.
Revenue recognition Following a report from the Auditor at its planning meeting, the Committee considered the Auditors approach to revenue recognition which was no longer considered to be a significant risk given that revenue from signed, long-term leases was not considered susceptible tosignificant fraud.
Management The Committee assessed the framework for financial controls to be regularly reviewed overrideofcontrols by management and brought to the Committee for review.
The Auditor confirmed to the Committee that there were defined lines of reporting and control processes in place within theGroup such that the Auditor was satisfied that the risk was adequately mitigated.
58 CLS Holdings plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements | Additional information CLS Holdings plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Viability and Going Concern Viability Statement The Committee remained of the view that the statement should correspond with the way in which the Group models itsforecasts, being the current year plus a further three years.
The way in which the model was stress tested for changes inthe Groups operating environment were considered appropriate and clearly supported the statement.
Further details are contained in the Corporate Governance Report on page 52.
Going Concern Whilst a matter for the whole Board see page 79, the Committee reviews the Groups financial forecasts, debt maturity forecasts and associated sensitivity analysis.
With supporting reviews from the Auditor, and a recommendation from management, the Committee remained of the view that the going concern risk was low.
Key areas discussed and reviewed by The Committee assessed the effectiveness of the theCommittee full-year and half-year external audit processes, External audit process the performance of the Auditor and, separately, The Committee reviewed the external audit sought the views of senior management.
The strategy and the findings of the Auditor from the Committee concluded that the external audit review of the Half-Yearly Financial Report and strategy had been met, and that key accounting from the audit of the Annual Report and Accounts.
and auditing judgments had been identified by It reviewed the letters of representation at both theAuditor.
The Committee concluded that Deloitte the full year and half year and recommended LLP had undertaken the external audit in line with the same to the Board for signature.
Additionally, the audit plan, and it was agreed to recommend to the Committee met with the Auditor prior to the the Board that Deloitte LLP be asked to continue final sign-off meeting for this Annual Report and as the Auditor at the forthcoming AGM.
The Accounts in order to receive the report on the Committee discussed with management and external audit process.
The Committee is pleased subsequently agreed the statutory audit fee and to report that at both the half year and the full year, the scope of the statutory audit.
after reviewing the significant risks identified by the Auditor and how management had mitigated Impact of new accounting standards them, there was no issue of a material nature The Committee received presentations from the which needed to be addressed or brought to Chief Financial Officer on the impact of a number theBoards attention.
of accounting standards, inparticular IFRSs 9, 15 and 16 such that it was able to understand how they would affect the Groups accounting policies in order to ensure the financial statements remained compliant.
The Auditor concurred withmanagements view.
59 Corporate governance Audit Committee report continued Principal risks In order to seek assurance that internal controls The Committee introduced a standing discussion are rigorously tested, management have set item in relation to monitoring and reviewing the up a rolling programme to review and test the Groups principal business risks, and challenging principal areas of risk, with the results reported management on the appropriateness of those to the Committee and subsequently reviewed by risks and how they were to be mitigated, details the Board.
This ongoing review has not highlighted ofwhich can be found on pages 20 and 21. anymatters of concern.
A key risk that the Committee discussed was the Non-audit fees financial impact of Brexit, which it considered The Committee is also responsible for monitoring could have an effect on the property sector and the compliance of the Companys policy on the the ability to obtain financing, and how the Group provision of non-audit services by the Auditor, would mitigate its effects.
Whilst these risks were so as to safeguard the Auditors objectivity considered to have a relatively high impact, the andindependence.
likelihood that they would occur remained low.
The Committee has implemented a policy so as to The Group also reassessed the impact of ensure it complies with the EU Audit Regulations.
thedevelopment risk within the portfolio, which, since the sale of Vauxhall Square, The policy categorises non-audit services as either: hadreduced significantly.
excluded as defined by the EU Audit Regulations : or Internal control and risk management permitted, without approval from the Committee, The Committee has a further standing discussion but subject to approval by the Chief Financial item in relation to monitoring and reviewing Officer of up to 10% of the annual aggregate all of the Groups material controls and risk Groupaudit fee: or management systems, with a continuous control permitted with approval from the Committee.
testing and reporting programme throughout the organisation.
Further details are contained in the The non-audit services provided by the Auditor Corporate Governance Report on pages 51 and 52. during the year were 53,207 2016: 23,738.
Internal audit All such fees were approved by the Committee or Following its annual review, the Committee Chief Financial Officer in accordance with the policy.
recommended to the Board not to establish an internal audit function, due to the existence of As set out above, the Committee considers that it current controls and review systems, and as has complied with the provision of The Statutory the Company was neither of sufficient size nor Audit Services for Large Companies Market complexity to warrant it.
This line of reasoning Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive was consistent with other property companies Tender Processes and Audit Committee of asimilar size.
The Committee will continue Responsibilities Order 2014. to review this assumption annually following the Groups inclusion in the FTSE 350.
This viewwassupported by the Auditor.
60 CLS Holdings plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements | Additional information CLS Holdings plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Anti-bribery and whistleblowing The Company has implemented an anti-bribery policy and provided training for all staff.
An additional annual compliance check is undertaken for all staff.
The Committee reviewed as being appropriate the whistleblowing policy, under which employees may report suspicion of fraud, financial irregularity, modern slavery or other malpractice.
No reports of any such matters were received during the year.
On behalf of the Board Malcolm Cooper Chairman Audit Committee 7 March 2018 61
