DIRECTORS REPORT Directors Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 79 Nominations & Governance Committee Report Nominations & Governance Committee Report Principal responsibilities Ian Davis Chairman of the Board and committee composition Nominations & Governance Review the structure, size and composition of the Board and its Committee committees regularly, to ensure that they remain appropriate, and to make any recommendations of any changes to the Board.
Evaluate and consider any Directors conflicts of interest.
Board nominations Recommendation of new appointments to the Board.
Oversee the induction plans, training and site visits for Key highlights the Directors.
The appointment of Beverly Goulet as a Non-Executive Director was considered and recommended to the Board Succession planning Diversity and inclusion including a new Board policy Consider succession plans for Directors and senior executives.
Talent, capability and succession Diversity and inclusion reviews and implementation of policy.
Monitoring of UK corporate governance proposals Evaluation of Chairman, Chief Executive and Non-Executive Directors Introduction Conduct an annual evaluation of the Chairman.
The Committee leads the process for nominations to the Board, Conduct an annual evaluation of the Chief Executive.
making recommendations to the Board as appropriate.
It gives full Review the independence of the Non-Executive Directors.
consideration to the composition of the Board and succession planning for Directors and senior executives.
The Committee also keeps the Groups corporate governance arrangements under Corporate governance review and ensures they are consistent with best practice standards.
Review the Groups global governance framework.
Keep up-to-date with the changing governance landscape and Operation of the Committee report on the Groups corporate governance practices to ensure The Committee consists wholly of independent Non-Executive they remain appropriate for a group the size and complexity Directors and the Chief Executive attends the meetings.
of Rolls-Royce, taking account of best practice principles.
Brad Singer, although not independent, attends meetings when it is considered appropriate.
Our biographies are on pages 66 Principal risk talent and capability to 68.
The Committees responsibilities are outlined in its terms of reference, available at www.
com, which we review Oversight of one of the Companys principal risks.
annually and refer to the Board for approval.
Areas of focus for 2018 Committee members Diversity and inclusion Member Attended Eligible to attend Ian Davis 7 7 Talent, capability and succession Lewis Booth 7 7 Employee engagement Ruth Cairnie 7 7 Culture and behaviour Sir Frank Chapman 6 7 Irene Dorner 7 7 Beverly Goulet 4 4 Lee Hsien Yang 7 7 Sir Kevin Smith 6 7 Jasmin Staiblin 7 7 See page 70 for reasons of non-attendance.
Directors Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 80 Nominations & Governance Committee Report Nominations & Governance Committee focus during 2017 Area of focus Matters considered Outcome A review of the composition of the Board and When reviewing Non-Executive Director Board and committee committee membership appointments the Committee considers the current composition skills, experience and tenure of the Directors and assesses future needs against the longer-term strategy of the Group.
The Committee recommended to the Board that Lewis Booth, chair of the Audit Committee, join the Remuneration Committee to strengthen the link between the Remuneration and Audit Committees.
Re-appointment of three Non-Executive Directors The Committee satisfied itself that the Directors Board nominations considered for re-appointment continued to be The appointment of Beverly Goulet as Non-Executive committed and effective.
Director and oversight of Beverlys induction plan Members of the Committee were involved in the A review of site visits undertaken by Board members interview process for the new Non-Executive Director and the Committee recommended Beverly Goulets appointment to the Board.
You can read more about the appointment process on page 81.
Progress on succession planning There has been a continued focus on succession Succession planning planning this year, with a number of changes to the ELT.
Two updates on diversity and inclusion The discussions focused on the executive pipeline.
The Committee approved the Board diversity policy in December 2017.
It was agreed to maintain focus on diversity and inclusion in 2018.
Annual review of the effectiveness of the Chairman and The Chairman and Chief Executive continue to be Evaluation of Chairman, the Chief Executive, led by the Senior Independent effective.
Feedback was shared directly with them.
Chief Executive Director and the Chairman respectively and Non-Executive The review concluded that all Non-Executive Directors Annual review of whether the Non-Executive Directors Directors, with the exception of Brad Singer, remained independent, taking into account the remained independent.
independence criteria set out in the Code A review of our global governance framework A refreshed governance framework was published Corporate governance internally in June 2017.
Periodic governance updates from the Company Secretary The Committee has been kept informed about the changes to the governance landscape and the various proposals on UK corporate governance.
The principal risk is considered when discussing It was agreed that continuing focus was required, Oversight of principal risk talent and capability particularly on the high-potential and emerging talent and capability talent pools.
The Board apprentice programme was introduced as a pilot initiative.
The Committee is satisfied with the Board and committee composition current composition of the Board committees and believes that The Committee regularly reviews the balance and composition undue reliance is not placed on particular individuals.
The Board of the Board, its committees and the executive team, as well as committee membership is set out on page 68.
This will be regularly Non-Executive Director independence, skills and tenure.
reviewed and refreshed by the Board.
When reviewing the Non-Executive Directors appointments the Committee considers the current skills and experience of the Board inductions, training and development Board and assesses future needs against longer-term succession The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that new planning in light of the Groups strategy.
Directors have a thorough and appropriate induction.
Each newly The Committee also takes into account the need to make sure appointed Director has a structured induction programme and there is appropriate diversity on the Board.
During the year, the receives a comprehensive data pack providing detailed information Committee considered the external reviews on diversity, namely on the Group.
You can read more about inductions and continuing the Parker Review and the Hampton-Alexander Review, published development on page 75. in November 2016.
Further details on our approach to diversity are DIRECTORS REPORT Directors Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 81 Nominations & Governance Committee Report a plan would be put in place to accelerate their path to succession Board nominations where possible.
It was also identified that there was a need for more In April 2017, Stephen Daintith was appointed to the Board as rigour, challenge and calibration around talent and succession and Chief Financial Officer.
In July 2017, the Committee recommended to we would review progress again in 2018. the Board the approval of Beverly Goulet as Non-Executive Director.
As we reported last year, we recognise that succession planning During the year, we considered and recommended to the Board includes nurturing our own talent pool and giving opportunities the terms of appointment for Ruth Cairnie for a second three-year to those who are capable of growing into more senior roles.
term and Lewis Booth and Sir Frank Chapman both for a third Throughout the year, Directors took opportunities to meet with three-year term subject to annual shareholder re-election.
For each senior management throughout the Company, including in Bristol re-appointment we consider the effectiveness and commitment of where they met the Defence Aerospace leadership team and at the Director and undertake a more thorough review of those the senior leadership conference where they met key managers.
Directors who are being re-appointed for their third three-year term.
At the beginning of 2018, we were also pleased to announce the The Committee was satisfied with the Directors continued appointments of Chris Cholerton, former President Defence commitment and effectiveness.
Aerospace, as the new President Civil Aerospace, and Tom Bell, a former employee, as the new President Defence.
These Beverly was identified as a candidate for the Board through our appointments come at a crucial time for our business as the external search for a director with experience in the airline or Company seeks to make 2018 a breakthrough year.
aerospace sectors, with a particular focus on the US.
Prior to her appointment, Beverly met with seven members of the Board and we collected references from chairmen of companies where she had Board apprentice programme previously worked.
The Committee agreed that Beverly had strong In 2017, we created a new Board apprentice programme.
This is a functional expertise in finance, strategy and legal matters as well nine-month programme that will provide leadership development as a wealth of knowledge of the airline industry.
experience to demonstrate our commitment to the participants career progression and development as leaders in the organisation.
In February 2018, it was announced that Nick Luff, currently The opportunity provides the participants with exposure to the chief financial officer of RELX Group, would be appointed as Board and personal career development through observing and Non-Executive Director with effect from close of the AGM in May learning from boardroom experience.
Nick will join the Audit Committee and Nominations & Governance Committee.
Nick was The first high-potential candidates to participate in a trial of the identified as a candidate that would bring significant expertise in programme brought diversity of thought, gender, nationality and finance and accounting to the Board.
Prior to his appointment, ethnicity.
The key elements of the programme include: early career Nick met with eight members of the Board including the Chairman, conversations with the Group Human Resources Director or Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer.
members of the senior leadership team: an orientation meeting providing an overview from Directors of what it means to be on For Beverlys and Nicks appointments, the Committee appointed a board: an opportunity to network with other candidates on the MWM Consulting.
Prior to the new appointments, the Chairman programme: attendance at Board committee meetings: and agreed a Non-Executive Director profile and the Committee networking with ourELT.
provided input into a shortlist of candidates for the roles.
You can read their full biographies at www.
Diversity and inclusion Succession planning Diversity and inclusion continues to be an area of focus for the Committee.
As mentioned on page 47, during 2017 we launched The Committee is committed to regularly reviewing succession a new strategy with global targets to increase female participation planning and it plays a vital role in promoting effective board at all levels of our organisation by 2020.
The Committee was succession, making sure that this is aligned to the Groups strategy.
updated on progress against these and activities to drive diversity A principal risk to the business is the inability to attract, retain and inclusion across the Company including: establishing a Global and incentivise talented individuals to deliver our strategy: the Diversity and Inclusion Council: a number of senior female Committee is responsible for reviewing talent, capability and appointments: launching an online series of digital communications succession at the most senior levels of the business.
There has on diversity and inclusion focusing on key issues such as flexible been a continued focus on succession planning in the year and working and mental health: launching the Board apprentice we have taken significant steps to strengthen our management programme: and trialling female-only assessment centres for and ELT.
In September, the Chief Executive and Group Human Resources Rolls-Royce is also a founding patron of the FTSE-100 Director led discussions on succession planning with the Board Cross-Company Mentoring Programme which aims to widen the and the Committee.
The review focused on the executive pipeline pool of eligible female board candidates.
At the date of this report from which the future leaders of the Company were likely to the percentage of women currently on our Board is 33% 2016: emerge, both at ELT level and other key management areas.
The Committee will instruct search consultants to identify, Strong successors have been identified for most ELT roles and as a priority, female candidates who meet the skills and experience future considerations have been taken into account in identifying brief.
As with all previous appointments, we will consider candidates successors both immediately below ELT level and those that would from the widest possible pool and will only engage search firms be ready to take up an ELT position in one or two moves.
A diverse that have signed up to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for pipeline of ready later emerging talent has been identified, and Executive Searchfirms.
Directors Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 82 Nominations & Governance Committee Report Board diversity policy Objective Progress All Board appointments will be made in the context of the skills The Committee regularly reviews the composition of the Board.
and experience that are needed for the Board to be effective.
Maintain a balance so that, as a minimum, one third of the The chart below highlights that the percentage of women Directors are women.
on the Board is 33%, which is higher than last year.
Support and monitor Group activities to increase the The Committee focused on strengthening the pipeline of percentage of senior management roles held by women executive talent in the Company.
Group activities include the and other under-represented groups.
external hiring of diverse senior managers and internal promotion activity and continued emphasis on diverse pipeline, graduate and apprentice recruitment.
You can find out more on page 47.
Monitor, challenge and support internally set targets for diversity This is ongoing and will be kept under review.
The charts on and inclusion at all levels across the organisation.
page 66 provide a clearer picture of our Board diversity and our diversity & inclusion targets are on page 47.
In the year, the Board approved the Board diversity policy which committee will help to keep the governance framework and the adopts a target that one third of Board members should be female.
development of the Group policies under review.
It will oversee the It is recognised that there will be periods of change on the Board effectiveness of the framework across the organisation and ensure and that this number may be smaller for periods of time while the that the Groups corporate governance and corporate compliance Board is refreshed.
It is our longer-term intention, however, to at arrangements, practices and procedures below Board level are least maintain this balance.
consistent with appropriate best practice principles and standards for a group of the size and complexity of Rolls-Royce.
Our policy will continue to promote an inclusive and diverse culture and will reaffirm our aspiration to meet and exceed the The Nominations & Governance Committee is provided with regular recommended voluntary target of 33% of Board positions being updates on key developments to corporate governance.
This year, held by women in 2020.
The objectives in the policy remain the Committee has been kept informed about the changes to the relevant targets against which to measure our progress.
We will governance landscape and the proposals from the governments continue to progress our Board diversity policy.
During the year green paper on UK corporate governance and the FRCs we are committed to set and publish a target for ELT and senior consultation on the UK Corporate Governance Code.
You can find the full policy at www.
Conflicts of interest and independence Board members by gender The Board continues to monitor and note potential conflicts of interest that each Director may have and recommends to the Board 2017 8 67% 4 33% whether these should be authorised and whether any conditions 2016 10 3 should be attached to any authorisation.
The Directors are regularly 10 4 2015 reminded of their continuing obligations in relation to conflicts, and are required annually to review and confirm their external interests, Male 8 67% which helps to determine whether each of them continue to be Female 4 33% considered independent.
Brad Singer, as a representative of a significant shareholder, is not Governance considered to be independent.
As noted on page 77, the conflict We strive to take an innovative approach in all that we do and that of interest was managed throughout the year by a relationship includes our approach to governance.
In 2017, we have carried agreement between the Company, ValueAct and Brad Singer.
out a number of initiatives such as our Meet the Board event, During the year, following an annual review, no additional conflicts the Board apprentice programme and the appointment of Irene of interest were identified which required approval by the Board.
Dorner as our Non-Executive Director employee champion and we The Committee advised the Board that it considered that each of the continue to look to be best in class and to ensure our governance remaining Non-Executive Directors continued to be independent.
is appropriate for the Group and all our stakeholders.
The Groups governance framework continues to be effective.
Looking forward Following its launch in 2016, an updated version was issued in June 2017, containing a new section on strategy, planning and in-year I am pleased to report we have made good progress against our appraisal.
We continue to work on developing and maturing the priorities for 2017 in relation to succession planning.
However, we still framework, with the current focus on building on the considerable have work to do in this area and in relation to diversity and inclusion.
work done to date on our Group policies, to bring further improvements and ensure the Group policies are understood and During the course of 2018, the Committee will continue to keep embedded across the organisation.
The outcome of this work will under review any future UK corporate governance reforms as they provide a condensed and more succinct set of Group policies.
are finalised and also review progress of our initiatives including the Board apprentice and employee engagement programmes.
In September, we established a new executive level group governance committee, chaired by the General Counsel.
This new Ian Davis Chairman of the Nominations & Governance Committee
