STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Governance LEADERSHIP The Board is responsible to Shareholders, The Board has not established a remuneration committee as it has no executive directors and the Company has no other Customers and other stakeholders for delivering employees.
The Board as a whole is responsible for reviewing the sustainable and continuing success of the the scale and structure of the Directors remuneration.
Good governance is fundamental for of the Directors remuneration for the year ended December long-term success and central to every Board are included in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The Board and the Manager work together to ensure the highest standards of The Board considers the culture and ethos of the Company to be integral to the Companys success.
Despite the Company being governance are maintained by the Company.
externally managed, the Board considers that the culture within the Manager is complementary to the Company.
The Chairman The Board and the Senior Independent Director meet with and speak to The Board consists of five Non-Executive Directors.
All the members of the Manager working within different functions at the Non-Executive Directors are independent of the Manager, with Manager on a regular basis outside of Board meetings.
In addition, the exception of Mark Shaw, who is a Partner and Chairman of different employees from the Manager deliver bespoke training the Manager.
Each Director will resign and stand for re-election sessions to the Board and attend Board meetings as and when by Shareholders at the Companys AGM in accordance with the requested.
requirements of the AIC Code.
Aubrey Adams will be submitting himself for election at the scheduled May AGM, as this will Committees be the first AGM since his appointment.
The Board has delegated some of its responsibilities to its three formal committees, the Nomination Committee, the Audit The Board has determined the Companys Investment Objectives Committee and the Management Engagement Committee, and Investment Policy and has overall responsibility for the details of which are set out in the diagram overleaf.
The Companys activities, including reviewing investment activity, Company ensures that all of the Board Committees have performance, business conduct and strategy, as well as developing sufficient resources to carry out their obligations.
and complying with the principles of good corporate governance.
These Committees are each chaired by a different Director and The Directors believe that the Board is well balanced and have their own terms of reference which can be found on the possesses sufficient breadth of skills, variety of backgrounds, Companys Website or copies are available on request from relevant experience and knowledge to ensure it functions the Company Secretary.
The terms of reference are reviewed as correctly and is not dominated by any one person.
Biographical necessary by the Board at least every three years.
The terms of information on each Director is set out in The Board of Directors reference for the Nomination Committee were reviewed at the on pages -.
end of, for the Management Engagement Committee in October and for the Audit Committee in November.
The Board has approved a schedule of matters reserved for its The Company Secretary acts as secretary to these Committees consideration and approval and has delegated the operational and the Chairman of each committee reports the outcome of aspects of running the Company to the Manager.
The matters the meetings to the Board.
reserved for Board consideration include: The Board also establishes further ad hoc committees to take reviewing and approving Board membership and powers, operational responsibility on specific matters for subsequent including the appointment of Directors: approval by the Board.
These operational committees ensure approving the budget, financial plans and annual and interim that key matters are dealt with efficiently by the best qualified financial reports: Non-Executive Director and representatives of the Manager.
reviewing property valuations and valuations of its interest rate derivatives: overseeing treasury functions and managing the Companys capital structure: reviewing and monitoring the Managers ongoing compliance with the Companys Investment Policy: overseeing the services provided by the Manager and, in conjunction with the Manager, the Companys principal service See The Board of Directors, pages - providers: and See Directors Remuneration Report, pages - approving the dividend policy.
Board Committee Terms of Reference: https: tritaxbigbox.
co. uk about #corporate-governance Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report Governance: Leadership Our governance structure MANAGEMENT AUDIT COMMITTEE NOMINATION COMMITTEE ENGAGEMENT COMMITTEE Reviewing the integrity of the Group Responsible for reviewing the Board Reviewing the Companys main suppliers Financial Statements and any significant Composition and assessing whether the including the Manager, the Broker and financial reporting judgements.
balance of skills, experience, knowledge the Valuer to ensure that the Company is and independence is appropriate to receiving a strong level of performance Reviewing and monitoring the relationship enable the Board to operate effectively.
along with value for money.
The Nomination Committee manages Overseeing re-tenders or new Reviewing the Managers internal controls succession planning and ensures that the appointments.
and controls embedded in Link Asset Directors receive necessary training.
Services as the Companys Administrator.
Overseeing the Companys risk management process.
Considering and reviewing the Companys Viability Statement and Going Concern Statement.
See pages - for further See pages - for further See pages - for further information information information THE BOARD Responsible for maintaining consistent and progressive Shareholder returns COMPANY SECRETARIAT INVESTMENT COMMITTEE MANAGER AND COMPLIANCE Established to review and recommend Tasked with the day-to-day running of Again, part of the Manager, this function investment and divestments.
The the Company including making the final oversees the Companys governance Investment Committee is chaired by decisions in respect of investment and structure and manages the Companys Colin Godfrey, the Fund Manager, divestments, financial management, compliance with financial regulation.
and consists of various members of the asset management and Investor Relations.
The Company Secretariat also The Manager is chaired by Mark Shaw.
This function is Colin Godfrey, as the Fund Manager overseen by Henry Franklin.
of the Company, oversees the Managers relationship with the Company.
The Company Secretariat function is currently being re-tendered: further information can be found on page.
See pages - for further information The Manager The Board has delegated the day-to-day running of the responsibility to make final investment and divestment Company to the Manager pursuant to the terms of the decisions in accordance with ESMA guidance.
Further details of the Management Engagement Committee Report discusses the delegated matters can be found on the Companys Website.
changes made to the Investment Management Agreement The Investment Management Agreement was amended and and how the Boards relationship with the Manager is restated on September to clarify the Managers regulated.
Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report
