GOVERNANCE REPORT RISK COMMITTEE REPORT Risk Committee report Dear Shareholder I am pleased to present the Report of the Risk Committee the continue to give oversight, in conjunction with EFSLs Committee for 2017, updating you on the work undertaken by risk committee, on progress to develop and improve its the Committee since my last report for 2016.
We have continued regulatory processes and controls for the Group to review, refine, and develop our risk framework and the Groups this is ongoing and good progresss has been made to date.
We have also refined the categorisation of our Oversight will continue as part of the Committees remit: and risks and assessed them all to ensure effectiveness.
review the scope of the terms of reference of the Committee In our 2016 Report, we highlighted five objectives for 2017, to ensure that the document is fit for purpose with the and these have been addressed as follows: Groups evolving risk management continue to develop and refine the Groups risk appetite these were reviewed, amended and approved during and key risk indicators the year.
A copy of the terms of reference is available a risk management workshop was held in March 2017 to on the investor section of the Companys website: discuss this and we now have in place a defined and Board http: investors.
com investors shareholder-services approved risk appetite statement for all risk categories.
defined appetite will be subject to annual review in line with Further information on the activities of the Committee during the the other elements which form part of the risk management year, and on the Groups risk structures are provided in this report framework: and on pages 44 to 47 of the Principal Risks and Uncertainties follow up actions from the implementation of the section.
recalibrated risk framework and re-assessment of risks and additional actions identified to mitigate risks the risk assessment matrix was amended in early 2017 Sally-Ann Hibberd to ensure it reflected the current risk landscape and Chair of the Risk Committee risk management framework.
A new cloud-based risk management tool, details of which can be found on page 96, 6 March 2018 was introduced during the year and enforces the current assessment process and classification of risks.
The method for undertaking risk assessment and its mitigation will be reviewed on an annual basis.
continue to monitor progress in implementing changes being brought in by Markets In Financial Instruments and Derivatives II MIFID II, General Data Protection Regulations GDPR and European Union Data Protection Regulations EUDPR, as well as other regulatory and legislative changes the Committee received two presentations from the Groups Director of Change & Transformation updating it on the progress made in addressing the above legislative changes and the Committee will continue to review these during 2018: 92 SECTION 02 GOVERNANCE Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2017 GOVERNANCE REPORT RISK COMMITTEE REPORT MEMBERSHIP AND COMMITTEE ATTENDANCE ROLE OF THE RISK COMMITTEE The Committee is made up exclusively of independent nonSupported by the Company Secretary and the Chief Risk executive Directors, one of whom is also the Chair of the Audit Officer, the Committee provides experienced, competent and Committee, Darren Pope.
Biographies of the current Committee independent judgement when making recommendations to the members are set out on pages 66 to 67.
Board, to ensure that the Group establishes, implements and maintains effective, comprehensive and proportionate policies There were five Committee meetings during 2017 and the and processes to identify, manage, monitor and report the Directors attendance during that period was as follows: risks to which the Group is or might be exposed.
Its principal responsibilities are: Maximum Name Attended to advise the Board and the Audit Committee on the possible development of the Groups overall current and future risk Committee Chair: appetite, exposure, tolerance and strategy, taking into 5 5 Sally-Ann Hibberd account the current and forecast macroeconomic and financial environment: 1 Vicky Jarman 4 5 to assist the Board in overseeing the implementation of that 1 Dr Tim Miller 4 5 strategy by senior management: Darren Pope to assess the Groups risk management framework, principles, 5 5 policies, methodologies, systems, processes, procedures, 2 John Parker 3 3 people and risk culture: and to oversee the Enterprise-Wide Risk Management Framework 1 Vicky Jarman and Dr Tim Miller were unable to attend one meeting due to prior commitments.
The Committees terms of reference are available on 2 John Parker stood down from the Board and left the Company on the investor section of the Companys website: 30 September 2017.
He attended all of the meetings held during http: investors.
com investors shareholder-services his tenure in 2017. corporate-governance.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee and attends all meetings.
Other attendees include: Regular Attends as Attendee attendee required Chairman of the Board Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Chief Risk Officer Group Chief Information Security Officer Group Chief Audit Executive Director of Change & Transformation 93 GOVERNANCE REPORT RISK COMMITTEE REPORT Committee activities during 2017 The effectiveness of the Committee was reviewed as part of the Brexit internally facilitated evaluation of the Board and its Committees.
The impact of Brexit on the Group has been considered by The key activities were as follows: the Committee and the Group remains well capitalised and relatively insulated against changes resulting from Brexit.
Risk Appetite, Risk Management and Risk Reporting While Brexit could result in a more challenging operating At each meeting, the Committee receives a formal report from environment, there would not be an export risk, nor a principal the Chief Risk Officer.
This report brings to the Committees equity market risk, nor a principal currency risk for the Group.
attention key factors in the operating environment of the Accordingly, the Committee noted that Brexit was not a Groups businesses and an assessment of the potential risks specific risk, other than at macro level, and therefore would not that may emerge.
be a viability issue for the business.
In March 2017, the Committee Chair and members of the Information Security Committee attended a risk management workshop facilitated The Committee received two presentations from the Groups by the Chief Risk Officer and attended by the Groups senior Chief Information Security Officer covering information management.
The workshop reviewed and discussed the security, social engineering and internal threat tests.
Groups risk appetite, key risk indicators, a review of its risk categories and the risk toolkit for 2017.
The toolkit ranks risks Legislative Changes by their probability from rare to highly likely against their The Committee received two presentations from the Groups impact from minor to severe.
Director of Change & Transformation updating it on the The Committee reviews reports from the Groups compliance progress made in addressing MIFID II, GDPR and EUDPR.
of these topics is a major legislative change which will affect The Committee approved the Groups risk policies for the Groups business.
As such, the implementation of these recommendations to the Board.
changes requires a lot of detailed work, time and resource.
Reviewed the Groups risk management activities undertaken The Committee was satisfied that good progress had been by the divisions and at Group level, in order to identify, made during the year on preparing for the implementation of measure and assess the Groups principal risks.
these legislative changes, however it will continue to review the ongoing implementation of these changes during 2018.
Reviewed the reports arising from Internal Audits risk management process.
In addition, the Committee received training on the GDPR and the potential implications for the Groups business.
Monitored and assessed the Groups insurance arrangements.
Received a report from the Group Chief Information Security Officer on information security and managements approach to the threat of such attacks.
Policy Reviews The Committee reviewed routine updates to a number of policies during the year relating to fraud and risk management, including: Fraud Market Abuse for both directors and employees Politically Exposed Persons Sanctions risk Anti-Bribery Anti-Money Laundering Employee Leavers Payment Risk Business Continuity Management 94 SECTION 02 GOVERNANCE Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2017 GOVERNANCE REPORT RISK COMMITTEE REPORT Governance of Regulated Entities and Prudential Capital Risk RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROLS Two subsidiary companies are subject to FCA regulatory capital Our Enterprise-Wide Risk Management Framework requirements where they must maintain minimum levels of capital As the Group grows, either organically or through acquisitions, in order to manage their affairs.
the complexity of the business increases and the risk landscape The first such subsidiary company is Equiniti Financial Services changes.
The Groups Enterprise-Wide Risk Management Limited EFSL and which is the Groups most significant FCA EWRM Framework is a stable platform from which the Group regulated entity.
EFSL is categorised as a P2 prudentially can assess, prioritise and mitigate this changing risk landscape.
significant firm, which means that its disorderly failure would While the Board has ultimate responsibility for the system of risk have a significant impact on the functioning of the market in management and internal control, it delegates responsibility for which it operates.
It must ensure that it can meet its regulatory overseeing and directing the EWRM Frameworks development capital requirements and has sufficient liquidity to meet its to the Risk Committee.
The Chief Risk Officer oversees the risk liabilities as they fall due, including under potentially highly management system as a whole and, together with the Group stressed circumstances.
It must also comply with a range of other Chief Audit Executive, ensures that all parts of the business, with regulatory obligations, such as the FCAs conduct of business regards to compliance monitoring and internal audit reviews, are rules and the need for periodic regulatory supervisory visits.
To help it meet these requirements, EFSL has its own governance The EWRM Framework is defined by the Group Risk structure.
This includes a Board with an independent chair, Management Policy, and is based on the following model: who also chairs EFSLs Audit Committee.
One of the Groups 1 : The managing directors of each of our businesses our risk independent non-executive Directors, Dr Tim Miller, is also leaders are responsible for proactive risk identification and a non-executive Director of EFSL and chairs the EFSL Risk application of systems and controls in line with the EWRM Committee.
Our risk leaders attend quarterly Executive Risk EFSL has monthly Board meetings and quarterly Risk and Audit & Compliance Committee ERCC meetings chaired by the Committee meetings, with its Remuneration and Nomination Chief Financial Officer and attended by the Chief Executive, Committees meeting biannually.
EFSLs Risk Committee reviews the Chief Risk Officer and the Group Chief Audit Executive.
and challenges the Companys risk assessment and log, which At these ERCC meetings, the EWRM Framework is reviewed flow up from its executive management and risk processes.
This to ensure that it remains effective: risks for each of the is reviewed by the Chief Risk Officer, to ensure risk management businesses are discussed with actions to mitigate these risks is consolidated across all of Equiniti.
approved: and any new potential risks raised and considered.
A detailed description of EFSLs risk management approach, If they are deemed to be risks, they are ranked from low to risk governance and risk appetite can be found in its Capital high in probability and impact so that they can be included Requirement Directive Pillar 3 disclosures, which are available within the EWRM Framework for ongoing tracking.
Members on our website at https: equiniti.
com about statutory-andof the ERCC are invited to attend Risk Committee meetings regulatory-reports 2016 04  where appropriate so that they can update the Committee on the effectiveness of the EWRM Framework and any changes The second such subsidiary company is Paymaster 1836 Limited that have occurred since the last meeting: and P1836L.
P1836L is categorised as a P3 prudentially nonsignificant firm, which means that its failure, even if disorderly, 2 : The Groups internal audit function reports directly into would be unlikely to have a significant impact on the market in the Audit Committee.
The function overseas the ongoing which it operates.
As a MiFID exempt firm, P1836L is not bound challenge of the design and operation of the EWRM to comply with the Capital Requirements Directive.
P1836L Framework to provide comfort that it is effective, but also to does, however, assess its capital requirements and is subject to raise any necessary remedial actions if required.
Equinitis EWRM and three lines of defence risk management Principal Risks & Uncertainties model.
For details of our Principal Risks and Uncertainties, please see pages 44 to 47.
These principal risks and uncertainties are linked to KPIs and the Remuneration Committee reviews those KPIs with the Chief Risk Officer when considering the remuneration and bonuses of the executive Directors and members of the Executive Committee.
95 GOVERNANCE REPORT RISK COMMITTEE REPORT FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT The Groups operations expose it to a variety of financial risks, including credit risk, liquidity risk and the effects of changes in interest rates on debt and cash balances.
The EWRM Framework seeks to limit the adverse effects on the Groups financial performance, by monitoring levels of cash and debt finance and the related financial impact.
The Groups principal financial instruments comprise sterling cash and bank deposits, a bank term loan and revolving credit facility, and a portfolio of interest rate swaps, together with trade debtors and trade creditors that arise directly from its operations.
Cash Flow Interest Rate Risk The Group is exposed to interest rate risk in three main respects and protected against this as outlined below: New risk floating rates are generally earned on client and corporate management tool balances, which are partially mitigated by interest rate derivatives which mature in July and August 2018 the mid-term risk of change in long-term interest rate swaps, through which income is earned in our SAYE share-plan products, is protected by notional fixed rate interest rate swap Equiniti implemented a risk management agreements: and tool during 2017 to support the roll expense relating to our bank debt term loan.
The variable rate out and embedding of a devolved on our 250m term facility is fixed by an interest rate swap, Enterprise-Wide Risk Management which expires in October 2018.
We have not hedged the revolving credit facility as this is a flexible instrument and the Framework.
The tool is a cloud-based drawn proportion of the facility is offset by cash we hold for solution which has been tailored to day to day trading matters.
Credit Risk Risks are inputted and maintained by risk leaders who sit Credit risk is the risk of financial loss if a customer or counterparty in the first line of defence across the whole business.
It to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations brings together reporting on risk mitigation activity, allowing to the Group.
The Groups principal financial assets are bank monitoring of actions to ensure they are on track, in addition deposits, cash and trade debtors.
These represent our maximum to oversight of those accepted risks which are outside the exposure to credit risk in relation to financial assets.
risk appetite but where no mitigation is taking place.
We have strict controls around, and regularly monitor, the credit Centralising risk information on the tool has provided more ratings of institutions with which we enter transactions, either on transparency, consistency and improved the efficiency of our own behalf or for clients.
Although our credit risk arises mainly reporting.
Hours of manual re-work performed by both from our receivables from clients, this risk is not significant because the central risk function and the risk leaders in the first it is spread across a large and diverse client base and the majority line of defence have been eliminated, allowing more time of our trade receivables are with FTSE 350 companies and public to be spent coaching risk leaders and challenging risks sector organisations.
The amounts presented in the consolidated and assessments to improve understanding and decision financial statements of financial position are net of allowances making.
The ease of automated reporting has not only for doubtful debts, which are estimated by management based saved time, but provided improved support for governance on prior experience and an assessment of the current economic processes both centrally within the Group and at a local environment.
Losses have only occurred infrequently in previous business unit level.
years and have never been material.
Foreign Currency Risk There is some exposure to foreign currency risk, particularly in relation to the Groups Indian based operations, this risk is hedged on a rolling basis.
Pursuant to the acquisition of the WFSS business in February 2018, the Group will review both its exposure to and management of foreign currency risk for its US business.
96 SECTION 02 GOVERNANCE Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2017 GOVERNANCE REPORT RISK COMMITTEE REPORT Price Risk During the three year period covered by the business plan we Price risks result from changes in market prices such as interest expect to remain compliant with all covenants.
As such, the rates, foreign exchange rates and equity dealing prices, which Board is satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to influence our income or the value of our financial instruments.
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the going concern basis has been adopted in the The Groups financial instruments are mainly in sterling, so preparation of these accounts.
foreign exchange movements do not have a material effect on our performance.
We do not hold positions in traded securities 2018 OBJECTIVES and are only involved in receiving and transmitting transactions For 2018, the Committees objectives are to: on behalf of clients.
continue to oversee the implementation and embedding of The Group earns income in relation to client and investor the Enterprise-wide Risk Management Framework within the deposits, as well as interest on its own deposits.
We are Group: therefore exposed to movements in the interest rate in both our continue to monitor progress made in implementing changes intermediary fee revenue and net finance costs.
Intermediary brought in by MiFID II, GDPR and EUDPR, as well as other fee revenue is linked to the bank base rate, while both our term relevant regulatory and legislative changes: facility and revolving credit facility are linked to Libor.
review the time allocated to Committee meetings to ensure As noted above, interest swaps are used to manage medium that sufficient time is provided to cover all matters under term exposure to movements in interest rates.
review: As detailed above, in 2015 Equiniti entered into interest rate swaps for a total of 650m, agreeing to receive fixed rate income review the risk skills and experience within the risk and in exchange for variable rates for a period of three years to July compliance functions and the business divisions: and and August 2018. review the embedding of the WFSS business into the Group We continually review these risks and identify suitable and consider any risks that potentially may arise as a result.
CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT During the IPO in 2015, funds were raised to reduce the overall level of debt.
Our objectives when managing capital are to maximise shareholder value while safeguarding our ability to continue as a going concern.
We continue to proactively manage our capital structure for example through debt repayment, share issuance and repurchase or management of dividend payments, while maintaining flexibility to take advantage of opportunities to grow our business.
One element of our strategy is to make targeted, value-enhancing acquisitions.
The availability of suitable acquisitions, at acceptable prices is, however, unpredictable.
LIQUIDITY RISK AND GOING CONCERN Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will be unable to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
Our approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as is possible, that we will have sufficient liquidity at all times to meet the Groups liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions.
We have used our business plan as the basis for projecting cash flows and measured the resulting outcomes on cash availability and bank covenant test points for the next three years.
The Group has a very high level of client retention, which gives us a high degree of comfort about the certainty of our revenue.
Our principal uncertainties about our income relate to activities that are more difficult to predict, such as corporate action income.
These depend on the specific activities of corporate clients, the timing of which may be influenced by underlying market conditions.
