GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Audit Committee report Dear Shareholder On behalf of the Board I am pleased to present my first Audit During the year the Committee assessed the quality and Committee the Committee report, having recently succeeded effectiveness of the Internal Audit function and monitored Vicky Jarman who stood down as Chair of the Committee on the agreed 2017 internal audit plan and approved the 2018 1 November 2017.
I would like to thank Vicky for her excellent equivalent plan.
chairmanship since May 2014 and I am pleased to advise that she With regard to external audit, the Committee also reviewed remains as a member of the Committee.
quality and effectiveness during the year as well as independence I would also like to welcome Jaskamal Sarai as our new Senior and the level of non-audit work being undertaken by PwC.
Statutory Auditor from  LLP PwC, I would like to thank my fellow Committee members, Jaskamal our external Auditor.
Sarai and his team at PwC, the finance and internal audit teams The Committee has continued to focus on its key objectives of within the Group.
overseeing financial reporting, internal controls, whistleblowing and internal and external audit.
Darren Pope The Committee has continued to ensure that all externally Chair of the Audit Committee reported financial results remain fair, balanced and understandable, challenging both management and the external 6 March 2018 Auditor as necessary.
Given the introduction of a number of new International Financial COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP & ATTENDANCE Report Standards IFRS that are likely to impact the business in the near future, the Committee has spent time during the The Committee is made up exclusively of independent nonyear reviewing the planning for their implementation and executive Directors, one of whom is also the Chair of the Risk understanding what effect they will have on future financial Committee, Sally-Ann Hibberd.
Vicky Jarman stood down reporting, with IFRS 15 revenue from contracts with customers as Committee chair on 1 November 2017, but remains as being the most material of these.
Darren Pope was appointed as the new Committee chair.
Biographies of the current Committee As a relatively recently listed, FTSE 250, company responding members are set out on pages 66 to 67. to external scrutiny of our annual reporting is an expected, necessary and welcome part of the Committees work.
During There were four Committee meetings held during 2017 and the year the Corporate Reporting Team at the Financial the Committee members, together with a schedule of their Reporting Council which periodically reviews all listed company attendance at meetings during 2017, are shown below: annual reports wrote to the Company with some questions and observations on its 2016 Annual Report.
The useful observations Maximum Name Attended made, primarily on disclosures, have been incorporated possible in this 2017 Annual Report to further improve the reader's Committee Chair: understanding of the accounts.
4 4 Darren Pope The Committee has also continued to work closely with the Sally-Ann Hibberd Risk Committee to ensure that the business has a strong Risk 4 4 Framework supported by effective risk management processes.
Vicky Jarman 4 4 Members of this Committee also sit on the Risk Committee to facilitate this and ensure that the Board has an end-to-end view 1 Dr Tim Miller 3 4 of risks and internal control processes across all elements of the business.
1 Dr Miller could not attend one meeting due to prior commitments.
82 SECTION 02 GOVERNANCE Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2017 GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee and ROLE OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE attends all meetings.
Other attendees include: The Committee provides an independent overview of the effectiveness of the internal financial control systems and Regular Attends as financial reporting processes.
Its principal responsibilities are: Attendee attendee required reviewing and approving external financial reporting for adoption by the Board: Chairman of the Board monitoring the Groups financial statements, including annual Chief Executive and half year results and announcements and reporting to the Board on significant financial reporting issues and judgments: Chief Financial Officer reviewing the accounting principles, policies and practices Group Financial Controller adopted throughout the period: Group Chief Audit making recommendations to the Board on the appointment Executive of the external Auditor, including on effectiveness, independence, non-audit work undertaken against a formal Senior Statutory Auditor policy and remuneration: from PwC together with the Risk Committee, assisting the Board in achieving its obligations under the Code in areas of risk COMMITTEE DISCHARGE OF RESPONSIBILITIES, management and internal control, focusing particularly on SKILLS, EXPERIENCE & EVALUATION compliance with legal requirements, accounting standards and The Committee acts independently of management and reports the Listing Rules: and makes recommendations to the Board.
ensuring that an effective system of internal financial and nonThe Committee discharges its responsibilities through a series of financial controls is maintained: scheduled meetings each year, the agendas of which are linked to events in the financial calendar of the Company.
Reports approving, monitoring and annually reviewing a formal are commissioned from external advisers, the Group Chief whistleblowing policy whereby staff may confidentially disclose Audit Executive and management and these, together with the concerns about possible malpractice or wrongdoings by any of appropriate challenge that the Committee undertakes during the the Groups businesses or employees without fear of reprisal, scheduled meetings, have enabled the Committee members to and including arrangements to investigate and respond to any discharge their duties and responsibilities.
issues raised: and An evaluation of the Committee was undertaken including in conjunction with the Risk Committee, approving the an internal questionnaire amongst its members and those Groups systems and controls for the prevention of bribery stakeholders who work closely with the Committee.
The Board and corruption, including the receipt of any reports on nonconsiders that each Committee member has broad commercial compliance.
experience as a director and that each Committee member is financially literate with relevant sector experience.
As a qualified The Committees terms of reference are available on the investor accountant with over 30 years experience, most recently as section of the Companys website: http: investors.
CFO of TSB Bank plc, the Board considers that Darren Pope has significant, recent and relevant financial experience as required by the UK Corporate Governance Code.
In addition the review concluded that the Committee worked well together and robustly challenged management and the external Auditor where necessary.
The Committee will consider a broader programme of professional education during 2018.
Members of the Committee also sit on the Risk Committee to facilitate efficient cross communication between the two committees, which ensures that all risk and audit issues are addressed effectively.
83 GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES DURING 2017 The Committee met four times during 2017 and a summary of the key activities were as follows: INTERNAL CONTROL, FINANCIAL REPORTING RISK MANAGEMENT EXTERNAL AUDITOR WHISTLEBLOWING & ANTI BRIBERY AND INTERNAL AUDIT During 2017, the Committee has: During 2017, the Committee has: During 2017, the Committee: The Committee reviewed and approved the Whistleblowing reviewed the Groups full-year and half-yearly results for publication, and considered the significant accounting policies, critical reviewed the overall structure and approved the terms of engagement policy and, in conjunction with the accounting estimates and accounting judgements used in their preparation and the transparency and clarity of disclosures effectiveness of the Groups system of, the fees paid to and the scope Risk Committee approved their within them, and compliance with financial reporting standards and governance: of risk management and internal of work carried out by the external recommended changes to the control, and the disclosures made in Auditor: reviewed the matters which informed the Boards assessment that it was appropriate to prepare accounts on a going concern Anti-Bribery policy.
the Annual Report on this matter: basis: reviewed the non-audit fees services reviewed the reports arising from and related fees policy for the external reviewed the ongoing process for assessing the long term viability of the Company.
Both of these assessments were based the Internal Audit risk management Auditor: on the Groups capital, funding and strategic plans and included consideration of the principal and emerging risks that could process: impact on performance, including the risks associated with the acquisition of the WFSS business.
After appropriate challenge reviewed the performance and the Committee advised the Board that it was satisfied that the Company could continue to operate and meet its liabilities over a approved the annual Internal Audit effectiveness of the external Auditor in 12 month period and that it was satisfied that the business was viable and a three year period was suitable: plan, monitored progress against the respect of the previous financial year.
plan and any deviations to the plan For details of this review, please see received reports from management and the external Auditor on accounting, financial reporting regulation and taxation issues: were agreed: the Effectiveness and Independence reviewed reports from the external Auditor on its audit in respect of the full-year and review of the half-yearly results, prior to paragraph on page 88: considered reports on resourcing of them being signed on behalf of the Board: the Internal Audit function and made assessed the objectivity and recommendations as to increasing independence of the external Auditor.
reviewed and assessed the process by which the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole and including the use the frequency of some audits and For details of this review, please see of alternate performance measures, were fair, balanced and understandable and provided the information necessary for the size of the audit team: the Effectiveness and Independence shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy: paragraph on page 88: reviewed reports from the Chief Financial Officer and the external Auditor concerning the impact that the introduction of IFRS received a report from the Group 15 will have on the Group, and the work undertaken by the finance team to prepare for it.
IFRS 15 establishes the principles Financial Controller and Group received reports on the findings of the that a company applies when reporting information about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash Compliance on the annual fraud risk external Auditor during the half-yearly flows from a contract with a customer.
This is a particularly important standard for our business and so we will need to report assessment: review and annual audit, and reviewed on it in full in the 2018 Annual Report.
We have assessed the impact of IFRS 15 on the Group and, while important, have the recommendations made to approved annual updates to the concluded it is not likely to be material to our reporting, although further disclosure will be required under the new standard.
management by the external Auditor Internal Audit Charter: and Further information about this can be found in note 2.3 on page 150: and managements responses: met with the Group Chief Audit reviewed the initial assessment of the effect of IFRS 9 on the Group.
IFRS 9 is an international financial reporting standard reviewed letters of representation to Executive without management which specifies how a company should classify and measure financial assets, financial liabilities and some contracts to buy or the external Auditor: and present twice.
This IFRS is effective for annual reporting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2018.
However an met with the external Auditor without assessment has been undertaken as to what impact it may have on our business and this can be found on page 151: management present twice.
reviewed the work undertaken by the finance team on the introduction of IFRS 16.
This concerns the reporting of lease transactions and bringing leases onto the balance sheet.
IFRS 16 is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019, however work has started now to prepare for its implementation: reviewed and answered the letter received from the Financial Reporting Council FRC concerning the 2016 Annual Report: and overseen the incorporation of improvements agreed with the FRC concerning their observations on the 2016 Annual Report.
84 SECTION 02 GOVERNANCE Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2017 GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT INTERNAL CONTROL, FINANCIAL REPORTING RISK MANAGEMENT EXTERNAL AUDITOR WHISTLEBLOWING & ANTI BRIBERY AND INTERNAL AUDIT During 2017, the Committee has: During 2017, the Committee has: During 2017, the Committee: The Committee reviewed and approved the Whistleblowing reviewed the Groups full-year and half-yearly results for publication, and considered the significant accounting policies, critical reviewed the overall structure and approved the terms of engagement policy and, in conjunction with the accounting estimates and accounting judgements used in their preparation and the transparency and clarity of disclosures effectiveness of the Groups system of, the fees paid to and the scope Risk Committee approved their within them, and compliance with financial reporting standards and governance: of risk management and internal of work carried out by the external recommended changes to the control, and the disclosures made in Auditor: reviewed the matters which informed the Boards assessment that it was appropriate to prepare accounts on a going concern Anti-Bribery policy.
85 GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT SIGNIFICANT ISSUES RELATING TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In considering the financial results contained in the 2017 Annual Report, the Committee reviewed the significant issues and judgements made by management to determine those results and these are set out in the following table: AREA OF FOCUS WHY WAS THIS SIGNIFICANT HOW DID THE COMMITTEE ADDRESS THIS ISSUE Revenue The Group has entered into a number of complex Management presented the accounting recognition on revenue contracts.
These arrangements can judgement relating to material transactions that complex contracts include multiple elements and as a result revenue included multiple elements of delivery to the recognition in connection with these contracts can Committee.
Evidence was provided and discussed be complex and can involve a significant degree to support how these transactions aligned to of management judgement and may not be in the Groups accounting policy and accounting accordance with IAS 18 and the Groups stated standards: the Committee also discussed PwCs accounting policy for such items.
findings in relation to these transactions.
Other items The Group's results for the year ended 31 Management presented the accounting included in December 2017 include a number of items where judgement relating to material transactions revenue management have recorded accruals for revenue that included revenue recognised in advance of in advance of invoicing customers and involve a invoicing to the customers to the Committee.
degree of management judgement and estimate.
Evidence was provided and discussed to support how these transactions aligned to the Groups accounting policy and accounting standards: the Committee also discussed PwCs findings in relation to these transactions.
Classification of Management had initially proposed to classify The Committee discussed and agreed with exceptional items costs of 10.5m as exceptional items during the managements recommendation to move away year, a significant portion of which were in relation from reporting Exceptional items separately in the to the Group's acquisition of WFSS.
Management financial statements and to move to presenting subsequently recommended to move away from underlying earnings with a reconciliation to reporting exceptional items as such items can statutory earnings as an alternative performance involve a degree of management judgement and measure.
Management provided evidence to subjectivity.
support the view that underlying earnings best represent the ongoing results of the business and that reconciling items to statutory earnings were no recurring in nature.
86 SECTION 02 GOVERNANCE Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2017 GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT The Committee agrees the annual Internal Audit plan for the ACCOUNTING POLICIES year and confirms that Internal Audit has appropriate resources The Committee assessed whether suitable accounting policies available to it to complete that plan.
Following the external have been adopted in the preparation of the financial statements review by PwC of the Internal Audit function in 2015 and and whether management has made appropriate estimates appointment of the Group Chief Audit Executive in January 2016, and judgements.
In assessing the exercise of management Internal Audit has received further investment and strengthened judgements, the Audit Committee reviewed accounting papers its headcount and capability.
prepared by management and the external Auditor.
The effects of the new International Financial Reporting Standards that The Committee remains very focused on agreed audit actions are coming into effect on 1 January 2018 and 1 January 2019 being completed in a timely manner.
have been included in the Committees activities for the year as RISK MANAGEMENT & INTERNAL CONTROLS highlighted on page 84 and are also detailed on page 150.
The Audit Committee and the Risk Committee support the VIABILITY STATEMENT Board when considering the nature of the Groups risks, its risk The viability statement can be found on page 48.
The Committee management framework and its risk appetite.
Details of these are reviewed managements work in conducting a robust assessment included within the Risk Committee report which can be found of the business model, the risks that could threaten the model, on pages 92 to 97.
Details of the Groups principal risks and and the future viability of the Company.
This assessment included uncertainties can be found in the Strategic Report on pages assessing a reasonable time period for the review, reviewing 44 to 47. financial forecasts for that period, identifying severe but plausible The Committee has overall oversight of the Groups systems of scenarios for each of our principal risks, as well as considering financial controls, including their design, implementation and their interdependencies and scenarios involving multiple risks.
effectiveness and details of these controls can be found on To support the final conclusion on viability, the assessment also page 95. took into account the mitigations available to the Company to Having considered reports from Risk, Finance and Internal Audit protect against these downside scenarios and also the adequacy the Committee is satisfied that internal controls over financial of the internal audit control environment.
Based on this analysis, reporting and risk management systems were appropriately the Committee recommended to the Board that it could approve designed and operating effectively in all material respects.
and make the viability statement.
EXTERNAL AUDITOR INTERNAL AUDIT The Group has a dedicated in-house Internal Audit function which The Committee is responsible for overseeing the Groups is supported via a co-source arrangement with KPMG LLP who relationship with its external auditor, PwC.
provide additional specialist expertise when required.
Internal The Committee considers the nature, scope and results of PwCs Audit reports directly to the Committee Chair and in addition work and reviews, develops and implements the policy on the reports on an administrative basis to the Chief Financial Officer.
supply of any non-audit services that are to be provided by PwC.
The Committee receives and reviews reports from PwC relating Internal Audit principally review the design and effectiveness of to the Companys Annual Report & Accounts and the external governance, risk management and controls operating within the audit process.
business by undertaking an agreed schedule of independent audits each year.
The Committee determines the nature and Tenure scope of the annual internal audit programme which is derived During 2016, the Committee undertook a full tender of from an audit universe including financial and commercial the Companys external audit services following which the processes, governance considerations and key corporate risks recommendation to approve the reappointment of PwC as and revises it from time to time, in response to changes to external Auditor was approved by the Board and subsequently business circumstances and risk profile.
by shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
2017 was the first year for The findings of the internal audits are reported to executive Jaskamal Sarai as the Companys Senior Statutory Auditor.
management, and any necessary corrective actions are agreed Following a review of PwCs effectiveness and independence see and tracked.
Summaries of these reports are presented to, and page 88 the Committee recommended PwCs re-appointment discussed with, the Committee, along with details of progress as external Auditor to the Board.
This recommendation against management action plans as appropriate.
was approved by the Board and a resolution will be put to shareholders at the AGM to be held in May 2018.
87 GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Effectiveness and Independence During the year, an assessment of the quality and effectiveness of The Committee noted as part of the review that the new Senior the external audit process was undertaken.
The primary purpose Statutory Auditor brought a stronger sector and listed company of the assessment was to gain assurance that the external Auditor experience which was valuable as the business continued to had conducted a comprehensive, appropriate and effective develop and mature.
The Committee also reviewed the external audit.
The broad areas of the assessment are shown in the table Auditors objectivity and independence and confirmed that below.
The observations from the assessment were presented sufficient procedures are in place to safeguard these.
Details of and discussed at a Committee meeting, with the Committee the Groups non-audit services policy are shown opposite.
concluding that the audit process was robust, challenging and appropriately targeted to focus on the key areas of audit risk.
AUDIT PLANNING KNOWLEDGE AND EXECUTION AND RESOURCES Team structure and leadership Strong understanding of the business demonstrated by the audit partner by the Senior Statutory Auditor Audit plan provides a framework Audit team have sufficient experience, & procedures to obtain sufficient technical & industry knowledge appropriate evidence effectively Continuity of audit team & efficiently EXTERNAL AUDITOR EFFECTIVENESS INDEPENDENCE ROLE OF AND OBJECTIVITY MANAGEMENT Auditor has strong internal quality Detailed questionning of the role control processes in place of management at both operating company and Group level Audit team is robust in dealing wth issues identified during the audit & Challenge of the Auditor's report clearly articulate rationale for reaching based upon management's own conclusions internal assessment 88 SECTION 02 GOVERNANCE Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2017 GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Non-audit Services Policy and Fees FINANCIAL REPORTING COUNCIL REVIEW OF 2016 While the insight gained as the Groups Auditor may sometimes ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS make it logical for the external Auditor to undertake work In mid-October 2017, the Corporate Reporting Review Team outside of the annual audit, the Committee recognises that from the FRC wrote to the Company concerning its 2016 the engagement of the external Auditor to provide non-audit Annual Report which the FRC had reviewed.
Such a review is services to the Group may impact on the external Auditors normal practice as the FRC reviews a number of annual reports independence.
Accordingly, the Group has established a policy which governs The FRC requested some additional clarification information the provision of any non-audit services.
The policy specifies on the following areas: services which cannot be carried out by the external Auditor a revenue accounting policies and their practical application, primarily activities which would involve the external Auditor taking up management responsibilities and sets the framework b information about the sensitivity of carrying amounts to within which non-audit work may be provided.
The policy states the methods, assumptions and estimates underlying their that the external Auditor will only be able to perform non-audit calculation, including the reasons for the sensitivity, or work in limited circumstances and where approved by the ranges of possible outcomes Committee.
c clarification on the application of the Companys accounting The Group paid 300,000 in audit and audit related fees, and policy for exceptional items 400,000 in non-audit related fees, for the financial year ended d clarification on the measurement basis used to determine 31 December 2017.
This work was primarily services performed in the provision for contingent consideration where businesses relation to the CASS audit of Equiniti Financial Services Limited are combined.
EFSL and the Groups rights issue.
The CASS audit of EFSL is The Committee, together with management, reviewed required by Financial Conduct Authority FCA to provide them the letter and the Company formally responded with the with assurance on client assets.
Under the guidance issued by information requested.
the FCA, the auditor undertaking a CASS audit should obtain an understanding of the firms business model that is sufficient Following the comments made by the FRC, and a continuous to enable the CASS auditor to establish expectations about the effort to improve our financial reporting, we have enhanced existence or otherwise of client assets, including: and improved various disclosures related to the areas noted above in our 2017 Annual Report and Accounts.
the nature of the services it provides to clients: We acknowledge that the FRCs review is based on the how it is remunerated for those services and other ancillary Groups 2016 Annual Report and the FRC does not benefit services: from detailed knowledge of our business or an understanding the nature of any transactions which it undertakes with or on of the underlying transactions entered into.
The FRCs review behalf of, or facilitates or advises on, for clients and how those provides no assurance that the 2016 Annual Report is correct transactions are executed or settled: in all material respects.
the nature of relationships within a group and with other The enquiry is now formally closed.
related parties: WHISTLEBLOWING AND ANTI-BRIBERY the sources and destinations of cash and other asset inflows The Group is committed to the highest standards of quality, and outflows in its own accounts and any accounts it holds or honesty, openness and accountability.
controls on behalf of clients and other parties: and Accordingly, the Group has anti-bribery and corruption risk the role of sub-custodians and third party administrators.
Employees and contingent workers are trained online about the policies as part of their induction process when Given that PwC are EFSLs auditors and had the knowledge joining the Group.
The anti-bribery policy prohibits the offering, required by the FCA to undertake the CASS audit, it was logical soliciting or accepting of any bribe or corrupt inducement, for them to undertake this work.
Had another audit firm been unorthodox or unauthorised payment or inducement of any kind brought in to do the work, the fees would potentially have been to anyone to perform improperly, whether in cash or in any other much higher as that firm would have had to spend more time on form: the audit as they gained the required knowledge.
To or from any person or company wherever located, The Group has committed to reducing the ratio of audit to nonwhether a public official or public body, or a private person or audit fees to a maximum of 70% of the average statutory audit company: by fee.
For further information on how the fees are broken down between the CASS audit and rights issue, please see note 7.4 on Any individual employee, director, agent, consultant, page 178. contractor, or other person or body acting on the Groups behalf: in order to Gain any commercial, contractual or regulatory advantage for the Group, in any way which is unethical or to gain any personal advantage, pecuniary or otherwise, for the individual or anyone connected with the individual.
89 GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT The Corruption policy covers the various anti-money laundering FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE regulations that the Group has to comply with and ensures that The Board is committed to ensuring that all external financial employees are trained and made aware of their responsibilities reporting presents a fair, balanced and understandable under these regulations.
assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
In line with provision C. 1 of the Code, the Committee has been requested The anti-bribery and corruption risk policies were updated during by the Board to consider whether it supports the view that the the year and, together with the Risk Committee, the Committee Companys Annual Report and Accounts, when taken as a whole, reviewed and approved the updates prior to the revised policies is fair, balanced and understandable and, further, that it provides being communicated to employees.
shareholders the information necessary to assess the Companys The Group is required to provide a means for staff to raise position and performance, business model and strategy.
concerns, in confidence, about possible legal, regulatory or other In forming its view, the Committee has considered the processes improprieties in matters of financial reporting and other areas undertaken to prepare for, and produce, the Annual Report and the Groups Whistleblowing policy.
All concerns are investigated how consideration was given for each of the fair, balanced and carefully, and thoroughly, to assess what action, if any, should be understandable criteria in the compilation of the narrative and taken.
As part of their induction process, new employees and presentation of the numbers, themes and highlights.
To support contingent workers are trained online about the policy.
this, the Committee received a detailed briefing note as an The Groups Whistleblowing policy was reviewed during the year by integral part of the Annual Report sign off process, which set out the Committee.
Resulting from the review, the Committee approved how this had been achieved by the internal teams who prepared the introduction of a Safe Call facility, managed by an independent the report.
Furthermore the Committee received briefings and third party, to enhance the policy for the Groups employees in updates during the course of the year, appraising them of the the UK and India.
Otherwise, the Committee was satisfied that the Code requirements and business performance.
The Committee Whistleblowing process operated in an effective manner.
was presented with a draft of the 2017 Annual Report with Copies of the policies have been uploaded to the Groups sufficient time to review, challenge and provide feedback.
intranet so that they can be referred to at any time.
The briefing note: STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE Explained how the process of preparing and compiling the Having tendered the audit in 2016, the Company confirms report was collaborated across the businesss internal teams that it has complied with the terms of The Statutory Audit Investor Relations, Finance, HR and Company Secretariat Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory and also involved specialist advisors with the requisite skills to Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee structure and review the 2017 Annual Report: Responsibilities Order 2014 the Order throughout the year.
Explained how the 2017 Annual Report was designed to be In addition to requiring mandatory audit re-tendering at least understandable, with consistent presentation of key messages every ten years for FTSE350 companies, the Order provides that throughout the report.
In arriving at their conclusion the only the Audit Committee, acting collectively or through its Chair, Committee also noted that internal reporting aligned to the and for and on behalf of the Board is permitted: KPIs, key financial measures and narrative themes as presented to the extent permissible in law and regulation, to negotiate in the 2017 Annual Report: and agree the statutory audit fee and the scope of the Allowed the Committee to ensure a fair picture was presented statutory audit: by drawing out the key judgements formed in preparing the accounts and where any challenges lay: and to initiate and supervise a competitive tender process: to make recommendations to the Directors as to the auditor Demonstrated that the 2017 Annual Report was put together appointment pursuant to a competitive tender process: in a balanced manner, with the narrative aligning to the business model, strategy and financial performance.
This was to influence the appointment of the audit engagement achieved through our business leaders reviewing and signing partner: and off on the content.
to authorise an auditor to provide any non-audit services to The Committee therefore concluded that the 2017 Annual the Group, prior to the commencement of those non-audit Report and Accounts are presented in a fair, balanced and services.
understandable manner, allowing shareholders to assess the Groups performance, strategy, risk and business as a whole.
90 SECTION 02 GOVERNANCE Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2017 GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT 91
