Corporate governance Nomination Committee report The Committee notes that it is not compliant with Code provision B.
2.1 but considers that because the Group has a Controlling Shareholder, its composition reflects the need for independent oversight whilst recognising the shareholder base.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website at www.
com Committee members attendance during the year ended 31 December 2017 Sten Mortstedt Chairman 3 3 Anna Seeley 3 3 Elizabeth Edwards 3 3 Sten Mortstedt, Executive Director Lennart Sten 3 3 andChairman of the Nomination Committee Composition and size of the Board Composition of the Board Dear Shareholder The Nomination Committee was established in May 2016 and is responsible for ensuring that the Board comprises individuals with the most appropriate balance of experience, skills and knowledge to help develop and support the Company strategy.
The Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the nomination, selection and succession of directors and senior executives.
Independent The Committee discusses how this Non-Executive 4 overarchingprinciple: Non-independent Non-Executive 2 links the Companys strategy to future changes Executive 4 on the Board evaluates Board effectiveness, the performance The Committee noted the feedback from of individual directors and how the results shareholders on the size and composition of the affectthe rest of the Boards work Board.
During the year it reviewed these aspects ensures a comprehensive induction, training together with the existing experience of the Board.
andcontinuing development of directors Following changes to the balance of risk within oversees the executive pipeline and talent the development pipeline and the refocussing of development the portfolio, a number of changes were made to the Board which reduced both its size and the Membership of the Committee representation of the Controlling Shareholder.
The Committees membership remains unchanged, and comprises two independent The independence of both Mr Cooper and Non-Executive Directors and two Non-Executive Mr Jarvis, having served for over 9 years, is Directors.
The Company Secretary acts as regularly reviewed by the Committee.
Upon secretary to the Committee.
recommendation to the Board, it concluded that they remain independent in character and judgement such that there are no relationships or 54 CLS Holdings plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements | Additional information CLS Holdings plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 circumstances which would affect, or could appear to consider whenever changes to the Boards to affect, their judgement.
The Board considered composition are considered.
that their contribution in Board meetings, time commitment and other significant roles outside The Committee has noted the recommendation ofCLS warrant this conclusion.
in the Hampton-Alexander Review for a new voluntary target of one-third of all Board members Succession planning in FTSE 350 companies by 2020 to be women and While talent development remains primarily the the wider diversity targets proposed in the Parker responsibility of management, we have a duty to Review.
Our recruitment decisions throughout secure the long-term success of the Group.
The the organisation are driven by the need to ensure Committee received updates from the Executive the longer-term success of the Company, by Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in relation appointing the person that most closely fulfils the to succession planning, both at Board and senior requirements for the position, regardless of their executive level to ensure there is a good quality background or gender.
pipeline in place and to challenge what the executive management team is doing to enhance the pipeline.
External Board evaluation process The Committee notes the positive outcomes of Diversity the recent external Board evaluation process, and The Boards policy is that the selection of new will address the need for further discussion and Board members should be based on the best communication in relation succession planning person for the role and to ensure its composition during 2018. has an appropriate balance of skills and diversity to meet the requirements of the business.
Whilst Performance of the Committee the Nomination Committee continues not to set The Nomination Committee undertakes a review specific representation targets for women at of its performance each year.
During 2017 the Board level currently 20%, on recruitment, our Committees review was externally facilitated and policy is that we expect our search consultants found that the Committee performed effectively, to ensure, where possible, there is a diverse see page 49 for further details.
We consider this to mean more than just gender, but also ethnically diverse On behalf of the Board candidates: a policy that we encourage throughout the Group when recruiting.
We recognise that there Sten Mortstedt are significant benefits of diversity, including age, Chairman gender, core skills, experience and educational Nomination Committee and professional background, which we continue 7 March 2018 Nomination Committee at a glance Committee objectives What we have done Committee focus Review size, structure and Reduced the size of the Board Increased communication with composition of the Board.
and enhanced experience theBoard on succession planning.
commensurate with the Groups Consider succession planning for Monitoring of the correct skills and strategy and refocus of the directors and other senior managers.
balance of experience of the Board.
Review leadership needs of Ensuring diversity agenda is Received updates from the executive theorganisation.
addressed when making Board team on succession planning.
Responsibility for Identifying and Noted the need to ensure greater nominating suitable candidates diversity in Board appointments.
forthe approval of the Board.
Reviewed and recommended to the Board the continuing independence of Mr Cooper and Mr Jarvis.
