DIRECTORS REPORT Directors Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 69 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance The Board The role of the Board Key matters reserved to the Board The Board is ultimately responsible to shareholders for The Groups long-term objectives, strategy and the direction, management, performance and long-term risk appetite success of the Company.
It sets the Groups strategy and The Groups organisation and capability objectives and oversees and monitors internal controls, risk management, principal risks, governance and viability Shareholder engagement and general meetings of the Company.
In doing so, the Directors comply with their duties under section 172 Companies Act 2006.
Overall corporate governance arrangements including Board and committee composition, committee terms The Board has established certain principal committees of reference, Directors independence and conflicts to assist it in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities, providing of interest dedicated focus on particular areas, as set out below.
Each committee chairman reports to the Board on the Internal controls, governance and risk management committees activities after each committee meeting.
frameworks In addition to the Boards principal committees, it has Changes to the corporate or capital structure established a sub-committee of Directors who each of the Company hold an appropriate level of UK national security clearance Annual report and accounts, and financial and for the purpose of receiving and considering, on behalf regulatory announcements of the Board, any UK classified information relating to the Groups programmes and activities.
Beverly Goulet, Significant changes in accounting policies or practices a US national and independent Non-Executive Director, also Annual budgets and financial expenditure and sits on the board of Rolls-Royce North America Holdings, commitments above levels set by the Board Inc. to create a link between the Board and the Groups North American governance structure.
Remuneration policy and remuneration of Directors and senior executives The Board committees Nominations & Audit Remuneration Safety & Ethics Science & Technology Governance Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Board & committee composition Financial reporting Remuneration policy Product safety Technology strategy Board nominations Internal controls & Incentive design and setting HSE Cross-sector technology risk management of targets Succession planning Sustainability Technology capabilities and skills Internal audit Executive remuneration review Corporate governance Ethics & compliance Technology trends and risks External auditor Oversight of principal risk Oversight of principal risks Oversight of principal risk talent & capability Oversight of principal risks compliance, product safety disruptive technologies IT vulnerability, business continuity, & business models market & financial shock Executive leadership team ELT Matters that are not reserved to shareholders, the Board or one of the Board committees are the responsibility of the Chief Executive who has established and maintains a schedule of delegations of authority to members of the ELT and other management.
The ELT is an executive-level forum of the Groups most senior leaders, chaired by the Chief Executive.
It comes together to communicate, review and agree on issues and actions of Group-wide significance.
It helps to develop, implement and monitor strategic and operational plans, considers the continuing applicability, appropriateness and impact of risks, leads the Groups culture and aids the decision-making of the Chief Executive in managing the business in the performance of his duties.
com for details of the ELT members.
Directors Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 70 Corporate Governance Board and committee meetings held in 2017 ST ST ST SE ST SE SE R R SE R R A R A A R A A R NG NG SE NG ST NG NG SE NG NG ST B B B B B B B B B B B January February March April May June July August September October November December Key R B Remuneration Committee R SE ST Denotes unscheduled meeting Board NG Nominations & Governance Committee SE Safety & Ethics Committee A ST Science & Technology Committee Audit Committee Unscheduled meetings Non-attendance The unscheduled meetings of the Remuneration Committee in Some Board members were unable to participate in certain Board January and March were to discuss 2017 bonus plan targets.
and Committee meetings due to these being held on short notice or for medical reasons, as noted in the table below.
If any Directors Two additional Science & Technology Committee calls were held, are unable to attend a meeting they communicate their opinions the first in June for the Committee to debrief on the site visits that and comments on the matters to be considered via the Chairman took place in May, and the second in August to help shape the of the Board or the relevant committee chairman.
technology strategy presentation for the Board strategy meeting.
The unscheduled meeting of the Safety & Ethics Committee in July was to receive an update on the latest discussions and developments with certain regulators following the DPAs.
Board and committee members and attendance at meetings in 2017 Nominations & Safety & Science & Board Governance Audit Remuneration Ethics Technology 11 meetings 7 meetings 5 meetings 7 meetings 6 meetings 6 meetings Ian Davis 11 11 7 7 Warren East 11 11 Stephen Daintith appointed 7 April 2017 8 8 1 Lewis Booth 11 11 7 7 5 5 5 5 1 1 Ruth Cairnie 11 11 7 7 7 7 6 6 2 Sir Frank Chapman 10 11 6 7 6 7 5 6 Irene Dorner 11 11 7 7 5 5 6 6 Beverly Goulet appointed 3 July 2017 5 5 4 4 3 3 3 Lee Hsien Yang 10 11 7 7 5 5 6 6 Brad Singer 11 11 6 6 4 Sir Kevin Smith 10 11 6 7 6 7 6 6 5 Jasmin Staiblin 11 11 7 7 5 6 Former Directors David Smith stepped down on 24 February 2017 2 2 Colin Smith stepped down on 4 May 2017 5 5 John McAdam stepped down on 4 May 2017 5 5 3 3 4 4 2 2 1 Lewis Booth was appointed to the Remuneration Committee and stepped down from the Science & Technology Committee in April 2017.
2 Sir F rank Chapman was unable to attend the Safety & Ethics Committee in April due to unforeseen circumstances and the May meetings of the Board and committees due to medical reasons.
3 Lee Hsien Yang was unable to attend the June Board meeting due to unforeseen urgent personal matters.
4 Sir Kevin Smith was unable to attend the November meetings of the Board and committees due to medical reasons.
5 Jasmin Staiblin was unable to attend the unscheduled meeting of the Science & Technology Committee in August due to prior commitments and this being arranged on short notice.
DIRECTORS REPORT Directors Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 71 Corporate Governance Boards focus during the year Area of focus Matters considered Outcome Review and refresh the Groups vision The Board approved the refreshed vision and strategy for the Strategy and risk and strategy Group, rolled out internally and externally from early 2018.
The Board held an all-day meeting with the ELT focused on the Groups overarching strategy, including discussions on all areas of the business and people capability.
The Board provided reflections on the day at the subsequent Board meeting.
Feedback and content of discussions were shared with the ELT and businesses.
Review of principal risks, including The ongoing review of risks resulted in changes to principal risks in deep dives on: the year.
The product failure risk was redefined as product safety.
political risk: The description of the disruptive technologies and business models competitive position: and and business continuity principal risks were updated to reflect the major product programme delivery TCFD recommendations see page 60.
The Board confirmed that the management of risks remained effective.
Lord Powell, after obtaining input from other members of the international advisory board IAB, presented on political risk in March 2017, including: the implications of Brexit: potential military conflicts: and current geo-political factors for the Group.
The Board considered the Group's competitive position as part of its strategy sessions in September, and separately reviewed the competitive positions of Power Systems and Marine.
The Board reviewed the risks to delivery of Civil Aerospace widebody engine programmes periodically throughout the year with a detailed review of Trent 900 and Trent XWB business plan performance in December, leading into a detailed review of Trent 1000 business plan in 2018.
Ongoing cooperation with regulators The Board kept oversight of compliance with the DPAs.
following deferred prosecution Lord Gold provided an update on his continuing areas agreements DPAs of focus to the Board in March 2017.
Diversity and inclusion There is a continuing focus to increase diversity throughout the Succession and leadership Group.
The Board diversity policy was presented in November and approved in December 2017.
The Board confirmed its support for the Groups updated diversity and inclusion policies and the introduction of Group targets to increase the percentage of roles held by women and other under-represented groups across the Group.
During 2017, a number of significant projects were completed and key milestones reached.
See page 47 for more details.
Effectiveness of the Board, Chairman An external evaluation was undertaken and it concluded that the and Chief Executive Board operated effectively in 2017.
The Chairman and Chief Executive received constructive feedback on their respective performance.
Review of financial KPIs The Board obtained monthly financial performance reports Financial performance and discussed the reports with the Chief Financial Officer at each Board meeting.
Group tax policy review The Board noted that new UK tax rules would require the Group to publish its tax strategy on the website during 2017.
The Board approved and endorsed the approach.
Aquisition of ITP Aero Progress updates received.
A sub-committee of the Board was set up to make decisions on the settlement of consideration for ITP Aero.
New accounting standards IFRS 15 Updates provided throughout the year, giving the Board reporting impact oversight on progress, introduction and the impact of IFRS 15.
1 It w as agreed in the year to disband the IAB but some former members, including Lord Powell, have been retained by the Company as advisers on geo-political issues.
Directors Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 72 Corporate Governance Area of focus Matters considered Outcome Operational performance updates Year-to-date status across key operational performance measures Operational performance and key priorities presented throughout the year.
The operational challenges KPIs for each business were also discussed.
Civil Aerospace programme challenges, There were some operational challenges during the year as including new product introduction described in the Civil Aerospace review on pages 20 to 25.
The Board remained regularly informed on the management of these issues, including steps to minimise customer disruption, and received briefings from the Chief Executive and President Civil Aerospace on the latest developments and status of programmes.
Safety incidents The Board were briefed on the two employee fatalities during the year more detail can be found on pages 46 and 107 and on plans to increase the focus on HSE across the Group.
Investor engagement Increased transparency in investor briefings.
The governance Stakeholder engagement event in March 2017 was successful with good engagement from and governance fund managers and governance analysts.
Stakeholder engagement The Board received training from the Company Secretary on s. 172 of the Companies Act 2006 which included a discussion around the Groups key stakeholders and a review of how the Board currently discharges this duty.
The Board held the first successful Meet the Board event for employees in May 2017.
Updates were given by Irene Dorner on her employee champion role and meetings events she had attended.
Governments green paper on corporate The Board were kept up-to-date on the proposed changes to governance reform and FRCs proposed the governance landscape.
An assessment of the Companys revisions to the UK Corporate position and status against each recommendation was presented Governance Code in November and the Companys response to the FRC on the proposed changes was outlined in February 2018.
Matters reserved to the Board and The Board confirmed these remained appropriate.
delegated authorities UK Modern Slavery Act revisions The anti-slavery and human trafficking statement was presented and approved by the Board early in 2017, and again in February 2018.
UK gender pay gap reporting Kept up-to-date on the Companys plan to report the required gender pay gap data for UK legal entities published on our website and on the UK Government website.
The Boards areas of focus in 2018 are expected to include: The Groups vision, values and culture Continuing to monitor compliance with the terms of the DPAs Execution of strategic priorities The implications of Brexit on the Groups activities Overview of the restructuring of the businesses, support and Principal risk reviews management functions Cyber security updates Strategic review of commercial marine operations Stakeholder engagement programme Monitoring management of Trent 1000 and Trent 900 in-service issues towards resolution Updates on the developments and changes to the corporate governance landscape and the UK Corporate Governance Code Civil Aerospace programme delivery ramp-up Sustainability Continued monitoring of financial and operational performance Strong focus on safety and regular reviews of safety activities DIRECTORS REPORT Directors Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 73 Corporate Governance Stakeholder engagement Stakeholder engagement remains vital to building a sustainable business.
This year, the Company took a significant step towards increasing stakeholder engagement with our two key employee engagement initiatives.
The Board wanted to continue an honest and direct dialogue with our employees following the DPAs.
The creation of the role of employee champion and our first Meet the Board event, detailed below, helped to strengthen the link between employees and the Board and ensure employee views can be taken into account as part of the Boards decision-making.
As part of training provided by the Company Secretary, the Board discussed the Companys key stakeholders, reviewed how we currently discharge the duty to promote the success of the Company and discussed what more could be done to help foster stakeholder relationships.
The Board will continue to focus on stakeholder engagement more widely over the next year, with a focus on starting to build a comprehensive stakeholder engagement programme.
MEET THE BOARD EVENT Employees In May 2017, following our AGM in Derby, we held our first Employee champion Meet the Board event for employees.
Our entire UK workforce, In early 2017, one of our Non-Executive Directors Irene Dorner as well as visiting employees from overseas, were invited to apply became our first Board champion for employee engagement, for one of the 350 places available and participants were our employee champion, taking the lead in looking at how the selected on a ballot.
All Group employees were invited to submit Company could strengthen the links between the Board and questions in advance of the event.
The meeting was recorded employees and bring those insights back to the boardroom.
so it could be watched after the event had taken place by those In April 2017, she was introduced to all employees by a Group-wide employees unable to attend in person.
communication and personally introduced at our Meet the Board The meeting started with a welcome from the Chairman.
Dorner then spoke about her role as employee champion and Irene has attended many events so far, including a European Works Warren East provided a brief business update on 2016.
The Council meeting in London, hosted a diversity and inclusion event main focus of the meeting was a question and answer session.
in Bristol, met graduates and apprentices at Barnoldswick and The quality of questions was excellent and generated a lively Derby, and has participated in a live online interactive session debate that covered a broad range of topics including with employees.
diversity, behaviour, our strategy, future focus for the Group and each Board members top priority.
After the meeting, the At the end of 2017, a communication video from Irene was made Board joined attendees in the main reception area and this available to all employees updating them on her role and insights was another great opportunity for interaction.
We will continue communications in 2018 to ensure employees are aware of the activities Irene is taking part in.
The objective was for employees to gain a better understanding of the Boards role and to start a conversation that will lead to As part of her role, Irene updated the Nominations & Governance a stronger, more open and collaborative culture.
The event was Committee and the Board on her views and insights and she will a huge success and based on some helpful feedback, we have continue to do so regularly.
This was always an experimental year, already identified changes that will make future meetings however, the new initiative has proved to be of great interest to even better.
all involved and we intend to continue this interaction.
One employee, interviewed immediately after the meeting You can read more about Irenes view on her new role in her said, It was really helpful to have the apparent barriers broken introduction on page 65. down that can sometimes exist between the Board and the people that work in the organisation.
I particularly enjoyed the openness, honesty and transparency.
In March 2018, we plan to hold a similar event in Friedrichshafen, Germany, and in May after the AGM in Derby, UK.
Directors Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 74 Corporate Governance On governance-related matters there was a very significant Shareholders consultation programme in advance of the remuneration policy The Board continues to value the importance of building strong vote at the AGM in May.
In addition, another well-attended investor relations, delivered through an active shareholder governance event was held in May, hosted by the Chairman.
Since 2016, we have significantly Fund managers and governance analysts heard from the Chief enhanced disclosure and transparency through improved Executive on his strategic agenda and from the Board committee reporting, allied to proactive engagement and publications chairmen and had the opportunity to engage directly with them such as our periodic Investor Update newsletter.
This was one in small groups.
The lead audit partner from KPMG also attended of the Groups strategic priorities as set out on page 7. this event and answered questions.
Topics covered at the event In 2017, our engagement programme has focused on addressing included board composition, skillset and 2017 priorities, financial key elements of the investment case, and identifying both risks reporting, IFRS 15 and risk management, and the context and and opportunities to the business.
In particular, we have set out design of the new remuneration policy.
Materials from this event our focus on helping investors better understand the key drivers are available at www.
of cash across the businesses, together with the implementation The Chairman, Senior Independent Director and other members of IFRS 15, which will see a material change in the way the business of the Board make themselves available to meet with institutional reports its financial results.
In 2018, the Chairman and Senior During the year, an extensive investor engagement programme Independent Director have already attended governance meetings has been undertaken involving formal events, site visits, smaller with some of our largest institutional shareholders in London group and one-to-one investor meetings.
Many of these provide and Edinburgh.
the chance for institutional investors and equity analysts to meet We also published quarterly Investor Update newsletters senior executive management and ask more detailed questions throughout the year, which include commentary on the investor that can improve individual knowledge or clarify areas of relations calendar, key news flow and a Q&A section which misunderstanding.
We regularly monitor the Groups shareholder addresses investor issues that have been raised in recent base and ensure managements time is allocated appropriately discussions.
Feedback on this newsletter has been very positive.
with regard to current and potential shareholder interests.
As well as attending numerous investor conferences and roadshows Annual general meeting AGM in the UK, Europe and the US, we were also active at trade-related All holders of ordinary shares may attend the Companys AGM events such as the Paris Airshow and the defence trade show DSEI, at which the Chairman and Chief Executive present a review of allowing investors to hear from key business managers.
In total, the key business developments during the year.
over 400 one-to-one and group meetings took place in 2017, led by the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, the director of investor The AGM will be held on Thursday 3 May 2018 at Pride Park Stadium, relations or members of the investor relations team and supported Pride Park, Derby, DE24 8XL.
The notice of meeting notice for by other management.
the 2018 AGM will set out in full the resolutions for consideration by shareholders, together with explanatory notes and further information on the Directors standing for election and re-election.
The Company intends to send the notice and any relevant papers to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Notable events in 2017 Investor Investor Total CEO CFO conferences Update investor meetings and other events newsletters meetings 150 18 4 400 More information on investor events, presentations, updates and the notice can be found at: www.
com DIRECTORS REPORT Directors Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 75 Corporate Governance Board induction and development The Chairman and Company Secretary arrange a comprehensive Beverly Goulet was appointed to the Board in July 2017 and tailored induction programme for newly-appointed Non-Executive joined the Nominations & Governance and Audit Committees.
Directors, which includes dedicated time with Group executives and Since her appointment she has undertaken a thorough induction scheduled trips to business operations.
The programme is tailored and met with members of the ELT.
She was also briefed by the based on experience and background and the requirements of Company Secretary on UK listed company requirements, the UK the role.
All Directors visit the Groups main operating sites as part Corporate Governance Code and other key governance areas.
of their induction and are encouraged to make at least one visit Beverly has attended a number of site visits, including Bristol, to other sites each year throughout their tenure.
members visited locations including: Barnoldswick, Bristol and It is important that the Directors continue to develop and refresh Derby, UK: Friedrichshafen, Germany: and Reston, US.
We regard their understanding of the Groups activities.
To facilitate this, these site visits as an important part of continuing education as well the Board met local management and external stakeholders at as an essential part of the induction process.
They help Directors its meetings in Derby and Bristol, UK and they are encouraged understand the Groups activities through direct experience of to visit the Groups facilities around the world.
seeing processes in operation and by having discussions with a range of employees.
It is also important that the Directors regularly refresh and update their skills and knowledge and receive relevant training when necessary.
Members of the Board also attend relevant seminars, conferences and training events to keep up-to-date on developments in key areas.
Board induction programme for Beverly Goulet Timing People to meet Key topics covered Chairman Overview of the Board Within first month Chief Executive Business model Current strategic priorities Opportunities risks Current issues Chief Financial Officer Finance, treasury and tax overviews Budget Accounting issues Company Secretary UK Corporate Governance Code UK listed company requirements Directors duties Board administration and meeting dates ELT members Overview of each business Within first three months Markets and competition Operational and financial performance KPIs Current issues Committee chairmen Overview of committees Within first nine months Plan of work for the year Current issues Senior management, including director of Overview of specific business functional areas investor relations, director of internal audit and director of corporate affairs Auditors Audit report and findings Controls Accounting issues Directors Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 76 Corporate Governance Board effectiveness Board evaluation Stages of the Board effectiveness process This year Independent Audit Limited IAL was invited back to undertake another  effectiveness review, Briefing and following on from its yearly reviews since 2014.
IAL has not areas of focus provided any other services to the Company during the year.
identified The evaluation was consciously light touch compared to previous reviews and it was undertaken through a questionnaire-based 1 survey.
This was complemented by confidential one-to-one discussions between IAL and several members of the Board and management to help bring focus to the questions.
The review Priorities and Survey and covered four specific areas which had been identified as requiring action plan one-to-one 5 2 agreed discussions further development during last years review and the scope was with Board agreed with the Company Secretary after consultation with the members Chairman.
The four specific areas of focus were: Board dynamics: focus: information: and culture.
A review of the effectiveness of Board committees was undertaken 4 3 separately at the end of the year internally with the use of an effectiveness questionnaire.
A thorough review of the committees will form part of next years evaluation.
To provide a renewed Board discussion Results collated with Independent and evaluated perspective, next years evaluation will be undertaken by a new Audit Limited external provider and this will take place in the second half of 2018.
Good progress had been made since the last effectiveness review and the Board feels that it is working more effectively.
The Board The Nominations & Governance Committee also met without discussed the findings of the report in December.
any management present to discuss the performance of the At a private meeting of the Non-Executive Directors, Sir Kevin Chief Executive.
The meetings concluded that both the Chairman Smith, Senior Independent Director, led a review of the Chairmans and the Chief Executive continued to be effective and constructive performance without the Chairman present.
feedback was shared with each of them.
Progress on four key areas Areas of focus IALs findings in 2017 Focus for 2018 The dynamics of the Board have improved, with Maintaining an open tone between the Board dynamics good all-round commitment from Board members, Non-Executive Directors and management a good mix of styles, a constructive approach and to encourage constructive discussions on wide participation in meetings.
and active collaboration has meant liaison across Responsibility: Chairman committees is working well.
Considerable progress has been made in setting a Continue to oversee the execution of the Groups Focus clear strategic direction and getting the right senior strategic priorities and how management are executives in place.
The changes resulted in better addressing the near-term operational challenges.
discussions on the most relevant topics.
There was Ensure agendas continue to allow enough time a better balance of time during meetings, with more for the Board to focus on the most relevant topics time spent on key discussion items.
and allow the appropriate amount of time for high-quality discussion.
Responsibility: Chairman Company Secretary There has been some progress in improving the Improving information will continue to be a Information information provided to the Board.
In particular, management will focus on work is needed to ensure papers focus on the relevant providing all the relevant information to allow data and avoid excessive and unnecessary detail.
informed debate without over-burdening the Board with excessive operational detail.
Responsibility: Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary The Board is confident with its approach to oversight The Board will remain focused on culture in Culture of culture and takes a robust approach to assessing 2018 and will be kept well-informed on progress ethical standards: issues are well understood and with the latest restructuring plans, including are tracked.
monitoring of managements approach to embedding behaviours.
Responsibility: Chairman Chief Executive DIRECTORS REPORT Directors Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 77 Corporate Governance Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 the Code B EFFECTIVENESS The Company is subject to the principles and provisions of the Code, a copy of which is available in full at www.
B1 The composition of the Board The Board believes it operates effectively with the appropriate For the year ended 31 December 2017, the Board considers balance of independent Non-Executive and Executive Directors that it has complied in full with the provisions of the Code.
who have the right mix of skills, experience and knowledge Below is a statement of compliance that explains how the of the Company.
The Nominations & Govenance Committee is Company has applied the principles and complied with the responsible for regularly reviewing the composition of the Board.
Details of the Board, their biographies and committee membership are set out on pages 66 to 68.
A LEADERSHIP The Board conducts a review of the independence of the A1 The role of the Board Non-Executive Directors every year, based on the criteria The Board is ultimately responsible for the management, direction in the Code and following consideration by the Nominations and performance of the Company and its businesses.
It sets the & Governance Committee as detailed on page 82.
The review Groups strategy and objectives and oversees and monitors internal in November 2017 concluded that all the Non-Executive Directors, controls, risk management, principal risks, governance and viability with the exception of Brad Singer, remained independent in of the Company.
The Board Governance document available at www.
com Brad Singer is a partner and the chief operating officer of includes a clear schedule of matters reserved for the Boards ValueAct Capital, a major shareholder, and therefore was not approval, which is reviewed at least annually.
considered independent under the provisions set out in the Code.
A relationship agreement between the Company, ValueAct A2 Clear division of responsibilities and Brad Singer, was in place throughout 2017 to manage any The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are clearly defined conflicts of interest that arise from his connection to ValueAct.
and the Board supports the separation of the two roles.
The key responsibilities are clearly documented in our Board Governance The Code does not consider the test of independence to be document.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and appropriate to the chairman of the company.
However, Ian Davis effectiveness of the Board.
The Chief Executive is responsible did meet the Codes independence criteria upon his appointment for the running of the Companys business.
as a Non-Executive Director in March 2013 and as Chairman in May 2013.
A3 Role of the Chairman The Chairman ensures effective running of the Board and its B2 Appointments to the Board committees in accordance with the highest standards of corporate Appointments of new Directors are led by the Nominations governance.
He sets the agenda for Board meetings making sure & Governance Committee, which are recommended to the Board.
consideration is given to the main challenges and opportunities Details of the appointment process, and changes made during facing the Company and facilitates open and constructive dialogue the year, are set out in the Nominations & Governance Committee during meetings.
MWM Consulting provided external search consultancy services A4 Role of the Non-Executive Directors in relation to the appointments of Beverly Goulet and Nick Luff.
Non-Executive Directors are independent of management They had no other connection to the Company during the year.
and bring a diverse set of skills and experience to meetings.
The Non-Executive Directors support the Chairman and B3 Time commitment provide objective and constructive challenge to management.
Non-Executive Directors are advised of the time commitment Their views are actively sought when developing proposals expected from them on appointment.
External appointments, on strategy, including during discussions in meetings, in which may affect existing time commitments for the Boards post-meeting conversations, or as part of the annual Board business, must be agreed with the Chairman.
Full details of these and ELT strategy day.
All of the Board committees consist are set out at www.
The Senior Independent Director provides a sounding board B4 Induction, training and development for the Chairman and serves as an intermediary for the Chief All new Directors receive a full induction programme when they Executive, other Directors, and shareholders when required.
are appointed to the Board, more details of which are on page 75.
The Board received additional training throughout the year on At the end of most scheduled Board meetings, the Chairman holds key topics, as appropriate.
meetings with the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors or management present.
B5 Information and support The Company Secretary makes sure that appropriate and timely information is provided to the Board and its committees and is responsible for advising and supporting the Chairman and Board on all governance matters.
All Directors have access to the Company Secretary and may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense in conducting their duties.
Directors Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 78 Corporate Governance B6 Evaluation C3 Audit Committee and auditors The Board evaluation for 2017 was externally facilitated and more The Audit Committee Report on pages 97 to 103 sets out details of details can be found on page 76.
The Chairman also met each how the Committee has discharged its duties and its areas of focus Director individually to discuss their contribution, performance during the year.
over the year and any development needs.
Following the meetings, In accordance with the Code and DTR 7.1 the Board is satisfied the Chairman confirmed that each Director was committed to their that Lewis Booth, Beverly Goulet and Irene Dorner, all members role and they were effective.
of the Audit Committee, have recent and relevant financial At a private meeting of the Non-Executive Directors, Sir Kevin experience, and when considered as a whole, the Committee has Smith, Senior Independent Director, led a review of the Chairmans competence relevant to the sector in which the Company operates performance without the Chairman present.
The Nominations to ensure the right balance of skills, experience, professional & Governance Committee also met without management present qualifications and knowledge.
to discuss the performance of the Chief Executive.
The meetings concluded that both the Chairman and the Chief Executive D REMUNERATION continued to be effective and constructive feedback was shared D1 The level and components of remuneration with them.
The Directors remuneration report is set out on pages 83 to 96 which outlines the areas of focus during the year and a summary B7 Election re-election of the remuneration policy, as approved by shareholders at the All Directors are subject to election or re-election at the AGM.
Following recommendations from the Nominations & Governance Committee the Board considers that all Directors continue to be The Remuneration Committee sets levels of remuneration which effective, committed to their roles and have sufficient time available are designed to promote the long-term success of the Group, to perform their duties.
In accordance with the Code, Beverly aligning this with the Groups strategy and business objectives Goulet and Nick Luff will seek election and all other Directors and ensuring it reflects our stakeholders interests.
It is responsible will seek re-election at the 2018 AGM.
for recommending to the Board the remuneration policy for Executive Directors, other members of the ELT and for the C ACCOUNTABLITY Chairman, and for implementing the policy.
In November 2017 we decided to publish our data on gender pay C1 Financial and business reporting earlier than required.
More information is available on page 94 The requirement for the Annual Report, taken as a whole, to be fair, and at www.
balanced and understandable is taken into consideration in the drafting and reviewing process.
See page 99 for the process to review the form and content.
The Strategic Report, set out on pages D2 Procedure 1 to 63, provides information about the Groups business model, For more information on the work of the Remuneration Committee performance, strategy and principal risks.
and Directors remuneration see the report on pages 83 to 96.
Ruth Cairnie, the chairman of the Remuneration Committee, C2 Risk management and internal control meets with institutional shareholders regularly, as appropriate.
The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company including those that would threaten E RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
See pages 59 to 62 for more details on the Groups principal risks E1 Dialogue with shareholders and a description of changes during the year.
The Board considers that effective channels of communication with the Companys institutional investors and individual shareholders In developing the internal governance framework see page 82 are very important.
You can read more about engagement with the Group looked at how the risk management and internal shareholders on page 74. control systems work together.
You can read more about the risk management system on page 59 and details of the internal control system on page 101.
The Board, with the advice of the Audit E2 Constructive use of General Meetings Committee, has reviewed the effectiveness of the risk management The AGM provides a key opportunity for the Board to meet and and internal control systems, including controls in relation to the communicate with shareholders.
Shareholders can ask questions financial reporting process, for the year under review and up to the of the Board on matters put to the meeting, including the Annual date of this report.
The Board confirms that the Group continues Report and the running of the Company generally.
Company to be compliant with the Code, Financial Conduct Authoritys representatives and the Companys Registrar are also available Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules DTR in this regard.
for any questions shareholders might have.
The activities of the Audit Committee, which assists the Board with its responsibilities in relation to risk and assurance, are set out on Terms of reference of the Board committees pages 97 to 103. and shareholder information are available at www.
