Governance AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Key focus for Recommended to the Board that the Annual Report and Accounts for, taken as whole, were fair, balanced and understandable and that it provided the information necessary for Shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy: Reviewed the Interim Report and recommended the same to the Board: Re-tendered the appointment of the Auditor in May and recommended the re-appointment of BDO as Auditor and the appointment of PwC LLP as tax advisors to the Company: Dear Shareholders, This year we have changed the membership of the Monitored the integrity of the financial statements of the Company and any formal announcements relating to Audit Committee with the appointment of Aubrey the Companys financial performance and reviewed any Adams.
It is the Committees role to robustly significant financial reporting judgements contained in review and assess the accuracy and quality of the them: yearly audit and half-yearly review, to challenge Reviewed the robustness of the Companys internal and consider the bi-annual property valuations financial controls and reviewed the efficacy of the internal undertaken by the Valuer and the Companys risk control and risk management systems used by the management, financial reporting and financial Company: management functions which are undertaken Assessed the quality of the annual and interim property by the Manager and Administrator.
We also revaluation prepared by the Companys independent Valuers tendered the auditor function in May and are and challenged the assumptions used by the Valuers in preparing the valuation: and pleased to announce that BDO LLP remains the Auditor to the Company.
Reviewed and considered the basis of the Viability and Going Concern Statements made by the Directors.
Membership Jim Prower Chairman Meeting attendance register Richard Jewson, Susanne Given, Aubrey Adams, MEETINGS Stephen Smith until his resignation from the Company ELIGIBLE TO MEETINGS PERSON ATTEND ATTENDED in June Jim Prower Jim Prower, is considered to possess recent and relevant financial experience for the purpose of the AIC Code.
Details of Jim Prowers Susanne Given experience can be found in his biography on page.
Richard Jewson, the Chairman of the Board, was appointed to the Stephen Smith Audit Committee on July and resigned on September.
Susanne Given has previous experience of attending audit committee Aubrey Adams meetings in her role as COO of SuperGroup Plc.
Susanne also chairs the Management Engagement Committee and is appointed to the Richard Jewson Nomination Committee.
Aubrey Adams was appointed to the Audit Committee on September.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Richard Jewson also attended the Audit Committee re-tender meeting Accountants and was the pro-tem Chair of the Audit Committee as an observer.
at British Land Company PLC.
Aubrey is also appointed to the Management Engagement Committee and Nomination Committee.
Stephen Smith sat on the Audit Committee until his resignation.
He was also a member of the Management Engagement Committee and the Nomination Committee.
Previously he had been responsible for property investment strategy at British Land Company PLC in his role as Chief Investment Officer.
He also held various other non-executive positions.
See Viability Statement, pages Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION The Audit Committees role is to oversee the as representatives of the Manager, the Company Secretary and the Auditor.
The Committee also met with the Companys Companys financial reporting process including independent Valuer, CBRE, in January as part of the yearthe risk management and internal financial controls end audit process.
I, as the Committee Chairman, had regular in place within the Manager, the valuation of the meetings with the Company Secretary and the Head of Finance property portfolio, the Groups compliance with for the Manager and the Committee regularly has informal accepted accounting standards and other regulatory discussions throughout the year.
requirements as well as the activities of the Auditors.
Risk management and internal controls Committee membership and terms of reference As part of each Board meeting and each Audit Committee We operate within defined terms of reference, which are meeting, the Board of Directors review the financial position of available on the Companys Website and on request from the the Company and assess any risks in relation to the Companys Company Secretary.
business model, and the Groups future performance, liquidity and solvency as well as any risks relating to specific investments The membership of the Committee has changed over the or proposed investments and specific tenants or initiatives course of the year.
Richard Jewson, the Companys Chairman, relating to specific assets.
To facilitate this process the Manager was reappointed to the Audit Committee on July to produces financial reports, which include the latest management support the Committee during the preparation of the Interim accounts, a review and report on the Companys financial Report, property valuation and risk review exercise.
Richard forecast, a report on proposed and existing investment and asset then resigned when Aubrey Adams was appointed to the management initiatives, substantiation of any dividend payments Audit Committee on September.
All of the current and a general update on the financial health of the Company.
Audit Committee members, as well as Richard Jewson, are independent Directors of the Company.
Aubrey Adams is The Committee reviewed the principal business risks of the a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants and has Company on July and December.
The Companys chaired an audit committee previously and Susanne Given has principal risks are found on pages - of the Annual Report.
experience of sitting on an audit committee in a previous role.
I am a Chartered Accountant and acted as finance director at As the Companys AIFM, the Manager is subject to reporting and Argent Group and several other listed companies.
None of the ongoing compliance under the AIFMD.
As part of this regulatory members of the Committee is connected to the Manager or to process, Langham Hall UK Depositary LLP has been retained the Auditor.
The biographies of the members can be found on by the Company and is responsible for cash monitoring, asset pages - of this Annual Report.
verification and oversight of the Company and the Manager.
Langham Hall UK Depositary LLP report quarterly to the Board Whilst Richard Jewson is an independent Director he is also and the Manager.
Please refer to page for a description of Chairman of the Company.
The Chair of the Audit Committee Langham Hall UK Depository LLPs role.
considered it to be beneficial to have Richard Jewsons experience on the Audit Committee at the time of the The Manager also employs a Compliance Officer and Head publication of the Companys Interim Results and to ensure of Risk to assist the regulatory team with the discharge of the that the Audit Committee had three members at all times in Managers obligations in accordance with the AIFMD.
order to comply with the AIC Code and Guide.
The Company does not have an internal audit function Meetings and, following an internal risk review, we do not consider it We met five times during, following the Companys necessary for the Company to have one.
The Company is corporate calendar, which ensures that the meetings are aligned managed externally by the Manager.
All payments of Company to the Companys financial reporting timetable.
The Company funds are authorised by the Manager in accordance with the Secretary ensures that the meetings are of sufficient length to duties delegated to it pursuant to the terms of the IMA and in allow the Committee to consider all the matters of importance accordance with the provisions of the AIFMD.
The Manager and the Committee is satisfied that it receives full information instructs the Administrator to make the duly authorised in a timely manner to allow it to fulfil its obligations.
These payment and Langham Hall UK Depositary LLP, as part of its meetings are attended by the Committee members, as well role as Depositary, reviews each payment.
We consider that See The Board of Directors, pages - For further information on Langham Hall UK Depositary LLP, See Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties, page - see Depositary Statement, pages Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report Governance: Audit Committee Report the internal controls in place and the function undertaken by Operating lease contracts Langham Hall UK Depositary LLP makes it unnecessary for the The Group has determined, based on an evaluation of the terms Company to employ an internal audit function.
In addition to and conditions of the arrangements, that it retains all significant this, the Administrator has its own internal audit performed on risks and rewards of ownership of its properties and so accounts an annual basis, from which the Company reviews any findings for the leases as operating leases.
This audit has not raised any significant findings.
Valuation of property portfolio Following production of the draft valuation by CBRE, the Financial reporting and significant judgements Manager meets with CBRE to discuss and challenge various We monitor the integrity of the financial information published elements of the property valuation.
The Auditor, in fulfilling its in the Interim Report and Annual Report and consider whether function as independent auditor to the Company, also meets the Manager has made suitable and appropriate estimates and with CBRE to discuss, and where necessary, challenge the judgements in respect of areas which could have a material property valuations.
The Board receives a copy of the property impact on the financial statements.
We seek support from valuation for the portfolio once it has been tested by the the external Auditor to assess these significant judgements.
Manager and after the Auditor has met with the Valuer.
The We also consider the processes undertaken by the Manager Board also met with the Valuer in January to discuss and to ensure that the financial statements are fair, balanced and challenge the valuation and to ensure it was conducted properly, understandable.
independently and could be fully supported.
The property portfolio is valued by CBRE bi-annually.
The performance of A variety of financial information and reports were prepared CBRE is assessed on an annual basis by the Management by the Manager and provided to the Board and to the Audit Engagement Committee in its report on pages -.
Committee over the course of the year.
These included budgets, periodic re-forecasting and specific papers on the issuance of The Group had property assets of.
billion at December further equity, the acquisition of the Littlebrook development, as detailed on the Group Statement of Financial Position.
site, the impact of the refinancing of the syndicated loan As explained in note to the financial statements, CBRE and simultaneous issue of million loan notes under independently valued the properties in accordance with IAS : the EMTN programme: as well as reviewing the Companys Investment Property.
The total portfolio valuation including ability to continue to pay a progressive dividend.
This financial forward funded commitments at the year end was.
information was fully reviewed and debated both at Committee We have reviewed the assumptions underlying the property and Board level across a number of meetings.
valuations and discussed these with the Manager, and have concluded that the valuation is appropriate.
The Manager and the Auditor update us on changes to accounting policies, legislation and best practice and areas Valuation of interest rate derivatives of significant judgement by the Manager.
They pay particular The Group mitigates its exposure to interest rate risk by attention to transactions which they deem important due to size entering into interest rate hedging arrangements.
The main areas where a significant judgement is accounts for these instruments in accordance with IAS and required include the assessment over fair values of investment makes additional required disclosures under IFRS Financial property and interest rate derivatives, business combinations, Instruments Disclosures and IFRS Fair Value Measurement.
The valuations are provided by the relevant counterparties of the interest rate derivatives.
The Board has reviewed and Business combinations approved these valuations.
At the time of acquiring a subsidiary that owns investment properties, the Group considers whether each acquisition Fair, balanced and understandable financial statements represents the acquisition of a business or the acquisition of an The production and audit of the Companys Annual Report is asset.
Where the acquisitions are not judged to be the acquisition a comprehensive process, requiring input from a number of of a business, they are not treated as business combinations.
To reach a conclusion on whether the Companys Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable, as required under the AIC Code and Guide, the Board has requested that the Audit Committee advise on whether we consider that the See Management Engagement Committee Report, pages - Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Annual Report fulfils these requirements.
In outlining our advice, Committee asked BDO, Deloitte and KPMG to return to deliver we have considered the following: a formal presentation to it in May.
The tender documents and presentations received were of exceptionally high quality.
the comprehensive documentation that outlines the controls The Committee gave particular consideration to the depth and in place for the production of the Annual Report, including the breadth of experience plus the qualifications and real estate verification processes to confirm the factual content: credentials of the respective audit teams.
Alongside this, a focus of each proposal included value for money, an ability to deliver the detailed reviews undertaken at various stages of the the audit within the timescales set and quality of audit services production process by the Manager, Administrator, Joint in relation to recent FRC quality assessments made of the Financial Adviser, Auditor and the Audit Committee, which respective firms.
The Audit Committee decided to recommend are intended to ensure consistency and overall balance: that BDO be reappointed as Auditor due to its strong tender pitch and its comprehensive and in-depth knowledge of the controls enforced by the Manager, Administrator and other Company.
Another key aspect was the high level of team third-party service providers, to ensure complete and accurate continuity, at all levels, that the Company has received from financial records and security of the Companys assets: BDO since the Companys IPO.
BDO have agreed a fixed fee for this audit of this Annual Report and review of the Interim Report the satisfactory ISAE control report produced by the for the next three years up to and including.
BDO were Administrator for the year ended December, which therefore re-appointed as Auditor to the Company in May.
has been reviewed and reported upon by the Administrators external auditor, to verify the effectiveness of the As part of the re-tender process we considered BDOs Administrators internal controls: and compensation, past performance and continuing independence.
Richard Levy will remain the lead Audit Partner until year-end a letter provided by the Administrator that there have been no, at which point he is due to rotate following the fifth year changes to its control environment since December of the audit in line with Ethical Standards.
Richard has been and that all internal controls in place at the time of the last the lead Audit Partner since year-end.
It is intended review remain active.
that Geraint Jones, who we met as part of the audit tender process, then takes over the position as Lead Audit Partner.
As a result of the work performed, we have concluded and The Company has met with the key members of the Audit team reported to the Board that the Annual Report for the year over the course of the year and BDO have formally confirmed ended December, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced its independence as part of the reporting process as well as and understandable and provides the information necessary for during the re-tender process.
We consider that the Audit team Shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business assigned to the Company by BDO has a good understanding model and strategy.
The Boards conclusions in this respect are of the Companys business which enables it to produce a set out in the Chairmans Governance Overview, page.
detailed, high-quality, in-depth audit and permits the team to scrutinise and challenge the Companys financial procedures External Auditor re-tender and significant judgements.
We also considered BDOs internal The European Union Audit Reform Legislation came into force in quality control procedures and found them to be sufficient.
The meaning that, as the Companys Auditor, BDO LLP BDO FRC confirmed in its Audit Quality Review of BDO that were unable to continue to provide the Company with audit none of BDOs audits needed significant improvements.
The services, along with non-audit services including corporate Committee is satisfied that the Audit process is transparent and finance services and tax advisory work.
With a view to dividing of good quality.
the audit and non-audit services, the Board, in accordance with our advice, decided that it would re-tender the position of Audit process Auditor to the Company.
We meet with the Auditor before the preparation of the interim and annual results began, to plan and discuss the scope of the In April, the Company invited, BDO, Deloitte LLP audit or review as appropriate, and challenge where necessary Deloitte,  LLP PwC and to ensure its rigour.
At these meetings the Auditors prepare a KPMG LLP KPMG to tender for the position as Auditor detailed audit or review plan which is discussed and questioned to the Company.
Following receipt of written proposals, the by us to ensure that all areas of the business are appropriately See Chairmans Governance Overview, pages - Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report Governance: Audit Committee Report reviewed and that the materiality thresholds are set at the We continue to believe that, in some circumstances, the appropriate level which varies depending on the matter in external Auditors understanding of the Companys business question.
The timescale for the delivery of the Audit or review can be beneficial in improving the efficiency and effectiveness is also set at this meeting.
We meet with the Auditor again of advisory work.
For this reason we continue to engage BDO as just prior to the conclusion of the review or Audit to consider, reporting accountants on the Companys secondary offerings in challenge and evaluate findings in depth.
As an example, we the normal course of the Companys business.
Following the audit questioned the Auditor in depth on the process it adopted to tender, PwC LLP were appointed to assist with financial and tax challenge the property valuation to ensure it was effective due diligence on corporate acquisitions and to provide specific and we discussed a query raised by a Shareholder relating to tax compliance advice.
the Companys treatment of fixed uplift rental adjustments at the half yearly review.
Neither the audit nor the interim review The Company paid, in fees to the Auditor for non-audit uncovered any significant findings.
These fees are set out in the table below.
WORK UNDERTAKEN RATIONALE FOR USING THE EXTERNAL AUDITOR FEE Reporting accountant on the Companys Detailed knowledge and understanding of the business and the, secondary offerings and public debt issuance requirements of the exercise, having acted as reporting accountant on previous equity fundraisings for the Company.
Low risk of selfinterest and self-review threat, as the work is not used in the audit of the financial statements.
Jim Prower Chairman of the Audit Committee March Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report
