GOVERNANCE REPORT CHAIRMANS LETTER MESSAGE TO SHAREHOLDERS Governance Report Dear Shareholder This is my first Governance Report as Chairman of the Company, TALENT, DEVELOPMENT AND SUCCESSION having been appointed to the Board during the year.
I am As Chairman of the Board, one of my key responsibilities is to pleased to report that the Company has the appropriate review the membership of the Board and its range of skills and corporate governance procedures and processes embedded experience.
When recruiting a new Director, we look to appoint within the business and has created the necessary internal culture a candidate with a relevant but complementary mix of within the Group to enable us to meet the requirements of our experience, as we recognise the importance of diversity in its customers, employees, shareholders and wider stakeholders.
widest sense in Board effectiveness.
At the moment, we have As a Board, we take corporate governance very seriously 28% female representation on the Board.
and I will continue to ensure that we maintain high standards Succession planning, talent spotting and the development of throughout my tenure.
our rising stars were key focuses for the Nomination Committee It has been a busy year from a corporate governance perspective during 2017 and details of these can be found on page 99. and I summarise below the key areas that the Board has focused The Board has oversight over these succession plans.
DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION BOARD CHANGES At Equiniti, we want diversity and inclusion to mean I joined the Board in July 2017 and became Chairman in understanding, appreciating and valuing difference September when Kevin Beeston stood down from the Board both visible and invisible, and understanding that these and left the Company.
Further details of my recruitment and differences in our employees can enrich and enhance our culture.
induction can be found in the Nomination Committees report In February 2017, we adopted a new Group policy on Diversity on page 100.
John Parker also stood down from the Board and Inclusion which is set out on page 53.
Following its adoption, and left the Company in September.
I am delighted to advise the new policy has been monitored by the Board and the senior that Alison Burns will join the Board as an independent nonmanagement team to ascertain how it has been received within executive Director on 1 April 2018.
Alison will become a member Equiniti and progress made in adopting it.
of the Audit, Nomination, Remuneration and Risk Committees.
BOARD EVALUATION Her financial services and insurance background will provide We undertook an internal evaluation of our Board and an invaluable resource to support Equiniti's strategy over the Committees during 2017 to ensure that we are operating coming years.
Alison will stand for re-election at the AGM to be effectively.
Details of the results from the evaluation and any held on 3 May 2018 and her biography can be found on page 67. action points, can be found on page 78.
Upon my appointment Vicky Jarman, who joined the Company in 2014, has notified the as Chairman, I initiated a regular meeting with just the Board that she has decided to step down as an independent non-executive Directors prior to each scheduled Board non-executive Director at the Company's AGM in May 2018 meeting.
This provides me with useful feedback on what my and Darren Pope, in succession to Vicky, will become the Senior fellow non-executive Directors are thinking and ensures their Independent Director.
I would like to place on record the Board's views can be appropriately brought out during Board meetings.
thanks to Vicky for her valuable contribution and commitment GOVERNANCE AND RISK to the Board and the Company during her four year tenure.
The Board has benefitted greatly from her experience and advice.
During 2017, the Audit and Risk Committees have focused on reviewing and updating the Groups policies on risk and agreeing Changes have occurred within the Audit Committee with Vicky the Groups risk appetite statements.
Our markets and the type Jarman standing down as Chair of the Committee in November of risks we face are constantly changing and will remain a key 2017, having been in the post since 2014.
Darren Pope has focus for those Committees, and the Board as a whole, as the succeeded her as the Audit Committees new Chair and details Group develops and expands.
The acquisition of WFSS brings of his qualifications for that role can be found in his biography US compliance challenges which will be assessed by the Board on page 66. during 2018 as the new business is integrated into the Group.
