STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Governance ACCOUNTABILITY The Board is responsible for delivering robust and Code and Guide and proposed future initiatives relating to the Companys governance and compliance framework.
The Board sustainable value to its Shareholders by setting also receives quarterly compliance reports prepared by Langham strategic objectives and working to achieve them.
Hall UK Depositary LLP see page for further information.
The Undertaking robust assessments of the risks Board reviews the formal bi-annual risk assessment conducted which the Group faces and effectively managing by the Audit Committee.
Further, the Board actively considers those risks is a key responsibility of the Board.
investment opportunities, asset management initiatives, debt The main risks identified as the most relevant to and equity fundraisings and other financial matters against the requirements of the Companys Investment Objectives and the Company are set out on pages - of the Investment Policy.
The Board confirms that, in accordance with the AIC Code and Internal controls review Guide, it has established a continuing process for identifying, The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for maintaining evaluating and managing the risks the Company faces and has the Companys system of internal control and risk management in reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control systems.
order to safeguard the Companys assets.
The Companys internal control safeguards are designed to identify, manage and mitigate The Board also confirms that it conducts a robust assessment the financial, operational and compliance risks that are inherent of the risks to the business model, future performance, solvency to the Group.
The safeguards and systems in place are designed and liquidity of the Company on a bi-annual basis.
The Manager to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve is asked to consider and analyse all the risks which face the business objectives and can only provide reasonable, but not Group such as specific transactional risks like an adverse absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
decision regarding the development of a forward funded asset at the planning stages or a sudden change in market conditions The Board and the Manager have together reviewed all financial before the launch of an equity raise or debt issue and report its performance and results notifications.
Non-financial internal conclusions to the Board.
The Board then considers each risk in controls include the systems of operational and compliance turn, probing the Managers assumptions and analysing whether controls maintained by the Companys administrator, Link Asset the risk factors attributed to each individual risk are fair and Services the Administrator, and by the Manager in relation to accurate and the effect of any mitigating factors.
It also considers the Companys business, as well as the management of key risks this at the risk review and at each strategy meeting.
referred to in the Strategic Report.
AIFM Directive The Board has contractually delegated responsibility for The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD administrative and accounting services to the Administrator and became part of UK law in.
It regulates Alternative for company secretarial services to the Manager.
These entities Investment Fund Managers AIFMs and imposes obligations have their own internal control systems relating to these matters, on managers who manage alternative investment funds AIF which the Board has reviewed as part of its Financial Position and in the EU or who market shares in AIFs to EU investors.
Under Prospects Procedures memorandum, which was reviewed and the AIFMD, the AIFM must comply with various organisational, approved in December to better reflect the operations of operational and transparency obligations.
This year the Company the Company.
The Financial Position, Prospects and Procedures clarified that the Manager is responsible for making investment memorandum is reviewed and updated annually and the next and divestment decisions in respect of the Companys assets review will be during.
as part of the Managers regulatory responsibility for the overall portfolio and risk management of the Company.
This change Internal control assessment process aligned the Company and the Manager with published ESMA The Board regularly monitors the effectiveness of the Companys guidance on the application internal controls and ensures their adequacy.
This includes of the AIFMD.
reviewing reports from the Auditor details of which are included in the Audit Committee Report, quarterly reports from the The Manager is authorised by the FCA as an AIFM and provides Company Secretary outlining corporate activity within the all relevant management and advisory services to the Company, Group and outlining the Companys compliance with the AIC including regulated activities.
See Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties, pages - See Depositary Statement, page Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report Governance: Accountability AIFM remuneration policy applied by the Manager The annual fee paid by the Company is based on a percentage As a full scope AIFM, the Manager must apply a remuneration of NAV, as set out in the Management Engagement Committee policy in line with its business strategy, objectives, values Report pages -.
In addition, the Managers Partners, and interests, as well as those of the AIFs it manages or their are required to invest % of that fee net of tax and certain investors.
The policy must include measures to avoid conflicts other costs, as described on page in the Companys of interest.
Management Shares are subject to a month lock-in period.
This aligns the interests The Managers partnership board therefore meets at least of the Managers Partners with the strategy and interests of twice a year to discuss the remuneration of its entire staff.
are remunerated in accordance with their seniority, expertise, professional qualifications, responsibilities and performance.
They are paid salaries in line with market rates and, in profitable years, awarded a discretionary bonus from a bonus pool of at least % of the Managers profits.
The discretionary bonus may consist of cash or shares in the Company which form part of the management fee payable to the Managers Partners but which the Managers Partners elect to allocate to certain members of staff as part of the annual bonus.
Please refer to page for further information.
This means that staff remuneration is predominantly fixed and the variable element is determined by the Managers profitability, rather than the performance of a particular AIF.
The Managers Partners are entitled to their partnership share of its profits and losses.
None of the Partners is entitled to additional partnership drawings that depend on the performance of any AIF managed by the partnership.
The Partners remuneration therefore depends on the Managers profitability, rather than the performance of the AIF.
This ensures that the partners have a vested interest in ensuring the Manager remains financially sound.
See Management Engagement Committee Report, pages - Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION DEPOSITARY STATEMENT Established in, Langham Hall UK Depositary LLP is We work with the Manager in discharging our duties, an FCA regulated firm that works in conjunction with holding formal meetings with senior staff on a quarterly the Manager and the Company to act as depositary.
basis and submitting quarterly reports to the Manager Consisting exclusively of qualified and trainee accountants and the Company, which are then presented to the and alternative specialists, the entity represents net assets Board of Directors, setting our work performed and the of US$ billion and deployed our services to over corresponding findings for the period.
alternative investment funds across various jurisdictions worldwide.
Our role as depositary primarily involves In the year ended December our work included oversight of the control environment of the Company, the review of one equity and two management share in line with the requirements of the AIFMD.
issues, property acquisitions, four third-party financing arrangements and three property income distributions.
Our cash monitoring activity provides oversight of all Based on the work performed during this period, we the Company held bank accounts with specific testing confirm that no issues came to our attention to indicate of bank transactions triggered by share issues, property that controls are not operating appropriately.
income distributions via dividend payments, property acquisitions and third-party financing.
We review whether Joe Hime Head of Depositary cash transactions are appropriately authorised and timely.
For and on behalf of The objective of our asset verification process is to perform Langham Hall UK Depositary LLP, London, UK a review of the legal title of all properties held by the March Company, and shareholding of special purpose vehicles beneath the Company.
We test whether on an ongoing basis the Company is being operated by the Manager in line with the Companys prospectus, and the internal control Langham Hall UK Depositary LLP is a limited partnership environment of the Manager.
This includes a review of registered in England and Wales with registered number the Companys and its subsidiaries decision papers and OC.
Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report
