Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Our Board of Directors: Biographies Andy Briggs Our Board of Position: Chief Executive Officer, UK Insurance Nationality: British Directors Committee Membership: N A Tenure: 2 years 11 months.
Appointed to the Board as Executive Director in April 2015 Qualifications: Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries Skills and Experience: Andy is the CEO of UK Insurance and is responsible for all Avivas insurance businesses in the UK.
Previously Sir Adrian Montague, CBE CEO of the Friends Life business, Andys knowledge and experience Position: Chairman of the UK insurance sector are invaluable to the Board.
His role as Nationality: British chairman of the Association of British Insurers gives him a unique Committee Membership: Nomination Committee Chair perspective of the UK insurance and regulatory environment.
Appointed to the Board as a NonExternal Appointments: Chairman of the NSPCCs Fundraising Executive Director in January 2013, and as Chairman in April 2015 Committee and a member of the Board of Trustees.
Andy is also the Qualifications: MA, Law Cambridge : Qualified Solicitor Governments Business Champion for Older Workers.
Skills and Experience: Having held appointments as Chair of Anglian Water Group Ltd, Friends Provident plc, British Energy Maurice Tulloch Group plc, Michael Page International plc and Crossrail Ltd, Sir Position: Chief Executive Officer, International Insurance Adrian brings a wealth of experience as a Chairman.
His diverse skillNationality: British Canadian set and strategic awareness facilitate open discussion and allow for Committee Membership: N A constructive challenge in the Boardroom.
Appointed to the Board as an Executive Director External Appointments: Chairman of The Manchester Airports in June 2017 Group, Cadent Gas Ltd and The Point of Care Foundation.
Qualifications: Maurice is a Chartered Professional Accountant CPA, CMA, and he holds a Masters degree in Business Mark Wilson Administration MBA from Heriot-Watt University, Edinburgh and a Position: Group Chief Executive Officer BA Economics University of Waterloo, Ontario Nationality: New Zealander Skills and Experience: Maurice has more than 25 years experience Committee Membership: N A within Aviva and was appointed as CEO of International Insurance in Tenure: 5 years 3 months.
Appointed to the Board in December June 2017.
Maurice has responsibility for Avivas insurance 2012 and as Group Chief Executive Officer CEO in January 2013 operations in France, Canada, Ireland, Italy, Poland, Spain, Turkey Qualifications: MSc Management Studies Waikato University and India.
His addition to the Board brings expertise and focus to Skills and Experience: Mark is a dynamic leader with extensive the Groups International businesses.
experience of leading major insurance companies.
This included External Appointments: Non-Executive Director of Pool Re and a Asian insurance giant AIA.
At Aviva Mark has developed and driven member of the Insurance Development Forum.
the strategy for Aviva to put Digital First and be a leader in offering convenience to insurance customers.
Mark is also a champion of Claudia Arney sustainability and as a result of this was invited to speak at the Position: Independent Non-Executive Director United Nations in New York to further the efforts of companies in Nationality: British achieving the Sustainable Development Goals.
Committee Membership: Governance Committee Chair, External Appointments: N A.
Nomination Committee, Remuneration Committee, Risk Committee Tenure: 2 years 1 month.
Appointed to the Board in February 2016 Thomas Stoddard Qualifications: MBA INSEAD Position: Chief Financial Officer Skills and Experience: Claudia has significant experience of Nationality: American building digital businesses, strategy formulation, business Committee Membership: N A transformation and customer strategy.
Claudia previously worked Tenure: 3 years 11 months.
Appointed to the Board and as Chief for the Financial Times, where she was part of the team that Financial Officer in April 2014 launched FT. com.
In addition, Claudia acted as CEO of the internet Qualifications: BA Economics Swarthmore College : Juris Doctor start up, TheStreet.
University of Chicago Law School External Appointments: Non-Executive Director of Derwent Skills and Experience: Toms financial expertise and strategic London plc, Halfords Group plc and the Premier League.
decision-making skills play a fundamental role in driving Aviva to attain its financial goals.
As a result of Toms work Aviva has strengthened its financial position and now has a capital surplus that it can deploy in the years to come.
Prior to joining Aviva, Tom worked in senior positions as an investment banker in highly respected US firms, including Blackstone Advisory Partners LP, where he was responsible for successfully driving Blackstones business advising banks, insurers and other financial institutions globally.
External Appointments: N A Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 36 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Our Board of Directors: Biographies Continued Glyn Barker Michael Hawker, AM Position: Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Position: Independent Non-Executive Director Nationality: British Nationality: Australian Committee Membership: Audit Committee, Nomination Committee Membership: Risk Committee Chair, Audit Committee, Risk Committee, Governance Committee, Committee, Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee.
Appointed to the Board in January 2010 Tenure: 6 years 1 month.
Appointed to the Board in February 2012 Qualifications: BSc University of Sydney, Senior Fellow of the and became Senior Independent Non-Executive Director in May Financial Services Institute of Australia 2017 Skills and Experience: Michael brings to the Board experience from Qualifications: Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of his career in both the banking and insurance industries within England and Wales: BSc Economics and Accounting Bristol Europe, Asia and Australia, which included 7 years as CEO of University Australias largest General Insurer IAG.
Michaels tenure at Aviva Skills and Experience: Glyns knowledge of the Aviva Group brings makes him well placed to determine the nature and extent of the an in depth understanding of the issues and concerns of potential risks that could stop Aviva achieving its strategic shareholders.
Glyns experience enables him to support the objectives and maintaining sound risk management and internal Chairman and the Board by instilling the appropriate culture, values controls.
and behaviour in the Boardroom.
Glyn was previously a vice External Appointments: Non-executive director of Macquarie chairman of  LLP PwC and was Group Ltd, Macquarie Bank Ltd, Washington H Soul Pattinson Pty responsible for leading the strategy and business development for and Company Ltd investment and Rugby World Cup Ltd. Michael is Europe, the Middle East, Africa and India.
also Chairman of The George Institute for Global Health.
External Appointments: Chairman of Irwin Mitchell and Interserve plc, and a non-executive director of Berkeley Group Holdings plc Michael Mire and Transocean Ltd.
Position: Independent Non-Executive Director Nationality: British Patricia Cross Committee Membership: Governance Committee, Nomination Position: Independent Non-Executive Director Committee, Remuneration Committee, Risk Committee Nationality: Australian Tenure: 4 years 6 months.
Appointed to the Board in September Committee Membership: Remuneration Committee Chair, Audit 2013 Committee, Nomination Committee Qualifications: MBA Harvard Tenure: 4 years 3 months.
Appointed to the Board in December Skills and Experience: Michael has a detailed understanding of the 2013 financial services sector and experience in business transformation.
Qualifications: BSc Hons, International Economics Georgetown Formerly a senior partner at McKinsey & Company, Michael University, Life Fellow of the Australian Institute of Company focussed on developing strategies for retail and financial services Directors companies, which alongside his governmental experience at the Skills and Experience: Patricia is an experienced company Director Central Policy Review Staff now the Number 10 Policy Unit, allows having served on six ASX-30 Boards, including National Australia Michael to bring a unique perspective and insight to the Board.
She followed service in the U. S. External Appointments: Chairman of HM Land Registry, NonGovernment working in foreign affairs with a long career in senior Executive Director of the Department of Health and senior adviser executive roles in banking and investment management, including to Lazard investment bank.
large international treasury and markets operations.
She has lived and worked in seven countries in Europe, the U. S. and Australia.
Keith Williams External Appointments: Chairman of the Commonwealth Position: Independent Non-Executive Director Superannuation Corporation, a Non-Executive director of Nationality: British Macquarie Group Ltd and Macquarie Bank Ltd.
Chair of the Committee Membership: Audit Committee Chair, Governance 30% Club in Australia.
Committee, Nomination Committee, Risk Committee Tenure: 1 year 7 months.
Appointed to the Board in August 2016 Beln Romana Garca Qualifications: Associate member of the Institute of Chartered Position: Independent Non-Executive Director Accountants Nationality: Spanish Skills and Experience: Keith has significant financial experience Committee Membership: Governance Committee, Nomination including a detailed knowledge of business planning, capital Committee, Risk Committee projects and project finance gained in a number of industries.
Appointed to the Board in June 2015 has more than 10 years of executive experience as Chief Financial Qualifications: BSc, Business and Economics Universidad Officer and CEO at British Airways plc and, during his time, Keith Autonomo fide Madrid transformed the Company into a customer focussed organisation.
Skills and Experience: Beln has governmental and regulatory External Appointments: Non-Executive Deputy Chairman of John experience and a detailed knowledge of the financial services Lewis, Non-Executive Director of Royal Mail plc and member of the industry and European regulation that together makes her an Audit Committee of the British Museum.
invaluable member of the Board.
Beln has held senior positions at the Spanish Treasury and represented the Spanish government at the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development.
External Appointments: Independent Non-Executive Director of Banco Santander.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 37 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Our Board of Directors: Biographies Continued Kirstine Cooper Position: Group General Counsel and Company Secretary Nationality: British Committee Membership: N A Tenure: 7 years 3 months.
Appointed as Company Secretary in December 2010 Qualifications: Bachelor of Laws degree Glasgow University and qualified solicitor.
Graduate of the General Manager Programme INSEAD Skills and Experience: Kirstine has over 25 years experience at Aviva and is a trusted advisor to the Board.
As a qualified solicitor Kirstine is able to execute the role of Company Secretary by advising the Board on governance issues and the regulatory environment.
Kirstine established the legal and secretarial function as a global team and is responsible for the provision of legal services to the Group.
She also leads the team on public policy and corporate responsibility.
External Appointments: Trustee of the Royal Opera House and Commissioner on the Cabinet Offices Dormant Assets Commission.
The full biographies for all our Board and Group Executive committee members are available online at www.
Key Executive Non-Executive Group General Counsel and Company Secretary Sir Malcolm Williamson and Bob Stein retired from the Board at the Annual General Meeting on 10 May 2017.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 38
