156613 ASCOT AR Txt PRINT 156613 ASCOT AR Txt V11 26 01 2018 13:09 Page 27 Audit Committee Report The Committee members are all independent non-executive directors who have been selected by the Board to fulfil the Committees duties based upon their range of financial and commercial expertise.
They are David Jeffcoat Chairman, Richard Rae and Julia Le Blan.
The members biographies can be found on page 18.
Key Objective: The objective of the Committee is to provide assurance to the Board as to the effectiveness of the Companys internal controls and the integrity of its financial records and externally published results.
In doing so the Committee operates within terms of reference that have been agreed by the Board.
These are reviewed annually and are available upon request.
They will also be available for inspection at the AGM.
Principal Responsibilities: The Committee has been given the following responsibilities: ensuring that all of the Companys principal risks are identified: monitoring the mitigating controls that have been established: monitoring compliance with the relevant statutory, regulatory and taxation requirements for a UK based investment trust which is listed on the London Stock Exchange: reviewing the Companys financial statements, the accounting policies adopted and the main judgemental areas: ensuring that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable: agreeing the external Auditors terms of appointment, determining the independence and objectivity of the Auditor and assessing the effectiveness of the audit: and considering whether it is appropriate for certain non-audit services to be carried out by the Auditor.
The Chairman reports formally to the Board on the Committees proceedings after each meeting.
To assist with the various duties of the Committee, a meeting Plan has been adopted which is reviewed annually.
This is the latest version: Audit Committee Annual Plan January April July October Annual Report Meetings to be Half Yearly Report Corporate KeyRisks of the KeyRisks of the KeyRisks of the including judgemental called if required including Governance Company Company Company areas, going concern, judgemental areas, Compliance viability statement, expense analysis and Provision of nonInvestment Trust letter of Half Yearly Report Investment Trust audit services, Status representation, announcement Status Self evaluation of including taxation expense analysis and the Committee compliance services Annual Report announcement Basis of Committees Audit Plan Internal Controls Management Fee Terms of Reference Review including Audit meeting Custodians allocation every reports from the evaluation of the ControlsReport three years Auditor Plan, Managers and other audit including update together with the third parties auditor Terms of independence Audit Fees Engagement Investment Trust Status Depositary Report Cyber Security Measures Aberforth Partners Meetings Typically three meetings are held each year.
Representatives of Aberforth Partners LLP, who provide the Company with secretarial services, attend all of the meetings.
Deloitte LLP Deloitte, the external auditor, attended the meetings in January and October.
During the last twelve months the Committee has focused on the areas described below.
Governance Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 27 156613 ASCOT AR Txt PRINT 156613 ASCOT AR Txt V11 26 01 2018 13:09 Page 28 Audit Committee Report Financial Reporting The half yearly financial results, published on 27 July 2017, were not audited.
Therefore the Committees business in July was focused on a discussion, with supporting documentation from the Secretaries, on the preparation and content of the Half Yearly Report, together with other aspects such as going concern.
In October 2017, the Committee received a letter from the Financial Reporting Council FRC regarding their review of the 2016 Annual Report.
The FRC had no formal points or concerns on the 2016 Annual Report.
In January 2018, the Committee received a report and supporting presentation from the external Auditor on its audit of the financial statements for the year to 31 December 2017.
This included details of the steps it had taken to confirm the valuation and ownership of the investment portfolio and recognition of income.
Their report also focused on Alternative Performance Measures and the appropriate disclosures.
In addition, the Secretaries reported on the preparation of the financial results and other relevant matters.
The Committee considered these reports in detail and took further comfort from the internal control review discussed below.
The Chairman of the Committee had previously discussed the outcome of the audit process and the Annual Report with the audit partner without representatives of Aberforth Partners being present.
Consequently, the Committee concluded that it was satisfied as to: the ownership and valuation of the investment portfolio as at 31 December 2017: and revenue recognition including dividend completeness and the accounting treatment of each special dividend recognised during the period.
The Committee read and discussed this Annual Report and concluded that it is fair, balanced and understandable.
It provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, objective and strategy.
As a result the Committee agreed that it would recommend to the Board that the financial statements be approved for publication.
Going Concern and Viability The Committee received reports on going concern from the Secretaries in July and January, reflecting the guidance published by the Financial Reporting Council.
The content of the investment portfolio, trading activity, portfolio diversification and the existing debt facility were also discussed.
After due consideration, the Committee concluded it was appropriate to prepare the Companys accounts on a going concern basis and made this recommendation to the Board.
The relatively high level of liquidity of the portfolio was the main factor that led to this conclusion.
The Committee also assessed the viability of the Company.
The Committee agreed that it was appropriate to provide a Viability Statement for a five year period for the reasons set out in the Statement on page 5.
In January 2018, the Committee conducted a series of stress tests that considered the impact of severe market downturn scenarios on Shareholders funds, the debt facility, investment income and also the impact of losing investment trust status.
The outcome of this activity led the Committee to recommend the Viability Statement to the Board.
Internal Control and Risks The Committee carefully considered a Matrix of the Companys principal risks and the mitigating controls at each meeting.
In October the risks and controls were addressed in more detail.
The Committee enhanced the content of the Matrix during the year and believes that it continues to reflect accurately the Companys principal risks.
These risks, which are detailed on page 5 of this Report, have not changed significantly during the year.
Also in October the Committee received the Managers report on internal controls, including the assurance report issued by  LLP PwC on the nature and effectiveness of the control framework that has been established by the Managers.
A representative of PwC attended the meeting.
In addition, the Committee received internal control reports from the custodian Northern Trust and Capita Registrars now Link Registrars.
The Committee reviewed these reports and concluded that there were no significant control weaknesses or other issues that needed to be brought to the Boards attention.
The Committee continues to monitor closely the increasing risk arising from cyber threats, notwithstanding that the Company outsources all of its activities to external parties.
In October 2017, the Committee received presentations from Aberforth Partners and their external service provider for cyber security, covering the measures that are in place to protect the Managers systems and the Company information that they contain.
The Committee noted the assurances that have been given about the effectiveness of control measures.
It concluded that, although cyber-attack represents an increasing threat to companies and public bodies worldwide, the Company has taken all reasonable steps to ensure that appropriate protection measures are in place.
Nevertheless this particular threat will continue to be monitored closely.
28 Governance Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 156613 ASCOT AR Txt PRINT 156613 ASCOT AR Txt V11 26 01 2018 13:09 Page 29 Audit Committee Report The Committee also discussed whether there was a need for a dedicated internal audit function.
It concluded that, as the Company has no employees and sub-contracts all of its operations to third party suppliers, an internal audit function is not necessary.
Investment Trust Status It is essential for the Company to maintain its investment trust status.
The Committee confirms this point at each meeting with reference to a checklist prepared by the Secretaries.
The position is also confirmed by the external auditor as part of the audit process.
External Auditor Deloitte was appointed as the Companys auditor on 17 April 2013 following a formal tender process.
This appointment has been renewed at each subsequent AGM.
Based upon existing legislation, another tender process would not be required until 2023.
The Company is therefore in compliance with the provisions of The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory use of competitive tender processes and audit committee responsibilities Order 2014 as issued by the Competition &Markets Authority.
Audit Planning and Audit Fees The external audit partner from Deloitte presented the detailed audit plan to the Committee in October in advance of the 2017 audit.
The plan set out the scope of the audit, the principal risks that would be addressed as detailed in the Independent Auditor's Report, the timetable and the proposed fees.
These amounted to 20,100, excluding VAT, for the year 2016: 19,500.
There were no non-audit activities carried out by Deloitte.
Evaluation of the Auditor Following the completion of the audit in January 2018, the Committee reviewed the Auditors effectiveness.
The Committee acknowledged that the audit team comprised staff with appropriate levels of knowledge and experience and that Andrew Partridge, the audit partner, who has significant experience of the investment trust sector, had now served for five reporting years.
As the audit partner is required to be rotated every five years, the Committee has arranged to meet the proposed new audit partner in March 2018.
The Committee noted positive feedback from the Secretaries on Deloitte's performance on the audit.
Additionally Deloitte had provided confirmation that they have complied with the relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements on independence.
Taking these factors into account, the Committee is satisfied that the external audit was carried out effectively.
It has therefore recommended the re-appointment of Deloitte as the Company's auditor for the 2018 financial year.
The Board has given its support and a proposal will be put to Shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
Committee Evaluation A formal internal review of the Committees effectiveness, using an evaluation questionnaire, was undertaken during the year.
The outcome was positive with no significant concerns expressed.
In 2016, a formal external review was facilitated by Lintstock Limited and it was agreed to utilise external facilitators every three years in future.
David Jeffcoat Audit Committee Chairman 26 January 2018 Governance Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 29
