Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Directors and Corporate Governance report The statement sets out our beliefs around the importance of Directors and diversity and inclusion in the Group, and how these are reflected in our Global Inclusive Diversity Strategy Diversity Strategy.
It also details how we implement the Diversity Strategy, our objectives, Corporate and the timelines in which we aim to implement it.
The implementation of our Diversity Strategy is monitored by Governance report the Nomination Committee which reviews the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity on the Board: leads succession planning for appointments to the Board and the senior executive team: and oversees the talent development and broader talent pipeline across the Group.
The Boards skills matrix supports this The UK corporate governance code approach by enabling us to map the broad diversity of the Board in As a UK premium listed company, Aviva has adopted a governance regard to gender, ethnicity, geographical expertise, and current structure based on the principles of the 2016 UK Corporate skills and experiences, and to link these to our strategy.
Details of how we have applied the We recognise that the Board sets the tone for inclusion and Code principles and complied with its provisions, are set out in this diversity across the Group and believe we should have a diverse report and the directors remuneration report.
The Board can leadership team to support good decision making.
Diversity at Aviva confirm that the Company was compliant with the Code throughout encompasses more than just gender and includes, amongst other the financial year under review.
Further information on the Code things, experience, skills, tenure, age, geographical expertise, can be found on the Financial Reporting Councils FRCs website professional background, gender, ethnicity, disability and sexual www.
While our percentage of women on the Board has increased from 23% in 2016 to 25% as of the date of this report, we The Board are committed to achieving the target of 33% of women on the Details of the role of the Board and its committees is described on Board by 2020, as evidenced from our participation in initiatives the next page.
The duties of the Board and of each of its committees such as Future Boards Scheme and the 30% Club.
The diversity are set out in their respective Terms of Reference.
Our committees charts in the Chairmans Governance Letter show that we have a Terms of Reference can be found on the Companys website at Board with a broad balance of skills and experience.
com committees and are also available from the Group The Board is focussed on creating an inclusive culture in line Company Secretary.
The Terms of Reference list both matters that with Avivas values and the Diversity strategy, which we believe will are specifically reserved for decision by our Board and those lead to greater diversity both on our Board and throughout the matters that must be reported to it.
The Board delegates clearly Company.
You can read more on the Boards approach to diversity defined responsibilities to various committees and reports from the in the Nomination Committee report.
Audit, Governance, Nomination and Risk Committees are contained in this report.
A report from the Remuneration Committee is Activities and allocation of agenda time during 2017 included in the directors remuneration report.
Board strategy and business plans 31% of agenda time Approved the 2018-2020 Group Plan and received presentations 2017 2018 Board changes and reports from markets in respect of strategy execution and As at the date of this report the Board comprised of the Chairman, performance against the Group Plan four Executive Directors and seven Independent Non-Executive Held an annual Board strategy meeting in June 2017 to review Directors NEDs.
Maurice Tulloch was appointed to the Board as an and agree the Groups strategy Executive Director on 20 June 2017.
Maurice is Chief Executive Reviewed and constructively challenged reports from the Group Officer of International Insurance, with responsibility for Avivas Chief Executive Officer Group CEO and Chief Financial Officer insurance operations in France, Canada, Ireland, Spain, Italy, CFO, proposals for significant transactions, changes in senior Poland, Turkey and India.
His appointment gives further focus at management, regulatory developments, the control environment, Board level to the Groups International businesses, with the UK and progress against the Group Plan and the Groups strategy already being represented at Board level through Andy Briggs.
Received regular updates from the Chairman on Board matters for Sir Malcolm Williamson retired on 10 May 2017, after serving two which he is responsible such as Board composition years on the Board.
Bob Stein also retired on 10 May 2017, after serving four years on the Board.
Customer 10% of agenda time Glyn Barker became Senior Independent Director SID on 10 Received updates on customer metrics and the processes to May 2017 and, following announcement of the half year results on 3 reduce complaints August 2017, stepped down as Chair of the Audit Committee but Undertook deep dives into renewal pricing, customer journeys, remained as a member, with Keith Williams becoming the Audit and customer operations and transformation Committee Chair.
Claudia Arney became Governance Committee Oversight of risk and risk management 6% of agenda time Chair on 1 January 2017, following the retirement of Scott Wheway Received reports from the Chief Risk Officer CRO, and assessed on 31 December 2016. the Groups significant risks and regulatory issues, approved the Board diversity Groups risk appetite, approved the Group risk policies which In May 2017, the Board adopted a Diversity and Inclusion provide the risk framework for managing risk across the Group, Statement, which supports the Nomination Committee in its and received updates on the Groups capital and liquidity position approach to succession planning.
The statement can be found on the Companys website at www.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 39 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Directors and Corporate Governance report Continued Corporate governance 12% of agenda time Regularly discussed the current Group culture, its alignment with Reviewed regular updates from its committees and management strategy, and how it has been embedded during the year on legislation and proposed consultations that may affect the Groups legal and regulatory obligations Board appointments The Board appoints Independent Non-Executive Directors NEDs Received assurance that governance structures remained who can apply their wider business skills, knowledge and appropriate for the businesses and the global markets in which we operate, while supporting the overall strategy and culture experience to the oversight of the Group, and provide input and challenge in the boardroom to assist in the development and Maintained a continued focus on the governance framework for execution of our strategy.
Executive director appointments are the Groups subsidiaries and supported the further embedding of made to ensure that the appropriate business focus is represented the Subsidiary Governance Principles on the Board to support effective implementation of the Group Significant transactions and expenditure 11% of agenda time strategy.
The Board reviews and refreshes the skills of Board Approved financial matters in line with the Group Funding Plan, members, identifying any areas of skills, experience and knowledge including a capital return to shareholders via a share buyback that we can further strengthen.
Director appointments are made by programme, which was completed on 20 September 2017, and the Board and are subject to a formal, rigorous, and transparent the redemption of debt process and the appropriate regulatory approvals.
The Nomination Approved external and inter-group financing Committee report sets out the steps taken to identify and appoint Reviewed M&A transactions, including the acquisition of Friends new NEDs, which includes consideration of diversity criteria.
First in Ireland Executive director appointments follow the executive succession planning process that ensures there is a pipeline of executive talent Financial reporting and controls, capital structure and dividend available.
All Board appointments are also subject to continued policy 15% of agenda time satisfactory performance following the Boards annual effectiveness Reviewed the Groups financial performance, financial results, and review, and the Companys articles of association, which prescribe approved dividend payments that all serving directors will retire and stand for election or reAssessed the Group capital and liquidity requirements, arising election at each AGM.
The NEDs assist management in the from the Groups strategy and Group Plan development of the Groups strategy, which is set by the Board, so it Reviewed reports provided by its committees on key matters of is important that they have experience of strategy formulation, financial reporting, providing the opportunity for the Board to business planning and transformation.
To be effective, it is the input and challenge where necessary Boards view that the majority of our NEDs should also have a sound understanding of the financial services industry to effectively People, culture, succession planning and Board effectiveness 15% evaluate the information they receive and for them to provide of agenda time appropriate challenge.
The diversity charts in the Chairmans Reviewed the succession plan for the Board Undertook an external evaluation of the Boards effectiveness, the Governance Letter show the financial experience of the Board members.
effectiveness of each committee and individual directors Reviewed the results of the 2017 Voice of Aviva survey, and discussed the organisational results in respect of culture Board and Committee structure Aviva plc Board Collectively responsible for promoting the long-term sustainable success of the Company, generating value for shareholders and contributing to wider society.
The Board sets the Groups purpose, strategy and values, and satisfies itself that these are aligned with the overall culture of the Group.
The Board sets the Groups risk appetite and satisfies itself that financial controls and risk management systems are robust, while ensuring the Group is adequately resourced.
It also ensures there is appropriate dialogue with shareholders on strategy and remuneration.
Details of the responsibilities of each of the Boards committees are set out in this report and the directors remuneration report.
Board committee Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 40 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Directors and Corporate Governance report Continued for the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive Officer Group CEO Board independence which set out the duties of each role.
The Chairmans priority is to The Nomination Committee, having considered the matter lead the Board, monitor the Groups culture and ensure its carefully, is of the opinion that the current NEDs remain effectiveness and the Group CEOs priority is the management of independent, in line with the definition set out in the Code, and are the Group.
The Board has delegated the day-to-day running of the free from any relationship or circumstances that could affect, or Group to the Group CEO within certain limits, above which matters appear to affect, their independent judgement.
Over half of the must be escalated to the Board for determination.
Board members, excluding the Chairman, are independent NEDs.
Mike Hawker has served since his appointment in January 2010.
Senior independent director SID Accordingly, in early 2017 his performance, including his The SIDs role is to act as a sounding board for the Chairman, to independence, was the subject of a particularly rigorous review serve as an intermediary for the other directors where necessary pursuant to the recommendations of the Code, having been on the and to be available to shareholders should they have concerns they Board for longer than six years.
The Board remains satisfied that have been unable to resolve through normal channels, or when Mike Hawker is independent and will continue to make a valuable such channels would be inappropriate.
Sir Malcolm Williamson and contribution.
Due to his tenure, Glyn Barker will be subject to a Glyn Barker met each NED from time to time, providing a forum in similar review in 2018.
The review of the directors other interests which they could raise matters.
Role profiles for the Chairman, SID, included the cross directorships of Patricia Cross and Mike Hawker Group CEO and NEDs are on the Companys website at who are both directors at Macquarie Group, Glyn Barkers former www.
com roles position as partner of the Groups current auditors and Bob Steins Induction, training and development Non-Executive Directorship at Resolution Life Holdings Inc.
The The Board believes strongly in the development of the directors and Nomination Committee was satisfied this did not affect the the Groups employees.
It is a Company requirement that each judgement or independence of Patricia Cross, Mike Hawker, Glyn director commits to continuing their professional development.
Claudia Arneys Non-Executive Directorship at During the year, the directors attended a number of internal training Halfords Group plc provided an example of the Boards conflicts of sessions on topics including Solvency II SII benchmarking and interest procedure in practice during the year, as Halfords moved unconscious bias.
An independent IT adviser to the Board was their group insurances to Aviva and this potential conflict of interest retained for a short period to provide additional bespoke support was notified to the Board.
and a holistic view on technological developments and the cyber Time commitment security environment in the context of the Companys strategic Each NED must be able to devote sufficient time to the role in order objectives.
The Board will keep its IT expertise under review as the to discharge his or her responsibilities effectively.
The Chairman Companys IT strategy develops.
Training sessions have been built assesses the time commitment of the NEDs as part of the annual into the Board and committees plans for 2018 and is scheduled to review of their effectiveness, and the SID reviews the time include directors duties.
The Chairman ensures all new directors commitment of the Chairman.
This assessment takes into account receive a comprehensive induction programme over a number of the number of external commitments each director has and that months, tailored to their particular needs.
All new directors receive each director has demonstrated they have sufficient time to devote induction materials, which include: the current strategic and to their present role within Aviva including under potential periods operational plan: recent Board and committee minutes and of corporate stress.
Under the Boards policy on this matter, meeting packs: organisation structure charts: role profiles: a history executive directors may hold one external directorship and must of the Group: and relevant policies, procedures and governance obtain the prior consent of the Board before accepting a nonmaterial.
Any knowledge or skill enhancements identified during executive directorship in any other company.
Executive Directors the directors regulatory application process are also addressed may retain the fees from any external directorship.
Maurice Tulloch through their induction programme.
Maurice Tulloch completed his is a director of Pool Reinsurance Company Ltd and the fees he induction programme following his appointment during the year.
receives from this role are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Board calendar report.
No other Executive Director holds an external directorship.
During 2017, ten Board meetings were held, of which eight were Independent advice scheduled meetings and two were additional meetings called at All directors have access to the advice and services of the Group short notice.
In addition, the Board delegated responsibility for Company Secretary and directors wishing to do so may take certain items to specially created Board committees, which met independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
such requests were made during 2017.
The Company arranges The Board visits different markets whenever it can and, during appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal actions against its 2017, two Board meetings were held at Aviva offices in France and directors.
The Company has also entered into indemnities with its Bristol.
This gave the Board the opportunity to meet the senior directors as described in Other Statutory Information.
management teams and to gain a deeper understanding of the operations and performance of each market.
The Board also held a The Chairman and Group Chief Executive Officer strategy meeting offsite in the UK to set and monitor progress Consistent with the Board Terms of Reference, and separately the against the Groups strategy.
During 2018, it is planned that the Senior Insurance Managers Regime SIMR, role profiles are in place Board will continue this pattern and visit Italy in September.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 41 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Directors and Corporate Governance report Continued Board and Committee meetings attendance during 2017 Audit Governance Nomination Remuneration Risk 1 Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings held 10 7 6 4 8 6 Chairman Sir Adrian Montague 10 10 4 4 Executive Directors Mark Wilson 10 10 Tom Stoddard 10 10 Andy Briggs 10 10 Maurice Tulloch 5 5 Non-Executive Directors 2,6 Glyn Barker 9 10 7 7 3 3 4 4 5 5 6 6 2 Patricia Cross 9 10 7 7 4 4 8 8 Beln Romana Garca 10 10 6 6 4 4 6 6 2 Michael Hawker 9 10 7 7 4 4 6 6 2 Michael Mire 9 10 6 6 4 4 8 8 6 6 2, 4, 5 Bob Stein 2 4 2 3 1 2 2 3 2 3 2,4 Sir Malcolm Williamson 3 4 3 3 3 3 2 2 3 3 Claudia Arney 10 10 6 6 4 4 8 8 6 6 Keith Williams 10 10 7 7 6 6 4 4 3 3 1 During the year there were 10 Board meetings, of which eight were scheduled meetings and two were called at short notice.
2 The Board meeting on 26 January 2017 was called at short notice.
Due to this Glyn Barker, Mike Hawker, Bob Stein, Michael Mire, Patricia Cross and Sir Malcolm Williamson were unable to attend due to other prior commitments.
Papers were circulated to all directors before the meeting and those unable to attend could raise issues and give comments to the Chairman in advance of the meeting.
3 Maurice Tulloch was appointed as an Executive Director on 20 June 2017.
4 Bob Stein and Sir Malcolm Williamson retired at the AGM on 10 May 2017.
5 Bob Stein missed the Board, Nomination Committee, Remuneration Committee, Audit Committee and Risk Committee meetings on 8 May 2017 and 9 May 2017 respectively, as they fell immediately prior to his retirement date.
6 Glyn Barker was appointed as a member of the Governance Committee on 10 May 2017.
Conflicts of interest During 2018, the Boards agenda will focus on refining our In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Companys Articles strategic propositions, pursuing growth in our traditional and newer of Association allow the Board to authorise potential conflicts of markets and accelerating the rollout of new products and the Aviva interest that may arise and to impose such limits or conditions as it Signature processes.
Digital First will remain, and we will continue thinks fit.
The decision to authorise a conflict of interest can only be to monitor our controls around IT and Cyber Security, to protect us made by non-conflicted directors those who have no interest in the against new threats that emerge.
Our customer agenda will evolve, matter being considered and in making such a decision the and the Board will continue to drive progress with a view to directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most achieving consistently excellent customer service with a product likely to promote the Companys success for the benefit of its offering that continues to meet customer needs.
Offsite strategy shareholders as a whole.
The Boards procedure is to review and days are used to set, and reflect on progress with the Companys approve actual and potential conflicts of interest as they arise.
In these sessions the Board discuss the strategic priorities procedure operated effectively during the year.
for the year ahead and set the three year strategic plan and these will continue to occur in 2018.
Board priorities for 2018 The Audit, Governance and Risk Committees will continue to The Board has made considerable progress during 2017 on the consider the opportunities and risks associated with each market objectives set at the beginning of the year.
This included exiting and the Remuneration Committee will assess any consequential from Taiwan and Spain, demonstrating that we are delivering on impact on reward decisions.
As the culture programme progresses, our strategy of Not Everywhere by focusing our resources in markets the Board will remain close to the annual all-employee survey where we believe we have a clear competitive advantage, and results, Voice of Aviva.
Succession planning and the continued further increasing value for our shareholders by increasing our development of the talent pipeline will continue to be a focus for growth and cash flow.
the Board and Nomination Committee.
We continued to make considerable progress on our Digital First ambition to disrupt the insurance industry, and during the year Board evaluation developed market leading digital propositions, while continuing to The effectiveness of the Board is vital to the success of the Group.
The embed our approach to digital throughout the Group.
We have Board has undertaken a rigorous evaluation process each year to made continued progress on our targets for earnings, growth, cash assess how it, its committees and individual directors are performing.
and dividends, with our capital surplus having tripled over the last The normal process is for an evaluation to be undertaken by way of four years.
We have also focussed on strengthening our an internal questionnaire, supported by discussions with the relationships with our customers: the Board continuously monitors Chairman, with an external evaluation conducted every third year.
customer metrics to ensure that we deliver on our purpose to Defy The Board decided to conduct an external evaluation a year earlier Uncertainty through our product offering, and customer service.
than required by the Code in 2017, following changes to the Board These areas of focus were in addition to the Boards routine during the course of the year.
The external evaluation was facilitated standing agenda which included financial reporting and strategic by Independent Board Evaluation IBE.
IBE is an external Board planning.
evaluation facilitator which has no other connection with Aviva.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 42 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Directors and Corporate Governance report Continued Interviews were conducted during the year with every Board which are outlined in the table below.
This will be reviewed during member, according to a set agenda tailored for the Board, which 2018. had been agreed with the Chairman and the Group Company In addition, during the year the NEDs, led by the Chairman, met Secretary.
In addition, interviews were held with senior managers to discuss the executives performance.
The NEDs, led by Sir and advisers together with former Board members.
Following the Malcolm Williamson, and subsequently Glyn Barker, also met final report, recommendations were considered by the Board and without the Chairman present to consider the Chairmans each committee, and an action plan for areas of focus was agreed, performance.
Outcomes and steps taken in 2017 Focus area Theme Feedback actions Shareholders Investors views on Investors views are regularly sought and incorporated into the Boards planning.
During the the impact of year the Board undertook an independent investor survey in order to gain further insight strategic decisions into shareholder expectations, which will feed into the Boards strategy going forward.
The Chair of the Remuneration Committee met with institutional shareholders and advisory groups in respect of the new Remuneration Policy to be put to shareholders for approval at the 2018 AGM.
Succession planning Board and executive This remains a continued focus as evidenced, at Board level, by the appointment of Maurice level succession Tulloch in 2017.
Maurice brings expertise and focus to the Board of the Groups International planning businesses, with the UK already being represented at Board level through Andy Briggs.
Governance Developing the To enhance the relationship between Aviva plc and subsidiary boards, the Chairmans relationship between conference was again held in November 2017 allowing the Board to engage with various Aviva plc and subsidiary company board members.
The INED Portal was launched in 2017 in order to subsidiary boards strengthen communication lines between the Aviva plc Board and the Independent NonExecutive Director community and further align the strategy across the Group.
We have also appointed Non-Executives from the plc Board to material subsidiaries to continue to strengthen the communications and strategic linkage.
Board Schedule Time commitment The Boards delegations of authority have been refreshed and the Group Company for the Board Secretary and Chairman continue to seek opportunities to simplify reporting lines.
Board and committee schedules have been reviewed to ensure the number and timing of meetings are appropriate throughout the year.
Strategy Customer agenda Given the importance of this area, the strategic direction of the customer experience has become a matter for the Board as a whole.
As such, customer is a standing agenda item on the Board and Governance Committee agendas.
In addition, the customer dashboard is reviewed at each Board meeting.
Diversity Diversity and The Board is committed to having a diverse and inclusive leadership team and, as such, in Inclusion Statement 2017 the Aviva plc Board Diversity and Inclusion Statement was adopted.
The statement is in line with the Groups overall values and also supports the Nomination Committee in its approach to succession planning.
Committee effectiveness associated with the Groups operations is delegated to the Risk, As part of the Board effectiveness review process, each committee Governance and Audit Committees which report regularly to the undertakes a rigorous review of its effectiveness annually.
However, the Board retains ultimate responsibility for the the committee reviews were conducted alongside the evaluation of Groups systems of internal control and risk management and has the Board and also facilitated by IBE.
The committees will each reviewed their effectiveness for the year.
The frameworks are consider the feedback from the evaluation and responses as designed to identify and manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of appropriate.
the Group failing to achieve its business objectives.
These frameworks were in place for the financial year under review and up Frameworks for risk management and internal control to the date of this report, and they help to ensure the Group The Board is responsible for promoting the long-term success of the complies with the Financial Reporting Councils FRC guidance on Company for the benefit of shareholders, as well as taking account Risk Management, Internal Controls and Related Financial and of other stakeholders including employees and customers.
includes ensuring that an appropriate system of risk governance is A robust assessment was conducted by the Board of the in place throughout the Group.
To discharge this responsibility, the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would Board has established frameworks for risk management and threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and internal control using a three lines of defence model and reserves liquidity.
During 2017 these included geopolitical risks including for itself the setting of the Groups risk appetite.
Further details are Brexit, the elevated prices of assets, the emerging strategic risks contained on the following pages.
posed by technology and market changes, risks posed by climate In-depth monitoring of the establishment and operation of change, the heightened risk of cyber threats and data security, prudent and effective controls in order to assess and manage risks Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 43 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Directors and Corporate Governance report Continued First line management monitoring ongoing regulatory change and other emerging risks and market The Group Executive members and each market chief executive uncertainty.
Further information is contained in the Risk Committee officer are responsible for the application of RMF, for implementing report.
and monitoring the operation of the system of internal control and Risk management framework for providing assurance to the Audit, Governance and Risk The Risk Management Framework RMF is designed to identify, Committees and the Board.
measure, manage, monitor and report the principal risks to the Second line risk management, compliance and actuarial functions Group of achieving its business objectives and is embedded The Risk Management function is accountable for the quantitative throughout the Group.
It is codified through risk policies and and qualitative oversight and challenge of the identification, business standards which set out the risk strategy, appetite, measurement, monitoring and reporting of principal risks and for framework and minimum requirements for the Groups worldwide developing the RMF.
Further detail is set out in note 56.
The Actuarial function is accountable for the Group-wide Internal controls actuarial methodology, reporting to the relevant governing body on Internal controls facilitate effective and efficient operations, the the adequacy of reserves and capital requirements, as well as development of robust and reliable internal reporting and underwriting and reinsurance arrangements.
The Compliance compliance with laws and regulations.
function supports and advises the business on the identification, Group reporting manuals in relation to IFRS and Solvency II measurement and management of its regulatory, financial crime reporting requirements and a Financial Reporting Control and conduct risks.
It is accountable for maintaining the compliance Framework FRCF are in place across the Group.
FRCF relates to the standards and framework within which the Group operates, and preparation of reliable financial reporting, covering both IFRS and monitoring and reporting on its compliance risk profile.
The FRCF process follows a risk-based Third line internal audit approach, with management identification, assessment The third line of defence is Internal Audit.
This function provides documentation and testing, remediation as required, reporting independent and objective assessment on the robustness of the and certification over key financial reporting related controls.
RMF and the appropriateness and effectiveness of internal control Management regularly undertakes quality assurance procedures to the Audit, Governance and Risk Committees, market audit over the application of the FRCF process and controls.
Further information can be found in the A Major Control Improvement Topic programme is also in place, Audit Committee report.
designed to focus attention on enhancing our control environment around six areas identified by management.
Of these, four have been closed during 2017.
The areas that have been closed include Outsourcing, Compliance Effectiveness, Fraud Management and Data Governance.
Disaster Recovery and Cyber Security are the two remaining areas.
Further information can be found in the Audit and Risk Committee reports.
The principal committees that oversee risk management are as follows The Risk Committee The Governance Committee The Audit Committee Assists the Board in its oversight of risk and Works closely with the Risk Committee and Works closely with the Risk Committee and risk management across the Group and is responsible for assisting the Board in its is responsible for assisting the Board in makes recommendations on risk appetite oversight of operational risk across the discharging its responsibilities for the to the Board.
Reviews the effectiveness of Group, particularly in respect of the risk of integrity of the Companys financial the Risk Management Framework, and the not delivering good customer outcomes.
statements, the effectiveness of the system methodology in determining the Groups of internal controls and for monitoring the capital and liquidity requirements.
effectiveness, performance and objectivity Ensures that risk management is of the internal and external auditors.
properly considered in setting remuneration policy.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 44 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Directors and Corporate Governance report Continued Board oversight Communication with shareholders The Boards delegated responsibilities regarding oversight of risk The Company places considerable importance on communication management and the approach to internal controls are set out on with shareholders.
The Executive Directors have an ongoing the previous pages.
There is a good working practice between each dialogue and a programme of meetings with institutional investors, committee and they provide regular reports to the Board on their fund managers and analysts which are managed by the Companys activities and escalate significant matters where appropriate.
The Chairman met a number of the responsibilities and activities of each Board committee are set out Companys major shareholders during 2017.
At these meetings a in the committee reports.
range of issues are discussed including strategy, financial performance, management, remuneration and governance, within Assessment of effectiveness of risk management the constraints of information already made public, to understand The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Risk Officer of each market is any issues of concern.
In November 2017, we held a Capital Markets required to make a declaration that the Groups governance, Day in Warsaw to update investors and analysts on our financial internal control and risk management requirements are effective objectives.
Shareholders views are regularly shared with the Board and fit for purpose across the business and that they are kept under through the Group CEOs and CFOs reports and periodic briefings review through the year.
from the corporate brokers and other specialist advisors, especially Any material risks not previously identified, control weaknesses around report publications and policy formations.
Further details of or non-compliance with the Groups risk policies or local shareholder engagement regarding our new Remuneration Policy delegations of authority must be highlighted as part of this process.
can be found in the Directors remuneration report.
The SID was This is supplemented by investigations carried out at Group level available to meet with major investors to discuss any concerns that and a Group CEO and CRO certification for Aviva plc.
could not be resolved through normal channels.
The effectiveness assessment also draws on the regular cycle of assurance activity carried out during the year, as well as the results 2018 AGM of the certification process.
During 2017, this has been enhanced by The 2018 AGM will be held on Thursday 10 May 2018 and the Notice the application of the Groups improved Operational Risk & Control of AGM and related papers will, unless otherwise noted, be sent to Management ORCM framework.
Through ORCM the Group has shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
The AGM defined a common system and methodology for the management provides a valuable opportunity for the Board to communicate with of operational risks and controls to be deployed throughout the private shareholders.
All directors normally attend the Companys Group.
This framework includes tools, processes and standardised AGM, however, Bob Stein did not attend the 2017 AGM due to his reporting necessary to identify, measure, manage, monitor and retirement.
All serving directors plan to attend the 2018 AGM.
report on the operational risks to which the Group is, or could be, We have an email address, aviva.
com, for exposed and the controls in place to mitigate those risks within shareholders to ask questions on the business of the AGM.
The details of key failings or weaknesses A presentation on the Groups performance will be given at the are reported to the Audit Committee and the Board on a regular AGM and made available on the Companys website after the basis and are summarised annually to enable them to carry out an meeting at www.
Shareholders are invited to ask questions related to the The Audit Committee, working closely with the Risk Committee business of the meeting at the AGM and have an opportunity to on behalf of the Board, last carried out a full review of the meet with the directors following the conclusion of the meeting.
effectiveness of the systems of internal control and risk Further details on the AGM are provided in the Shareholder Services management in March 2018 covering all material controls, including section.
financial, operational and compliance controls and the RMF.
Through regular reporting and the annual review, a number of areas of improvement have been identified and the required actions have been or are being taken.
The committee reports refer to a number of areas where significant control improvement is needed and in progress such as cyber security and disaster recovery, as well as financial crime prevention, data management and preparedness for the EU General Data Protection Regulation.
We are investing in improvements in these areas and will continue to monitor them.
The risk management framework of a small number of our joint ventures and strategic equity holdings differs from the RMF outlined in this report.
We continue to work with these entities to understand how their risks are managed and to align them, where possible, with our framework.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 45 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Directors and Corporate Governance report Continued A skills matrix for Board members and the Companys executive Nomination management has been developed and it supported the Committees discussions during the Board and committee appointment process.
The skills matrix sets out the expertise and Committee report experience of each Board member and the Group Executive and assists the Committee in identifying those who possess the desired skills and experience to join the Board and its committees, both now and in the future.
In the year, the skills matrix was used to identify our need to Committee focus for the 2017 year give greater focus to the Groups European and International I am pleased to present the Nomination Committees report for the businesses at Board level and, coupled with the Boards desire to year ended 31 December 2017. appoint an additional Executive Director, it was agreed that Maurice During 2017, the Committee supported the appointment of Tulloch should join the Board.
Maurices promotion demonstrates Maurice Tulloch as an Executive Director of the Board, and the how we continue to develop our talent in the Group.
Independent Non Executive Director NEDs succession process Executive and Board succession planning continues to be a following the retirement of Bob Stein and Sir Malcolm Williamson at priority for the Committee and throughout the year the Committee the conclusion of the 2017 Annual General Meeting AGM on 10 May monitored the future leader pipeline and the available pool of 2017. talent in the Company.
With respect to the wider people agenda, the Board is heavily Committee membership involved in managing and strengthening the talent pipeline across The members of the Committee are shown in the table below.
Members of the Board have been involved in various Details of their experience, qualifications and their attendance at initiatives including an ongoing programme of talent breakfasts Committee meetings during the year are shown within the where high potential employees meet the Board at least four times Directors and corporate governance report.
Further information on our people strategy can be found in Years on the the Strategic report.
Name Member Since Committee Sir Adrian Montague 06 03 2013 5 Diversity Claudia Arney 08 02 2016 2 The Board is committed to having a diverse and inclusive Glyn Barker 01 07 2012 5 leadership team which provides a range of perspectives, insights Patricia Cross 01 12 2013 4 and the challenge needed to support good decision making.
Beln Romana Garca 26 06 2015 2 Diversity at Aviva includes but is not limited to gender: it comprises Michael Hawker 01 07 2012 5 an inclusive environment which respects all strands of diversity Michael Mire 12 09 2013 4 including skills and experience, geographical expertise, ethnicity, disability and sexual orientation.
Bob Stein 06 03 2013 5 In May 2017, the Board adopted a Diversity and Inclusion Sir Malcolm Williamson 14 05 2015 2 statement which supports the Committee in its approach to Keith Williams 01 08 2016 1 succession planning.
The Boards Diversity and Inclusion statement, Chair Retired from the conclusion of the 2017 Annual General Meeting 10 May 2017 which is in line with the overall Group Diversity and Inclusion strategy, is available on the Companys website at Committee purpose www.
com corporate-governance The main purpose of the Committee is to monitor the balance of We are supportive of the recommendations set out in the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity on the Board and the Hampton-Alexander Review and are committed to raising the succession plans for the Executive Directors.
Last year the representation of women on the Board to 33%.
As at the date of this Committee expanded its responsibility to include the oversight of report, 25% of the Board are female, which is an increase from 23% talent development for the wider Group.
This ensures that a holistic in 2016.
In terms of our senior management, 30% of our Group approach to talent development and securing a future talent Executive members are female.
pipeline is taken throughout the Group.
We actively support women advancing into senior roles, as evidenced by our participation in initiatives such as the Future Board and executive succession planning Boards Scheme.
In addition, the Group Chief Executive Officer There have been a number of changes to the Board during the year.
Group CEO and I are active members of the 30% Club.
The Board In June 2017 it was agreed that Maurice Tulloch, Chief Executive will continue to monitor Avivas talent management programmes Officer of International Insurance, would join the Board as an and practices with a special regard to those designed for women Executive Director.
Maurice brings significant general insurance and with high potential.
international experience to the Board.
The Board is also supportive of the recommendations set out in Glyn Barker, who has been a member of the Board for six years, the Parker Review and we aim to increase the ethnic diversity of the was appointed as Senior Independent Director SID following Sir Board by 2021.
Malcolms retirement and as a consequence stepped down as Chair of the Audit Committee.
He also became a member of the Board effectiveness review Governance and Remuneration Committees.
In line with our The Board and its committees conduct an evaluation of their approach to succession planning, Keith Williams became Chair of performance each year and in accordance with the UK Corporate the Audit Committee and a member of the Risk Committee and in Governance Code, we conduct external evaluations at least every January last year, Claudia Arney was appointed Chair of the three years.
Our 2017 evaluation was conducted by Independent Governance Committee and a member of the Risk Committee.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 46 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Directors and Corporate Governance report Continued Board Evaluation, a firm that has no other connection with the Company.
Further information about the 2017 effectiveness review can be found in the Directors and Corporate Governance Report.
The Committee will review the outcomes of the 2017 effectiveness review, agree any actions and monitor these going forward.
2018 priorities In 2018 the Committee will continue to focus on succession planning at Board and senior management level, developing our people to ensure we maintain a strong talent pipeline and supporting the leadership programmes that underpin this.
Sir Adrian Montague Chair of the Nomination Committee 7 March 2018 Committee activities and agenda time during 2017 Evaluation and annual assessment 15% of agenda time Assessment of non-executive directors independence Considered and recommended to the Board the election reelection of each continuing director ahead of their election reelection by shareholders at the Companys 2017 AGM Reviewed and made recommendations to the Board in respect of each directors actual, potential or perceived conflicts of interests Board composition and diversity 34% of agenda time Reviewed the composition of the Board and its committees and in particular, whether the Board required additional skills and experience which would complement those of the existing members and the Companys risk profile and strategy Recommended the appointment of Glyn Barker as Senior Independent Director and various committee changes Considered specific steps to be taken in relation to diversity in Board and executive succession planning Succession planning 24% of agenda time Continued to focus on succession planning arrangements at both Board and executive level, against a specification for the role and capabilities required for the position and the composition of the Board Considered plans for succession for each Group Executive member, including talent development below Group Executive level Identified and endorsed the appointment of Maurice Tulloch to the Board in June 2017 Talent pipeline 27% of agenda time Reviewed the career and development plans for the Group Executive to ensure that there is an adequate talent pool of potential executive directors Oversaw talent development throughout the Group and ensured there is a sufficient pipeline of talent available to achieve the Companys current and future strategy Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 47 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Directors and Corporate Governance report Continued During the year, Bob Stein retired from the Committee at the Risk Committee conclusion of the 2017 Annual General Meeting on 10 May 2017, and Keith Williams was appointed as a Committee member on 3 August 2017. report Years on the Member Since Committee Michael Hawker 01 01 2010 8 Glyn Barker 02 05 2012 5 Beln Romana Garca 26 06 2015 2 Committee focus for the 2017 year Michael Mire 12 09 2013 4 I am pleased to present the Committees report for the year ended Bob Stein 06 03 2013 5 31 December 2017.
Claudia Arney 01 01 2017 1 The Companys approach to risk and risk management together Keith Williams 03 08 2017 1 with the principal risks that face the Group are explained within the Chair Risk and risk management section of this report.
Retired from the conclusion of the 2017 Annual General Meeting 10 May 2017 During the year the Committees focus remained on geopolitical risks including Brexit, the elevated prices of assets, the emerging Committee purpose strategic risks posed by technology and market changes, risks The main purpose of the Committee is to assist the Board in its posed by climate change, the heightened risk of cyber threats and oversight of risk within the Group, with particular focus on the data security, ongoing regulatory change and other emerging risks Groups risk appetite, risk profile in relation to capital, liquidity and and market uncertainty.
franchise value and the effectiveness of the Groups Risk Much work has gone into understanding the emerging risk Management Framework.
The Committee reviews the methodology environment, diversifying the Groups risks and hedging its risk used in determining the Groups capital requirements and stress exposures against extreme stresses to provide a more stable capital testing and ensures that due diligence appraisals are carried out on position.
The Committee has incorporated emerging risk scenarios strategic or significant transactions.
In addition to the risks inherent into its scenario planning, enabling it to review the most significant in the Groups investment portfolio, the Committee reviews the risks that would affect the Companys strategy both now and in the Groups operational risks, and the significant ongoing changes to future.
Cyber risk continues to be managed through the Company the regulatory framework while monitoring the prudential wide systemic programme, the Major Control Improvement Topics regulatory requirements across the Group.
The Committee also MCIT programme.
works with the Remuneration Committee to ensure that risk The Committee continues to analyse the impact of Brexit management is properly considered in setting the Remuneration particularly the potential exit scenarios, as well as the emerging Policy, and is responsible for promoting a risk awareness culture for regulatory framework for Global Systemically Important Insurers Gthe Group.
SIIs, which it will continue to do throughout 2018.
The Committee recognises the ongoing risk of operational Financial markets and geopolitical uncertainty During 2017 financial markets remained relatively buoyant despite failings and in particular the potential for subsequent regulatory heightened geopolitical and national political uncertainty following enforcement or fines.
The newly implemented Operational Risk & Control Management ORCM framework provides the Committee the inauguration of the new Trump administration in the US, tensions over North Korea and general elections in the UK, Germany with ongoing data to monitor the progress being made to improve and France.
The Committee considered that management actions the Groups operating controls and to upgrade its systems.
The Board has undertaken a number of training sessions and deep dives including hedging activities and the Groups balance sheet strength were well positioned against the market volatility experienced into the risks of the business during the year to support this ongoing during the year.
oversight at both Board and Committee level.
Committee membership Credit risk The members of the Committee are shown in the table below.
The Committee continuously monitored the credit environment Details of their experience, qualifications and attendance at throughout the year and considered the current economic factors, Committee meetings during the year are shown within the in particular the unwinding of quantitative easing and the ongoing Directors and Corporate Governance report.
tightening of monetary policy in many of the major economies, which may cause counterparty credit risks.
It also reviewed the level of hedging and protection in place to mitigate these risks and in particular monitored the Groups exposure to interest rates and widening credit spreads.
Capital and liquidity During the year the Committee reviewed the current and projected capital and liquidity position, risk environment and risk profile, including the estimated impact of the change in Ogden discount rate on the SII capital ratio.
While reviewing the risk profile the Committee oversaw the analysis of the Groups current and projected SII capital and Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 48 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Directors and Corporate Governance report Continued liquidity position, which included reviewing forecasted operating and disaster recovery capabilities of the Group.
The Committees capital generation over the plan period.
The Committee challenged focus will remain on the emerging risks, and the potential benefits the different levels of risk appetite and capital ranges across the that could be derived from them, particularly around advances in Group and reviewed the capital positions in the Groups technology across financial services, automotive and the medical subsidiaries and Group surplus sensitivities.
The Committee monitored the ongoing changes to the Michael Hawker regulatory framework and prudential regulatory requirements Chair of the Risk Committee across the Group and will continue to provide an open dialogue 7 March 2018 with the regulators, particularly in regards to Brexit planning, dividend plans and changes to the internal model.
Committee activities and agenda time during 2017 Risk appetite, risk management and risk reporting 21% of agenda IT Infrastructure and data security time Given the Groups digital strategy and the increasing external cyber Reviewed reports from the Chief Risk Officer CRO which included security threat, focus has remained on the transformation of the updates on significant risks facing the Group, the Groups capital Groups IT estate, its resilience, and its ability to support the Groups and liquidity position, the control environment, emerging risks strategy and keep customer data safe.
During the year the and risk profile, liquidity risk appetite and operational, regulatory Committee received regular updates on the cyber security and conduct risk transformation programme in regards to the outcomes, transition Reviewed and recommended the Groups risk policies for Board plans and timings.
A broader assessment of the Companys IT approval infrastructure was undertaken during the year, ahead of a plan for Reviewed reports on the updated audit approach under the the upgrade of legacy systems.
The Committee also received Groups Operational Risk and Control Methodology updates throughout the year and regularly reviewed the risk of Reviewed and recommended for Board approval the Groups SII service interruption on the business and will continue to receive Capital and Liquidity risk appetite status reports on global disaster recovery plans and failover tests Approved the Groups foreign exchange risk appetite and SII throughout 2018. capital risk tolerances by risk type The introduction of the EU General Data Protection Regulation GDPR will significantly increase the requirements on Aviva to Group capital and liquidity, financial plan and stress testing 21% protect customer data and in particular the responsibility of our of agenda time outsourced suppliers to meet these standards.
The management of Approved the 2017 Group Capital and Liquidity Plan and data protection has been brought together through the Cyber subsequent updates Security and Data Governance MCIT programmes which will Reviewed capital and liquidity projections including the Groups support the Groups readiness.
shareholder cover ratio and liquidity cover ratio The Groups ORCM requirements and guidance have provided Reviewed updates on credit risk and the Companys exposure and greater clarity of accountability, with the risk function having reviewed mitigating actions specific responsibility for identifying any missing risks and therefore Received updates on the asset portfolio: including global mitigating the risk of further thematic issues developing.
economics, assessment of macro economic impacts on the equity release market and investment updates Public policy risk, including Brexit Received the scenarios for Group-wide stress testing to support Although we do not believe that Brexit has a significant operational the Recovery Plan, and the results impact on our business, the influence that it will continue to have Approved the G-SII Plans, including Recovery Plan and Liquidity on the UK economy will require careful monitoring.
During the year Risk Management Plan the Committee reviewed the potential exit scenarios and their Reviewed the 2018-2020 Group Plan impact on the Group, and the Groups operational planning in response.
It also considered the public policy risks that might arise Internal model 8% of agenda time in 2018 if there was another general election in the UK and a change Undertook a review of the internal model components, reviewed of government, and continues to monitor political and public policy internal model validation reports and governance updates risk in Avivas other principal markets.
External factors 18% of agenda time Committee effectiveness review Reviewed regular updates on the performance of the Groups The Committee undertakes a rigorous review of its effectiveness investment portfolios and on the external economic environment, annually.
More information can be found in the Directors and and assessed the implications on the Groups asset portfolio Corporate Governance report.
Monitored the risk of cyber security, the progress against cyber risks and reviewed the results of simulation security attacks 2018 priorities against the Group The Committee will continue to monitor the political environment, Monitored the impact of Brexit, in particular the exit scenarios and the exit of Britain from the European Union, and the current global regularly reviewed updates regarding the potential impact on economic cycle, with inflated asset values.
It will also focus on capital and liquidity managing balance sheet volatility and the operational and Reviewed the most significant emerging risk scenarios affecting economic impacts, with contingency financing available to manage the delivery of the Companys strategy, including EU GDPR any broad market impact.
There will be an ongoing and significant focus on strengthening the control framework, cyber risk reduction Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 49 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Directors and Corporate Governance report Continued Regulatory, governance and internal audit 32% of agenda time Received updates from the UK Business Units Reviewed the Group Own Risk and Solvency Assessment Supervisory Report and approved its submission to the regulator Received updates on the disaster recovery, IT security, outsourcing and cyber risk MCITs, and monitored and challenged progress by management Received quarterly reports from the Chief Audit Officer CAO on internal audit which included progress on improving the control environment, progress on MCITs, and the review of the Internal Audit function Approved the refresh of certain Group Business Standards Approved the annual objectives of the CRO Reviewed the effectiveness of the systems of internal control and risk management Recommended the 2018 Risk and Control Goal for approval by the Remuneration Committee Reviewed the adequacy and quality of the risk management function Assessed the performance of all Group Business Units against the 2017 Group Risk and Control Goal Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 50 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Directors and Corporate Governance report Continued Committee membership The members of the Committee are shown in the table below.
Audit Committee Details of their experience, qualifications and attendance at Committee meetings during the year are shown in the Directors report Biographies and Directors and Corporate Governance report.
Sir Malcolm Williamson and Bob Stein retired from the Committee after the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 10 May 2017.
Glyn Barker stepped down as Committee Chair and became Senior Independent Director, following the announcement Committee focus for the 2017 year of the 2017 half year results on 3 August 2017.
Glyn remains as a I am pleased to present the Audit Committees report for the year member of the Committee, and I took over as Committee Chair ended 31 December 2017. from that date.
2017 has been a year of continued political and business Years on the turbulence.
Against this background the Committee has continued Member Since Committee to focus on the fundamentals of financial reporting, our system of Keith Williams 01 08 2016 1 internal controls and the performance of the internal and external Glyn Barker 08 08 2012 5 auditors.
This has included the potential impact of a number of new Patricia Cross 01 12 2013 4 International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs, including the Michael Hawker 01 09 2011 6 new insurance accounting standard issued in 2017, for Bob Stein 14 05 2015 2 implementation in 2021, on the Companys financial operations and Sir Malcolm Williamson 14 05 2015 2 financial reporting.
Chair from 3 August 2017 On 27 February 2017, the Lord Chancellor announced a Chair until 3 August 2017 Retired from the conclusion of the 2017 Annual General Meeting 10 May 2017 reduction in the discount rate factor used to adjust large personal injury damages awards for future loss of earnings the Ogden rate Committee member requirements to -0.75%, the impact of which we reported in the Groups 2016 The Committee annually reviews how its members meet the financial results.
The Committee will continue to monitor expertise criteria set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 developments in the Ogden rate, further discussion in Parliament and the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules DTRs.
and any proposed rate change in the year ahead.
Following the review undertaken for 2017, a recommendation was The Committee continued to provide oversight on behalf of the made to the Board that I, as Committee Chair, fulfilled each of the Board of all the Major Control Improvement Topics MCITs on requirements for recent and relevant financial experience and Cyber Security, Compliance Effectiveness, Data Governance, competence in accounting and auditing, as did Glyn Barker.
Patricia Disaster Recovery, Outsourcing and Fraud Management.
The Cross and Mike Hawker confirmed that they meet the Code Committee has specific accountability for the Fraud Management requirement for recent and relevant financial experience.
Four MCITs were closed during the year and are now Committee as a whole has competence relevant to both the monitored as part of our business as usual processes.
The MCIT insurance and financial services industry.
programme assists management in providing even greater focus on enhancing our control environment around the six thematic areas Committee purpose identified.
The main purpose of the Committee is to assist the Board in During the third quarter of 2017, Aviva received a comment discharging its responsibilities for monitoring the: letter from the Corporate Reporting Review Team CRRT of the integrity of the Companys financial statements: Financial Reporting Council FRC in relation to its regular review adequacy and effectiveness of our systems of internal control and assessment of the quality of corporate reporting in the UK.
The including whistleblowing provisions: and, comment letter focussed on the disclosures of the Alternative monitoring the effectiveness, performance and objectivity of our Performance Measures APMs in our 2016 Annual report and internal and external auditors.
The CRRT raised certain questions regarding the composition and labelling of the Operating Profit measure.
Aviva The Committee acts independently of management and works responded to the CRRTs questions providing clarifying information closely with the Governance, Remuneration and Risk Committees.
and proposing specific enhancements to its 2017 Annual report and There is cross-membership between these Committees to ensure a accounts that would address the questions and comments raised.
good understanding and efficient communication of the work of These enhancements, including the relabelling of the Operating each.
Profit APM to Group Adjusted Operating Profit, have been applied in this annual report.
The CRRT subsequently confirmed in writing that it had closed its enquiries.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 51 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Directors and Corporate Governance report Continued Significant issues The significant issues that the Committee considered during the year are set out in the table below.
Areas of focus Actions taken by the Committee IFRS and Solvency II SII Challenged estimates and judgements for IFRS and SII reporting bases.
IFRS judgements included goodwill and intangible key issues and judgements asset impairment reviews, restructuring provisions and reserving for insurance contracts, including provisions for the continuing impact of the 2016 Brexit vote on property values and rental incomes.
Longer Term Viability Reviewed and challenged the principles underpinning the Statement for 2017, and concluded that the Company and its Statement the Statement subsidiaries will be able to continue in operation and meet their liabilities as they become due.
The Committee therefore continues to consider it appropriate that the Statement covers a three year period.
SII disclosures Reviewed the SII judgements, development of the Group Solvency and Financial Condition Report and the Regulatory Supervisory Report, and recommended them to the Board for approval, ahead of filing for the first time on 1 July 2017.
MCITs Continued to lead the overall progress of the MCIT programme, receiving regular reports from management, particularly on the Fraud Management MCIT, of which the Committee has ownership.
Challenged the proposed MCIT closure dates and governance around the closure process for the MCIT programme, as some of the control topics approach satisfying the closure criteria, upon which they will be managed on a business as usual basis.
The Fraud Management, Outsourcing, Compliance Effectiveness and Data Governance MCITs were all closed during the 2017 year following satisfaction of these criteria.
IFRS and SII Life technical Challenged the assumptions used in the calculation of the Best Estimate Liability component of the technical provisions, provisions and reserves the reserves required under SII, and the expense impacts on SII reserves.
Reviewed and challenged the longevity, expense and credit default assumptions used for the 2017 half and full year.
The challenge around the setting of longevity assumptions was a particularly significant area for review as those judgements could be expected to have a material impact on Avivas SII and IFRS results.
During 2017 a detailed analysis was conducted, and reviewed by the Committee, to validate changes observed in recent mortality experience and the resulting effect on our existing longevity assumptions.
In particular the Committee reviewed the rate of annuitant mortality improvement reflecting recent experience in the UK market.
The Committee met with the Chair of the UK Life Audit Committee, which had conducted its own deep dive on longevity assumptions, together with the UK Life Chief Financial Officer.
This provided an additional opportunity to examine the assumptions in greater detail.
Following assessment of the proposed assumption changes the Committee considered the associated release of margins and the timing of recognition of changes in longevity experience in the financial statements.
New IFRSs Prepared for the implementation of new IFRSs, including IFRS 17, the new insurance accounting standard, IFRS 15, in respect of revenue from contracts, IFRS 9 on financial instruments, and IFRS 16 on leases.
The Committee assessed the impact of each on the Groups financial position, processes, systems and data.
While the impact of adopting IFRS 17 has yet to be fully assessed it is expected that it will have a significant impact on the measurement and disclosure of insurance contracts.
It is not possible to assess the effect of adopting IFRS 9 as the Group has elected to apply the deferral approach permitted by IFRS 4 with the result that the Standard will be considered alongside IFRS 17.
IFRS 15 and IFRS 16 are not expected to have a significant impact on the Group although all aspects of IFRS 16 are yet to be fully assessed.
IFRS and SII GI reserving Reviewed and challenged the principal assumptions underpinning the GI reserves, in particular the continued issues and judgements appropriateness of maintaining the provision for Ogden bodily injury claims, which was made in the 2016 financial statements.
External auditor areas of concern.
An annual review of the Auditor was undertaken  LLP PwC was appointed as the Groups through completion of a questionnaire by the Committee, senior External Auditor Auditor in 2012 following a formal tender process.
management, and members of the Groups finance community.
In line with the Companys policy for the external audit contract to Following review of the questionnaire responses received and be put out to tender at least every ten years, and in conformance consideration of the AQRT report, the Committee concluded that with European rules on mandatory audit rotation, the Committee PwC continued to perform effectively and is recommended to propose that a competitive tender process will next be completed shareholders for reappointment at the 2018 AGM.
no later than for the 2022 year end.
While there is no requirement to The Company has complied with the Statutory Audit Services rotate audit firms until the current auditor has served a maximum of for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Uses of 20 years, in determining the timing of a tender process the Competitive Tender Process and Audit Committee Responsibilities Committee is mindful that it is necessary to allow the selected Order 2014 for the year ended 31 December 2017. auditor appropriate time to become independent should the The Company has an External Auditor Business Standard Committee propose that an auditor other than PwC be selected to Standard in place which is aimed at safeguarding and supporting serve shareholders going forwards.
For this reason, it is currently the independence and objectivity of the Auditor.
The Standard is proposed that a tender process be completed in the 2020 financial compliant with all UK and International Federation of Accountants year for the 2022 year end.
The Committee will continue to monitor rules and takes into account the FRCs Revised Ethical Standard the effectiveness and independence of PwC, as well as considering 2016 and the EU Audit Directive that became applicable to Aviva whether this proposed timing remains appropriate in light of from 1 January 2017. business developments.
The external audit is led by the PwC audit partner, Marcus Hine Non-audit fees In 2017 the Group paid PwC 22.3 million 2016: 23.9 million for who has held the role for three years.
The role of audit partner will be rotated after the 2018 year-end.
audit and audit-related assurance services, with the overall decrease due to Friends Life integration and US SEC delisting In addition, during the year, the Financial Reporting Council's savings.
In addition, PwC were paid 3.0 million 2016: 9.4 million Audit Quality Review Team AQRT reviewed PwC's audit of the Group's 2016 financial statements as part of their annual inspection for other services, including 2.2 million 2016: 8.1 million for other assurance services, giving a total fee to PwC of 25.3 million 2016: of audit firms.
The Committee received and reviewed the final 33.3 million.
report from the FRC which indicated that there were no significant Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 52 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Directors and Corporate Governance report Continued 2018 priorities In line with the Standard, our Committee satisfied itself that for In 2018, in addition to carrying out its principal function, the all non-audit engagements, robust controls were in place through a Committee will monitor the implementation of the new IFRSs, with quarterly review process for audit related and non-audit services particular focus on IFRS 17, regarding the accounting treatment of provided, to ensure that PwCs objectivity and independence was insurance contracts, ahead of it coming into effect on 1 January safeguarded, and concluded that it was in the interests of the 2021.
The Committee will also monitor the impact of changes in Company to purchase these services from PwC due to their specific longevity, and other key assumptions and ensure we are prepared expertise.
Further details are provided in note 12 of the financial for the impact of these changes.
Internal control Keith Williams The Committee is responsible for supporting the Board in ensuring Chair of the Audit Committee a robust system of internal control and risk management in the 7 March 2018 Group.
The Committee receives regular reports on the status of the Committee activities and agenda time during 2017 control environment, reports on our Groups MCITs, and updates on Financial statements and accounting policies 57% of agenda time the management of operational risks and controls under the Recommended to the Board for approval the 2017 half and full Operational Risk and Control Management framework ORCM.
year results More information about our system of internal control and risk Approved the IFRS and SII technical provisions with the 2017 half management can be found in the Directors and Corporate and full year results Governance report in this report.
Recommended to the Board for approval the SII Solvency and The Committee also receives quarterly control reports from the Financial Condition Report Internal Audit function and reviews and challenges management on Reviewed and challenged the reserve positions relating to our UK the actions being taken to improve the quality of the overall control Life and GI operations environment and the control culture across the Group.
Reviewed and challenged the treatment and recoverability of The Committee reviews and approves the bi-annual Internal goodwill and other intangible assets Audit Plan.
It also conducts an annual review of the Internal Audit Monitored and prepared for the reduction in the Ogden rate in Function to assess its effectiveness and to satisfy itself that the February 2017 quality, experience and expertise of the Internal Audit function is Reviewed the Chief Financial Officers reports which included: the appropriate for the business.
This is carried out by reviewing reports IFRS and SII key issues and judgements: accounting issued by Internal Audit and the output of an annual stakeholder developments with particular regard to the new IFRSs: and effectiveness survey.
This formal process is supplemented by overview of internal control over financial reporting.
regular private discussions with both executive management and Reviewed and challenged the going concern assumptions for the External Auditor.
During the 2017 year, the Chief Audit Officer 2017 and the principles underpinning our Longer Term Viability CAO role was transitioned to Julian Woodford, who previously Statement held the role of Chief Finance Officer of the UK General Insurance Reviewed the Group Risk Actuarys report on significant issues business.
The Committee concluded that for 2017 the function related to the technical provisions of SII and IFRS performed well and remained effective.
For the financial year under review, the Company met the External audit, auditor engagement and policy 16% of agenda relevant provisions of the Code relating to internal controls, and the time FRCs 2014 Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Reviewed the effectiveness of the External Auditor and was Related Financial and Business Reporting.
satisfied that the services it provided remained effective, objective The Committee is also supported in its work by the Audit and fit for purpose Committees that operate in the Groups regulated subsidiary Reviewed the External Auditors compliance with the entities.
These subsidiary Audit Committees review the operation of independence criteria set out in the Code internal controls, and actively challenge judgements made by Monitored compliance with our External Auditor Business management, strengthening the overall governance and control Standard on a quarterly basis framework for the Group.
Refreshed our External Auditor Business Standard to reflect new regulatory requirements Whistleblowing Held private meetings with the External Auditor without The Committee Chair is the whistleblowers champion for the Group management present to provide an appropriate forum for issues and has responsibility to oversee the integrity, independence and to be raised effectiveness of the Groups policies.
The Committee as a whole is Reviewed reports from the External Auditor with regard to: the responsible for establishing and overseeing the effectiveness of 2017 Audit Plan and progress against plan and reports on the controls put in place in accordance with regulatory requirements in audit of the 2017 half and full year results including key respect of whistleblowing.
The Board annually receive a formal assumptions used and outcomes of the audit report in respect of whistleblowing activity and compliance in line with updated regulatory requirements.
Internal audit 17% of agenda time Reviewed and approved changes to our Internal Audit Charter and Committee effectiveness review Business Standard The Committee undertakes a rigorous review of its effectiveness Reviewed and approved our Internal Audit Plan annually.
More information can be found in the Directors and Assessed the independence of the CAO Corporate Governance report in this report.
Held private meetings with the CAO without management present Reviewed reports from the CAO Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 53 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Directors and Corporate Governance report Continued Internal controls, including financial reporting control framework and financial reporting developments 10% of agenda time Received quarterly updates on the effectiveness of our FRCF framework and rectification of controls Reviewed managements assessment of the effectiveness of our risk management and control environment Oversaw the MCIT programme and monitored and challenged progress by management to address the Fraud Management MCIT, which was closed in September 2017 Reviewed the Internal Audit function report to ensure adequacy of our systems of internal control and risk management Ensured an appropriate whistleblowing framework was in place Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 54 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Directors and Corporate Governance report Continued The Committee has also been updated on the culture action Governance programme which aims to drive delivery of our customer first and operational simplicity goals, and the Aviva Signature which are the processes that differentiate us from our competitors.
Committee report Our customers The Committee has worked with management to enhance how we measure customer and brand metrics and to develop a dashboard to help us better meet the vision of a business that is Committee focus for the 2017 year simple, effortless and easy for our customers to deal with.
In I am pleased to present the Governance Committees report for addition to these enhancements, the Committee has conducted the year ended 31 December 2017. deep dives into customer complaints when our products and During 2017, the Committee considered and monitored a services have not met customer expectation for any reason, and range of matters which included our customers, our corporate the resulting upskilling of our people and technology responsibility agenda, our reputation, our governance improvements to support our customer contact colleagues.
The operations, organisational redesign and stakeholder Committee has also reviewed the vulnerable customer support engagement.
framework that has been implemented during the year.
Committee membership Data The members of the Committee are shown in the table below.
The Committee has closely engaged with the governance Details of their experience, qualifications and attendance at arrangements for preparations for the General Data Protection Committee meetings during the year are shown within the Regulation GDPR which represents one of the largest changes Directors and Corporate Governance report.
in data management and protection for many years and comes There were a number of changes to the Committee into effect on 25 May 2018.
Associated with GDPR the Committee membership during the year.
I was appointed as Chair of the has also reviewed the governance of the broader approach to Committee in January 2017 and Glyn Barker joined the data privacy and has proactively tested how Aviva could Committee in May 2017.
Sir Malcolm Williamson retired from the demonstrate that it uses customer information appropriately.
Board and the Committee after the conclusion of the 2017 The Committee continued to have oversight of the Groups Data Annual General Meeting AGM on 10 May 2017.
Governance and Compliance Effectiveness Major Control Improvement Topics MCITs which were closed during the year.
Member Years on Name Since the Committee Claudia Arney 01 06 2016 1 Corporate responsibility Glyn Barker 10 05 2017 1 The Committee continued to monitor our approach to corporate responsibility and during the year reviewed Avivas reporting on Michael Mire 12 09 2013 4 modern slavery.
Our commitment to respect human rights is Beln Romana Garca 26 06 2015 2 guided by the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business Keith Williams 01 08 2016 1 and Human Rights and other internationally recognised Sir Malcolm Williamson 14 05 2015 2 frameworks and during the year, the Committee also approved Chair updates to our Business Ethics Code to reflect these Principles.
Retired from the conclusion of the 2017 Annual General Meeting 10 May 2017 This year, the Aviva Community Fund was launched in three Committee purpose additional markets, giving hundreds of organisations across 10 The main purpose of the Committee is to assist the Board in countries the chance to secure the support they need to make a overseeing compliance with our corporate governance difference in their local communities.
principles and implementation, shaping the culture and ethical Aviva is committed to being a responsible corporate citizen values of the Group through overseeing and advising on and the Committee sets the guidance, direction and policies for business and customer conduct obligations, reputation, the Groups corporate responsibility agenda.
Further community and societal issues, data governance and financial information on our integrated responsibility and sustainable crime matters.
In addition, the Committee acts as the conduct business approach can be found on the Companys website at committee for Avivas UK Digital UKD business.
com social-purpose Governance changes Conduct agenda Throughout 2017 the Committee focussed on changes in the In the past year the Committee has paid particular attention to internal governance of the Group particularly the changes to the Avivas conduct risk agenda.
governance structure from bringing the UK Insurance UKI The Groups Business Units BU reassessed their conduct businesses together to focus more closely on customers needs.
risk performance and conduct risk framework which the The Committee has been designated by the Board as the Committee reviewed.
In the year, the Committee received a body that provides oversight of governance activities and this deep dive on the conduct risk in our Italian business from the work has principally focussed on three areas: changes to the Chief Executive Officer of Aviva Italy.
Boards of the Groups regulated entities, the culture action The Compliance Effectiveness and Data Governance MCITs programme and the development of our Aviva Signature closed in July 2017 and the Committee receives regular reports processes.
from the Compliance function which now provides second line The Committee has reviewed and provided input to the oversight of data governance.
The MCITs are also detailed in the changes to the Board and committee composition of the two Audit Committee report.
regulated subsidiary companies that represent the UKI business.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 55 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Directors and Corporate Governance report Continued The Committee continues to receive updates on the lessons Reviewed and where appropriate approved changes to the learned from the Financial Conduct Authoritys FCA Client composition of the material subsidiary boards Assets Sourcebook CASS enforcement action in 2016, and Discussed the outcomes of the 2017 effectiveness review and reviewed the actions taken and the progress in addressing these agreed actions where necessary actions.
An independent review has been conducted following People 9% of agenda time the enforcement action, and significant progress had been made Reviewed the results of the Voice of Aviva surveys to address the issues raised.
Reviewed and considered the talent development programmes for leadership across the Group Committee effectiveness review The Committee undertakes a rigorous review of its effectiveness Approved the Business Ethics Code annually.
More information can be found in the Directors and Regulatory and financial crime 23% of agenda time Corporate Governance report.
Regularly reviewed updates from the Group Compliance Director 2018 priorities In 2018, the Committee will continue to review the customer Reviewed potential financial crime risks and any actions agenda concentrating on improving Avivas customers required in response experience, embedding the Aviva Signature processes and Monitored the Data Governance and Compliance Effectiveness reviewing customer conduct risk issues.
We will also continue to MCITs closure oversee the GDPR programme in order to ensure delivery Monitored the Groups relationship and interaction with through 2018. regulatory bodies and actions taken in respect of regulatory The Committee will also monitor the wellbeing and developments engagement of our people through responses to the Voice of Reviewed and challenged managements explanations and Aviva surveys and the embedding of our culture action actions in response to issues events programme.
UK Digital UKD 11% of agenda time Acted as the conduct committee for the UKD business Claudia Arney Considered UKDs customer agenda and brand proposition Chair of the Governance Committee Received updates on UKD at each Committee meeting and 7 March 2018 considered the conduct risk framework Constructively challenged the UKD Board on matters in Committee activities and agenda time during 2017 relation to conduct, regulatory and financial crime risks and Customer, risk and reputation 22% of agenda time the risk management control framework Focused on the customer agenda and received regular Reviewed the Internal Audit Report on UKD updates and monitored progress on customer metrics relating to sales, retention, claims experience and complaints Regularly reviewed updates from the Chief Audit Officer on any significant control issues Received and considered reports detailing ongoing and possible reputational, brand and franchise risks, including media and public policy issues Corporate responsibility 7% of agenda time Continued to drive the corporate responsibility agenda and monitored compliance with the Groups corporate responsibility strategy Reviewed the Groups modern slavery statement, annual corporate responsibility reporting and the Groups Financial Crime, Regulatory Business and Corporate Responsibility, Environment and Climate Change Business Standards Received updates on the Groups health and safety performance Reviewed the Groups first response to the disclosure recommendations for organisations published by the Financial Stability Boards FSB Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosure Governance 28% of agenda time Considered regular updates from the Group Company Secretary on governance matters, legal and litigation risks which had the potential to impact the reputation of the Group Approved the Groups Conflicts of Interest Policy Monitored the Groups compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and other areas of regulation and guidance Reviewed and updated the Committees Terms of Reference Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 56 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Directors and Corporate Governance report Continued be the case if the dividend was paid.
Details of any dividend waivers Other statutory are disclosed in note 32. Dividend policy information For the full year dividend for 2017 the Company has applied its policy to pay out 50% of operating earnings per share as a dividend to shareholders.
In November 2017, the Company announced its intention to increase its pay-out ratio target to 55-60% of operating EPS by 2020.
The directors submit their Annual report and accounts for Aviva plc, Under UK company law, we may only pay dividends if the together with the consolidated financial statements of the Aviva Company has distributable profits available.
Distributable profits group of companies, for the year ended 31 December 2017. are accumulated, realised profits losses not previously distributed The directors report required under the Companies Act 2006 or capitalised, less accumulated, unrealised losses not previously comprises this directors and corporate governance report: the written off based on IFRS.
Even if distributable profits are available, directors remuneration report and the following disclosures in the we pay dividends only if the amount of our net assets is not less Strategic report: than the aggregate of our called-up share capital and Environment and climate change for disclosure of our greenhouse undistributable reserves and the payment of the dividend does not gas emissions reduce the amount of our net assets to less than that aggregate.
Increasing diversity and inclusion for details of our policy on As a holding company, the Company is dependent upon employment of disabled persons dividends and interest from our subsidiaries to pay cash dividends.
Engaging with our people for details of employee involvement Many of the Companys subsidiaries are subject to insurance Likely future developments in the business of the Company regulations that restrict the amount of dividends that they can pay Important events since the financial year end to us.
Historically, the Company has declared an interim and a final Details of significant post balance sheet events that have occurred dividend for each year with the final dividend being paid in the year subsequent to 31 December 2017 are disclosed in notes 3 and 62. following the year to which it relates.
Subject to the restrictions set The management report required under Disclosure and out above, the payment of interim dividends on ordinary shares is Transparency Rule 4.1.
5R comprises the Strategic report which made at the discretion of the Board, while payment of any final includes the principal risks relating to our business and details of dividend requires the approval of the Companys shareholders at a material acquisitions and disposals made by the Group during the general meeting.
Dividends on preference shares are made at the year which are included in note 3.
This directors and corporate discretion of the Board.
governance report fulfils the requirements of the corporate The Company pays cash dividends in pounds sterling and governance statement under Disclosure Guidance and euros, although the articles of association permit payment of Transparency Rule 7.2.
1. dividends on ordinary shares in any currency and in forms other than cash, such as ordinary shares.
Our policy on hedging Interim dividends have previously been paid in November of The hedging policy is disclosed in note 57. each year.
Following feedback from shareholders, to bring Avivas practice in line with its peers and to reduce the gap between the Related party transactions interim results announcement and dividend payment, from 2018 Related party transactions are disclosed in note 59 which is interim dividends are expected be paid in September, subject to incorporated into this report by reference.
A final dividend is typically proposed by the Companys Board after the end of the relevant year and Dividends generally paid in May.
The following table shows certain Dividends for ordinary shareholders of Aviva plc are as follows: information regarding the dividends that we paid on ordinary Paid interim dividend of 8.4 pence per ordinary share 2016: 7.42 shares.
pence Proposed final dividend of 19.00 pence per ordinary share 2016: Interim dividend Interim dividend Final dividend Final dividend per share per share per share per share 15.88 pence Year pence cents pence cents Total ordinary dividend of 27.40 pence per ordinary share 2016: 2013 5.6 N A 9.40 N A 23.30 pence 2014 5.85 N A 12.25 N A Total cost of ordinary dividends paid in 2017 was 983 million 2015 6.75 N A 14.05 N A 2016: 871 million 2016 7.42 N A 15.88 18.71 2017 8.40 9.50 19.00 Subject to shareholder approval at the 2018 AGM, the final dividend Euro dividend rate per share for 2017 will become due and payable on 17 May 2018 to all holders of ordinary shares on the Register of Members at the close of Distributable reserve business on 6 April 2018 payment date approximately four business Under UK company law, dividends can only be paid if a company days later for holders of the Companys American Depositary Shares has distributable reserves sufficient to cover the dividend.
In compliance with the rules issued by the Prudential December 2017, Aviva plc itself had distributable reserves of greater Regulation Authority in relation to the implementation of the than 3.5 billion, which would have covered five years of historic Solvency II regime, the dividend is required to remain cancellable at dividend payments to our ordinary shareholders.
In UK Life, our any point prior to becoming due and payable and to be cancelled if, largest operating subsidiary, distributable reserves, which could be prior to payment, the Group ceases to hold capital resources equal paid to Aviva plc via its intermediate holding company, are based to or in excess of its Solvency Capital Requirement, or if that would Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 57 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Directors and Corporate Governance report Continued on the updated Companies Act 2006 Distributions of Insurance and the Companys website at www.
com articles, or by Companies Regulations 2016 which uses an adjusted Solvency II writing to the Group Company Secretary.
The powers of the Own Funds measure in determining profits available for Companys directors are subject to relevant legislation and, in distribution.
While the UK insurance regulatory laws applicable to certain circumstances including in relation to the issue or buying UK Life and our other UK subsidiaries impose no statutory back by the Company of its shares, are subject to authority being restrictions on an insurers ability to declare a dividend, the rules given to the directors by shareholders in general meeting.
At the require maintenance of each insurance companys solvency margin, 2018 AGM, shareholders will be asked to renew the directors which might impact their ability to pay dividends to the parent authority to allot new securities.
Details are contained in the Notice company.
Our other life and general insurance, and fund of 2018 Annual General Meeting Notice of AGM.
management subsidiaries ability to pay dividends and make loans Restrictions on transfer of securities to the parent company is similarly restricted by local corporate or With the exception of restrictions under the Companys employee insurance laws and regulations.
In all jurisdictions, when paying share incentive plans, while the shares are subject to the plan rules, dividends, the relevant subsidiary must take into account its capital there are no restrictions on the voting rights attaching to the position and must set the level of dividend to maintain sufficient Companys ordinary shares or the transfer of securities in the capital to meet minimum solvency requirements and any additional Company.
target capital expected by local regulators.
These minimum Where, under an employee share incentive plan operated by the solvency requirements, are discussed in Other Information.
We do Company, participants are the beneficial owners of shares but not not believe that the legal and regulatory restrictions constitute a the registered owners, the voting rights are normally exercised at material limitation on the ability of our businesses to meet their the discretion of the participants.
No person holds securities in the obligations or to pay dividends to the parent company, Aviva plc.
Company carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between Acquisition of own shares In the Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 December holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of 2016, we indicated that our strong Solvency II ratio provided securities or voting rights.
capacity to deploy surplus capital.
A share re-purchase programme Significant agreements change of control was one method by which we intended to return capital to There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or shareholders allowing a reduction in hybrid debt.
terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a During 2017, the Company re-purchased 57,724,500 ordinary takeover bid, such as commercial contracts and joint venture shares of 25 pence each for an average of 5.20 per share and an agreements.
None are considered to be significant in terms of their aggregate amount of 300 million.
The purchased shares represent potential impact on the business of the Group as a whole.
All of the 1.19% of called-up share capital as at 31 December 2017.
All shares Companys employee share incentive plans contain provisions purchased have been cancelled.
relating to a change of control.
Outstanding awards and options Details of shares purchased, held or disposed by employee would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of share plan trusts on behalf of the Company in 2017 are set out in control, subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions note 32. and pro rata reduction as may be applicable under the rules of the employee share incentive plans.
Share class and listing All the Companys shares in issue are fully paid up and the ordinary Authority to purchase own shares and preference shares have a Premium and Standard listing At the Companys 2017 AGM, shareholders renewed the Companys respectively on the London Stock Exchange.
authorities to make market purchases of up to 406 million ordinary Details of the Companys share capital and shares under option shares, up to 100 million 8% preference shares and up to 100 at 31 December 2017 and shares issued during the year are given in million 8% preference shares.
Details of shares purchased during notes 30 to 33.
The calculation of earnings per share and the impact 2017 are outlined above.
At the 2018 AGM, shareholders will be of the share buy-back is included in note 14. asked to renew these authorities for another year and the resolution will once again propose a maximum aggregate number of ordinary Share capital During the year, 57,724,500 ordinary shares were cancelled shares which the Company can purchase of less than 10% of the following repurchase by the Company as outlined above, and issued ordinary share capital.
Details are contained in the Notice of 8,867,985 ordinary shares were allotted to satisfy amounts under AGM available at www.
The Company held no the Groups employee share and incentive plans.
At 31 December treasury shares during the year or up to the date of this report.
2017 the: Disclosure guidance and transparency rule 5 major shareholders issued ordinary share capital totalled 4,012,682,691 shares of 25 The table below shows the holdings of major shareholders in the pence each 83% of total share capital Companys issued ordinary share capital in accordance with the issued preference share capital totalled 200,000,000 shares of 1 Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules as at 31 December each 17% of total share capital 2017 and 7 March 2018.
Further details on the ordinary share capital of the Company are Shareholding interest shown in note 30.
At 31 December 2017 At 7 March 2018 Shareholder Notified holdings Nature of holding Notified holdings Nature of holding Rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares 1 and preference shares BlackRock, Inc Above 5% Indirect Above 5% Indirect Rights and obligations together with the powers of the Companys 1 Holding includes holdings of subsidiaries.
directors are set out in the Companys articles of association the Articles, copies of which can be obtained from Companies House Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 58 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Directors and Corporate Governance report Continued Directors convening the meeting describes the business to be conducted The directors as at the date of this report, together with their thereat.
Any proxy voting instruction, whether provided online, by biographical details and details of Board appointments, post or via CREST, must be received by our Registrar, resignations and retirements during the year are shown earlier in Computershare Investor Services PLC, by no later than 11am on the report.
Further details can be found in the The rules regarding the appointment and removal of directors shareholder information section of the Notice of AGM.
are contained in the Companys Articles.
Under the Articles, the Articles of association Board can appoint additional directors or appoint a director to fill a Unless expressly stated to the contrary in the Articles, the casual vacancy.
The new director must retire at the first AGM Companys Articles may only be amended by special resolution of following their appointment and can only continue as a director if the shareholders.
The Companys current articles were adopted on they are elected by shareholders at the AGM.
A special resolution seeking authority to amend the At no time during the year did any director hold a material Companys articles is being put to shareholders at the 2018 AGM.
interest in any contract of significance with the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings other than an indemnity provision Going concern between each director and the Company and employment The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to contracts between each executive director and a Group company.
affect its future development, performance and position are set out The Company has purchased and maintained throughout the year in the Strategic report.
The performance review includes the Risk directors and officers liability insurance in respect of itself, its and risk management section.
In addition, the financial statements directors and others.
The Company has also executed deeds of sections include notes on the Groups borrowings note 49 : its indemnity for the benefit of each director of the Company, and each contingent liabilities and other risk factors note 52 : its capital person who was a director of the Company during the year, in management note 54 : management of its risks including market, respect of liabilities that may attach to them in their capacity as credit and liquidity risk note 56 : and derivative financial directors of the Company or of associated companies.
The Articles instruments note 57. allow such indemnities to be granted.
These indemnities were The Group has considerable financial resources together with a granted at different times according to the law in place at the time diversified business model, with a spread of businesses and and where relevant are qualifying third-party indemnity provisions geographical reach.
The directors believe the Group is well placed as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006.
These to manage its business risks successfully.
indemnities were in force throughout the year and are currently in After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable force.
Details of directors remuneration, service contracts, expectation that the Company and the Group as a whole have employment contracts and interests in the shares of the Company adequate resources to continue in operational existence for a are set out in the directors remuneration report.
period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the The Company has also granted indemnities by way of a deed financial statements.
For this reason, they continue to adopt, and to poll to the directors of the Groups subsidiary companies, including consider appropriate, the going concern basis in preparing the former directors who retired during the year and directors financial statements.
appointed during the year, which is a qualifying third party indemnity for the purposes of the applicable sections 309A to 309C Longer-term viability statement of the Companies Act 1985.
The deed poll indemnity was in force It is fundamental to the Groups longer-term strategy that the throughout the year and remains in force.
directors manage and monitor risk taking into account all key risks the Group faces, including longer-term insurance risks, so that it can Financial instruments continue to meet its obligations to policyholders.
The Group is also Group companies use financial instruments to manage certain subject to extensive regulation and supervision including Solvency II types of risks, including those relating to credit, foreign currency from 1 January 2016, and as a result of being designated a Global exchange, cash flow, liquidity, interest rates, and equity and Systemically Important Insurer by the Financial Stability Board.
Details of the objectives and management of these Against this background, the directors have assessed the instruments are contained in the risk and capital management prospects of the Group in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the section and in note 56 on risk management.
2016 UK Corporate Governance Code, with reference to the Groups current position and prospects, its strategy, risk appetite, and the Political donations potential impact of the principal risks and how these are managed Aviva did not make any political donations during 2017. as detailed in the Risk and risk management section of the Disclosure of information to the auditor Strategic report as well as note 56 of the IFRS financial statements.
In accordance with section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, the The assessment of the Groups prospects by the directors directors in office at the date of approval of this report confirm that, covers the three years to 2020 and is underpinned by so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information managements 2018-2020 business plan which includes projections of which the Companys External Auditor,  of the Groups capital, liquidity and solvency.
PwC, is unaware and each director has taken all steps that ought The Groups stress and scenario testing considers the Groups to have been taken as a director in order to make themselves aware capacity to respond to a series of relevant financial, insurance e. g. of any relevant audit information and to establish that PwC is aware catastrophe or operational shocks should future circumstances or of that information.
events differ from these current assumptions.
The Group addresses the impacts of contingent management actions designed to Annual general meeting maintain or restore key capital, liquidity and solvency metrics to The 2018 AGM of the Company will be held on Thursday, 10 May within the Groups approved risk appetites over the planning 2018 at the Queen Elizabeth II Centre, Broad Sanctuary, period.
The Notice of AGM Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 59 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Directors and Corporate Governance report Continued Based on this assessment, the directors have a reasonable remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three year assessment Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of period.
the Company and Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Fair, balanced and understandable The directors are responsible for making, and continuing to To support the directors statement below that the Annual report make, the Companys Annual report and accounts available on the and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing understandable, the Board considered the process followed to draft the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may the Annual report and accounts: differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Each section of the Annual report and accounts is prepared by a The directors consider that the Annual report and accounts, member of management with appropriate knowledge, seniority taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides and experience.
Each preparer receives guidance on the the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups requirement for content included in the Annual report and and the Companys position and performance, business model and accounts to be fair, balanced and understandable strategy.
The overall co-ordination of the production of the Annual report Each of the current directors, whose names and functions are and accounts is overseen by the Chief Accounting Officer to detailed in the Our Board of Directors section in the directors and ensure consistency across the document corporate governance report confirm that, to the best of their An extensive verification process is undertaken to ensure factual knowledge: the Group financial statements, which have been accuracy prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true Comprehensive reviews of drafts of the Annual report and and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of accounts are undertaken by members of the Group Executive and the Group: and the Strategic report and the directors and corporate other members of senior management and, in relation to certain governance report in this annual report include a fair review of the parts of the report external legal advisers and the External Auditor development and performance of the business and the position of An advanced draft is considered and reviewed by the Disclosure the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and Committee uncertainties that it faces.
The final draft is reviewed by the Audit Committee prior to consideration by the Board Listing requirements Board members receive drafts of the Annual report and accounts For the purposes of Listing Rule LR 9.8.
4C R, the information for their review and input.
This includes the opportunity to discuss required to be disclosed by LR 9.8.
4 R can be found in the following the drafts with both management and the External Auditor, locations: challenging the disclosures where appropriate.
Section in Location in the Annual report LR 9.8.
4C R Topic and accounts Directors responsibilities 4 Details of long-term incentive schemes DRR The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report and 12 Shareholder waivers of dividends IFRS Financial accounts, the directors remuneration report and the financial Statements note 32 statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
13 Shareholder waivers of future dividends IFRS Financial Statements note 32 Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared By order of the Board on 7 March 2018. the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors have also elected to comply with IFRSs, issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair Tom Stoddard view of the state of affairs of the Group and Company and of the Chief Financial Officer profit or loss for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently make reasonable and prudent judgements and accounting estimates state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the EU and IFRSs issued by IASB have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company and Group will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the directors Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 60
