Corporate Governance Executive Committee EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE The Executive Committee comprises Stephen Hester and Scott Egan, Executive Directors of the Group Board, Chief Executive Officers of the UK & International, Canadian and Scandinavian regional businesses and senior management in key functional roles.
PATRICK BERGANDER RALPH DAALS CEO RSA Scandinavia Group Chief Auditor CHARLOTTE HEISS CATHY LEWIS Group Chief Legal Officer Group HR Director and Company Secretary STEPHEN LEWIS WILLIAM McDONNELL Chief Executive UK & International Group Chief Risk Officer MARTIN THOMPSON NATHAN WILLIAMS Biographical details for the individuals President and CEO RSA Canada Group Underwriting Director fulfilling these roles can be found at www.
com thegroupexecutive 48 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors and Corporate Governance Report BOARD ACTIVITIES DURING 2017 Key activities of the Board during 2017 a two-day visit to Stockholm to meet Summary of Matters Reserved Throughout the year, the Board and with the Scandinavian team to discuss for the Board its committees have focused on competitor trends, Scandinavian Responsibility for and approval four key areas: strategy and growth risks, underwriting and pricing of the overall management of the including business transformation : Group: business strategy, long-term attendance at the annual Senior objectives, Group risk appetite, risk management and internal control: Leaders Conference, which focused delegation of authority, significant financial performance and reporting: and on key priorities and challenges changes in Group and capital structure governance matters.
A rolling agenda of facing the Group Review of progress against strategic topics is kept under constant review and goals, long-term objectives and hosting a variety of presentations and updated to make sure that sufficient time performance against the three year meetings with senior management from operational plan is spent on these focus areas and that the Groups Top 50 management and across the year an appropriately broad Oversight and challenge of the key businesses, in Ireland and the UK, Groups operations, performance range of topics are considered.
focusing on specific business initiatives.
and strategic planning The Board annually host a two-day Ensure the effectiveness of the Groups The Board reviewed Executive and senior systems of risk management and strategy meeting to which senior management succession planning and internal controls management are invited to attend to spent time analysing and discussing with Ensure compliance of the Groups present on business issues, market trends management the YOURSAY employee statutory and regulatory requirements and various innovations in support of engagement survey results and the Approval of new business lines the long-term strategy and vision of proposed actions arising from it.
The Review of Board, committee and the Group.
This year, the presentations management effectiveness Board also looked at policies in place included a detailed focus on underwriting, Ensure the adequacy of accounting to ensure that a diverse and inclusive pricing and claims and digital capabilities.
records, financial controls, accounting culture is provided across the Group policies and financial reporting offering advancement and progression.
During 2017, the Board met with each Approval of all significant capital The Board values its workforce and of the regional businesses to discuss or other expenditure the culture in which they work.
Regular progress against transformation, cost Review of Board Governance: reviews will continue through 2018 reduction and developing trends and Board composition, succession in Board, committee and executive planning, role statements, Board emerging risks.
The Board also spent effectiveness and committee management forums, with diversity time in the business both collectively responsibilities and effectiveness with and inclusion presentations scheduled and as individuals, to gain a greater the support of the Group Nomination on the rolling agenda.
understanding of the operational side and Governance Committee of the business including: Following the recommendation from In addition, the Chairman and the Remuneration Committee, review non-executive directors, together with of remuneration policies and share senior members of the management incentive plans for recommendation to shareholders for approval.
team, have hosted meetings with external stakeholders: regulators, shareholders and other external advisers.
The Board are supported by the activities of each of the Board Committees and details of committee highlights for the year are contained in the various committee reports in this Report.
Group Board visit to Scandinavia RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 49 Corporate Governance Leadership LEADERSHIP Through the annual Board evaluation process, the Board has confirmed it has the appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge to enable it and its committees to discharge their duties and responsibilities effectively, and continues to work towards achieving external diversity recommendations.
One of the key responsibilities of the Women on Boards Davies Review : Board Tenure as at 31 December 2017 Group Nomination and Governance FTSE Women Leaders HamptonCommittee is to keep under review Board Alexander Review : and Ethnic diversity membership, succession planning and of UK Boards Parker Review.
The c diversity to ensure the skills, experience and importance of diversity of gender, social a balance of the Board remains appropriate.
and ethnic backgrounds, and of cognitive and personal strengths is recognised by The names of the directors, together with the Board as a matter of Group Board their biographical details, committee policy.
The Board values the breadth of b membership and role statements are set perspective that such diversity can bring out on pages 44 to 47.
No one individual and the beneficial impact it can have on has unfettered powers of decision making Board effectiveness and throughout a.
0 to 3 years 30% and the roles of the Chairman and Group b.
3 to 6 years 40% the Group more broadly: and remains Chief Executive are separate and clearly c. 6 to 9 years 30% committed to maintaining a diverse Board differentiated through role statements, and overseeing the development of which are approved by the Board annually, a diverse workforce.
All appointments along with role statements for the to the Board are made on merit against Senior Independent Director and an agreed selection criteria to ensure Non-Executive Directors.
Diversity of the Board as at a balance of skills, experience, 31 December 2017 independence and knowledge.
Non-Executive Directors are initially appointed for a three-year term with an The Board receives updates on the expectation that they will continue for at development of diversity, inclusion and b least a further three years.
Details of the equal opportunities, within the business directors service contracts and terms of and is supportive of an agreed programme appointment, together with their interests of actions that focus on improving Groupin the Companys shares, are shown in the wide diversity.
Directors Remuneration Report on pages a 68 to 92 and are incorporated into this The Company signed the Women in Report by reference.
Finance Charter in November 2017 through which the Group are committed a.
Male 80% Service agreements and letters of to achieving a 33% representation of b.
Female 20% appointment, for all the executive and women in our management group by non-executive directors, are available 2020.
The Group continues to invest for inspection at the Companys in strengthening its pipeline of female registered office and at the AGM.
employees for senior leadership positions Diversity to ensure progress towards this target and has developed a framework of initiatives The Group is committed to diversity and the promotion of equal opportunities.
designed to help retain, develop and promote female employees and improve During the year, the Board approved a formal Diversity, Inclusion and Equal diversity and inclusion more broadly.
The Board is aware of external diversity guidance issued by industry bodies from time to time, and considers the findings and recommendations of, for example, 50 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors and Corporate Governance Report The Board is aware of the proposals of the Martin Scicluna is the Chairman of Great attend a series of meetings with senior Parker Report on ethnic diversity and of Portland Estates plc and Stephen Hester management covering all aspects of the Davies Review recommendation of a is Senior Independent Director of Centrica the business including Capital, Claims, minimum of 25 percent representation of plc.
These appointments were considered Company Secretarial and Legal, External females on the Board rising to 33 percent by the Group Nomination and Governance Auditor, HR, Internal Audit, Investments, by 2020.
Following Hugh Mitchells Committee when considering Martin IT and e-business, Regulatory Compliance, retirement there will be two women and and Stephens time commitment and Reserving, Risk and Underwriting.
Each seven men on the Board.
The Board values capacity to discharge their duties.
The new director is invited to attend each the breadth of perspective that diversity Board is satisfied that both Martin and Board committee as part of their induction brings and is committed to maintaining Stephens external appointments are not a programme to familiarise themselves a Board that is diverse in its widest constraint on their time or ability to carry with the remit of each committee and the sense, encompassing not just gender out their duties.
Scott Egan is not currently matters discussed.
Additional training is and ethnicity.
a director of any other listed company provided when committee membership but would be allowed to have one such changes occur.
Commitment appointment, subject to approval.
The letters of appointment for the The Chairman, assisted by the Company Chairman and each of the non-executive Appointment, Induction, Secretary, has responsibility for the directors set out their anticipated time Training and Development induction programme, training schedules commitment, being an average of two When appointing new directors, regard and professional development of the days per week for the Chairman and 28-32 is given to the size of the Board, the directors.
Directors have attended training days per year for non-executive directors.
balance of executive and non-executive sessions and seminars during the course In addition directors are required to directors and the benefits of diversity, of the year on topics such as Solvency II allocate sufficient time to meet the including gender.
and Audit and Risk updates to keep their expectations of the role, including knowledge current and enhance their A role specification is agreed and provided attending Board and committee meetings, experience.
Each director has an individual to the external adviser appointed to ad hoc meetings, spending time in the training plan, which is reviewed annually assist with the recruitment.
The Group business, training and briefings with senior by the Chairman.
Nomination and Governance Committee management as part of their induction and has responsibility for reviewing a shortlist ongoing development programme, and of candidates and its recommendation attendance at the Annual General Meeting.
is presented to the Board.
The Board The Group Nomination and Governance considers the skills, experience, Committee undertakes a review of independence and knowledge already directors time commitment annually and, represented when making decisions following a review in 2017, concluded that on new appointments.
the commitment remained appropriate, Upon appointment to the Board, with additional time to be spent in the directors undertake a tailored induction business as required.
During 2017, each of programme, receiving a broad range the directors has demonstrated flexibility of information about the Group.
This and commitment by not only attending includes information on the operational Board and committee meetings, and performance and business of the Group, making themselves available to meet with including the Groups approach to the Prudential Regulatory Authority PRA corporate responsibility, and details of as required, but also spending additional Board procedures, corporate governance time in the business.
Directors RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 51 Corporate Governance Effectiveness EFFECTIVENESS The Board sets annual objectives for the business in line with the current Group strategy and monitors achievement against these objectives through regular reports.
Updates to the Board from the Group focus, further improvement in the quality Chief Executive, the Group Chief Financial and balance of presentations, and a Officer and other members of senior review of the split between strategic management are scheduled in respect and performance metrics provided of all material business matters to to the Board, including non-financial ensure that progress against strategy information.
The results of the evaluation were Formal minutes recording the decisions presented to the Board and actions agreed of all Board and committee meetings against the key themes.
The evaluation are prepared and circulated to each concluded that the Board is working well director.
If a director objects to a particular and that its effectiveness continues to decision, this is recorded in the minutes improve, with a good quality of challenge of the relevant meeting.
If a director were and debate.
There were no points to be unavailable to attend a meeting, expressed during the evaluation process their views would be canvassed by the that had not previously been discussed Chairman prior to the relevant meeting, over the course of the year, demonstrating and the Board informed of their opinions the Boards collaborative working style, Internal Evaluation and observations.
supporting an ethos of continuous Composition improvement throughout the year.
Each year, the Board spends time on site visits, giving them the opportunity to meet Each year, actions identified are monitored Efficiency Performance with and challenge senior management, for development.
During 2017, progress while also deepening their knowledge of has been made against the key themes Board & Committee specific business areas.
More information identified in the 2016 evaluation, with Questionnaires on the Boards activities during 2017 is a clear focus on longer-term strategy Understanding Oversight detailed on page 49. and actions to embed the best-in-class culture.
Executive succession planning, Board Evaluation was reviewed and there was a renewed Knowledge To ensure the Board, its committees and focus on technology, with the launch of individual directors remain effective, a a new customer platform to improve the performance evaluation is carried out overall customer experience and pricing annually, in compliance with the Code.
During the year, an internal evaluation Board Committee Structure was led by the Chairman and Senior and Membership Independent Director.
Isabel Hudson The following diagram sets out the who was well placed to carry out the composition of the Board Committees Board evaluation given her wide-ranging as at 21 February 2018. commercial, business development and Board experience.
The evaluation was The Board is supported by its committees carried out via an on-line questionnaire to which it delegates certain duties.
The and interviews, canvassing the views key functions of Risk, Actuarial, Compliance of each director and regular attendees and Internal Audit all report directly to a of Board and committee meetings.
Board committee providing expert advice Key themes identified for focus in 2018 on their remits to the relevant committee included a refreshed customer digital and senior management.
52 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors and Corporate Governance Report 1 Board Group Audit Board Risk Group Nomination Group Remuneration Group Investment 3 4 6 7 Committee Committee and Governance Committee Committee 5 Committee Members: Members: Members: Members: Members: A Barbour Chair M Strobel Chair M Scicluna Chair K Cates Chair J Streppel Chair K Cates K Cates A Barbour E Cucchiani A Barbour J Streppel A Barbour K Cates I Hudson M Scicluna M Strobel I Hudson I Hudson H Mitchell M Strobel H Mitchell M Strobel J Streppel M Strobel Details of each of the committees Nomination and Governance Committee Audit Committee is a member of the activities and priorities during 2017 are annually and when there is a change to Board Risk Committee, the chair of the contained in the committee reports on the Board.
Consideration is given to each Board Risk Committee is a member of the pages 57 to 92, which are incorporated individuals expertise and experience.
Group Audit Committee, and the chair of into this Report by reference.
Following All committees have some members in the Group Remuneration Committee is a each committee meeting, a verbal update common to ensure cross-committee member of the Group Audit Committee is presented to the Board ensuring that awareness of matters discussed.
For and Board Risk Committee.
Full details of all directors are aware of relevant topics example, the Nomination and Governance committee membership are set out above.
The composition of Committee members are chairs of other each committee is reviewed by the Group Board committees, the chair of the Group Attendance at Board and committee meetings The table below shows the attendance at the Board and committee meetings Group Nomination Group Group Scheduled Group Audit Board Risk and Governance Remuneration Investment 1 3 4 5 6 7 Group Boards Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Martin Scicluna 8 9 3 4 2 2 Stephen Hester 9 9 0 1 Scott Egan 9 9 1 1 Alastair Barbour 9 9 6 6 4 4 4 4 2 2 Kath Cates 9 9 6 6 4 4 4 4 1 1 Enrico Cucchiani 8 9 5 5 Isabel Hudson 8 9 4 4 3 3 5 5 Hugh Mitchell 9 9 3 4 3 3 5 5 Joseph Streppel 8 9 4 6 3 5 2 2 Martin Strobel 9 9 6 6 1 1 1 1 5 5 2 2 2 Johanna Waterous 4 4 2 2 1 1 3 3 Notes: 1.
F or the composition of the Board, please refer to pages 44 to 47.
J ohanna Waterous resigned as a director with effect from 5 May 2017.
G roup Audit Committee: Johanna Waterous ceased to be a member of the Committee on 5 May 2017.
Regular attendees: Group CFO, Group Chief Auditor, Group & UK Regulatory Compliance Director, Group Chief Risk Officer, Group Chief Legal Officer and Company Secretary and representatives from the External Auditor.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director attend ahead of RSAs full and half-year results.
B oard Risk Committee: Kath Cates chaired the Committee throughout the year until Martin Strobel was appointed as member and chair on 1 December 2017.
Regular attendees: Chairman, Group CFO, Group Chief Legal Officer and Company Secretary, Group & UK Regulatory Compliance Director and Group Underwriting Director.
G roup Nomination & Governance Committee: Johanna Waterous and Hugh Mitchell ceased to be members of the Committee on 5 May 2017 and 1 December 2017 respectively.
Isabel Hudson became a member of the Committee on 5 May 2017 and Martin Strobel became a member of the Committee on 1 December 2017.
Regular attendees: Group CEO and Group Chief Legal Officer and Company Secretary.
G roup Remuneration Committee: Johanna Waterous ceased to be a member of the Committee on 5 May 2017.
Hugh Mitchell chaired the Committee throughout the year until Kath Cates was appointed as member and chair on 1 December 2017.
Kath previously served as a member of the Committee from May 2014 to June 2016.
Regular attendees: Chairman, Group CEO, Group Chief Legal Officer and Company Secretary, Group HR Director, Executive Compensation and Benefits Director and PWC as independent advisers to the Committee.
Additional input was provided by the Group Chief Risk Officer.
G roup Investment Committee: Stephen Hester and Scott Egan ceased to be members on 28 March 2017.
Regular attendees: Group Investments Director, Group CEO, Group CFO and Group Chief Legal Officer and Company Secretary.
A bsences at scheduled Board or committee meetings during the year were due to commitments predating joining the Board, an external Board commitment, ill health and a family bereavement.
RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 53 Corporate Governance Accountability ACCOUNTABILITY The Board is accountable to shareholders for the creation and delivery of strong sustainable performance and the creation of long-term shareholder value.
The Board meets frequently and is The Board is responsible for ensuring responsible for organising and directing the effectiveness of the Groups System the affairs of the Group in a manner that of Governance, which is approved on an will promote the long-term success of annual basis.
the Company and its key subsidiaries The Board Risk Committee has and is consistent with good corporate responsibility for reviewing and governance practice, ensuring that recommending the System of the Group is carrying out its duties and Governance to the Board and has continues to meet legal and regulatory specific responsibilities for the Groups requirements.
Risk Management System, including the System of Governance Internal Model and Solvency II capital The Group functions within a robust ratios, setting the Groups overall risk governance structure to operate a wellstrategy and risk appetite, and for managed business, ensuring that the approving the risk management policies.
Group and its legal entities comply with For further details, refer to the Board Risk all relevant legislation and regulation in Committee report on pages 60 to 61. each of the jurisdictions in which it has a The Group Audit Committee reviews business operation.
The Groups System the effectiveness of the Internal Control of Governance comprises three elements: System on an annual basis.
Corporate Governance Framework: an effective Internal Control System in how the business is managed place which sets out the processes and 2.
Risk Management System: how risks frameworks required to ensure effective are identified, measured, managed, and efficient delivery of the Groups monitored and reported strategic objectives, including reliability and availability of information to identify 3.
Internal Control System: the controls and mitigate any potential risk of failure behind the Corporate Governance to achieve business objectives but it does Framework and the Risk Management not eliminate risk.
In addition, assurance of Framework.
the Financial Control Framework is carried The purpose of the System of Governance out on a quarterly basis by the Group Audit is to ensure the safety and soundness Committee.
For further details refer to the of the Group and its key entities.
Group Audit Committee Report on pages Through the Corporate Governance 62 to 67.
Framework, effective decision-making, good procedures and strong internal reporting are embedded into the business processes, which align to the Groups strategy of focused, stronger and better.
54 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors and Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Framework Internal Control System Provides a framework which supports the The Internal Control System comprises three key elements: realisation of its business strategy and supports 1.
Internal Control Framework long-term success Policies establish standard controls, which are implemented and Provides effective and efficient decisionoperated by the business making by the Board and its committees Supplemented by objective first line validation and independent second Ensures that both directors and employees line assurance processes act within a chain of delegated authority and The Group Controllership Policy sets out the standard control specified powers processes to mitigate against material financial reporting Safeguards compliance with misstatement and financial loss.
Assurance is provided applicable laws and regulations.
through the Financial Control Framework.
SYSTEM OF GOVERNANCE Risk Management System A common framework through 2.
Delegated Authority Framework which risk management and control is embedded Authority delegated from the Board to the Group CEO through the Delegated Authority Framework Consistent approach throughout the Group to identify, measure, manage, monitor and Onward delegation to senior management through Executive Licences report risks which set out specific limits of authority to ensure all employees execute their responsibilities within clearly defined limits in compliance Consistent and comprehensive set of policies with relevant regulatory and statutory requirements are maintained Day-to-day management is undertaken by the Group Chief Executive Risk Management Policy establishes a and Executive Committee supported by executive level committees framework of standard risk management processes Each executive is responsible for ensuring a similar process of delegation is in place within his or her area of responsibility Risk Management System is underpinned by the Three Lines of Defence model: Mitigates risk of the Group being exposed or committed to material financial, operational, legal, reputational, regulatory risk and or loss First line of defence: activities undertaken and provides clarity on who can make what type and level of decisions.
to ensure that risks are identified and controlled to bring them within appetite 3.
Regulatory Compliance Framework Second line of defence: independent Regulatory Compliance Policy sets out the standard control processes review and challenge of the first line to minimise and or prevent the risk of material loss, reputational activities, providing assurance that damage or liability arising from the failure to comply with regulatory controls and validation are properly requirements designed and operating effectively Ensures that the Group deals with regulators in an open and Third line of defence: evaluation of the co-operative manner effectiveness of our risk management, Keeps regulators fully and promptly informed of all matters.
RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 55 Corporate Governance Engagement ENGAGEMENT The Board is committed to transparent disclosure and engagement with the Groups stakeholders.
Stakeholders Employees Public affairs Throughout the year, senior management The Board recognises the key role of The Group contributes to public policy have actively engaged with shareholders, the Groups employees in delivering the debates on issues relevant to the business, employees, regulators and other Groups strategy and values the time spent either individually or through industry stakeholders on relevant matters.
Members of the Executive bodies such as the Investment Board has attended internal leadership Committee and senior management host Association, the Association of British events, overseas visits, presentations and regular Town Hall meetings to update Insurers and the Confederation of British dinners hosted by senior management to employees on topical issues, including Industry.
The Group engages with gain a deeper understanding of certain giving updates on company performance policymakers to improve understanding business areas.
each quarter following the announcement of the broad role the insurance industry of results or a trading update.
plays in society and the economy, as well Shareholders as offering views and insights on specific More information on employees can be found During the year, the Group met with issues such as data protection, fraud, on pages 4041 and page 95.
In addition, a compensation, and financial regulation.
shareholder consultation was undertaken Regulators Employees apply the principles of to understand the views of shareholders The Board is committed to dealing with openness, transparency, honesty and when reviewing the Remuneration regulators in an open, co-operative and integrity to all of their activities with Policy for adoption at the 2017 Annual transparent manner and both collectively policymakers.
The Group adheres to General Meeting.
and individually take its regulatory principles of best practice, declaring responsibilities seriously.
During the the interests which it represents and The Group remains committed to year the PRA and FCA conducted routine maintaining high levels of transparency and ensuring that, to the best of its knowledge, meetings with several members of the information provided is unbiased, disclosure to investors to aid understanding Board and executive management.
Similar of the Companys investment case.
complete, up to date and not misleading.
meetings take place with regulators in The Group continually monitors and other jurisdictions.
Regular management evaluates its disclosures to ensure information is provided to assist the they remain informative and relevant.
regulators with the supervision of At each Annual General Meeting, the Group.
the opportunity is taken to update Rating Agencies shareholders on the Groups performance The Group is rated on an interactive basis and activities during the year.
The by Standard & Poors and Moodys.
Their Chairman and each Board committee insurance financial strength ratings as at Chair make themselves available to take 21 February 2018 are A stable outlook questions from shareholders.
These More information on shareholders can be found ratings were affirmed following the 2017 on pages 95, 186 and 187 half-year results, and reflect the continued positive trend in operating performance Customers The Group knows that customer focus is and completion of balance sheet actions undertaken.
In addition, both agencies key to the success of the business.
One of the Groups main strategic goals is the have spent a day with senior management discussing Group strategy, financial plans, ambition of delivering improvements in customer service.
More information on customers can be found on pages 1415 56 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017
