Board of Directors BOARD OF DIRECTORS MARTIN SCICLUNA STEPHEN HESTER SCOTT EGAN ISABEL HUDSON ALASTAIR BARBOUR Chairman Group Chief Executive Group Chief Financial Officer Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Appointment date: January 2013 Appointment date: February 2014 Appointment date: October 2015 Appointment date: August 2016 Appointment date: October 2011 Nationality: British Nationality: British Nationality: British Nationality: British Nationality: British N I B R N A N I B Committee membership: Committee membership: Committee membership: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Martin has considerable knowledge and Stephen was previously Chief Executive Before RSA, Scott was Interim Chief Isabel has significant experience in general Alastair retired from KPMG in March 2011. understanding of the financial services Officer of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group Executive Officer at Towergate Insurance insurance, both as an executive and In the last 20 years of his 36 year career sector and Board experience.
Previous plc, 2008-13, where he led the largest ever having previously held the post of non-executive director, along with a wealth with the firm, in the UK and overseas, roles include Senior Independent Director corporate restructuring and recovery Chief Financial Officer.
Scott also held the of relevant board experience having served he led their financial services team in and Chairman of the Audit Committee of programme.
Prior to that he held positions post of Chief Financial Officer at Brit as committee member and committee Scotland with a primary focus on insurance Worldpay Group plc, Non-Executive Director as Chief Executive at British Land plc from Insurance, after four years at Zurich Chairman of a number of listed companies and investment management.
Alastair and Chairman of the Audit Committee 2004 to 2008, Chief Operating Officer of Financial Services, as Chief Financial Officer including Standard Life plc and QBE has extensive experience in advising at Lloyds Banking Group plc, 34 years at Abbey National plc and a number of senior UK, and latterly as Group Financial Controller.
Insurance Group Ltd, as well as The Pension on accounting and financial reporting, Deloitte LLP, 26 years of which as Partner, roles at Credit Suisse First Boston in London He has also held various senior finance roles Regulator.
Her previous roles include corporate governance and management Chairman of Deloitte LLP from 1995 to 2007, and New York.
Stephen has over 30 years at Norwich Union Insurance and Aviva.
Scott Executive Director of Prudentials UK issues in the financial sector and is a Fellow Director, Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu from experience in financial services and FTSE100 is a qualified accountant ACMA, has an MBA business and Chairman of Prudential of the Institute of Chartered Accountants 1999 to 2007 and membership of the companies with expertise in transforming from Cranfield University and is a member of International Assurance between 2002 in England and Wales.
Financial Services Trade and Investment the performance of businesses.
the ClimateWise Insurance Advisory Council.
and 2006, Chief Executive of specialised Board Contribution: Board from 2013 to 2015. pension buyout firm Synesis Life, Board Contribution: Board Contribution: Alastairs extensive experience in advising Chief Financial Officer of Eureko and Board Contribution: Stephen has over 30 years experience in Scott has substantial financial services on accounting and financial reporting, International Development Director financial services and FTSE100 companies experience and understanding of the corporate governance and management Martin has held board positions for over for GE Insurance Holdings Limited.
and brings extensive leadership experience financial sector which he brings to issues in the financial sector adds value to 20 years.
He brings valuable experience in contributing towards the Companys the Board when overseeing financial Board Contribution: his role on the Board.
He brings in-depth developing strategy and evaluating business forward looking strategy and policy.
He is operations of the Group and setting Isabel brings wide ranging commercial, knowledge and understanding of global opportunities along with understanding responsible for the executive management the financial strategy.
corporate finance and business governance, which is particularly useful of the financial services sector and team, along with leading strategy and development experience to the Board from in his role as Chairman of the Group Audit how it operates.
He ensures the Board External appointments: business plan development and execution the UK and internationally, especially Europe, Committee as he leads the Committee operates effectively, promoting constructive None for the Company and its major operating focused on the insurance sector, spanning to challenge the internal control and engagement with shareholders and subsidiaries having regard to the life and general insurance as well as risk management systems to mitigate other stakeholders.
requirements of shareholders and investors.
Isabels previous experience financial risks.
COMMITTEE MEMBER KEY External appointments: chairing a remuneration committee A Group Audit Committee External appointments: External appointments: Chairman of Great Portland Estates plc.
contributes and adds value to the Group B Board Risk Committee Senior Independent Director of Centrica plc.
Non-Executive Director of Phoenix Group Remuneration Committee.
I Group Investment Committee Holdings, Liontrust Asset Management plc, N Group Nomination and Governance Committee External appointments: CATCo Reinsurance Opportunities Fund R Group Remuneration Committee Chairman of National House Building Council Limited and The Bank of N. T. Butterfield and Non-Executive Director of BT plc.
& Son Limited a company listed in Bermuda Chair of Committee and New York.
Member of Committee Board of directors as at 21 February 2018 44 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors and Corporate Governance Report MARTIN SCICLUNA STEPHEN HESTER SCOTT EGAN ISABEL HUDSON ALASTAIR BARBOUR Chairman Group Chief Executive Group Chief Financial Officer Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Appointment date: January 2013 Appointment date: February 2014 Appointment date: October 2015 Appointment date: August 2016 Appointment date: October 2011 Nationality: British Nationality: British Nationality: British Nationality: British Nationality: British N I B R N A N I B Committee membership: Committee membership: Committee membership: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Martin has considerable knowledge and Stephen was previously Chief Executive Before RSA, Scott was Interim Chief Isabel has significant experience in general Alastair retired from KPMG in March 2011. understanding of the financial services Officer of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group Executive Officer at Towergate Insurance insurance, both as an executive and In the last 20 years of his 36 year career sector and Board experience.
External appointments: chairing a remuneration committee External appointments: External appointments: Chairman of Great Portland Estates plc.
contributes and adds value to the Group Senior Independent Director of Centrica plc.
Holdings, Liontrust Asset Management plc, External appointments: CATCo Reinsurance Opportunities Fund Chairman of National House Building Council Limited and The Bank of N. T. Butterfield and Non-Executive Director of BT plc.
& Son Limited a company listed in Bermuda and New York.
RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 45 Board of Directors KATH CATES ENRICO CUCCHIANI HUGH MITCHELL JOSEPH STREPPEL MARTIN STROBEL CHARLOTTE HEISS Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Group Chief Legal Officer and Company Secretary Appointment date: September 2013 Appointment date: December 2014 Appointment date: September 2012 Appointment date: October 2011 Appointment date: May 2016 Nationality: British Nationality: Italian Nationality: British Nationality: Dutch Nationality: Swiss Appointment date: March 2016 R A B N R R B I A R B I A R N Committee membership: Committee membership: Committee membership: Committee membership: Committee membership: Nationality: British Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Kath has over 25 years experience in global Enrico has over 35 years global executive Until 31 December 2015, Chief Human Joseph has a comprehensive understanding Most recently Chief Executive Officer of Charlotte joined RSA in February 2010 as financial services.
She was previously and non-executive experience across Resources and Corporate Officer of Royal of the insurance market globally, extensive Baloise Group, a position he held for seven Legal Counsel becoming Head of Group Chief Operating Officer, Wholesale Banking financial services including banking and Dutch Shell plc, and a member of the Shell financial services expertise and a good years to 2015.
He joined Baloise Group in Legal in October 2011.
Prior to joining RSA, for Standard Chartered Bank and spent insurance: he was Group CEO at Intesa Executive Committee.
Formerly a Director knowledge of international and emerging 1999 as the Head of IT at Basler Switzerland Charlotte worked at law firm Linklaters LLP 22 years at UBS.
Kath has gained a deep Sanpaolo and, prior to that, member of of Shell International Limited, Shell Aircraft markets.
Previous roles include Chief and, within Baloise Group, was responsible where she acted for a variety of corporates knowledge of control, governance and risk the Executive Board of Allianz where he Limited and the Shell Foundation.
Advisory Financial Officer of Aegon until 2009 and for major cross-functional insurance and management, working in emerging markets was responsible for companies in Europe, roles previously held at The Centre for Chairman of the Monitoring Committee finance projects.
From 2003 to 2008, he and banks, specialising in corporate and across different sectors and cultures.
Africa and Latin America and, globally, Advanced Human Resources at Cornell of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code.
was a member of the Corporate Executive advisory, public and private M&A and for P&C.
He also served on the boards of, University Advisory Board, IMD Business Committee with responsibility for the equity capital market transactions.
Board Contribution: Board Contribution: among others, Unicredit and Pirelli.
School Advisory Board in Lausanne, an Corporate Division Switzerland.
From 1993 Kaths broad experience within the financial Josephs comprehensive understanding Honorary VicePresident for the CIPD UK to 1999, Martin performed various roles Charlotte is a member of the sector brings an insight into the businesses Board Contribution: of the insurance market and extensive and Advisory Board Member of the National at Boston Consulting Group, Dsseldorf, Executive Committee.
in the UK and globally, adding valuable Enricos long-standing experience in the financial services experience, along with College for School Leadership England advising business in the banking and the contribution to the committees of which financial and insurance sector provides his commercial experience in emerging and Wales.
Her in-depth knowledge, the Group with innovative ways to grow and international markets adds value to understanding of governance, and her the business and contributes towards Board Contribution: the development of strategy and how Board Contribution: experience in working across different the successful operation of the Board.
Hughs previous roles provide him with the business is run in the UK and globally.
Martin has over 25 years insurance and sectors and markets are particularly extensive experience and the understanding financial services experience, which External appointments: External appointments: useful in her role as Chair of the Group of remuneration and reward systems and provides the skillset required to be a Chairman of Duisenberg School of Finance, Founding Partner of TGI-Think Global Remuneration Committee.
capabilities for his role as former Chair member of the Audit, the Remuneration Chairman of the Advisory Board of the Royal Investments: Non-Executive Director and current member of the Remuneration and Investment Committee and encourages Dutch Society of Actuaries, Chairman of External appointments: of Piraeus Bank: Member of the Board Committee and his work towards attracting constructive challenge of matters discussed.
Leaseplan Corporation and Chairman of Non-Executive Director of Brewin Dolphin and of the Executive Committee of and retaining new talent.
His understanding of the insurance market Stichting Continuteit Philips Lightning Holdings plc, Non-Executive Director of Bocconi University.
adds value to his role as Chairman of the Foundation Continuity Philips Lightning, Threadneedle Investment Services Limited, External appointments: Board Risk Committee.
Threadneedle Pensions Limited and Currently a Fellow of the National Academy External appointments: Threadneedle Asset Management of Human Resources in the USA and a Board Holdings Sarl.
Member of Edinburgh Business School.
Non-Executive Director of Anivo 360 AG.
H ugh will retire as a director with effect from 11 May 2018 Role statements Chairman Group Chief Executive Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Directors Company Secretary The Chairman is responsible for the leadership The Group Chief Executive is responsible The Senior Independent Director supports the The role of the non-executive director is to The role of the Company Secretary is to and effectiveness of the Board including the for identifying and developing business Chairman in the delivery of his responsibilities challenge and approve the Groups strategy and support the Chairman and the Board.
This conduct at Board meetings.
He promotes opportunities, recommending actions to the as required, ensuring the views of each of to assess and challenge performance against includes bringing all governance matters to a culture of openness and debate ensuring Board with particular attention on strategic the non-executive directors are given due business plans, bringing an independent, the attention of the Board and delivering a effective decision-making and the provision plans, risk appetite and risk exposure for the consideration and facilitating communication objective view to the discussion.
Each of the programme of Board and committee meetings, of timely, accurate and clear information.
business, monitoring the performance of the between the non-executive directors and the non-executive directors is a member of one training, induction programmes and senior The Chairman ensures that relevant objectives Group and overseeing the delivery of objectives Chairman.
The Senior Independent Director or more committees for which they have management presentations to ensure that are established for the Group Chief Executive and business plans within agreed timescales holds meetings with the non-executive the skills, knowledge and expertise required each director has the information required and his executive team, reviewing the overall and budget.
The Group Chief Executive directors without the Chairman being present to consider topics delegated for in-depth to discharge his or her statutory duties.
management performance of the Company develops targets and goals for his executive to review the Chairmans performance as part assessment.
They meet with the Chairman The Company Secretary ensures that papers and senior management with the Group team and ensures succession plans for senior of the internal Board evaluation process and without the executive directors being present are produced to a high standard and in a timely Chief Executive.
The Chairman takes on management are in place.
He represents the chairs the Group Nomination and Governance and meet with the Senior Independent Director manner which are circulated to directors a the role of ambassador for the Company, Company at industry events and develops the Committee when considering matters relating without the Chairman being present to review week in advance of any meeting.
The directors participating in the engagement of and Companys communications strategy to meet to the Chairman of the Board.
the Chairmans performance and discuss other have access to the services and advice of the effective communication with the Companys the needs of, and engage with, all internal and matters.
Each committee is chaired by a Company Secretary, and may take independent stakeholders.
non-executive director who has the specialism professional advice at the expense of the and experience in the relevant field and with Company in the furtherance of their duties.
46 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors and Corporate Governance Report KATH CATES ENRICO CUCCHIANI HUGH MITCHELL JOSEPH STREPPEL MARTIN STROBEL CHARLOTTE HEISS Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Group Chief Legal Officer and Company Secretary Appointment date: September 2013 Appointment date: December 2014 Appointment date: September 2012 Appointment date: October 2011 Appointment date: May 2016 Nationality: British Nationality: Italian Nationality: British Nationality: Dutch Nationality: Swiss Appointment date: March 2016 R A B N R R B I A R B I A R N Committee membership: Committee membership: Committee membership: Committee membership: Committee membership: Nationality: British Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Kath has over 25 years experience in global Enrico has over 35 years global executive Until 31 December 2015, Chief Human Joseph has a comprehensive understanding Most recently Chief Executive Officer of Charlotte joined RSA in February 2010 as financial services.
RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 47
