CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Statement Planning for the future The Board is strongly focused on promoting a positive and dynamic corporate culture for the benefit of allits stakeholders.
BOARD OBJECTIVES 2017 Contributed to BEIS Green Paper consultation on corporate Maintain strategic vision while developing a strong and governance designed to improve transparency, accountability and : responsible corporate behaviours: appointed Janet Ashdown as Non-Executive Director with primary responsibility for engagement Focus on succession planning at Board and senior level to ensure programme with workforce on remuneration matters.
theright mix of skills, experience and diversity to support our vision for 2020 and beyond: and KEY THEMES FOR 2018 Successful recruitment and induction of new Chair while maintaining Develop our corporate culture agenda, improving communication Board balance: ofour shared vision and values supported by action on engagement.
Ensure diversity principles are fully incorporated into recruitment WHAT WE ACHIEVED process at Board and senior management level: development of Robust capital structure and strong risk management processes have recruitment and promotion strategies to support greater diversity been supported by a detailed internal audit programme throughout e. g. gender, ethnicity, age, as well as company culture and values: the year: notable progress in particular areas such as cyber-risk and security, and the application and testing of our anti-bribery policies Extend 2020 vision, with additional KPIs to measure and monitor and procedures: progress in key growth areas: also develop effective measurement ofprogress towards strategic objectives relating to values and culture: Detailed evaluation of CPM Group acquisition in October 2017, and subsequent integration: Review risk appetite and mitigation strategies in relation to significant external risks e. g. economic downturn, impact of Brexit : Further strengthened the Board through the appointment of Graham Prothero to succeed Mark Edwards in accordance with agreed Consider the Boards responsibilities to all stakeholders: review succession plan: currently finalising the appointment of a new Chair Boardperformance and priorities with these in mind.
Ensure that to succeed Andrew Allner on his retirement from the Board in 2018: thebusiness contribution to wider society is fully understood andcommunicated: and Placed culture firmly on the Board and senior management agenda, with a strategy day and the appointment of external consultants to Develop an employee engagement programme led by Janet support our communication strategy, and help develop policies that Ashdown that reflects new corporate governance guidance and will reinforce and embed recognised good corporate culture: requirements and supports the Groups culture and values, helping toembed good practice.
New HR system, is expected to facilitate harmonisation of recruitment, training and personal development for our employees across the Group: new all-employee retirement and savings pension plan also launched during 2017: and Nomination Committee Report pages 42 43 Statement of Directors Responsibilities pages 44 45 Audit CommitteeReport pages 46 49 Remuneration CommitteeReport pages 50 63 MARSHALLS PLC 36 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Diversity Dear Shareholder Marshalls policy is that no employee or job applicant will be treated less This Corporate Governance Statement, together with favourably on the grounds of race, colour, nationality, ethnic or national origin, theReports of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration gender including gender reassignment, pregnancy, marital or civil partner status, sexual orientation, religious belief, age or disability, or on any other Committees on pages 42 to 63, explains how Marshalls grounds which cannot be justified on job-related terms.
We do not governance framework works and how we apply the discriminate on grounds of age, gender or background, and we are principles of business integrity, high ethical values and committed to equality within our business and in our dealings with other professionalism in all our activities.
As a Board, we recognise organisations.
These policy principles are supported by our Code of Conduct.
that we are accountable to shareholders for good corporate The Board is committed to achieving diversity in the widest sense.
governance, and we seek to promote consistently high Weensure that briefs to external recruitment agencies and search standards of governance throughout the Group that are consultants are aimed at improving diversity ratios and balance both recognised and understood by all.
atBoard and senior management level and more widely within the business, while also reflecting the changing strategic needs of the Good governance Group.
We will continue to support positively opportunities for talented Good governance depends on good and effective leadership and a individuals regardless of gender, ethnicity, age or social background.
healthy corporate culture, supported by robust systems and processes As a Board, we are fully engaged with the initiatives within the business and a good understanding of risk and risk appetite.
Your Board has in this area, although we recognise that there is much work to do to continued throughout the year to engage with shareholders and achieve true gender balance and greater diversity.
The Remuneration otherstakeholders, to maintain constructive dialogue and challenge Report contains details of our gender ratios and gender pay gap data and tofocus on strategy and value.
As a Board, we keep abreast pages 58 and 59, and the Nomination Committee report pages 42 ofdevelopments in good governance and practice and participated and43 explains in more detail how we implement our policy and inthe Hampton-Alexander report on gender balance in 2017 as well as howwe aim to achieve improvements.
providing a detailed submission to the Governments consultation on itsGreen Paper on Corporate Governance published in November 2016.
The UK Corporate Governance Code The outcome of these and other initiatives are expected to lead to This Corporate Governance Statement, which is part of the Directors greater transparency and responsible corporate behaviour, which we Report, hasbeen prepared in accordance with the principles of the UK fully support.
TheBoard and the Executive Committee spent time on Corporate Governance Code published in April 2016 the Code, but also evaluating Marshalls culture and values, recognising that a healthy recognises the recommendations in the FRCs proposed new Corporate corporate culture will both protect and generate value.
The Board has a Governance Code expected to come into force from January 2019. leading role in fostering and influencing the positive culture and values TheCompany is supportive of the changes that will result from the of the Group by ensuring a consistency of approach and message from application of that new Code.
The Board has carried out a review of how the top.
The work of our Board Committees, explained in this report, the Code principles have been applied, together withthe processes and demonstrates our commitment to openness and accountability, procedures adopted by the Company to support the Code.
The Board acknowledging the value of diversity and good succession planning, considers that the Company has complied with the relevant provisions how we align reward with our values and strategy and how as an of the Code throughout the year in all material respects.
I can also organisation we seek to embed our values across the business, confirm that in the opinion of the Directors these Annual Financial whilealso recognising that there is further work to do.
Statements present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment ofthe Groups position and prospects andprovide the information Board evaluation necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, During 2017, the Board carried out an evaluation of its performance led by business model and strategy.
The respective responsibilities of the the Company Secretary and the Chairman.
This concluded that the Board Directors and the Auditor in connection with theFinancial Statements composition continued to be appropriate for the business, with a good are explained inthe Statement of Directors Responsibilities and the balance of skills and experience, ensuring awell balanced and effective Auditors Report onpages 44 to 45 and 66 to 71 respectively.
Board with a clear and inclusive strategy anda high degree of respect and trust at individual and collective level.
Thesummary of our 2017 objectives, Andrew Allner how we performed against them, andthe objectives we have set for 2018 following the 2017 evaluation process, appears on the first page of this report.
Chairman These priorities are closely linked to the strategic objectives of the business.
Case study Culture Constant theme of stakeholder engagement.
Anti-bribery training The Groups culture is underpinned by the core values of Employee training and development leadership, excellence, trust and sustainability and undertaking Apprenticeships responsible business.
Community engagement Recent initiatives support the corporate culture: Fair reward packages Ethical training Fair Tax Mark Charitable giving MARSHALLS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 37 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Statement continued The Board has delegated specific responsibilities to the Audit, Role of the Board The Board currently comprises an Independent Non-Executive Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
The Audit Committee Report on pages 46 to 49 provides details of how the Board applies the Code in Chairman, 3 Non-Executive Directors and 2 Executive Directors who relation to financial reporting, risk management and internal controls.
The are equally responsible for the proper stewardship and leadership ofthe Company.
Their biographical details are on pages 34 and 35.
Nomination Committee Report on pages 42 and 43 reports on the work done, particularly in relation to Board and senior management succession Among the written Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board, planning, diversity and Board development.
The Remuneration Report on which isreviewed annually, are: pages 50 to 63 gives details of how the Groups Remuneration Policy has been implemented, and of Directors remuneration for 2017.
It also approving and monitoring progress of strategy, business plans includes details of gender pay and balance.
Other Board Committees are andbudgets: established periodically for particular purposes.
For example, during the approving any changes to capital, constitution or year, Board Committees were established to approve the acquisition corporatestructure: of CPM Group Limited as well as the preliminary and half-yearly results.
approving the annual and half-yearly accounts, and the approval Day-to-day management and the implementation of strategies agreed and monitoring of the internal financial control system, risk by the Board are delegated to the Executive Directors.
The Groups management, health and safety and anti-bribery policies reporting structure below Board level is designed so that all decisions are andprocedures: made by the most appropriate people in a timely manner.
Management Board appointments and succession planning, and setting teams report to members of the Executive Committee: this currently TermsofReference for Board Committees: consists of 7 senior managers, including the 2 Executive Directors.
The approving transactions of significant value or major strategic Board receives regular updates from the Executive Committee in relation importance: and to business issues and developments.
These policies and procedures remuneration matters, including major changes to pension collectively enable the Board to make informed decisions on a range schemes, the introduction of share and incentive schemes, ofkey issues including strategy and risk management.
The charts below andthegeneral framework of remuneration.
show the frequency of how Board meetings, and the Board interacts withthe Executive andthe business.
Board meetings and attendance Key Present Absent Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Andrew Allner Non-Executive Janet Ashdown Non-Executive Jack Clarke Martyn Coffey Graham Prothero Non-Executive Mark Edwards Non-Executive Tim Pile Non-Executive Interaction between Board andmanagementbodies The Board met 7 times in full session during 2017.
In addition, the Audit Committee met 4 times, the Remuneration Committee met 5 times and the Nomination Committee met twice during the year.
There were also Audit Board Committee meetings in connection with the issue of financial Committee results and the acquisition of CPM Group Limited.
Board Nomination The Chief Executive and the Finance Director are usually invited to Committee attend Audit Committee meetings, although the Audit Committee also Remuneration Executive meets the auditor without any Executive Director being present.
The Committee Directors Chief Executive is invited to attend Remuneration Committee meetings where appropriate.
The Company Secretary is also Secretary to the Board Committees and attends meetings for this purpose.
Executive Committee Mark Edwards retired from the Board in May 2017 and attended all meetings up to the date of his retirement.
Graham Prothero attended all meetings after the date of his appointment.
In 2018 there are 7 Board, 4Audit Committee and 4 Remuneration Committee meetings scheduled, with Operational andfunctional management an additional day set aside forstrategy.
There are two scheduled Nomination Committee meetings and others will be arranged as necessary in relation to new Board appointments.
Outside this formal Board schedule, Group corporate support Board members are expected to participate in site visits, and are invited to other events suchas the Groups two-day annual management conference.
Chairman and CEO Terms of Reference Committee Terms of Reference www.
co. uk MARSHALLS PLC 38 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Roles of the Chairman, Chief Executive Board composition, commitment and election of Directors The Nomination Committee leads the process for Board appointments  There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and and makes recommendations to the Board.
We believe our Board is of Chief Executive, each of whom has annually reviewed written Terms of sufficient size and has an appropriate balance of skills and experience to meet the needs of the business.
The Chairman leads the Board and sets its agenda, ensuring that adequate time is available for discussion of all agenda items, in succession planning and the work of the Nomination Committee are particular strategic issues, making sure all Directors, particularly the commented on further in the Nomination Committee Report.
Non-Executive Directors, are able to contribute, and maintaining a On appointment, Board members, in particular the Chairman and the constructive relationship between the Executive and the Non-Executive Non-Executive Directors, disclose their other commitments and agree to Directors.
The Chief Executive has responsibility for all operational allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge their duties matters which include the implementation of strategy and policies effectively and ensure that these other commitments do not affect their approved by the Board.
The current Board commitments of the Chairman and of The Senior Independent Director, who also has written Terms of the remaining members of the Board are shown on pages 34 and 35.
Any conflicts of interest are dealt with in accordance with the Board Reference, is responsible for providing a sounding board for the Chairman and is anintermediary for other Non-Executive Directors.
Sheis available to shareholders if they have concerns which are not The Companys Articles of Association contain powers of removal, resolved through thenormal channels of contact.
appointment, election and re-election of Directors and provide that at least one-third of the Board must retire at each Annual General Meeting The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors were independent onappointment, and the Board considers each of the Non-Executive and each Director must retire by rotation every 3 years.
In practice, the Directors to be independent in character and judgement in accordance Company requires all Non-Executive Directors and Executive Directors tostand for re-election at each Annual General Meeting.
All Directors with the principles of the Code.
except Andrew Allner will stand for re-election or election at the 2018 At least once a year the Chairman holds a meeting with the Annual General Meeting.
The terms of appointment of the current Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors being present.
Directors and the Directors biographical details on pages 34 and 35 The Non-Executive Directors also meet annually without the Chairman show their length of service on the Board.
being present to appraise the Chairmans performance.
Board induction, development and support Directors are able to ensure that any concerns they raise about the New Directors receive a full, formal and tailored induction on joining running of the Company or a proposed action are recorded in the theBoard.
There is an induction pack for new Directors incorporating Boardminutes.
If a Non-Executive Director did have any such the Companys constitutional and governance documents, Group concernson resignation the Chairman would invite that Director policies and other key information, and training is provided on the use toprovide a written statement for circulation to the Board.
of our active virtual boardroom board reporting tools.
During 2017, Non-Executive Directors were trained to carry out site safety inspections Conflicts of interest The Board has adopted procedures for the authorisation of existing as part of the Groups health and safety programme.
Other tailored training may be arranged to meet individual needs, for example to situations and for considering and authorising where appropriate update knowledge of developments in regulatory compliance.
Typically, newsituations which may give rise to a conflict of interest.
These are recorded in a Conflicts Register, reviewed by the Nomination Committee a new Director will meet the Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors in one-on-one sessions: he or she will have meetings with key at least annually.
Currently, the only situations authorised are the management, briefings with external advisers and shareholders, and a holding by Directors of directorships or similar offices with companies programme of site visits will be arranged at which the Director meets ororganisations not connected with the Company where the Board site-based staff to gain a full understanding of thebusiness.
hasnot identified any actual conflict of interest.
The Board has reviewed the procedures and is satisfied that they are operating effectively.
Case study Induction of Graham Prothero to the Board Graham held one-to-one meetings with all Directors and the Company Secretary as part of his recruitment and induction.
On appointment he received a detailed information pack containing relevant constitutional documents, key policies and procedures, essential Company facts and a corporate history and contact details.
A comprehensive programme of site visits and meetings with key advisers was arranged for Graham throughout 2017.
By December, he had been to a number of key operating sites and had held meetings with auditors, internal auditors and the Companys City advisers.
Commenting on his induction, Graham said: The process was very thorough and gave me an excellent introduction to the Company.
"I was impressed by the support given by the executive team and their staff and the warm welcome from my Board colleagues. """
MARSHALLS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 39 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Statement continued Case study The Board authorised a Board Committee to approve heads of Linking governance and operational termsand commence detailed due diligencein July 2017 and PwCand Herbert Smith Freehills werecommissioned to provide strategy: Acquisition of CPM financial and legal advice in connection with the acquisition.
The Board commissioned an external review of value-enhancing acquisition targets in 2015, and management followed this up The Board considered detailed due diligence reports covering all withexploratory discussions designed to nurture good relations aspects of CPMs business including financial, legal, property, health and safety, IT, procurement, sales and operations and held meetings with certain prospective target businesses.
When management considered the time was right, supported by a strong business case, with the project teams.
The Board review covered various issues, the proposal to pursue formal discussions with the shareholders including funding, risk analysis, expected returns and the post-acquisition integration plan.
ofCPM Group Limited was tabled for Board consideration inearly2017.
Having concluded its investigation and negotiated the detailed Board presentations were reviewed in both June and August 2017, terms of the acquisition, the Board approved managements during which the Board challenged and scrutinised the rationale for recommendation to acquire CPM on 18October 2017, and the acquisition was completed on 19 October 2017. the proposed acquisition to ensure it was in line with the Groups strategy and would be value enhancing.
Board induction, development and support continued Board evaluation Directors are expected to attend external courses and seminars as The Company carries out a full evaluation of Board performance and that appropriate to maintain and develop their Board competencies.
Training of its 3 principal Committees annually.
The independent assessment isalso built into the annual Board programme, which is designed to cover provided by Equity Communications in 2016 confirmed that the Board a range of topics of particular relevance to the business.
During 2017, was working very effectively and that the internally-led Board evaluation there were Board briefings relating to health and safety and the Board process in previous years had been successful in improving Board alsoreceived senior management presentations in relation tocustomer effectiveness.
Accordingly, the Board decided to return to an internal initiatives, developments in HR, manufacturing operations and the Groups process for its 2017 evaluation, led by the Chairman and the Company marketing strategy.
Non-Executive Directors took the opportunity to meet Secretary.
The evaluation was carried out using a questionnaire, followed senior managers to discuss areas of particular interest.
Training needs by one-to-one interviews between each of the Directors and the areidentified through the Board evaluation process and through the Company Secretary.
The questionnaire was designed to stimulate thought individual one-to-one reviews between the Directors and the Chairman.
and discussion rather than to deliver scores, and included questions about the effectiveness of Executive and Non-Executive Directors, and the Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary performance of the Chairman.
The Senior Independent Director separately and are entitled to rely on the impartial and independent nature of that reviewed the Chairmans performance with other Non-Executive Directors.
The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring The results of the evaluation were then reviewed by the Chairman and the that Board procedures are complied with and, through the Chairman, advises Company Secretary and discussed by the Board.
The Board also reviewed the Board on corporate governance matters.
Both the appointment and progress against the priorities identified for 2017 from the 2016 evaluation removal of the Company Secretary are matters for the Board as a whole.
The outcomes of the evaluation process and the themes that have emerged for focus in 2018 are highlighted on page 36.
The Board has an approved procedure for all Directors to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
Board Committees are How we assess our performance, prospects and viability provided with sufficient resources to undertake their duties, including The Group has in place a comprehensive financial review process, theoption to appoint external advisers when they deem it appropriate.
including detailed annual budgets, business plans and regular Indemnities and insurance forecasting.
There are a range of performance indicators which are tracked by management on a daily, weekly and monthly basis, as The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance to cover legal proceedings against its Directors and Officers acting in that appropriate, and addressed through a programme of operational meetings and action plans.
All Directors receive regular and timely capacity.
The Group has also granted indemnities to its Directors tothe extent permitted by law which are qualifying third party indemnities information to enable them to perform their duties, including within the meaning of Section 236 of the Companies Act 2006, and information on the Groups operational and financial performance, customer service, health and safety performance and forward trends.
these remained in force during the year in relation to certain losses and liabilities that the Directors may incur to third parties in thecourse of The Board reviews at each regular Board meeting the monthly financial action as Directors or employees of the Company, any subsidiary or results, taking account of performance indicators and the detailed associated company, or as a Director of the pension scheme trustee annual business plan and budget.
The Board also considers forward board.
Neither the liability insurance nor the indemnities provide cover trends and performance against other key indicators, including areas in the event of proven fraudulent or dishonest activity.
where performance departs from forecasts, and contingency plans.
TheBoard reviews and discusses medium and long-term strategy on a regular basis and meets at least annually with the Executive Committee to review strategy.
It also holds separate meetings with individual members of senior management to ensure the Board receives regular updates on current business and strategic issues.
MARSHALLS PLC 40 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Case study There is an emphasis on personal contact and individual dialogue Investor communications strategy withsignificant time commitment for shareholder and Marshalls investor communications strategy combines personal investormeetings: contact with integrated reporting through the IR website, regular We arrange regular analyst presentations and site visits: presentations and the Annual Report.
During 2017, 80 meetings were We have invested in Corporate Reporting in recent years held with current or prospective shareholders, together with additional withparticular focus on the Strategic Report and Corporate analyst meetings, investor roadshows and site visits.
Marshalls GovernanceReporting: continues to enhance and align all reporting channels focusing on There are regular and consistent presentations to facilitate strategy, key business drivers, risks and the investment case.
understanding and clarity of message: Our main purpose is to articulate a clear corporate strategy in a Results Presentation by CEO and CFO is filmed and available way that is easy to understand: ontheIRwebsite: We seek to give a consistent message and style across all the We have re-designed and upgraded the Investor Relations website: and communication channels: PR consultants MHP Communications provide ongoing support for the communications strategy.
In this way, the Board assesses the prospects of the Group using all The Board also regularly receives copies of analysts and brokers theinformation at its disposal, and considering historic performance, briefings.
The Chairman is available to meet major shareholders on forecast performance for the current year, and longer-term forecasts request to discuss governance and strategy.
The Senior Independent over the 3-year business planning cycle as appropriate.
In approving Director is also available to meet shareholders separately if requested.
these accounts the Board has considered these matters in detail in order When appropriate, the Non-Executive Directors attend meetings or site to be able to givethe Viability Statement on page 21.
The Board has visits with major shareholders and would be available to meet major adopted the going concern basis in preparing these Financial Statements shareholders if a meeting were requested.
and has a reasonable expectation that the Group is able to continue in There is a regular reporting and announcement schedule to ensure operation and meetitsliabilities as they fall due for at least the next thatmatters of importance affecting the Group are communicated to 12months.
investors, and the Annual and Half-yearly Reports, together with the Marshalls website, are substantial means of communication with all Risk management and internal control The Board acknowledges its responsibility for determining the nature shareholders during the year.
and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its Annual General Meeting strategic objectives, and for the Groups system of internal control.
The The Notice of Annual General Meeting is dispatched to shareholders, Board has during 2017 carried out a review of the effectiveness of the together with explanatory notes or a circular on items of special Groups risk management and internal controls systems covering all business, atleast 20 working days before the meeting.
It is the material controls, including financial, operational and compliance Companys practice to propose separate resolutions on each substantially controls.
The Strategic Report comments in detail pages 20 to 24 separate issue, including a resolution relating to the Report and onthe nature of the principal risks facing the Group, in particular those Accounts, and to put all resolutions to an electronic poll at the Annual that would threaten our business model, future performance, solvency General Meeting.
All Directors normally attend the meeting, including or liquidity and the measures in place to mitigate them.
In conducting the Chairs of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, its review, the Board has included a robust assessment of these risks, who are available to answer questions.
The Board welcomes questions particularly operational risks that might affect the assessment of the from shareholders who have an opportunity toraise issues informally Groups viability.
The Boards risk review also incorporates an element orformally before or at the Annual GeneralMeeting.
ofstress testing, by envisaging scenarios that might arise during the financial year and or the planning cycle, and considering, with financial For each resolution the proxy appointment forms provide shareholderswith impact modelling where appropriate, the likely effect in the business the option to direct their proxy vote either for or against the resolution and its prospects.
The Audit Committee Report on pages 46 to 49 or to withhold their vote.
The proxy form and anyannouncement of the describes the internal control system and how it is managed and results of a vote make it clear that a vote withheld is not a vote in law monitored.
The Board acknowledges that such systems are designed and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of the votes tomanage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business for and against the resolution.
objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance All valid proxy appointments are properly recorded and counted.
against material mis-statement or loss.
Information on the number of shares represented by proxy, the proxy Relations with shareholders votes for and against each resolution, and the number of shares in The Board places great emphasis on good communications with respect of which the vote was withheld for each resolution, together shareholders.
The Chief Executive and the Finance Director meet regularly with the voting result, are given at the meeting and made available with major shareholders to discuss the Groups performance, strategic onthe Companys website.
issues and shareholder investment objectives, and also periodically arrange site visits for investors.
Reports of these meetings and any Andrew Allner shareholder communications during the year are provided to the Board.
Chairman During 2017, 80 such meetings were held, at which 75 per cent of the 14 March 2018 Groups institutional shareholders were represented.
This approach ensures the views of major shareholders are understood by all Directors.
MARSHALLS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 41
