Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Corporate Governance Report 57 Accountability Audit Committee Report Dear fellow Shareholder I am pleased to present the Audit Committees Report for the year under review.
It demonstrates not only the Committees activities against a structured programme but also the detailed level of review and reporting now taking place on the back of a growing regulatory Mike McKeon and legislative agenda.
Committee Chair In terms of compliance with the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code Code and the FRC Guidance on Audit Committees, I believe the Committee has continued to address the spirit and requirements Primary role of both during the year.
To protect the interests of shareholders through ensuring the integrity of the Companys published financial information and the Review of the year effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function and systems of internal control and risk management, and external audit process.
The Committee again challenged itself to ensure its work continued to address those areas of most importance to the Group and or The Committees terms of reference, reviewed and approved which could have a material impact on its current or future financial annually, are available on the Companys website at performance.
This resulted in prioritisation of its time and attention www.
being given to the following key matters: the accounting requirements associated with the sale of the Key responsibilities Essex Thameside c2c franchise to Trenitalia, and the consequential Assess the integrity of the Groups financial reporting restructuring of UK coach and bus Ensure that any significant financial judgement and estimates made resolution of the revenue recognition issues associated with by management are sound German Rail Approve the activities and monitor the performance of the internal the judgements applied by management in relation to insurance and external auditors, including monitoring their independence, other claims and goodwill fixed asset impairment objectivity and effectiveness assessment of the potential impact of the new accounting Evaluate the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls including standards IFRS 9 and 15 which come into force this year, and 16 financial controls and risk management systems which comes into force in 2019 Review the Groups systems and controls for detection of fraud, the reporting impact arising from the new ESMA Guidelines on prevention of bribery and whistleblowing Alternative Performance Measures Maintain an appropriate relationship with the external auditor the impact of refinancing activities on the Groups financial position the Groups tax strategy and implementation of new tax evasion Activity highlights defence procedures Scrutinised the full and half year financial statements the impact on the Groups future effective tax rate following Reviewed the Groups risk management framework changes in US tax rates introduced in December 2017.
Reviewed and recommended the Groups tax strategy While there were no changes in the Committees membership in 2017, Monitored progress of the Groups cyber security programme the Company did welcome Chris Davies as its new Group Finance Reviewed the Groups first Slavery & Human Trafficking Statement Director on 1 June.
He succeeded Matt Ashley who relinquished that Assessed the potential impact arising from accounting standards role but not his executive directorship to take up the position of IFRS 9, 15 and 16 and the new US tax regime President and CEO of our North America business on 1 September 2017.
I would like to thank Matt for effecting a smooth handover Membership, meetings and attendance and induction for Chris, enabling him to get up to speed so quickly.
The Committee has seen Chris make a good start in his new role.
Meetings Meetings Committee member Appointed held attended Mike McKeon Chair 03.07.15 3 3 Risk landscape Lee Sander 01.06.11 3 3 The Committee reviewed changes in risk affecting the Group at Dr Ashley Steel 01.01.16 3 3 both a macro-economic and geopolitical level, as well as other risks affecting the business at an operational level, including cyber security Chris Muntwyler 11.05.11 3 3 and rapid technological change.
While no new risks were added to the Groups significant risk register during the year, some minor 1 Independent Non-Executive Director.
changes to our risk radar were made arising from developments in Other attendees by invitation : Chairman of the Board, Group Chief Executive, Group the risk environment, most notably in respect of terrorism given the Finance Director, Group Financial Controller, Head of Group Finance, Group Director events in London, Manchester and Barcelona last year.
Overall, the of Insurance & Risk, Head of Group Internal Audit and representatives of the external Groups risk profile has improved strategically through its UK rail auditor, Deloitte.
divestment earlier in the year, and this has been recognised by both Biographical details of the members are set out on pages 48 and 49. the investor and analyst community.
58 Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Accountability continued Audit Committee Report continued In relation to cyber security, management continues to maintain a specific risk register and follow a prioritised remediation programme monitored by the Cyber Security Committee.
Additionally, external Sound risk management and internal projects are in progress targeted at ISO 27001 accreditation, and control systems are essential to enable employee awareness and training continues to be rolled out across the Group.
I am pleased to report that our external security advisers, theGroup to achieve its objectives, while ZeroDayLabs, and our co-sourced experts, PwC, have validated the proper accountability to shareholders good progress we are making with our cyber security programme.
We are however not complacent, knowing that risks in this area requires fair and balanced performance continue to evolve rapidly.
The Committees role is to A coordinated programme is in place, jointly led by the Group Finance ensure both are in place.
Director and the Group Commercial Director, in respect of our preparations for compliance with the new General Data Protection Regulation GDPR across the businesses by May this year.
FRC Corporate Reporting Review Overall, the risk landscape continues to be challenging but the Group At the end of last year and early this year, I reviewed and approved is well placed to understand and manage it.
responses to the FRC Corporate Reporting Review teams information request relating to the Companys 2016 Annual Report.
The FRC has Internal audit and control since advised the Company that their enquiry is closed.
Notwithstanding that the Groups internal audit continues to operate effectively, as recently assessed by the Committee, we have Committee effectiveness commissioned an external quality assurance review of the function.
The Committees operations and activities formed part of the external The purpose is to benchmark its structure and activities against best review of Board effectiveness performed in the year.
Details of this practice and identify a roadmap to where it should be positioned review are provided on pages 50 and 51.
Overall, the Committee going forward, aligned with the future needs of the business.
EY will continued to operate effectively and to a very high standard during undertake the review in early 2018 and I will report on its outcome the year, with clear priorities, well-defined responsibilities and clarity next year.
Following the discovery of a non-material fraud at one of our Spanish locations, the Committee reviewed the results of a controls audit of all Looking forward cash handling operations across the Group.
I am pleased to say that I expect 2018 will be another busy year for the Committee in fulfilling we were satisfied this was a one-off occurrence and that the controls its core responsibilities and in completing the assessment of the in place elsewhere across the Group would have prevented a similar impact of IFRS 16, Leases, on the Groups accounts for which we event occurring.
Controls at the Spanish location have been improved expect an update will form part of this years interim results, with the help of input from third-party experts.
responding to changes arising from the new Code expected mid-year and finalising our preparations for GDPR compliance.
Viability Statement Finally, I would like to thank the other members of the Committee, The Committee reviewed and challenged management on the together with management and Deloitte, for their support during Groups viability outlook period as well as on the viability analysis the year.
and conclusions, and satisfied itself that three years remained appropriate.
The Viability Statement, and the rationale for the period selected, is set out on page 41.
Fair, balanced and understandable The Committee assessed and recommended to the Board which it subsequently endorsed that, taken as a whole, the 2017 Mike McKeon Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and provides Audit Committee Chair the necessary information for shareholders to assess the Companys 1 March 2018 position and performance, business model and strategy.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Corporate Governance Report 59 Committee composition and operations The Board is satisfied that the Committee as a whole possesses relevant sectoral experience and that its members bring a broad range of financial and commercial experience from across various industries.
It is also satisfied that Mike McKeon in particular possesses the recent and relevant experience required by the Code.
Details of the Committee meetings held during the year are shown on page 57.
The Committee also hosts private sessions with the external auditor and or Head of Group Internal Audit after each meeting.
The Committee Chair has regular private sessions with the Group Finance Director, Head of Group Internal Audit and the Deloitte team to ensure that open and informal lines of communication exist should they wish to raise any concerns outside of formal meetings.
Audit Committee activity in 2017 The main areas of Committee activity during the year and through to the date of this report, included the planning, monitoring, reviewing and approval of the following: Financial reporting the integrity of the half year and full year financial statements, including significant financial matters considered the information, underlying assumptions and stress test analysis presented in support of the Viability Statement and going concern status the consistency and appropriateness of the financial control and reporting environment the potential impact from new accounting standards IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers and 16 Leases the financial reporting impact from new ESMA Guidelines on the use of Alternative Performance Measures the availability of distributable reserves to fund the dividend policy and make dividend payments the fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Annual Report and half year statement External audit the scope of and findings from the external audit plan undertaken by Deloitte as the external auditor the effectiveness of the external audit process the assessment of the performance, and continued objectivity and independence, of Deloitte the level of fees paid to Deloitte for permitted non-audit services the re-appointment of Deloitte as external auditor Internal audit the scope and appropriateness of the Groups internal audit plan and resourcing requirements, including external assistance the findings from investigations undertaken and the progress made against agreed management actions the findings from compliance testing of financial controls the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function Risk management and internal control the scope of the Groups internal control and risk management programme the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk management systems, including the management of its insurance and claims handling programme the Groups risk environment, including its significant and emerging risks register the Groups IT risk strategy, cyber security threats and disaster recovery plans the Groups fraud, anti-bribery and corruption and whistleblowing prevention measures Tax and treasury the Groups treasury policy and affairs, including associated key risks management the impact of refinancing activities on the Groups financial position the Groups tax affairs, including its tax strategy posted on the Companys website, and its tax evasion defence programme the impact on the Groups financial position and future effective tax rate arising from changes in US tax rates Other the Committees effectiveness and terms of reference compliance with the Code and the Groups regulatory and legislative requirements the Groups inaugural Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement posted on the Companys website responses to the FRCs Corporate Reporting Review teams information request on the 2016 Annual Report 60 Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Accountability continued Audit Committee Report continued Significant financial matters The following descriptions are of the two significant financial matters considered by the Committee, with input from management and the external auditor, in connection with the Groups financial statements and disclosures.
These were considered to be significant taking into account the level of materiality and the degree of judgement exercised by management.
The descriptions should be read in conjunction with the Independent Auditors Report on pages 106 to 113 and the accounting policies disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.
We have not provided a description this year and the external auditor has not reported on them of the risks associated with taxation, pensions and fuel hedge accounting as these were downgraded from significant to normal risk by Deloitte as part of their audit plan for the year.
In consultation with management and Deloitte, the Committee has of course continued to monitor and review these matters though not as significant issues.
Goodwill and fixed asset impairment see note 2 and 14 to the financial statements The Committee considered whether the carrying The Committee received a detailed report from management which outlined the robust value of goodwill and fixed assets held on the impairment analysis undertaken for the year on a bottom-up basis and which included: Groups balance sheet should be impaired.
The the underlying cash flows, discount rates and future growth rates assumed, the potential risk is around the recoverability of these improved modelling adopted relating to the use of a country-specific discount rate balances, particularly in relation to our ALSA and and various impact scenarios arising from the outcome of ALSAs concession renewal North America businesses, as assessed annually programme.
The report concluded that there is not a material risk of recoverability in by management as part of their goodwill this area and that neither the North America nor the ALSA goodwill assets are impaired.
impairment review using discounted cash flows Indeed, both have healthy levels of headroom in the case of North America, further on a value in use basis.
The key judgements relate enhanced by the recent changes in US tax rates that compares well with previous to the discount rate and the future growth rate years notwithstanding the additions of goodwill during the year through ongoing applied as the value in use models are highly acquisition activities.
sensitive to changes in these rates, both of which The Committee challenged managements methodology and assumptions and must reflect a long-term view of the underlying consulted with Deloitte, whose own testing and validation of the critical assumptions growth in each respective economy.
had resulted in them concurring with managements conclusion.
As a result, the Committee was satisfied that the goodwill and intangible assets of the Group as at the balance sheet date are not impaired.
Insurance and other claims provisions see note 2 to the financial statements The Committee considered the adequacy of the The Committee received and discussed with management a report from the Group provisions associated with insurance and other Director of Insurance and Risk on North America insurance and other claims, claims arising predominantly from traffic accidents particularly the key judgements made in determining the level of provisions, the and employee incidents, particularly in North methodology used, the measurement of self-insured claims and the extent to which America.
The estimation of such provisions, they were supported by third party actuarial advice.
It also reviewed the rigorous including those arising on acquisition, is audit investigation undertaken by Deloitte which included actuarial specialists judgemental and based on an assessment of the challenge of the underlying assumptions around loss development, sample testing expected settlement of known claims together and in-depth discussion with the US General Counsel and members of the local with an estimate of settlements that will be made in claims handling team.
respect of incidents incurred but not yet reported The Committee noted that in considering the overall balance sheet provision, there at the balance sheet date.
Given the level of was a wide range of potential outcomes.
However, taking into account the thorough complexity and judgement involved in making internal analysis undertaken and the audit work conducted by Deloitte, the Committee these estimations there is a risk that the eventual concluded that the provision for North America insurance and other claims, as outcome could be materially different from that recommended by management, was within an acceptable range and was fairly stated.
In addition to the above, the Committee has considered, taken action and made onward recommendations to the Board, as appropriate, on a range of other matters, including in relation to the Viability Statement, the going concern basis on which the financial statements are prepared, the accounting treatment of business combinations, acquisitions and disposals in particular regarding the sale of property and the sale of Essex Thameside c2c franchise to Trenitalia, the potential impact arising from the new accounting standards IFRS 9 and 15, and other specific areas of audit, compliance and governance focus.
The Committee was satisfied that all issues had been fully and adequately addressed, that the judgements made by management were reasonable and appropriate and had been reviewed and debated with the external auditor who concurred with the approach taken by management, and that the accounting and disclosure requirements were correct.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Corporate Governance Report 61 External audit tendering policy External auditor The Company last put its external audit out to competitive tender in Deloitte, as the external auditor, is engaged to conduct a statutory 2011 following which Deloitte was appointed to the office of auditor.
audit and express an opinion on the financial statements.
Their audit Having undertaken such a process, the Company has complied with includes the review and testing of the systems of internal financial the provisions of the Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies control and data which are used to produce the information contained Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender in the financial statements.
Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014.
The current external audit engagement partner appointed with effect The Company is next required to retender the audit by no later than from 1 January 2016 is Stephen Griggs, Head of Audit and Risk the financial year ending 2021.
The Committee will assess the quality Advisory for Deloitte in the UK.
of the external audit annually and, on the basis that its quality remains high and the audit fee represents good value to shareholders both as The external audit plan and the 1.1m fee proposal for the financial benchmarked versus market practice, it is expected that the next year under review 2016: 1.1m was prepared by Deloitte in audit tender will take place at that time.
consultation with management and presented to the Committee for consideration and approval.
The plan again focused on risk, challenge On the recommendation of the Committee, the Board is proposing and materiality and was aligned to the Groups structure and strategy.
a resolution to reappoint Deloitte to office as external auditor for a However, it was also designed to transition the audit, as directed by further year at this years AGM.
Deloitte, to be more internal control assurance and less substantive in its emphasis.
Non-audit services To help protect the objectivity and independence of Deloitte, and The Committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing the in addition to their own internal safeguards, the Company operates objectivity and independence of Deloitte as external auditor.
a Non-Audit Services Policy that sets out the types of non-audit In undertaking this annual assessment for the year under review, services, such as assurance work, which Deloitte may provide to and concluding that their independence remained assured, the the Group.
The policy remained unchanged during the year although Committee considered: a report on their independence submitted a new policy which includes an enhanced pre-approval process, by Deloitte which included the internal safeguards operated by specific financial control limits and a more definitive list of permitted them : the mitigating actions taken by the Company to safeguard their and non-permitted services, has been approved by the Committee independent status see Non-audit services below : the tenure of the effective from 1 January 2018.
The new policy also meets the FRCs current audit engagement partner being less than five years : and the revised Ethical Standards requirements.
positive outcome of the external audit and performance review of Deloitte see below.
Details of the fees charged by Deloitte, split between audit and permitted non-audit fees, for the year ended 31 December 2017 can Effectiveness be found in note 6 to the financial statements on page 131.
Total fees Immediately following completion of the external audit process for for non-audit services, including the half year review, amounted to 2017, the Committee conducted a review of its effectiveness and a 0.12m, representing 11% of the Groups total audit fees payable to performance review of Deloitte.
This was carried out through a mix Deloitte for the year.
No audit fees were approved or paid on a of a survey questionnaire and analysis and follow-up consultation contingent basis.
with Committee members, the Executive Directors, members of the senior finance team and divisional Finance Directors.
The qualitative assessment focused on the valuable feedback and insights received, process and communication, handling of issues and the quality of the audit team, and had regard to the latest Audit Quality Inspection Report on Deloitte issued by the FRC.
The Committees conclusion was that Deloitte had again completed an effective audit process which provided an appropriate level of independent challenge to the Groups senior management.
Additionally, Deloitte continue to perform their services, in respect of both the audit and their work generally, to a high standard.
Areas identified for development have been shared with them for inclusion in their service delivery plans going forward.
62 Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Accountability continued Audit Committee Report continued Notwithstanding the above, and aligned to the recommendations Internal audit of the International Internal Auditing Standards, the Committee has The Committee has oversight and directional responsibility for the commissioned EY to conduct an external quality assurance review of Groups internal audit function which is led by the Group Head of the internal audit function in early 2018.
This will provide useful insight Internal Audit and who has a direct reporting line into the Committee and benchmarking versus best practice as well as development Chair.
The functions purpose is to provide an independent and recommendations to ensure the function continues to add value objective assessment of the effectiveness of the internal controls, and is positioned to satisfy the future needs of the business.
risk management and governance processes in operation throughout the Group.
The function adds value by: Risk management and internal control contributing to the continuous improvement of internal control and The Board is responsible for determining both the nature and extent related processes, including identifying and sharing good practice of the Groups risk management and internal control framework and across the Group for setting the tone on the risk appetite that is acceptable in seeking addressing the safeguarding of assets, compliance with applicable to achieve its strategic objectives.
The Committee is responsible for laws and regulations and achievement of managements reviewing and monitoring the adequacy, design and effectiveness of operational objectives the Groups ongoing systems of risk management and internal control promoting business processes that deliver effective internal control which includes financial, operational and compliance controls, and at reasonable cost reporting to the Board accordingly, with primary responsibility for their providing alignment with the Groups risk management process.
These systems have been designed to safeguard both the shareholders investment and the An Internal Audit Charter sets out the responsibilities of both the assets of the Group and manage, rather than eliminate, the risks internal audit function in terms of its focus, programme of activity, inherent in achieving the Groups business objectives.
They can scope of investigations and reporting lines and management therefore provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance against in terms of it providing support and co-operation at all levels material misstatement or loss.
Risk management The annual internal audit plan and resource allocation including any The organisation has an embedded risk management culture and external specialist assistance required is reviewed and approved the Group Director of Insurance and Risk oversees the numerous by the Committee to ensure it is aligned with the key risks of the sub-committees and work groups that own and manage day-to-day business and the Groups strategic plan.
The Committee receives risk in the business at local and divisional level.
update reports at each meeting confirming the key findings from reviews undertaken, the material actions required to implement the The Committee receives regular updates on the Groups risk register recommendations and the status of progress against previously and risk radar which allows for discussion of the significant and agreed actions.
These include the identification of known instances emerging risks affecting the business and monitoring of progress of fraud, theft or similar irregularities affecting the Group, although against previously agreed actions.
It also receives regular reports there were no such matters that were sufficiently material to warrant from the external auditor, and from internal audit and other major separate disclosure in this report.
business functions on various aspects of internal control, financial reporting and risk management.
In turn, the Committee provides Effectiveness the Board with interim assessments of risk impact on the Groups The Committee monitors and formally assesses the effectiveness financial position, accounting affairs and control systems and on how of the internal audit function on an annual basis and seeks to satisfy material risks to the Group are being managed.
The annual risk itself that the quality, expertise, experience and cost of the function is management work plan, prepared in consultation with management, appropriate to the Group.
This was conducted for 2017 through a mix is reviewed and approved by the Committee to ensure alignment with of a survey questionnaire and analysis and feedback from both senior the changing risk profile and priorities of the business.
Overall, the Committee concluded that the function continued to be effective, objective and A summary of the Groups risk management framework, and the independent in the work it undertakes, and has a good reputation process in place for identifying, evaluating and managing the principal with operational management in the performance of its role.
risks and uncertainties faced by the Group, is set out on pages 38 to 40.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Corporate Governance Report 63 Internal control Bribery and Corruption Policy The following items represent the key elements of the Groups internal The Board has a zero-tolerance policy in place against bribery control system which is subject to internal audits ongoing programme and corruption of any sort.
Regular training is given to employees, of review and reporting to the Committee : including new employees, to highlight areas of vulnerability and reporting procedures.
Our principal suppliers are also required a devolved organisational structure with clear leadership, to have similar policies and practices in place within their responsibility and delegated authorities own businesses.
a divisional performance and key function review process conducted on a monthly basis Whistleblowing Policy a comprehensive annual strategy and operating plan review a robust annual and monthly budgeting, forecasting and financial The Committee reviews the Groups whistleblowing arrangements, reporting process incorporated within a specific policy and applied in each of the a delegated authorities matrix defining approval limits for various businesses, which allows employees to report genuine concerns classifications of expenditure and investment about suspected impropriety or wrongdoing whether financial or a top-down bottom-up approach to risk management and otherwise on a confidential basis, and anonymously if preferred.
internal control This takes the form of a free independent telephone hotline in each various policies, procedures and guidelines underpinning the country of operation.
Any matters reported are investigated by local development, management, financing and main operations legal counsel in the first instance with monthly summary reports of the business submitted to the Group Company Secretary and reviewed by the specialist professional support services provided on a central and Group Executive Committee in case a higher level of independent or divisional basis, as appropriate, covering safety, property and investigation is required.
During the year, there were no environment, legal, human resources, communications, insurance, whistleblowing incidents investigated at Group level.
information services, tax and treasury, and company secretarial.
Effectiveness Assisted by the Committee, the Board reviewed the systems of internal control and risk management described above which have been in place for the year under review and through to the signing date of this Annual Report taking into account the assurance work undertaken by both the risk management and internal audit functions, and the relevant process, controls and testing undertaken by Deloitte as part of their half year review and full year audit.
No significant weaknesses or control failures were found while identified opportunities to strengthen the controls have been taken and will themselves be subject to regular review as part of the internal assurance process.
Fair, balanced and understandable The Committee reviewed the Annual Report in terms of its preparation, control process, verification of content, consistency of information including the appropriate weighting given to bad news as well as good news and linkage between key messages throughout the document.
It also received a specific paper from management to assist in its challenge and testing of a fair, balanced and understandable assessment.
Based on the above, and the views expressed by Deloitte, the Committee recommended, and in turn the Board confirmed, that the 2017 Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the necessary information for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
