Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 69 Strategic Report Nomination Committee Report Governance Financial Statements Introduction I am pleased to present the Nomination Committee Report for the year ended 31 December 2017, which outlines the Committees role, focus Our focus is on succession planning and and activities during the year.
A key part of this related to my own appointment as Chairman-elect of the Board and Chair of the renewal to ensure that the Board continues Nomination Committee as part of my transition to the role of Chairman.
to have the right skills and experience to Ishall ensure that we continue to focus on succession planning and renewal to ensure that the Board continues to have the right skills and safeguard the Groups values and culture experience to safeguard the Groups values and culture and promote RBs and promote RBs long-term success.
I believe that the Board is well balanced and diverse and any changes proposed to its composition and structure will be appropriate to deliver on the Groups strategic objectives.
Role of the Nomination Committee The role of the Committee is to ensure that there is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors to theBoard, to lead the process for Board appointments and make recommendations to the Board.
The Committee assists the Board in ensuring its composition is regularly reviewed and refreshed so that it is effective and able to operate in the best interests of Shareholders.
The Committee also has responsibility for reviewing succession plans for the Board and key management roles, and for considering and, if appropriate, authorising conflicts of interest.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website.
They are reviewed annually to ensure that they continue to reflect best practice.
Composition The Nomination Committee is comprised of a majority of Non-Executive Directors.
Its membership consists of the Chairman-elect, Chief Executive Officer, Senior Independent Director, and Chair of each of the Audit, CRSEC and Remuneration Committees, together with any other independent Non-Executive Director who may be invited by the Board tojoin.
Rakesh Kapoor, Andr Lacroix and Pam Kirby were Committee members throughout the year.
Adrian Bellamy was Chair of the Committee until 19 September 2017, when I became Chairman-elect of the Group and joined the Committee and was appointed Chair as part of transitional arrangements.
Adrian Bellamy ceased to be a member on the same day.
Mary Harris joined the Committee on 19 September 2017 as part of her Chris Sinclair transition to Chair of the Remuneration Committee on 1 November 2017.
Ken Hydon and Judy Sprieser stepped down from the Committee on Chair of the Nomination Committee 4 May 2017 and 1 November 2017 respectively when they stepped down from their positions as Board Committee Chairs.
Biographical details of the members of the Board who held office during the year and up to the date of this report can be found on pages 52 to 55.
The Company Secretary acted as Secretary to the Committee during theyear.
Activity The Committee meets at least once each year and on an as needed basis.
After each meeting, the Committee Chairman reports formally tothe Board.
The Committee held three meetings during the year.
Inaddition, matters within the Committees remit were also taken asspecific items at full Board meetings, principally consideration ofsuccession planning more widely within the Group and talent identification, management and development.
Members of the Committee also met together informally to discuss senior executive succession planning.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 70 Nomination Committee Report continued The Committees focus during 2017 and at the start of this year has been In light of their departures, the Committee began the search for one or more new Non-Executive Directors.
We remain committed to ensuring the composition of the Board, its principal committees and their Chairs, as well as succession planning for the positions of Chairman, CEO and that the Board retains the wealth of knowledge and experience on the senior management: to ensure that the Board has the right balance of Board, as well as stability and to ensure that the size, composition and skills, expertise, experience, diversity and independence to enable it to structure of the Board is appropriate for the delivery of the Groups perform effectively: and that its governance structures are of the highest strategic objectives and that all relevant provisions of the UK Corporate standard.
Governance Code continue to be met.
On 21 March 2017, we announced changes to the positions of Chair of An extensive search was carried out and a shortlist drawn up.
Following the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Following the 2017 AGM, meetings with the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and the Andr Lacroix became the Chair of the Audit Committee and Mary Harris Executive Directors, Andrew Bonfield was identified as an exceptional was appointed as a member of the Remuneration Committee.
Following candidate and recommended to the Board for appointment on the basis a transitional period and handover from Judy Sprieser, Mary Harris that he met the criteria required, which included international experience became Chair of the Remuneration Committee on 1 November 2017. in a consumer-facing business, senior leadership experience, a financial qualification and a strong cultural fit.
The Board is delighted that Andrew During the year, we announced Adrian Bellamys decision to retire from has agreed to join RB from 1 July 2018.
Andrew brings a wealth of the position of Chairman and from the Board following RBs AGM on financial and business experience and I am confident he will make a 3 May 2018, and I was confirmed as Adrians successor.
The Board Chairman succession planning process was led by Andr Committee composition Lacroix, in his capacity as Senior Independent Director.
The process had The Committee has also considered membership of Board Committees commenced in 2013 with the appointment of Egon Zehnder International following the retirement of Adrian Bellamy, Judy Sprieser and Ken Hydon Ltd to identify suitable new Board members with Chair potential, in order at the AGM.
I will join the CRSEC Committee with effect from 1 May that an eventual appointment could be made of someone with 2018 and Andrew Bonfield will join the Audit Committee on his experience on the RB Board.
Egon Zehnder is an independent executive appointment to the Board on 1 July 2018.
As other Directors are search firm which has no other current connection with RB and is a appointed, they will be asked to join Committees as appropriate.
signatory of the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms in the UK to address diversity and best practice relating to Board I will be available at the 2018 AGM to answer questions relating to the appointments.
In addition to leadership experience and international work of the Committee.
expertise, commitment to the business, the ability to meet the time commitment required and director independence were given due Chris Sinclair consideration.
The process led to me emerging as the preferred candidate Chair of the Nomination Committee and in September 2017 the Nomination Committee recommended to the 19 March 2018 Board that I be appointed as successor to Adrian Bellamy following the conclusion of RBs 2018 AGM in May 2018.
Effectiveness An independent external Board evaluation was carried out in 2016, in line with the Code requirements and corporate governance best practice.
In 2017, an internal evaluation of the Board and its committees was carried out using a series of questionnaires for the Board to complete, as well as report analysis software, supplied by Independent Audit Limited.
Details of the process can be found on page 65, together with the outcomes.
Diversity The Board and Nomination Committee consider diversity, including gender, amongst its members to be a key factor in steering the Company to strategic and financial success.
RBs customers are from wide and diverse backgrounds and so diversity is pivotal to understanding and best serving our customers.
Our diversity policy can be found at www.
There is a strong commitment to engendering an all-embracing culture of inclusion throughout the business and the Board recognises the need to set the tone from the very top.
This commitment is clearly demonstrated in the diverse composition of the Board, which comprises five nationalities and three women, two of whom are committee Chairs.
Focus for 2018 Adrian Bellamy, Judy Sprieser and Ken Hydon will not stand for reelection at RBs 2018 AGM in May 2018.
