Strategic report Governance Financial statements Corporate Governance report This report explains the Boards role and It is open to all shareholders to raise any Board, which contains items reserved activities, and how corporate governance issues they wish with the Chairman, the for the Board to consider and approve, operates throughout the Group.
SID and the Chair of the Remuneration relating to strategy and management, Committee.
The Board has therefore contracts, financial reporting and controls, concluded that it has complied with the internal controls and risk management, The UK Corporate main and supporting principles under Board membership and succession Governance Code section E. 1 of the Code regarding planning, corporate governance, Direct Line Insurance Group plc the dialogue with shareholders.
structure and capital, delegation of Company has complied with all of authority and remuneration.
the principles and, except as explained Further details of how the Company below, all provisions of the Code applied the Codes principles and In addition to the schedule of Matters throughout the financial year up to the complied with its provisions can be found Reserved, each Board Committee has date of this report.
on the following pages of this report and written terms of reference defining its the Directors remuneration report: role and responsibilities.
Further details The only exception is the Leadership page 49 regarding the role and activities of the recommendation contained in Provision Board and Board Committees can be Effectiveness page 52 E. 1.1 of the Code that the SID should found on pages 50 and 61 to 73. attend sufficient meetings with major Accountability page 56 shareholders to listen to their views.
Remuneration page 57 Board composition Throughout 2017, the Board received Relations with shareholders page 57 As at the date of this report, the Board regular updates from the Companys comprised the Chairman, who was For more information about the Code, corporate brokers on the views of its independent when appointed to the visit the Financial Reporting Councils institutional shareholders and, in Board: four Executive Directors: and six website at www.
addition, the Investor Relations team independent NEDs, including the SID.
provided regular updates to the Board.
The current Directors served throughout Leadership The Chairman, CEO and CFO met all of 2017, except for Danuta Gray with key shareholders following The Board and Mike Holliday-Williams who were announcements of results and reported The Board has a collective objective of appointed on 1 February 2017 and shareholders views back to the Board.
promoting the long-term success of the Penny James who was appointed on On this basis the Board is satisfied that Company for its shareholders and 1November 2017. it understands the views of shareholders, provides leadership of the Company.
and major shareholders have been Biographical details of current Directors invited to meet with the SID should they The Boards specific duties are set out in of the Company as at the date of this wish to do so.
the Schedule of Matters Reserved for the report are set out on pages 46 and 47.
Meetings The Board and Board Committees held a number of scheduled meetings in 2017 at which senior executives, external advisers and independent advisers were invited to attend and present on business developments and governance matters.
The Company Secretary attended all Board meetings and he or his nominated deputy attended all Board Committee meetings.
The table below 1 sets out attendance at the scheduled meetings in 2017.
Additional Board and Committee meetings were convened during the year to discuss ad hoc business development, governance and regulatory matters.
Audit Board Risk CSR Investment Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Chairman Mike Biggs 9 of 9 3 of 3 3 of 3 Senior Independent Director Richard Ward 9 of 9 5 of 5 3 of 3 Non-Executive Directors 2 Danuta Gray 7 of 8 1 of 1 2 of 2 Jane Hanson 9 of 9 5 of 5 5 of 5 3 of 3 4 of 4 Sebastian James 9 of 9 3 of 3 3 of 3 Andrew Palmer 9 of 9 5 of 5 5 of 5 4 of 4 3 of 3 3 of 3 Clare Thompson 9 of 9 5 of 5 3 of 3 Executive Directors Paul Geddes 9 of 9 3 of 3 Penny James 2 of 2 Mike Holliday-Williams 8 of 8 John Reizenstein 9 of 9 1 of 1 Executive Committee member Simon Linares 3 of 3 Notes: 1.
Attendance is expressed as the number of scheduled meetings attended out of the number of such meetings possible or applicable for the Director to attend.
Due to external business commitments arranged prior to Danuta Grays appointment, she was unable to attend the June 2017 Board meeting.
COM 49 Corporate Governance report continued Structure of the Board, Board Committees and executive management The diagrams on pages 50 and 51 summarise the role of the Board, its Committees and the responsibilities of the Chairman, the CEO and executive management.
The Board and Board Committees have unrestricted access to management and external advisers to help discharge their responsibilities.
The Board and Board Committees are satisfied that, in 2017, sufficient, reliable and timely information was received to perform their responsibilities effectively.
Each Committee plays a vital role in helping the Board to operate efficiently and consider matters appropriately.
Board Board Committees Leadership The Audit Committee: The Board has clear divisions of Monitors the integrity of the Groups financial statements responsibility and seeks the long-term Oversees and challenges the effectiveness of the Groups systems of success of the Group.
financial and other controls Monitors the work and effectiveness of the Groups internal and external Shareholder benefit auditors and actuaries The Board organises and directs Meets privately with the External Auditor and Group Head of Audit in the the Groups affairs in a way that it absence of management believes will help the Group succeed The chair of the Audit Committee has regular one-to-one meetings for the benefit of shareholders as with the CFO awhole.
More information on the Boards The Board Risk Committee: approach towards the Groups wider Oversees and advises the Board on the Groups current and potential stakeholders interests can be found future risk exposures, and its strategic approach to managing risk on page 59.
Recommends risk appetite and tolerance levels to the Board and supports the Board in promoting a risk-aware culture across the Group Operations Meets privately with the CRO without the presence of management The Board supervises the Groups The chair of the BRC has monthly one-to-one meetings with the CRO operations, with a view to ensuring they are effectively managed, that The CSR Committee: effective controls are in place, and Provides oversight and advice on how the Group conducts its business that risks are assessed and managed responsibly, including matters relating to environmental, employee appropriately.
engagement and wellbeing, community involvement, ethics and diversity Strategy The Investment Committee: The Board sets the Groups strategy, Provides oversight of the Groups investment strategy and monitors managements Oversees the management and performance of the Groups investment performance and progress against portfolio the strategic aims and objectives.
The Nomination Committee: Culture Reviews the Boards structure, size, composition, and balance of skills, experience, independence, expertise and knowledge of the Company The Board develops and promotes the collective vision of the Groups Leads the process for Board appointments and makes recommendations purpose, culture, values and to the Board behaviours.
Provides guidance to management on executive succession planning The Remuneration Committee: Information & Support Sets and oversees how the Group implements its remuneration policy The Board accesses assistance and advice from the Company Oversees the level and structure of remuneration arrangements for senior Secretary.
The Board may seek executives, approves share incentive plans, and recommends them to the external independent professional Board and shareholders advice at the Companys expense, Interacts with the Audit Committee and BRC when considering setting if required, to discharge targets and pay-outs its duties.
Engages its independent adviser, FIT Remuneration Consultants LLP FIT on market practice, corporate governance, incentive plan design and target-setting, regulations and other remuneration matters when necessary 50 DIRECT LINE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Board and executive management roles Each Director brings different skills, experience and knowledge to the Company, with the NEDs bringing additional independent thought and judgement.
The Chairman: The SID: The NEDs: Maintains, develops and Acts as a sounding board Challenge management leads the Board for the Chairman and an in an objective and intermediary for the other constructive manner Plans and manages the Directors when necessary Boards business Use their wider business Available to shareholders experience to help develop Ensures the Directors if they have any concerns the Groups strategy receive accurate, timely they cannot resolve through and clear information Depending on the needs of normal channels the business, the NEDs and Presides at Board meetings Leads the Chairmans the Chairman commit at The Board has agreed performance evaluation least three days a month individual role profiles for annually and three days a week the Chairman and the respectively to discharging CEO.
These clearly define their duties effectively as their roles and contained in their letters of responsibilities and ensure appointment.
The letters are that no one person has available for inspection at unlimited powers of the Companys registered decision-making.
The CEO As authorised by the Board, the CEO manages the Groups day-to-day operations and delivers its strategy and financial results.
The CEO delegates certain elements of his authority to Executive Committee members to help ensure that senior executives are accountable and responsible for managing their businesses and functions.
The Executive Committee The Executive Committee is the principal management committee that helps the CEO manage the Groups operations.
It helps him: Set performance targets Implement the Board-determined Group strategy and direction Monitor key objectives and commercial plans to help achieve the Groups targets Evaluate new business initiatives and opportunities Managing Managing Chief Chief Risk Chief General Chief Group Director Director Operating Officer Financial Counsel Financial Human Commercial Personal Officer Officer OfficerResources Lines designate Director Biographical details of the Executive Directors and Executive Committee members are shown on pages 46 to 48.
COM 51 Corporate Governance report continued Effectiveness Board meetings & activity in 2017 S T I T T T B B B B B T BU Jan Feb March April May June July August September October November December In addition to routine business, the Board considers and Board meetings discusses key issues that impact on the business as they arise.
The activities undertaken by the Board in 2017 intended to The CEO and CFO spend a considerable amount of time with promote the success of the Company, are focused on its role the different business units ensuring that the Boards aims are as the leadership and decision-making forum for the Group.
being correctly disseminated throughout the Group, and that colleagues views and opinions are reported back to the Scheduled Board meeting discussions set out on the timeline Board.
The NEDs meet with key management outside the above focused on four main themes in 2017: Board and Committee fora to get a wider view of the Groups activities.
Strategy & execution, including: setting the Groups key strategic targets and monitoring the Groups performance against those targets: reviewing customer experience and Strategy day monitoring the Group performance against external brand The Board sets aside time each year outside the annual metrics: reviewing and approving key projects aimed at Board calendar to hold a strategy day giving the Directors the developing the business or rationalising costs: reviewing the opportunity to focus solely on strategic matters.
In June 2017, approach to mergers and acquisitions: and reviewing the the Board held a session offsite to set and monitor progress individual strategy of key business lines.
against the Groups strategy and to discuss the strategic challenges and opportunities the Group faces in the future, Financial performance and investor relations, including: including advances in car technology.
setting financial plans, annual budgets and key performance indicators KPIs, and monitoring the Groups results against Board training them: considering the Groups reserving position: approving The Board is committed to the training and development financial results for publication: resetting the Groups dividend of Directors and employees.
The Company Secretary is policy: approval of catastrophe reinsurance arrangements: responsible for helping the Chairman regularly review and motor reinsurance renewal: authorising the Groups planned organise training for the Directors.
The Company Secretary capital management exercise of issuing of 350 million Fixed also maintains an annual training agenda for the Board and Rate Reset Perpetual Restricted Tier 1 notes with a coupon its Committees.
In order for our Directors, particularly the of 4.75% Tier 1 notes to investors, which were primarily NEDs, to discharge their responsibilities, it is essential that used to fund the repurchase of half the Groups 500 million they understand our business.
nominal 9.25% Tier 2 debt: and reviewing broker reports on the Group alongside feedback from investor meetings.
The main Board training activities in 2017 included training on topics such as: Risk management, regulatory and other related governance, including: considering the impact of the Ogden discount competition law: rate review on the Group: reviewing and agreeing the Solvency II matters: Groups Policies: setting risk appetites: approving the ORSA: approving major changes to the Groups partial internal model the Groups Internal Economic Capital Model IECM : and seeking to ensure that the Group complies with all the Groups investment risk appetite: regulatory requirements.
cyber risk and security: Board & Board Committee governance, including: receiving the upcoming new insurance contracts standard IFRS 17 : reports from the Boards Committees: updating terms of the outlook for internal audit in 2020: reference for the Committees: and implementing an annual EU General Data Protection Regulation EUGDPR : review of the Board and Board Committees effectiveness.
alternative pricing: The co-ordination of the Board meeting content is managed conduct pricing: and by the Chairman, and supported by the CEO and motor reinsurance.
52 DIRECT LINE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Key for Board meetings & activity in 2017 B Board meetings S Strategy day T Training I Induction BU Business unit visits I T T BU T B B T B B BU Jan Feb March April May June July August September October November December The 2016 Board effectiveness review was facilitated by an Business unit visits external consultant, Professor Rob Goffee of London Business The Board visits different business units during the year.
During School, who is independent and has no other connection with 2017, NED visits to operational business units were arranged the Company.
In 2017, the Board chose to conduct its to meet the management teams and better understand how the effectiveness review in-house.
These included visits to Sales, Customer Operations, Auto Services, Digital, Personal Lines, Data The Company Secretary designed and co-ordinated the Science, Operational Risk and Commercial teams in Ipswich, process.
This involved agreeing a structured questionnaire with Glasgow, Warwick, Doncaster and Bromley.
the Chairman, SID and the Chairs of the Boards Committees, distributing it to and interviewing the directors and stakeholders Board inductions and preparing reports.
The Board and each of its Committees reviewed and discussed the relevant reports.
All new Directors appointed to the Board undertake an induction programme aimed at ensuring they develop an Building on positive responses to the 2016 effectiveness understanding and awareness of our businesses, people and review, the 2017 questionnaire focused on further processes, and of their roles and responsibilities as Directors opportunities for improvement, including making the best use of of the Company.
The programmes are tailored to suit each the experience and expertise of NEDs in the Boards strategic Director and include: thinking, the preservation of the Boards culture at a time of changes to its composition and how the supportive and provision of relevant current and historical information about challenging relationship between the Board and the Groups the Company and the Group: senior management can be preserved and enhanced.
visits to operations around the Group: The Committee questionnaire focused on the clarity of each induction briefings from Group functions: and Committees role and scope, its composition, the resources available to it and the effectiveness of communicating the one-to-one meetings with Board members, senior Committees proceedings to stakeholders.
management and the Companys advisers.
Outcome of the effectiveness review Danuta Grays programme focused on the Groups businesses, strategic and transformational priorities, regulatory and The Chairman discussed the outcome of the effectiveness governance frameworks, capital and financial management, review with the NEDs and the CEO, providing them with feedback on their individual performance and contributions.
Given Mike Holliday-Williams extensive The Board and each of its Committees received and debated experience of the business, his induction programme focused their own reports resulting from this exercise.
Feedback on the on his duties and responsibilities as an Executive Director of Chairmans performance was provided by the SID, with input the Company and corporate governance matters.
Penny James commenced her induction programme in Based on the responses to the questionnaire and resulting September 2017 which prepared her for her role as an reports, the Directors are satisfied that the Board and each Executive Director and CFO of the Company.
The programme of its Committees operated effectively in 2017.
The Directors was tailored to familiarise Penny with the business, its culture, are also satisfied that they made significant progress in areas the market in which it operates and its people.
identified for potential improvement in 2016.
Whilst the findings of the 2017 effectiveness review were Board and Committee effectiveness review positive, the Board and each of its Committees will focus In accordance with the principles and provisions of the Code, during 2018 on opportunities for fine-tuning with the objective the Boards intended practice is to conduct a thorough review of of further improving effectiveness.
the effectiveness of the performance of the Directors, the Board as a whole and its Committees on an annual basis, with the input of an external facilitator at least once every three years.
COM 53 Corporate Governance report continued The core elements of the Governance Framework are the: Governance framework and structure The Board is responsible for ensuring an appropriate system of Matters Reserved for the Board and the Board Committees governance is in operation throughout the Group.
This includes Terms of Reference: a robust system of internal controls and a sound risk management High Level Control and System of Governance Framework framework.
The Board has established a risk management model document: that separates the Groups risk management responsibilities into Regulatory Governance Map: three lines of defence.
An explanation of these responsibilities can be found on page 22. risk appetite statements, which are described on page 22: Enterprise Risk Management Strategy and Framework The Groups governance framework is detailed in the Groups ERMF, which is described on page 23: High Level Control and System of Governance Framework Executive Governance Framework, which outlines how document.
This document, together with the Regulatory each business function is governed and details the authority Governance Map, details how the Group meets Solvency II delegated to Executive Committee members: and PRA requirements to identify Key Functions, to have and maintain a Governance Map and the requirements in respect Group policies, which address specific risk areas and of the PRA Senior Insurance Managers Regime and the inform the business how it needs to conduct its activities to FCA Approved Persons regime.
The Board reviews these remain within Risk Appetite: and documents annually.
Minimum Standards, which interpret the Group policies into a set of operational requirements that can be implemented throughout the Group.
The diagram below summarises the split of responsibilities for the different parts of the Groups governance framework.
The Board approves Matters High Level Control and System the High Level Control and System of Reserved for of Governance document Governance Framework, risk appetite, the Board Group policies and Regulatory Governance and Board Map, following review by the BRC.
Committees Regulatory Risk appetite Terms of Governance Reference Map Group policies and certain Minimum Standards The BRC approves ERMF the ERMF, following review by the Risk Management Committee a committee comprised of Executives.
The Risk Management Executive Governance Framework Committee approves the Executive Governance Framework which is developed by Executives.
Policy owners approve Minimum Minimum Standards subject to non-objection Standards from the Risk Management Committee.
Business unit and operational area implementation 54 DIRECT LINE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 2.
Only engaging executive search firms who have signed Conflicts of interest up to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search The Companys Articles of Association allow the Board to Firms on gender diversity and best practice.
authorise matters where there is, or may be, a conflict between In its search for candidates, the Board aims to only engage the Groups interests and the direct or indirect interests of a with executive search firms who are signatories to the Voluntary Director, or between a Directors duties to the Group and another Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms.
This is in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. the Nomination Committee worked closely with Egon Zehnder Each Director has a duty to avoid conflicts of interest.
They and Heidrick and Struggles, which culminated in the must declare any conflict of interest that could interfere with appointment of Danuta Gray and Penny James respectively.
their ability to act in the Groups best interests.
Both of these executive search firms are signatories to the Voluntary Code and neither has any other connection with The Board has authorised certain potential conflicts of interest the Company.
However, the Board still deals with any actual conflict of interest or duty that might arise.
This usually would Further information regarding the Groups approach to involve making sure a Director does not participate in a diversity including the process for Board appointments and relevant Board or Committee discussion or decision.
reappointments can be found on pages 70 and 71 of the Nomination Committee report.
To do this, the Company Secretary maintains a register of conflicts, and any conflicts that the Board has authorised.
Senior management gender diversity The Board remains committed to ensuring that high-performing The Board reviews this register at each scheduled Board meeting.
women from within the business and from a variety of backgrounds, who have the requisite skills, are given the Approach to diversity opportunity to progress their career internally.
The Board and Executive management are committed to ensuring that diversity is promoted across all areas of the The Group is a signatory to the Women in Finance Charter Group and that everyone is treated fairly irrespective of their which aspires to see gender balance at all levels across racial or ethnic origin, gender, age, disability, belief or sexual financial services firms.
The Group is committed to seeking to orientation, religion, or educational or professional increase female representation at senior management level to background.
There is a Board approved diversity policy and 30% by the end of 2019.
As at 31 December 2017, women progress has been made in embedding principles and represented 25% of the Groups senior management.
The practices to promote diversity across the Group and to charts on page 28 of the CSR report provide a clearer picture champion the benefits of a diverse and inclusive workforce.
of the diversity of the Board, senior managers and employees.
The principles and practices set by the Board and the progress During the year, the Group introduced new initiatives, made in broadening the diversity of the Board include: including succession planning programmes, to broaden and strengthen female talent at middle management level.
Maintaining at least 30% female representation on key 2017 gender diversity initiatives included: the promotion theBoard of flexible working: a partnership with the EveryWoman The Board is committed to seeking to maintain at least 30% network which helps organisations enhance the potential female representation and at the same time to ensure that of female talent: and mentoring schemes and associated diversity as a whole remains a central feature.
However the development programmes for high-potential female candidates.
Board will continue to appoint the most appropriate candidates based on knowledge, skills, experience and, where necessary, Additional 2017 diversity initiatives independence.
Other initiatives to broaden the diversity of the Board and senior management were also undertaken during 2017 and The Board appointed two female Directors during 2017 included: the revitalisation of the Diversity Network Alliance Danuta Gray and Penny James.
As at 26 February 2018, disability strand and the addition of the neuro-diversity strand: being the date of this report, Board female representation was the creation of an inclusive work environment programme: the 36%.
The Boards female representation exceeds the target set introduction of unconscious bias training for people managers: in Lord Davies Women on Boards Review Five Year Summary and the Groups sponsorship of multiple diversity events.
to be achieved by 2020 and remains on target with the Hampton-Alexander Reviews recommendations for a minimum Nomination Committee of 33% of womens representation on boards by 2020.
On behalf of the Board, the Nomination Committee assesses the NEDs independence, skills, knowledge and experience as part of its annual review of each Directors performance.
The Board concluded that every current NED was independent, continued to contribute effectively, and demonstrated they were committed to the role.
The Board is also satisfied that the Chairmans external appointment as Chairman of Close Brothers Group plc set out on page 46 does not restrict him from carrying out his duties effectively.
COM 55 Corporate Governance report continued Jane Hanson, Mike Biggs and Clare Thompson have served The Directors confirm that they consider that the Annual Report on the Board since December 2011, April 2012 and & Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and September 2012 respectively.
At the Boards request, they understandable, and provide the information that shareholders have agreed to continue serving as NEDs and resolutions for and stakeholders need to assess the Groups position and their re-election as Directors will be proposed to the 2018 performance, business model and strategy.
In accordance with the Code, the extension of their conclusion, the Board was supported by a number of terms of appointment beyond six years has been the subject of processes, including the following: a particularly rigorous review.
The Board is satisfied that Jane, management drafted the Annual Report & Accounts to ensure Mike and Clare continue to make a significant contribution to consistency across sections, and a steering group comprising the proceedings of the Board and its Committees and that the a team of cross-functional senior management provided extension of their terms of appointment will provide valuable overall governance and co-ordination: continuity as work on refreshing the Board progresses.
a verification process, to ensure the content was factually The Nomination Committees work during the year led to the accurate: appointment of Danuta Gray as an additional NED, Mike members of the Executive Committee reviewed drafts of the Holliday-Williams, MD Personal Lines, as an Executive Director, Annual Report & Accounts: both with effect from 1 February 2017 and Penny James as the Companys Disclosure Committee reviewed an an Executive Director with effect from 1 November 2017. advanced draft of the Annual Report & Accounts: and You can find out more about these activities and the Nomination the Audit Committee reviewed the substantially final draft Committees work during the year on pages 70 to 71. ofthe Annual Report & Accounts, before consideration by the Board.
Accountability An explanation of how the Board complies with the Code in Risk management and internal control systems relation to accountability is set out below, except for the The Board oversees the Groups risk management and internal following matters, which are covered elsewhere in the Annual control systems.
It has complied with the Code by establishing Report & Accounts: a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing how the Company seeks to generate value over the long the principal risks the Group faces.
term is explained in the business model on pages 6 and 7, The Board has established a management structure with and the strategy for delivering Company objectives is on defined lines of responsibility and clear delegation of authority.
pages 14 to 19: and This control framework cascades through the divisions and how the Board has assessed the Groups longer-term viability central functions, detailing clear responsibilities to ensure the and the adoption of the going concern basis in the financial Groups operations have appropriate controls.
This includes statements is on pages 23 and 103. controls relating to the financial reporting process.
The Board has delegated responsibility to the Audit Committee The frameworks for risk management and internal control were to oversee the management of the relationship with the in place for the financial year under review and up to the date Companys External Auditor.
You can find details of the Audit of this report.
They are regularly reviewed by the Board and Committees role, activities and relationship with the External comply with the Financial Reporting Councils updated Auditor in the Committee report on pages 61 to 64. guidance on Risk Management, Internal Controls and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
Responsibility for preparing the Annual Report & Accounts The Group operates a Three Lines of Defence model.
You can find out more about this in the Risk management section on The Boards objective is to give shareholders a fair, balanced page 22. and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects and business model and strategy.
The Board is also The Board, with the assistance of the BRC and the Audit responsible for maintaining adequate accounting records and Committee as appropriate, monitored the Companys risk seeks to ensure compliance with statutory and regulatory management and internal control systems that have been in obligations.
place throughout the year under review, and reviewed their effectiveness.
The monitoring and review covered all material You can find an explanation from the Directors about their controls, including financial, operational and compliance responsibility for preparing the financial statements in the controls.
The Board and its Committees are overseeing the Statement of Directors responsibilities on page 103.
The programme of activity to upgrade and better integrate the major Companys External Auditor explains its responsibilities on IT systems within the Groups technology infrastructure, including page 111. focusing on developing future capability for both customers and colleagues and monitoring risks relating to IT systems stability, cyber security and the internal control environment.
56 DIRECT LINE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Board was also supported in its review of the annual Remuneration Control Environment Certification process.
As part of this, each The Board has delegated responsibility to the Remuneration directorate self-assessed its risks and whether its key controls Committee for the remuneration arrangements of the Groups were appropriate and effective.
The Risk and Group Audit Executive Directors and Chairman.
It recommends and monitors functions reviewed and challenged these findings.
The Group the remuneration level and structure for senior executives.
You then combined the overall findings into a Group-level can find out more about this in the Directors remuneration assessment, which the CEO approved.
The process included report starting on page 74. reporting on the nature and effectiveness of the controls, and other management processes that manage these risks.
Relations with shareholders The Board believes that engaging regularly with the The BRC regularly reviews significant risks and how they might Companys shareholders is vital to the Groups success.
affect the Groups financial position: comparisons to agreed Communicating and engaging with investors means the Board risk appetites: and what the Group does to manage risks can express clearly its strategy and performance and receive outside its appetite.
It also gives the Company the opportunity to respond to questions and suggestions.
The Group Audit function supports the Board by providing an independent and objective assurance of the adequacy and During 2017, the Board received regular updates from the effectiveness of the Groups controls.
It brings a systematic Executive Directors, the Investor Relations team and the and disciplined approach to evaluating and improving the Companys corporate brokers on the views of its shareholders effectiveness of its risk management, control and governance and other investors.
The Chairman, SID and NEDs are available to attend meetings The Directors acknowledge that any internal control system can with major shareholders at their request.
During 2017, the manage, but not eliminate, the risk of not achieving business Companys major shareholders were offered the opportunity objectives.
It can only provide reasonable, not absolute, to meet with the Chairman and or the SID.
In 2017, the assurance against material misstatement or financial loss.
Chairman met some of the Companys major shareholders and discussed corporate governance topics including the Boards On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee regularly reviews philosophy on shareholder returns with respect to regular and the effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems.
monitoring covers all material controls.
Principally, it reviews and challenges reports from management, the Group Audit It is open to all shareholders to raise any issues they wish with function and the External Auditor.
This enables it to consider the Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
As part of the how to manage or mitigate risk in line with the Groups development of the revised remuneration policy for Executive risk strategy.
Directors which was approved by shareholders at the Groups 2017 AGM, the Chair of the Remuneration Committee led a Assessing principal risks wide-ranging consultation through engagement with proxy The Board determines the nature and extent of the risks that it is advisers, regulators and shareholders on matters relating to willing to take to achieve its strategic objectives.
robustly assessed the principal risks facing the Company, During 2017, the CEO and the CFO met with key including risks that would threaten its business model, future shareholders following announcements of results and reported performance, solvency or liquidity.
You can find a description shareholders views back to the Board.
They discussed a range of these risks, and their management or mitigation, on pages of matters including the Groups growth, Home and Motor 24 and 25. strategies, price comparison website competitiveness, This confirmation is based on the BRCs twice-yearly review profitability, IT investment and reserving policy.
and challenge of the Groups Material Risk Assessment MRA, and the Boards review and approval of the Groups The Investor Relations team helps the Directors to communicate risk appetite statements.
The MRA identifies risks quantified as with investors.
As demonstrated in the calendar on the next having a residual risk impact of 40 million or more based on page, the Directors, in conjunction with senior management a 1-in-200 years likelihood.
The quantifications are produced and the Investor Relations team, participated in varied forms through stress and scenario analysis, and the IECM.
Each of engagement, including investor meetings, seminars and directorates bottom-up risk identification and assessment conferences throughout 2017. supplements the MRA.
The MRA also plays a key role in developing the ORSA and assessing the Groups strategicplan.
COM 57 Corporate Governance report continued The CEO and CFO hosted conference calls for the Groups In December 2017, the Group announced the successful quarterly results briefings and presentations for its 2016 full completion of its planned capital management exercises of the year results in March 2017 and its 2017 half year results in issue of Tier 1 notes to investors, which were primarily used to August 2017.
In addition, the CEO and CFO provided a short fund the repurchase of half the Groups 500 million 9.25% video summarising the key messages of the Groups 2016 full Tier 2 debt.
The principal purposes of the transaction were to year results which is available on the Companys website.
increase Tier 2 debt capacity and to spread the maturity profile of the Companys debt.
Debt investor feedback received was During 2017, the brokers undertook a comprehensive positive, with strong support for the transaction rationale, collection of investor views of the Group.
The feedback investment case, strength of the balance sheet and overall received from the brokers helped the Group in its aim to business performance of the Company.
provide investors with a simpler and more succinct summary of progress to date and the medium term direction of the business, Annual General Meeting from a financial, operational and strategic perspective.
The Board sees the Companys AGM as a good opportunity for private shareholders to talk directly with the Board.
All Taking feedback received from the brokers into account, shareholders can attend the AGM if they wish.
All Directors the Board also reviewed the Companys dividend policy.
The revised policy which was disclosed in the 2017 Half Year Report, aims to maintain flexibility and guide investors in their At the AGM, the CEO presents the Groups financial results.
understanding of how the Group approaches the consideration The Chairman then invites shareholders to ask questions about of special dividend payments in the future.
Further details the meetings business, before proposing the AGMs formal on the revised dividend policy can be found on pages 42 business.
All Directors who wish to continue to serve will be put and 100. forward for election or re-election at the AGM.
The Chairman, the Committee Chairs and the remaining Directors and We communicate with our debt investors through regular members of the Executive Committee are also available to talk announcements and the debt investor section of our website with shareholders at the end of the meeting.
which contains bond information, credit ratings and materials relating to the Groups year-end reports, and information about The outcome of the resolutions put to the AGM, including poll our long-term debt maturity profile so investors can see the results detailing votes for, against and withheld, are published related future refinancing needs of the Group.
on the London Stock Exchanges and the Companys websites once the AGM has concluded.
The Directors, in conjunction with senior management and the Investor Relations team, met with debt investors in the course of the Groups normal investor conferences and roadshows throughout 2017.
During 2017, the CFO and the Investor Relations team held calls with credit rating agencies on a quarterly basis with each published set of results and an annual review meeting in December.
Q1 2017 Q2 2017 Q3 2017 Q4 2017 Full Year 2016 results Q1 Trading Update Half Year 2017 results Q3 Trading Update roadshow London roadshow London AGM UBS European conference Edinburgh USA Edinburgh USA London Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Barclays Global Financials Barclays Disruptive Mobility European financials Autonomous Future of conference New York conference London conference London Motor Insurance conference Morgan Stanley European Barclays Global Financials Goldman Sachs European Tier 1 notes issue financials conference conference New York Financials conference roadshow London London Madrid Bank of America Merrill Edinburgh Lynch annual CEO Investor Relations conference London roadshow Amsterdam and Copenhagen Analyst day DLG Auto Services, Welwyn Garden City 58 DIRECT LINE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Having regard to the interests of our stakeholders The Directors have regard to the interests of the Companys stakeholders with a view to promoting the success of the Group for the benefit of its shareholders as a whole, and pursuing initiatives for the benefit of wider stakeholders.
This resonates with the Groups open and collaborative culture and corporate values.
Accordingly the Board has regard to matters including: the consequences of its decisions for the long term: the interests of the Companys employees: the need to foster the Companys business relationships with suppliers, customers and others: the impact of the Companys operations on the community and the environment: and the requirement to act fairly as between members of the Company.
The diagram below sets out some examples of activities undertaken by the Board and its Committees during the 2017 financial year to illustrate how the Boards decisions are informed by an understanding of, and have regard to, the interests and views of its shareholders and other stakeholders.
Understanding our stakeholders Making insurance much Investing in our people Doing the right thing for the easier and better value for community and the our customers environment The Board has regularly reviewed The Non-Executive Directors The Directors have encouraged the strategy, plans and progress visited various office locations and and supported management with of the multi-year transformation participated in CONNECT activities.
Shotgun, which is the CSR programmes to upgrade the CONNECT is a development campaign with the ambitious long Groups operating systems for programme aimed primarily at term aim to reduce deaths of young Personal Lines and Commercial supporting employees in having people in their first 1,000 miles of customers aimed at improving better customer conversations.
customer experience and covering As part of a Board visit to the As part of a Board visit to pricing and other related data and Groups call centre in Doncaster, Doncaster, management presented digital systems across all products.
the Board awarded recognition to the Board on how the Doncaster During 2017 the Non-Executive prizes to employees for creating office had delivered against the Directors collaborated with great customer experience and Groups CSR strategy, with a Customer Assurance and presented employees with particular focus on the work Operations teams to understand accreditations from the Institute undertaken in the local community the impact of recent training of Customer Service.
and raising money for charities.
programmes on customer telephone A Leadership conference for circa In December 2017, the CSR calls and how this links to creating 650 people managers was held Committee approved a new CSR industry leading conversations in November 2017, which was strategy which has two overarching and a better experience for the attended by members of the goals: Protecting Britains road Groups customers.
Board and all members of the users and Reflecting an everThe Board listened to telephone Executive Committee.
The priority for calls between customers and each goal is Shotgun and diversity The Group is a signatory to the employees and reviewed customer and inclusion respectively.
Women in Finance Charter and feedback to gain a deeper insight the Board is committed to seeking The CSR Committee believes in into matters including customer to increase female representation in the positive benefits from employee retention, complaints handling, senior management to 30% by the participation in fundraising and overcoming price related problems end of 2019.
As at 31 December volunteering and has monitored and the use of telematics.
2017, female representation in and challenged progress against The Remuneration Committee has the Groups senior management CSR KPIs including those relating to incorporated customer metrics into was 25%.
energy use, CO emissions and 2 its decision making process for the waste.
Further details are included The Remuneration Committee has award of bonuses to management in the CSR report on page 29 incorporated people metrics into its as part of the Groups AIP.
and are available at decision making process for the www.
award of bonuses to management as part of the Groups AIP.
COM 59 Corporate Governance report continued Delivering returns for our shareholders The Groups investment case is detailed on page 2 and For the five years after the IPO the Group has consistently incorporates the medium-term financial targets announced achieved profitable growth and returned 2.4 billion to in the Companys 2017 Half Year report relating to: a COR of shareholders, including the 393 million after payment 93% to 95%: RoTE above 15%: growing the dividend in line of the proposed final and special dividends.
The diagram with business growth: and maintaining solvency capital around below sets out the returns relating to RoTE and TSR for the the middle of the 140% to 180% Solvency II target range.
The Groups dividend policy states the expectation that one-third of the annual dividend will generally be paid in the third quarter as an interim dividend and two-thirds will be paid as a final dividend in the second quarter of the following year.
The Group aims to grow its regular dividend in line with business growth.
In the normal course of events the Board will consider whether or not it is appropriate to distribute any surplus capital to shareholders once a year, alongside the full year results.
Further details on the dividend policy are contained in the Directors report on page 100.
Return on tangible equity Total Shareholder Return % 21.7% % 8.1% 300 Direct Line Group 2017 21.7 FTSE 350 excluding investment trusts 2016 14.2 250 2015 18.5 200 2014 16.8 150 2013 16.0 100 16 Oct 12 31 Dec 12 31 Dec 13 31 Dec14 31 Dec15 31 Dec016 31 Dec17 Our Code of Business Conduct The Board has approved a Code of Business Conduct which summarises the Groups business practices in relation to customers, shareholders and other stakeholders, employees, suppliers, the community and environment, competitors and regulators.
Business practices Dealing with suppliers of goods and services and business We shall engage in honest, professional and ethical conduct and maintain partnerships effective procedures to prevent confidential information being misused.
We shall maintain the highest possible standards of integrity in business relationships with suppliers and partners by treating them honestly and with Dealing with customers respect, and avoiding compromising offers of gifts and hospitality.
We shall treat customers fairly, openly and honestly, and operate an effective complaints process to address any perceived departure from these standards.
Dealing with communities and the environment We shall contribute to the social and economic well-being of those communities Dealing with shareholders and other stakeholders where we are an employer, and encourage employees to participate in projects We shall seek to maximise shareholder value over time, recognising that and initiatives to strengthen those communities.
wealth generated also benefits customers, employees and the communities where we operate.
Dealing with competitors We will compete fairly and honestly and in accordance with all applicable Dealing with employees competition laws.
We shall maintain a working environment that attracts, motivates and retains employees, and is intolerant of any type of discrimination, harassment Dealing with regulators or victimisation.
We shall maintain a constructive and open relationship with our regulators to foster mutual trust, respect and understanding, and will not offer anything to officials in return for favourable treatment.
60 DIRECT LINE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017
