30 Resources, relationships and responsibilities Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Our Vision and Values Excellence drive our ambition As a business we recognise that our ability to please our existing customers and attract new ones, is dependent upon us delivering the services they want at prices they can afford.
Although we have invested in a number of acquisitions in recent years, we remain focused on driving organic growth within our business.
Our Vision and Values We will only do this by attracting more passengers and customers by Our Vision and Values have been in place for a number of years running the services they want at prices they value, in an efficient way.
now and guide how we operate.
They are a fundamental statement In short, by achieving operational excellence, day-in, day-out.
of who we are as a business and as our Chief Executive repeatedly reminds us: are crucial to our future success.
This is why we have an Excellence value and it requires us to constantly strive to be excellent in all that we do.
Our Vision is to earn the lifetime loyalty of our customers by consistently delivering frequent, high performing public transport These are not just words: the business commitment to excellence services which offer excellent value.
and industry-leading performance is reflected in the investment and initiatives outlined under the other Values.
It is also evident in the fact Our Values guide how we deliver this Vision.
that we carried more passengers in our UK coach and ALSA operations in 2017, driven by our Revenue Management Systems that allow sophisticated and targeted pricing for passengers in real-time.
Equally, our Low Fare Zones in our UK bus business have bucked national trends and radically cut some fares and generated significant Our values passenger growth where they have been implemented.
Excellence Indeed, overall in 2017 we carried over 882 million passengers, We constantly strive to be excellent in all that we do up 1.2% on a continuing basis, on 2016.
Safety This nimble and granular approach is entirely in line with our Vision of We only do what is safe and stop any unsafe behaviour earning the lifetime loyalty of our customers by consistently delivering frequent, high performing public transport services which offer excellent Customers value.
It is also at the heart of our excellence value and we believe the We place them at the heart of our business and way that we will drive growth and improve returns for shareholders.
relentlessly meet their expectations It is pleasing therefore that our excellence was also recognised by People outside bodies and organisations.
Among many awards, Kings Ferry We develop the talents, reward the exceptional won the Large Fleet Operator of the Year award at the UK Coach performance and respect the rights of all our employees Awards.
Our customer service and safety awards are set out below.
And our UK bus, coach and ALSAs Spanish operations now hold a Community five-star European Foundation for Quality Management accreditation, We are active in the communities we serve to generate one of the worlds leading excellence accreditation bodies.
economic, social and environmental value Last year we introduced our Delivering Excellence programme.
We are now able to report on a full year of the programme.
Delivering Excellence is designed to help fully embed a culture of excellence across the Group by drawing on examples of best practice both within our existing businesses and also adopting them from external organisations.
It also combines as a development opportunity for high-potential Our Low Fare Zones in our UK bus managers with them spending up to six months to interrogate specific business have bucked national trends and business practices and make recommendations for improvement.
radically cut some fares and generated In 2017, the Delivering Excellence teams conducted detailed reviews of significant passenger growth where they driver recruitment, training, management and utilisation.
These reviews have resulted in the introduction of new Group-wide standard operating have been implemented.
excellence procedures and also generated savings for each business 2018 budget.
This programme will continue in 2018 with new intakes of high-potential managers and new projects.
Our Values and policies support our stakeholder engagement Stakeholder area Policies activities in place Value supported Risks impacted See Risk, p38-40 Environment Group Environmental 02 Employees Health and Safety, Equal Opportunities and Diversity, 05 06 Workplace Rights, Disability Society and Health and Safety, Purchasing, National Express 05 08 community Foundation, Group Cyber Risk Human rights Human Rights, Modern Slavery, Whistleblowing, 02 05 06 and corruption Anti bribery and corruption For more information see http: www.
com our-way Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Resources, relationships and responsibilities 31 ALSA: North America has 6,351 vehicles with the cameras and targets around another 10,000 by the end of the year: ALSA has 150 vehicles installed, with a target of over 1,000 around 45% of the Spanish fleet by the end of the year.
Technology is, however, only part of the resource required to improve safety standards.
We have comprehensive management systems in place to use the data generated by these smart cameras to tailor training and improve overall standards.
We are already seeing encouraging early reductions in event severity, where the smart safety cameras have been in place the longest.
So with the significant further roll out programme in 2018, we expect to reap further driving standards, safety and cost benefits over the next couple of years.
Our safety performance and leadership are also receiving significant external recognition.
Both UK bus and coach received five-star British Safety Council scores, and their highest honour, the Sword of Honour.
Indeed, our UK bus operations score of 97.4% was the highest in the transport industry.
Our UK coach business also received a ROSPA Gold Award.
ALSA received two awards from MAPFE: the International Road Safety and Best Initiative in the Prevention of Deputy Chairman Jorge Cosmen Accidents awards.
Our North American school bus business has receives the Fundacin MAPFRE again received the highest possible safety rating from the Federal Award for Best Accident Prevention Motor Carrier Administration.
Initiative from Her Majesty Queen Sofia of Spain In the aftermath of the tragedy in Chattanooga in November 2016, we have sought to learn any appropriate lessons and also take considerate actions in the local community.
We have, of course, continued to support the families of those involved as well as co-operate with all the relevant authorities, including the ongoing National Transportation Safety Board investigation.
In the local community we have donated to local groups and funded a new Safety home being built through Habitat for Humanity.
We make no apologies for repeating every year that safety remains the highest priority for our business.
It is the first agenda item for weekly executive team calls, all executive boards and the PLC Board.
Overall responsibility for safety sits with Dean Finch, Group Chief Executive, and our Divisional Managing Directors who set our annual Safety figure 1: Fatalities and Weighted Injuries FWI plans and priorities for improved performance.
We have also retained 20 Arthur D Little as our independent external safety advisers.
15 We have 12 Global Safety Standards which set out the clear behaviours and minimum standards which we expect all our staff to demonstrate at all times.
During 2017, we also enhanced these 10 standards with five new Global Safety Policies: 5 Speed management Driving evaluation Competency of driving evaluators 0 2015 2016 2016 2017 Driver monitoring including Driver performance management Chattanooga Each of these new policies targets critical areas for further improvement Safety figure 2: Million miles mm vs FWI trend in our safety performance.
Each division has until 2020 to devise comprehensive plans to deliver against them in full.
Many are already Million miles FWI MM FWI MM including Chattanooga making good progress on a number of them.
Performance and implementation is reviewed in a quarterly meeting of Managing 680 0.06 Directors chaired by Dean Finch.
650 0.05 We are pleased that we have delivered significant improvements on 620 0.04 our industry-leading safety measure: Fatalities and Weighted Injuries 590 0.03 FWI index.
As Figure 2 demonstrates, since the introduction of Driving Out Harm in 2010, we have seen a 74% reduction in our FWI 560 0.02 score per million miles operated.
The annual figures are reported in our KPI section on page 13.
During 2017, senior managers conducted 530 0.01 697 safety tours across the Group 2016: 774.
The lower number of 500 0.00 tours last year compared to 2016 is as a result of the sale of the c2c rail franchise in February 2017.
We have also invested in industry-leading safety technology to help us achieve our objective of removing all responsible harm from our business.
Lytx DriveCam smart safety cameras are an example of this.
The cameras are now fully installed across our UK fleet.
We have accelerated installation programmes in place in North America and 12.242 10.585 17.085 8.574 32 Resources, relationships and responsibilities Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Customers People As our Vision makes clear, customers are at the heart of our business.
We have asked Tom Harris, the ex-Transport Minister and Labour MP, This is as it should be: we are a public transport company.
But to review our delivery against our People Value for the last three delivering against this Value also shapes the types of services we years.
A summary from Tom is included to the right.
It has not always been true that public transport companies demonstration of our seriousness to our People Value and doing operated services their passengers wanted.
Rather, there was a all we can to deliver on it for our staff, that we open ourselves up to culture in some places of running the services the operator found independent critique in this manner.
Toms three reports can also be most convenient and customer demand was an afterthought.
found on our Group website.
This is why it is particularly pleasing that our businesses have again We have led the industry in a number of aspects of our People demonstrated their industry-leading customer service credentials in Value.
Our Master Driver Programme goes from strength to strength, the year.
Both our UK bus business and ALSA have achieved record recognising the driving achievements of our staff and serving as an customer satisfaction scores in 2017.
UK bus customer satisfaction excellent engagement programme.
Master Driver provides a score of 87% in the independent Transport Focus survey was up 1% framework to measure the performance of drivers and recognise and year-on-year and equalled their best-ever result.
ALSAs 7.4 out of reward those with impeccable safety and customer service records 10 was up 4.8% year-on-year and a new record.
ALSA also won the as well as excellent driving skills.
Across the Group, we now have IZO Best Customer Experience for the Transport Industry award, 728 Master Drivers and 903 Advanced Drivers.
We have also recently the largest satisfaction survey conducted in Spain.
created a similar programme for engineers and technicians and will be rolling this out in 2018.
North America has now consistently delivered customer satisfaction scores above 90% for many years: this year it achieved 91.2%.
Our commitment to the higher Living Wage Foundation Living Wage is Our UK coach business customer satisfaction score was up three long-standing and growing.
Our UK coach business will shortly target percent to 86%, with the independent Temkin Group Net Promoter accreditation by the Living Wage Foundation.
The UK bus business Score index ranking National Express fourth in its select group continues to pay the higher Living Wage and receive the Living Wage of companies.
Our policy remains the same across the Group as a whole: where widely recognised and understood national We are also investing to further modernise our services for our Living Wages are not in place, we commit to pay at least 10% above customers benefit.
We have started to roll out the largest contactless the prevailing national minimum wage.
ticketing network in the UK, outside of London: our West Midlands bus services will have this system fully in place in April.
It is clear that We have a number of policies in place to protect the rights of our a significant and growing number of passengers prefer these new employees.
Our Workplace Rights Policy and Human Rights Policy methods of payment compared to the correct cash fare required have been in place for a number of years and are published on our previously.
In the last year alone, the number of journeys made using website.
We investigate and take appropriate action to deal with any an m-Ticket on one of our West Midlands buses went from virtually alleged breaches of these policies.
Wherever our employees choose zero to 10% by the end of 2017. to be represented by unions, we actively seek to maintain relationships based on mutual respect and transparency.
We are also investing in our websites and customer apps.
com is now the highest placed land We recognise the importance of the provisions of the Modern Slavery transportation company website on Googles crucial optimisation Act, which came into effect in 2015.
The Group has a zero tolerance score ranking system.
During 2017, we launched new apps in: North approach to modern slavery and human trafficking and remains American transit, paratransit and school bus: ALSA: and the UK committed to strengthening its practices to uphold that approach.
We will be launching new apps across many of our We are committed to acting ethically and with integrity, and to other businesses in 2018.
Again, this nimbleness and constant review implementing and enforcing effective systems and controls which of and investment in the effectiveness of our services is at the heart ensure slavery and human trafficking are not taking place in our of our Vision and Values as a company.
One example of this is our implementation of a new Modern Slavery Policy which is published on o ur Group website.
Our first Modern Slavery Statement, which set out all steps taken by the Group to ensure that there is no slavery or human trafficking in our business or supply chains, is available on our website.
We review the effectiveness of the steps we have taken each year and report on these in subsequent statements each year.
Accordingly, we will be publishing a signed copy of the Groups second Modern Slavery Statement on our website during the year.
In our UK bus business we have started the roll-out of the largest contactless ticketing network in the UK, outside of London Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Resources, relationships and responsibilities 33 Independent review of the people value I have conducted three independent reviews of National Express Community People Value.
In the first and third years this involved visiting Being active in the communities we serve is very important to a number of locations in North America, Spain and the UK: National Express.
We are not simply passive providers of services.
last year I conducted a desktop review.
Every year I have had We play a crucial role in supporting the local economy, helping people free, unencumbered access to any document, person or location access jobs and see their friends and family.
Our staff also live in the I have asked to see, talk to or visit.
I have been consistently communities we serve.
impressed by what I have found.
National Express is clearly a company that places a great emphasis upon its People Value, The National Express Foundation is a significant and growing part recognising the crucial importance of investing in their staff to of our community activity.
In 2017, National Express Group provided achieve the high corporate standards to which they aspire.
All of my reports have made recommendation for further action, This significant level of commitment is unique in the transport industry to provide even greater support and opportunities for staff.
I am and is testament to the seriousness with which National Express delighted they have been so readily acted upon and commend Group takes its community responsibilities.
National Express for its commitment and leadership in this area.
The National Express Foundation supports community groups Tom Harris working with young people and also students who would otherwise Independent People Value Reviewer, March 2018 be unable to pursue further or higher education because of financial challenges.
Since 2012, the foundation has supported over 14,200 people: in 2017 alone, the funding helped nearly 3,000.
Within our divisions there are also many different community activities.
Some highlights are: UK coachs Youth Promise, including support to the Princes Trust.
This has involved mentoring, volunteering and hosting work experience placements.
ALSA supports a number of foundations, including Foundation Integra, which supports people with a disability and those who are at risk of social exclusion, gain access to a job.
In North America more than 50 depots have held Stuff The Bus events, filling school buses with donations from employees and the local community to support those most in need.
Our international NX Network provides a framework for the development of our graduate and high-potential managers It is our policy to conduct all of our business in an honest and ethical manner.
As a Group we do not tolerate bribery and corruption and are committed to acting professionally, fairly and with integrity in all our business dealings and relationships wherever we operate, and to implementing and enforcing effective systems to counter bribery and corruption.
We have a Group anti-bribery policy which is available on our website and last year we implemented a refresh programme, which included an e-training module, to remind employees how to prevent, detect and report suspicions of bribery through our whistleblowing hotline.
During the course of this year, we have also developed and implemented a revised gifts and hospitality policy to give further guidance to employees.
Employee, senior management and director numbers by gender at end of 2017 Male Female Director 10 2 Senior managers 54 13 All employees 27,653 19,418 Our team in Waterbury, Connecticut, were overwhelmed by the response to their appeal to help victims of Hurricane Maria in Puerto Rico.
More than 40 school buses were filled with donations 34 Resources, relationships and responsibilities Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC KPI performance Environment Our Group environmental performance against a particularly Our environmental performance is a key measure for us as a robust and ambitious suite of KPIs has delivered some strong business.
This is principally for three reasons.
First, it is the right thing results.
Striving to meet those targets is key but equally important to do.
We recognise the crucial importance of climate change and the is the continued improvement in the accuracy of the data set and responsibility of all sectors of society in doing all they can to reduce quality of our reporting.
Second, a company with ever reducing emissions and waste is a well-run, efficient company.
And third, both The inclusion of UK coach third-party contracts in the data of the first two points are reflected in our Values.
The environment collection has continued for 2017, as well as for National Express is both a community Value, but also relevant to all of the others: owned operations and combined with the significant reduction well-run, and efficient company excellence, people and customers of estimated data has improved our transparency in reporting.
We and reducing harm safety.
remain committed to meaningful improvement in these areas.
Water consumption data is now over 80% actual, vs 85% estimated in 2013.
It is because of these considerations that we set such stretching targets in 2014.
They demonstrate our commitment to our Values, There is a growth in passenger kilometres of 5.8% YOY 2016 to to be a good company in the communities we serve and to be an 2017 which is accompanied by a decrease in total carbon emissions efficient operator.
per million passenger kilometres of 7.18% for the same period.
This demonstrates that focus on improving the ratio of change is a Overview meaningful target that should be considered for the next KPI period.
Against our 2013 baseline, by 2017 we have made excellent progress on our traction energy, water and total carbon emissions targets, The targeted reduction in site emissions has not been met.
It is some limited progress on our site energy target, and we have not encouraging however that even with increased consumption and made progress on our waste target.
the significant growth in our North American division, the Group has reported its lowest emissions since 2014, and a 4.36% reduction We are delighted to have again at the end of 2016 been accredited compared to 2016.
Total site emissions for the Group excluding North at Gold Standard for The Carbon Saver scheme.
This award is made America have actually decreased from 22,558 tCO e in 2013 to 2 for two years and is due for renewal at the end of 2018.
A number of 16,353 tCO e in 2017 a reduction of over 27%.
2 other awards were earned throughout 2017, particularly in National Express West Midlands.
We continue to engage staff in delivering It is clear from our performance over this period that the levels of these targets, with fleet efficiency and improving miles per gallon non-hazardous waste to landfill need to significantly reduce.
Waste remaining a key deliverable in all divisions.
Significant improvements data has only been available for UK coach for the last two years, and continue to be maintained through fleet investment, technology and with the data set now accurate we must start to demonstrate a real improvement in driving skills.
improvement in waste stream recycling in the next KPI period.
We remain committed to working in partnership with our stakeholders and partners to mitigate the impact of climate change and the Group continues to maintain full environmental legislative compliance, with zero prosecutions, enforcement notices or reported violations.
Driving Excellence in Environmental Performance KPIs Targets 2014-2017 In 2017 specifically, we made good progress on our performance targets, significantly exceeding our targets for water use and total carbon emissions improvement.
Traction energy and site energy both reduced year on year from 2016, and while there are still improvements needed in site energy, 2017 saw the first year that emissions fell below the baseline year.
The accuracy of waste data reporting continues to improve and while this indicates a slight increase year on year from 2016, we now have two full years of accurate data from which to base our targets for the next KPI period.
Year on Percentage year % 2013 change change KPIs: 2014-2017 Metric baseline 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013-2017 2016-2017 Traction: 3% reduction in energy use fuel and electricity use per pass.
km passenger km 23.69 24.11 22.55 22.01 20.43 -13.75% -7.18% Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Resources, relationships and responsibilities 35 Greenhouse Gas GHG Emissions Strong performance in 2017 saw a 4.07% decrease in total emissions for the Group from 904,656 tCO e in 2016 to 867,870 tCO e. 2 2 With the increase in passenger kilometres of 5.8%, this represents a YOY decrease in tCO e million passenger kilometres of 7.18%, 2 and a total decrease from 2014 baseline of 13.75%.
Global GHG emissions data for calendar year 2017 2014 2015 2016 2017 Tonnes of Tonnes of Tonnes of Tonnes of Emissions from: CO e CO e CO e CO2e 2 2 2 Combustion of fuel & operation of facilities GHG Protocol Scope 1 754,859 771,922 779,929 801,061 Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use GHG Protocol Scope 2 67,186 66,317 95,107 60,682 Other upstream emissions GHG Protocol Scope 3 8,228 8,257 9,620 6,127 Total 830,273 846,946 904,656 867,870 % Intensity metrics 2014 2015 2016 2017 2017 vs 2014 tonnes CO e million revenue 445 428 430 373 -16.23% 2 Group Totals million pass.
km 22.46 22.55 22.01 20.43 -9.05% 2 The completion of the c2c divestment contributed significantly to the UK reduction from 294,843 tCO e to 242,141 tCO e, but even without this 2 2 UK bus and UK coach both delivered solid reductions through the benefit of improved driver skills, the Platinum bus fleet, the removal of Euro IV vehicles from UK coach fleet and improved technology.
The increase in North American consumption has slowed but has still seen a small rise.
Total site emissions for the Group excluding North America have actually decreased from 22,558 tCO e in 2013 to 16,353 tCO e in 2017 a reduction of over 27%.
Although the absolute figures 2 2 are low, the quality of data and focus in Bahrain has seen a commendable decrease of nearly 5.5% against an increase in passenger kilometres of nearly 6%.
Business growth in ALSA and North America continues to drive an increase in emissions through increased passenger kilometres but improved changes in operational reporting within our UK coach division has driven a 4% decrease.
UK rail emissions only contribute to Group data for Q1 prior to divestment of c2c.
2017 marks the first year for data comparative reporting for German rail operations.
Bahrain absolute figures show a significant decrease for 2017 but do not significantly impact Group emissions.
UK bus has the largest low carbon fleet outside of London.
During 2018, we will retain the same KPI targets while we develop a Phase 2 compliance programme under the UK Governments Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme, as part of a new a three year Property and Environment strategy.
