CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Nomination Committee Report Succession plans for the appointment of a new Board Chair in 2018 are well advanced.
HIGHLIGHTS OF 2017 The Board succession plans were re-tested against the Groups 2020 Role of the Nomination Committee Strategy objectives.
The Boards Nomination Committee fulfils a vital role in terms ofsuccession planning and Board performance.
ItsTerms of Successful recruitment of Graham Prothero to succeed Mark Edwards Reference include: as Chair of Audit Committee and Non-Executive Director.
Plans put in place for the recruitment of a new Chair to succeed Board succession planning, including size, composition and Andrew Allner, who announced his intention to retire at the 2018 balance of skills and experience, giving due weight to the AGM, and the process is well advanced.
achievement of diversity in its widest sense: recruitment and induction of candidates for appointment OUR FUTURE TARGETS totheBoard: Recruit and induct new Chair of the Board: maintain board balance while ensuring smooth transition.
reviewing individual performance evaluation outcomes for Directors standing for election or re-election in advance of the Recruitment and succession planning will be designed to incorporate Annual General Meeting: and fully the Groups inclusivity and diversity objectives.
monitoring conflicts, reviewing the Board conflicts policy, Recruitment and succession planning will be aligned with ahealthy maintaining the conflicts register and considering any new and well understood corporate culture.
The performance of the Committee was evaluated as part of the externally led Board evaluation process in 2017, and the Committee Terms of Reference were also reviewed.
During the year the Nomination Committee held two scheduled meetings, and additional meetings and discussions in connection with succession planning andrecruitment wereheld by telephone.
Attendance atmeetings is shown onpage 38.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE MEMBERS Andrew Allner Chair Janet Ashdown Graham Prothero Tim Pile MARSHALLS PLC 42 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Non-Executive Directors, including the Chair, are appointed for specific Dear Shareholder terms, subject to re-appointment and the Companys Articles of I am pleased to report to shareholders on the main activities Association and subject to the Companies Act provisions relating to of the Committee and how it has performed its duties theremoval of a Director.
The Committees framework for succession planning is designed to phase future recruitment so that the composition during 2017, as well as commenting on the Committees of the Board can berefreshed whilst ensuring continuity.
role in the appointment of my successor as Chair of the Reappointment of Directors Board.
As current Chair, I also chair Nomination Committee Each Non-Executive Director was, on joining, provided with a detailed meetings, except where the Committee is dealing with description of his or her role and responsibilities, and received a detailed myown re-appointment or replacement as Chair.
All Directors have an annual one-to-one development review meeting with the Chair to appraise performance, set personal Recruitment and succession planning objectives and discuss any development and training needs to enable The philosophy of the Nomination Committee is that recruitment and them to continue to add value to the Board, with an assessment of succession planning should reflect the changing strategic needs and individual and collective performance with contributions from senior objectives of the Group, both now and in the future, as well as being management and other business stakeholders.
animportant factor in the development of a strong corporate culture.
Inthis context, we are wholly committed to achieving diversity in its Before any Director is proposed for re-election, or has their appointment widest sense in the composition of the Board and senior management, renewed, the Committee considers the outcome of these reviews to and we welcome the increased focus on diversity from shareholders ensure that the Director continues to be effective and demonstrates andother commentators.
The Groups policies are designed to support commitment to the role.
The Chair provides an explanation to shareholders positively the widening of opportunity for talented individuals regardless as to why the Director should be re-elected and confirming that a of gender, ethnicity or social background.
The Remuneration Report formal performance evaluation has taken place when the resolution includes details of current gender ratios and some of the measures that tore-elect is circulated.
have been taken in 2017 and that are planned in future to help achieve It is the Companys policy that Executive Directors can only hold 1 our objectives.
These are disclosed on pages 58 and 59. external listed company Non-Executive directorship.
Voluntary service During 2017, the Committee reviewed its written succession plan on the governing board of a social, trade or charitable organisation andindividual performance and development at Board level.
Details of the external appointments held by the concluded in 2016 that the composition and current Board size were Executive Directors are included in the biographical notes on pages appropriate, and that the range of skillsand experience was well 34and 35. balanced, we were pleased to welcome Graham Prothero to the Board and as Audit Chair to succeed Mark Edwards in May 2017.
Grahams I expect to step down as Chair in May 2018, immediately following the AGM, at which time it is expected that my replacement will take office.
recruitment was carried out using the services of Lygon, who have no other connection with the Group, following a detailed and objective Governance selection process.
Graham is a valuable addition to the Board and the The Committee has acted in accordance with the principles of the induction and handover process worked well.
Codein developing and applying its succession plans and policies.
During 2017, the Committee also commenced the recruitment process TheCommittees effectiveness, including the effective application ofthose principles, is assessed as part of the annual Board evaluation for a new Board Chair.
A competitive tender resulted in the appointment of The Inzito Partnership to support the process, who are not otherwise process.
The framework for the refreshment of skills, experience and diversity to support the needs of the business and its stakeholders connected with the Group.
The brief was clear on the need to take into inthefuture is transparent and well understood.
"account our commitments to inclusivity and diversity objectives both at Board and senior management level, as well as keeping a good balance and fit"" with the existing Board."
The process has been led by Tim Pile Andrew Allner and is well advanced, with a very strong field of candidates.
We expect Chair of the Nomination Committee to conclude the selection and make an announcement very shortly.
The 14 March 2018 Committee has also engaged with ongoing initiatives in the business as a whole to improve diversity ratios and gender balance, through meetings and discussions with management, monitoring progress and ensuring that these principles are followed in briefs to external recruitment agencies and search consultants.
MARSHALLS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 43
