CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Audit Committee Report The Committees focus is to ensure theGroup has an effective system ofrisk management and control andforensuring it continues to meetthe necessarystandards.
HIGHLIGHTS OF 2017 The Committee reviewed the significant financial judgements Role of the Audit Committee madeduring the year and in the preparation of the 2017 Financial The key responsibilities of the Committee are: Statements.
The significant areas considered by the Committee in to keep under review the Groups financial and other systems 2017 were inventory provisioning, accounting for the acquisition andcontrols and financial reporting procedures: ofCPM and the potential for management override of controls.
to agree the plan and scope of the annual audit and half-yearly The Committee provided assurance to the Board on whether the audit review, receive audit reports and review financial statements, 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, taking account of accounting policies adopted and applicable arefair, balanced and understandable.
: Reviews of cyber security controls and IT security were undertaken byKPMG LLP as part of a wider Cyber Security Review.
A number to review the Annual Report and Financial Statements and ofrecommendations have been, or are in the process of being, advisethe Board on whether they give a fair, balanced and addressed.
The ongoing focus of the Committee is to ensure that understandable explanation of the Companys business and ITcontrols remain appropriate and robust.
performance over the relevant period: During the year the Committee commissioned KPMG LLP to undertake to conduct a detailed review of internal controls and the internal internal audit reviews in a number of areas.
These included reviews audit process and report findings at least twice yearly to the Board: inrelation to taxation, supply chain controls and process and GDPR to review and update the Companys Risk Register: readiness.
A review of the Groups budget procedures was also undertaken.
A number of recommendations have been addressed.
to review external auditor independence and audit and During the year a high level review of strategic risk was undertaken by the non-audit fees, to review and monitor the appropriateness of Committee which was subsequently integrated into the overall Risk Register.
the provision ofnon-audit services by the auditor, and make recommendations regarding audit tender and the appointment OUR FUTURE TARGETS and remuneration ofthe auditor: Continue to oversee the significant financial judgements made bymanagement.
to monitor and review the effectiveness of the internal audit Continue to assess the effectiveness of risk management systems function and the internal audit programme: and andinternal control processes.
to review the Anti-Bribery Code and procedures, the Serious Continue to review the delivery of the external and internal audit Concerns Policy and other policies relevant to financial security, andmonitor progress.
Continue to assess and improve cyber security controls and to The Audit Committee is the body appointed by the Board with ensurethat IT controls remain appropriate and robust.
This will responsibility for carrying out the functions required by the involve further cyber security audits.
The Committees Terms of Reference Continue to review the findings from internal audit reviews arereviewed annually and approved by the Board.
undertaken by KPMG LLP and monitor the implementation of recommendations made in these reports and the status of progress AUDIT COMMITTEE MEMBERS made against previously agreed actions.
"There are 8 individual Graham Prothero Chair internal audit reviews planned for 2018 and these include: Janet Ashdown a review of the integration procedures, processes and controls Tim Pile following the acquisition of CPM: ongoing cyclical reviews of key financial processes, including inventory: supplier payments and expenses: update reviews of the Groups General Data Protection Regulation ""GDPR"" and anti-bribery controls and procedures: and Continue to monitor changes in external regulatory environment andbestpractice."
MARSHALLS PLC 46 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Effectiveness of the Audit Committee Dear Shareholder During the year an internal evaluation of the Committees performance I am pleased to present my first report as Chairman was undertaken as part of the Board evaluation process.
In this report Iset out the found the Committee to be effective and wellrun.
Noareas of concern were highlighted during this review.
AuditCommittees objectives and responsibilities and also explain the activities undertaken during 2017 and the The Chairman of the Committee is a Chartered Accountant and the priorities for 2018.
This report, which is part of the Directors Board is satisfied he is independent and has recent and relevant financial experience as required by the Code.
Other members also have Report, explains how the Audit Committee has discharged relevant sectoral and financial experience.
Their biographical details are its responsibilities during 2017. on pages 34 and 35, and attendance at meetings is shown on page 38.
The role of the Audit Committee is to oversee financial reporting and Financial reporting toreview the ongoing effectiveness of the Groups internal controls.
The Committee has reviewed, with both management and the external TheCommittee provides assurance on the Groups risk management auditor, where the more significant judgements have been made and processes and assesses information received from the external and the quality and appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies.
This report explains the Groups procedures in TheCommittee has also reviewed the assumptions and provided relation to internal control, risk management and financial reporting.
assurance to support the long-term viability statement.
KPMG LLP, who were appointed as internal auditors in 2015, conducted Risk management and internal control 8 separate detailed reviews during 2017 and reported to the Committee The Board is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the system with recommendations, all of which have been implemented or will ofrisk management and control, and for ensuring that it continues be implemented during the coming year.
One ofour key priorities tomeet the necessary standards.
The systems and controls are also remains to monitor the risk management and control environment, subject to aregular rolling programme of review, the results of which ensuring that it aligns with best practice and thatanyimprovements are periodicallyreported to the Board.
are implemented in a timely and efficient way.
Cyber security continued to be a key priority and other areas offocus fortheCommittee are The Groups Risk Committee, comprising the Executive Directors and provided in this report.
members of senior management with Executive accountability for particular risk areas, meets at least twice yearly to identify, evaluate The Committee has reviewed the Groups Financial Statements andconsider steps to manage any material risks which might contained in this Annual Report and, following its review, is satisfied that threatentheGroups business objectives.
the Committee has provided assurance to the Board that they present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position The Group has an established internal control framework, the and prospects.
keyfeatures of which include clearly defined reporting lines and authorisation procedures and a comprehensive budget and monthly How the Audit Committee operates reporting system.
The internal control framework governs the internal During the year, the Audit Committee held 4 formal meetings and there financial reporting process of the business, with checks and balances were also meetings between the Audit Committee Chairman, the built into the system that are designed to reduce the likelihood of Finance Director and the external auditor.
The Committee meets both the external and internal auditor Within the internal control framework, policies and procedures are independently of management, giving the opportunity to ensure that it reviewed on an ongoing basis.
During the year, a more formal process has full visibility of matters that have been the subject of particular has been adopted for the ongoing assessment of operational financial discussions.
The Committee also reports to the Board in relation to the and IT based controls.
The overriding objective is to gain assurance that going concern statement and the viability statement and whether the the control framework is complete and that individual controls are accounts are fair, balanced and understandable.
A rolling programme of independent internal checking of key controls and reconciliations has been established during the year.
This programme includes key controls over access andchange permissions on base data and metadata.
MARSHALLS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 47 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Audit Committee Report continued Significant issues related to the Financial Statements Fair, balanced and understandable When reviewing the annual and half-yearly results, the Committee The Committee has considered whether, in its opinion, the 2017 exercises its judgement in relation to matters drawn to its Annual Report and Financial Statements is, taken as a whole, attention bythe Finance Director from the internal audit function, fair, balanced and understandable, and whether it provides the the Risk Committee and the Groups external auditor.
The information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups significant areas considered by the Committee for 2017 were: position, performance, business model and strategy.
In making this assessment, the Committee has advised the Board in relation to The risk of management override of controls the statement required by the UK Corporate Governance Code.
managements assessment of the control framework  controlsand segregation of duties.
The Committee has concluded that the disclosures, and the process TheCommittee considered thoseareas where management andcontrols underlying their production, were appropriate applies judgement in determining the appropriate accounting to enable itto determine that the 2017 Annual Report and and discussed this with the external auditor.
The external FinancialStatements are fair, balanced and understandable.
auditor presented its findings with regard to theaudit testing of journals to the Committee.
This testing included the use ofdata Risk management and internal control analytics to profile the entire journal population.
The Audit Committee has carried out an assessment of the effectiveness Inventory provisioning managements assessment of the of the Groups risk management and internal control system, covering all material controls including its financial, operational and compliance appropriate level of provisioning against inventory obsolescence.
The gross levels offinished goods inventory held and the provisions controls and risk management systems for the year to 31 December 2017. recorded against obsolescence and in respect of items that might The Group maintains a written Risk Register that identifies the Groups be sold at lower than cost were reviewed by the Committee.
The key risk areas, the probability of these risks occurring and the impact review included meetings with operational management to discuss they would have on the Group.
Against each risk, the effectiveness of the inventory provisioning strategy.
The external auditor presented the controls that exist to manage and, where possible, minimise or its findings with regard to the audittesting over inventory eliminate those risks are also listed.
The Risk Register process identifies valuation and the Committee concurred with managements areas for action and independent audit assessment in order to test the assessment of the carrying value of Group inventories.
effectiveness of the Groups risk control systems.
Information relating tothe management of risks and any changes to the assessment of key Acquisition accounting in relation to the purchase of CPM managements assessment of the appropriate accounting risks is regularly reported to the Board, and the Risk Register is updated treatment and the exercise of judgement in the identification to reflect changes.
To the extent that any failings or weaknesses are identified during the review process, appropriate measures are taken and valuation of intangible assets within the acquired business.
The Committee considered those areas where management toremedy these.
The key risks affecting the Group, how they relate tostrategy and how they changed during the year, together with a applied judgement in delivering the appropriate accounting description of the controls and mitigation associated with such risks, treatment and discussed this with the external auditor.
Theexternal auditor presented its findings with regards arehighlighted in the Strategic Review on pages 20 to 24. totheaudit work undertaken to assess this area.
External audit, auditor independence and objectivity The Audit Committee has primary responsibility for making a recommendation to the Board on the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external auditor.
It keeps under review the scope and results of the audit, its cost effectiveness and the independence andobjectivity of the auditor.
The Groups current auditor, Deloitte LLP, has processes in place designed to maintain independence, including regular rotation of the audit partner.
Deloitte LLP was appointed inMay2015 as statutory auditor following a tender process, and Christopher Robertson has acted as audit partner since the appointment of Deloitte LLP as auditor in May 2015.
The Company has complied with the Competition and Markets Authoritys Order for the financial year underreview.
MARSHALLS PLC 48 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Committee has adopted policies to safeguard the independence ofits external auditor.
It is the policy of the Company that the external Effectiveness of the external audit auditor should not provide non-audit services other than those of a fide An annual review of external audit effectiveness was undertaken minimis value of less than 5,000 in aggregate in any financial year.
The conclusion of the review was that other non-audit services, require the specific approval of the Committee.
the external auditor had conducted a comprehensive, appropriate Where the Committee perceives that the independence of the auditor and effective audit.
Communication, at all levels, had been open could be compromised, the work will not be awarded to the external and constructive and areas where the external auditor could work auditor.
Details of amounts paid to the external auditor for audit and more effectively, in respect of each phase of the audit, were identified.
non-audit services in 2017 are analysed in Note 3 on page 89.
Other thanthe auditors Half-yearly review of Marshalls plc, no amounts were paid for non-audit work.
The aggregate amount paid to other firms Effectiveness of the internal audit ofaccountants for non-audit services in the same period was 368,000 An annual review of internal audit effectiveness and of the 2016:245,000. performance of KPMG LLP as independent internal auditor was undertaken by the Committee in 2017.
Internal audit The Committee has responsibility for monitoring the effectiveness of The conclusion was very positive and was that the current internal internal controls and reviews these on an ongoing basis.
The internal audit process continues to be an efficient and effective means of audit process of reviewing and reporting on the internal control system managing the internal audit function.
The Committee has considered, is carried out by KPMG LLP, appointed by the Committee in 2015 to act with KPMG LLP, how this process can be developed further and as internal auditor for the Group.
The annual internal audit programme further improvements have been reflected in the 2018 plan.
isderived from a risk-based assessment that takes into account the Risk Register and management input.
This risk-based assessment is reviewed Whistleblowing and bribery and approved by the Audit Committee.
This process is overseen by the The Audit Committee monitors any reported incidents under the Finance Director.
KPMG LLP are independent from the Companys Serious Concerns Policy our whistleblowing policy, which is available external auditor and have no other connection with the Group.
This policy is displayed on operating site noticeboards The Company operates a self-certification internal control process and on the Companys intranet, and sets out the procedure for tosupport the internal audit process throughout the year.
The internal employees to raise legitimate concerns about any wrongdoing without audit programme includes both regular audit checks and assignments fear ofcriticism, discrimination or reprisal.
The Serious Concerns Policy to look at areas of critical importance.
These assignments form part wasreviewed during the year and the Committee was satisfied that ofamuch wider programme of independently audited aspects of the arrangements are in place for the proportionate and independent Groups operations.
Any areas of weakness that are identified through investigation of such matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
this process prompt a detailed action plan and a follow-up audit check The Audit Committee also takes responsibility for reviewing the to establish that actions have been completed.
Instances of fraud or policiesand procedures adopted by the Company to prevent bribery.
attempted fraud if any and preventative action plans are also reported The Company is committed to a zero-tolerance position with regard to to the Committee and recorded in a fraud register.
bribery, made explicit through its Anti-Bribery Code and supporting During the year, in addition to the regular internal control process, KPMG guidance for its employees, agents and contractors on hospitality and LLP conducted specific reviews on cyber security risk and the policies gifts.
The policy and procedures are published on the Company website and procedures in operation to manage the supply chain.
Other reviews and displayed on operating site noticeboards.
Online training is available included reviews in relation to taxation, budget procedures and GDPR.
to all employees via the Groups internal learning zone to reinforce theAnti-Bribery Code and procedures, and classroom-based training The Committee is pleased to report that, although the wider risk of sessions are also held throughout the year.
All employees in decisioncyber fraud continues to increase, no significant failings or weaknesses making roles with potential exposure to bribery risk have completed were identified during the year.
There were no incidences of fraud thetraining and must self-certify annually that they continue to comply.
thatsignificantly affected the Groups business during 2017.
A rolling There is a maintained register of employee interests and a gifts and programme of cyber security awareness training is undertaken and hospitality record.
The internal audit review programme included a external presentations were made to selected groups of employees review of the adequacy of the Companys procedures in relation to byspecialists from the Groups banking partners.
theprevention of bribery, and recommendations from the internal audit process have been implemented.
The Audit Committee Report has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Graham Prothero Chair of the Audit Committee 14 March 2018 MARSHALLS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 49
