Executive Committee Paul Geddes chairs the Executive Committee.
In addition to Paul Geddes, Mike Holliday-Williams, Penny James and John Reizenstein, the Committee comprises the following: Jonathan Greenwood, Steve Maddock, Simon Linares, C Managing Director, Commercial Chief Operating Officer Group Human Resources Director Joined Joined Joined 2000 2010 2014 Experience and qualifications Experience and qualifications Experience and qualifications Jonathan is Managing Director, Commercial.
Steve is Chief Operating Officer.
He joined Simon is Group Human Resources Director.
He joined the Group in 2000 and has over 30 Direct Line Group in 2010 and has nearly 30 years He joined the Group in 2014 and is responsible for years experience of the insurance industry.
Jonathan experience of the insurance industry.
Steve is leading the Groups HR function, Internal & External is responsible for delivering the Commercial strategy, responsible for leading the Groups Claims, Communications and Public Affairs.
He is also developing customer propositions, enhancing the Information Technology IT, Information Security, responsible for delivering the Groups People and Commercial brands and delivering efficiencies within Procurement and Business Services functions.
Simon is a Fellow of the Chartered the Commercial businesses.
Institute of Personnel and Development.
Under Steves leadership, the Group has realised Under Jonathans leadership, the Commercial significant benefits and efficiencies through delivering Under Simons leadership, the Group has achieved division has returned to profit, delivered strong growth the claims transformation programme, rationalising significant improvements in employee engagement, within Direct Line for Business, improved its pricing the Groups property footprint, enhancing the people development, succession planning and capabilities and strengthened NIGs competitive procurement and contract management processes, diversity & inclusion.
He has also delivered enhanced customer and implementing the IT transformation programmes.
the Group becoming a signatory to the Women in propositions and improved digital capabilities.
Finance Charter, and the successful implementation of Steves previous roles include Director of Strategic the Groups Graduate and Apprenticeship schemes.
Jonathan was previously Managing Director of the and Technical Claims at RSA, Director of Claims Groups household and life businesses.
He joined and Customer Service at Capita, and Director of Simon has spent the majority of his career as a the Group as Product and Pricing Director for UK Operations at AMP.
Steve is also Chairman of the leader in customer-centric businesses.
Before joining the Group, Jonathan Motor Insurers Bureau.
into HR, Simon held several commercial business roles held roles at HBOS, MBNA and Pinnacle.
in the fast-moving consumer goods and financial services sectors.
Simon is also a trustee of the KidsOut UK charity.
Key for Committee Humphrey Tomlinson, Jos Vazquez, membership General Counsel Chief Risk Officer C CSR Committee Joined Joined 2011 2012 Experience and qualifications Experience and qualifications Humphrey is General Counsel.
He joined the Jos is Chief Risk Officer.
He joined the Group in Group in 2011 and has over 25 years experience 2012 and has over 25 years experience of the as a solicitor.
Humphrey is responsible for the Group insurance industry.
Jos is responsible for the Groups Legal function and oversees a range of areas of legal Risk Management and Compliance function and is advice and services.
a Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries.
During Humphreys leadership of the Group Legal During Joss leadership of the Risk and Compliance function and its team of lawyers, he has overseen function, the Group has achieved separation from the legal aspects of the Groups 500 million debt RBS Group, delivered its IPO and sold its International issue, the IPO and the related separation of the division.
Jos successfully led the programme to Group from RBS Group, the sale of the Groups implement Solvency II and to design, build and obtain International division, and the 2017 350 million approval from the PRA for the Groups Internal Model.
Under his stewardship, the Groups approach to risk Restricted Tier 1 debt issue.
He is also a Director of management has developed and matured.
This has DLG Legal Services Limited.
been achieved by enhancing and embedding greater Humphreys experience includes advising on ownership of risk management in the business and corporate and commercial matters, steering corporate driving improvements in risk behaviours and attitudes transactions in the UK and internationally, managing across the Group.
legal risk and dealing with corporate governance issues.
Before joining the Group, Humphrey was Jos was previously Global Chief Risk Officer and Group Legal Director at RSA and prior to that he Group Chief Actuary at HSBC Insurance.
Before was a corporate lawyer with the City law firm, joining HSBC, Jos worked for Zurich Insurance, Ashurst Morris Crisp.
He is a graduate of the first in its London Market Operations, then as Chief University of Oxford.
Actuary International Business Division Asia, Latin America and Africa and lastly as Chief Actuary in the UK.
48 DIRECT LINE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017
