Board of Directors Mike Biggs, N R Paul Geddes, C Danuta Gray, N R Chairman of the Board Chief Executive Officer Independent NED Appointed Appointed Appointed April 2012 August 2009 February 2017 Biography Biography Biography Mike is Chair of the Nomination Committee.
Paul is Chief Executive Officer CEO.
He has Danuta was Chairman of Telefnica O2 in Ireland He has over 40 years experience of the UK been CEO since 2009 and led the Group through until December 2012, having previously been its and international financial services sector.
He is its financial turnaround, separation from RBS Group, Chief Executive from 2001 to 2010.
During her nine a respected figure in the insurance industry and initial public offering IPO and its entry into the year tenure as Chief Executive, she increased the well regarded by City investors.
Under his leadership, the Group has customer base from just under 1 million to over delivered value for its customers and returns for 1.7million.
Prior to Telefnica O2, Danuta held Mike was previously Chairman of Resolution, then shareholders by maintaining strong financial various senior positions within BT Group from aFTSE 100 UK life assurance business, and has performance and underwriting discipline.
This has 1984to 2001. acted as Chief Executive Officer and Group Finance been achieved with a clear strategy, by investing in Director of Resolution plc.
He was previously Group Current external appointments the engagement of Direct Line people, embedding a Finance Director of Aviva plc.
He is an Associate of Danuta is interim Chairman of Aldermore Group plc, values-driven culture and a focus on making insurance the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the much easier and better value for customers.
Remuneration Committee of PageGroup plc, After joining RBS Group in 2004 as Managing a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Current external appointments Director responsible for products and marketing, Remuneration Committee of Old Mutual plc, and Mike is Chairman of Close Brothers Group plc.
he became the CEO of RBS Groups mainland UK a Non-Executive Member of the Defence Boardof retail banking business.
Before joining RBS Group, the UK Ministry of Defence.
Paul held various senior multi-channel retailing roles in the GUS and Kingfisher groups.
Paul started his career in marketing, with UK and European roles at Procter & Gamble.
Current external appointments Paul is the Deputy Chairman of the Association of British Insurers ABI Board and a Non-Executive Director of Channel Four Television Corporation.
A B C I Jane Hanson, Mike Holliday-Williams, Penny James, Independent NED Managing Director, Personal Lines Chief Financial Officer-designate Appointed Appointed Appointed December 2011 February 2017 November 2017 Biography Biography Biography Jane is Chair of the Board Risk Committee.
She has Mike is Managing Director, Personal Lines.
He joined Penny joined the Board as Chief Financial extensive experience of risk management, corporate Direct Line in 2014 and has over 10 years insurance Officer-designate on 1 November 2017 and will governance and internal control.
She also has wide industry experience.
Under his leadership, the succeed John Reizenstein as Chief Financial Officer experience in developing and monitoring customer Personal Lines division has delivered strong growth, CFO on 1 March 2018.
Penny has extensive and conduct risk frameworks.
improved profitability and strengthened its competitive financial services experience, having been Group position.
This has been achieved through a strong Chief Risk Officer and Executive Director at Prudential She spent her early career with KPMG, working focus on our customers, by enhancing our proposition plc, where she was responsible for leading risk in the financial sector, later becoming responsible for across our brands and channels, and improving our oversight globally.
Before this she was Director of delivering corporate governance, internal audit and capability in trading, pricing and digital.
She had previously risk-management services in the north of England.
been Group Chief Financial Officer at Omega Janehas also held a number of executive roles, Mike was previously CEO of RSA Groups Insurance Holdings Limited and CFO, UK General including Director of Audit, and Risk and Governance Scandinavian businesses, Codan A S and Insurance, at Zurich Financial Services.
Penny was Director at Avivas UK Life business.
She is a Fellow Trygg-Hansa, and before that UK Managing Director a Non-Executive Director of Admiral Group plc from ofthe Institute of Chartered Accountants in England of Personal Lines at RSA, responsible for the January 2015 toSeptember 2017.
MORETH N, Partnerships and the Broker businesses.
Associate of the Institute of Chartered Accountants Before joining RSA, Mike had many general Current external appointments in England and Wales.
management, marketing and customer growth roles Jane is Chair of Reclaim Fund Ltd and an Independent across several industries including the energy, Current external appointments Member of the Fairness Committee at ReAssure Ltd. telecoms and retail sectors.
She has her own financial sector consulting business and is also a magistrate.
Current external appointments Mike is a member of the ABI General Insurance Council.
46 DIRECT LINE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Sebastian James, C R Andrew Palmer, A B I N R John Reizenstein, I Independent NED Independent NED Chief Financial Officer Appointed Appointed Appointed August 2014 March 2011 December 2010 Biography Biography Biography Sebastian is Chair of the Corporate Social Andrew is Chair of the Audit and Investment John was CFO throughout 2017 and will be Responsibility CSR Committee.
He has performed various senior roles succeeded by Penny James on 1 March 2018. experience in retail and consumer practice at large in the financial services and insurance industries.
He joined the Group in 2010 as CFO and led the groups: and has a detailed understanding of the UK Additionally, he has insight intocorporate governance IPO in 2012.
Under Johns financial stewardship, consumer markets, products and brands.
Sebastian developments and best practice in financial reporting.
the Group has achieved and upgraded its financial was previously CEO of Synergy Insurance Services In 2009, Andrew retired from Legal & General targets, sold its International division at an attractive Limited and subsequently gained wide retail Group plc, where he was the Group Finance price, and undertaken multiple actions to return capital experience as Strategy Director responsible for Director.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered to shareholders.
He has also been focused on the developing and implementing the turnaround strategy Accountants in England andWales.
sustainability of the Groups strong financial track at Mothercare.
record through targeted reductions in the Groups Current external appointments expense and commission ratios, as well as actions Current external appointments Andrew is a Non-Executive Director of Royal London to underpin the Groups planned loss ratio.
Sebastian is Group Chief Executive of Dixons Mutual Insurance Society Limited and Royal London John has extensive City and financial services Carphone plc and is also a trustee of the Asset Management Limited.
He is also a member of experience, spending more than 20 years in charities, Save the Children and The DSG the Financial Reporting Review Panel of the Financial investment banking with UBS and Goldman Sachs.
Reporting Council, a Trustee of the Royal School of He was previously an Executive Director at the Needlework and a Trustee and Treasurer of Cancer Co-operative Insurance Society, CIS General Research UK.
Insurance and The Co-operative Bank.
He was CFO of these organisations between 2003 and 2007, and subsequently Managing Director, Corporate and Markets.
Current external appointments John is a Trustee and Director of Farm Africa.
He has been appointed to the Panel on Takeovers and Mergers the Panel with effect from 1 May 2018, having been an alternate representative of the ABI on the Panel since 2015.
Key for Committee A R B N Clare Thompson, Dr Richard Ward, membership Independent NED Independent NED and SID A Audit Committee Appointed Appointed B Board Risk Committee September 2012 January 2016 Biography Biography C CSR Committee Clare is Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
Dr Richard Ward is Senior Independent Director I She has extensive experience and knowledge of SID.
Richardwas Chief Executive of Lloyds of Investment Committee people and remuneration gained from her roles at London, from 2006 to 2013.
He was a NonN Nomination Committee PwC.
These included People Partner for Assurance Executive Director of Partnership Assurance Group which focused on talent management and career plc, now part of Just Group plc, between 2013 R Remuneration Committee development planning, as well as involvement in and 2016 and was Chairman of the Remuneration the design and operation of remuneration structures Committee from 2014 to 2016.
Richard previously across PwC UK.
She also has significant financial worked for over 10 years at the London-based and audit experience.
International Petroleum Exchange, the second largest energy trading exchange, re-branded ICE Futures, Clare was a partner at PwC from 1988 to 2011. as both CEO and Vice-Chairman.
He has extensive During her 23 years as a partner, she held several insurance industry experience and insightinto senior and high-profile roles, particularly in the prudential regulation.
She is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Prior to the International Petroleum Exchange, Richard held a range of senior positions at British Petroleum Current external appointments and was Head of Marketing & Business Development Clare is a Non-Executive Director of British United for energy derivatives worldwide at Tradition Provident Association Bupa and Retail Charity Financial Services.
She is also a Non-Executive member of the partnership board of Miller Insurance Services LLP, Current external appointments and Treasurer of the Disasters Emergency Committee.
Richard is Executive Chairman of Cunningham Lindsey and Non-Executive Chairman of Brit Syndicates Ltd.
He also serves as a member of the PRA Practitioner Panel, Bank of England.
