Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 61 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Statement Governance Financial Statements Leadership Board responsibilities The Company is premium listed on the The Board is responsible for the overall leadership of the Group, focusing on its governance with the highest regard to the principles of the Code.
London Stock Exchange LSE and this As part of its responsibility, the Board oversees the development of the Statement is prepared with reference to the Companys strategic aims, ensures appropriate processes are in place to Financial Reporting Councils UK Corporate manage risk and monitors the Companys financial and operational performance against objectives.
Governance Code the Code in effect for the financial periods beginning on or after The Board consists of a balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors who together have collective accountability to RBs Shareholders as well 17 June 2016, and the Disclosure Guidance as responsibility for the overriding strategic, financial and operational and Transparency Rules requirements to objectives and direction of RB.
The Board manages the overall leadership of the Group with reference to This Statement sets out how the Company its formal Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board.
This schedule is reviewed annually, with the last review undertaken in November 2017, has applied the Main Principles of the Code and broadly covers: throughout the year ended 31 December matters which are legally required to be considered or decided by theBoard, such as approval of RBs Annual Report and Financial 2017 and as at the date of this Statement.
Statements, declaration of dividends and appointment of new Directors: matters recommended by the Code to be considered by the Board, such as terms of reference for the Board and its committees, review ofinternal controls and risk management: compliance with regulations governing UK publicly listed companies, such as the UK Listing Rules, the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules and the Prospectus Rules: and matters relating to developments in, or changes to, the Groups strategic direction, material corporate or financial transactions.
The full Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board is available at www.
The principal activities undertaken by the Board are set out over the following pages.
A summary overview is set out in the table on Board focus areas in 2017 on page 60.
Board meetings Board meetings are structured in an open atmosphere conducive to challenge and debate.
Board meetings are held regularly with all Directors expected to attend, with five scheduled meetings normally held each year.
At least one of these meetings is held in a key Group business location to provide the Board with the opportunity to meet with local management and structured to include a formal and comprehensive site visit to an operating unit.
The 2017 meeting was held in Hull, UK and included a tour of Hulls new R&D facility World of Inspiring Science, which is the main R&D centre for seven of RBs Powerbands, and RBs manufacturing facility, which produces 300 million consumer units peryear.
Further details can be found on page 65.
Additional meetings, which may be held by phone or consist of written resolutions, are held throughout the year to consider topics that may have arisen outside the formal agenda structure, such as the MJN acquisition and the divestiture of the Food business.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 62 Corporate Governance Statement continued Directors receive papers several days in advance of meetings and are Nomination Committee expected to devote sufficient time for review prior to the meeting taking The Nomination Committees key objective is to make recommendations place, enabling them to fully engage with, challenge and stimulate to the Board on suitable candidates for appointment to the Board and its productive discussion.
In the event that a Director is unable to participate committees and regularly review and refresh their composition to ensure in a meeting, they are encouraged to provide comments to the Chairman that they comprise individuals with the necessary skills, knowledge and or CEO on key items of business in advance of the relevant meeting, so experience to effectively discharge their responsibilities.
Membership that their views can be shared at the meeting and their opinions taken during the year and further details are set out in the Nomination into account during discussions.
On the evening before a full Board meeting, a dinner is held for Directors Audit Committee to discuss strategic matters, and matters to be covered the next day.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its responsibilities Directors are expected to attend what the Board considers to be an in relation to financial reporting, and is responsible for ensuring effective opportunity for more informal discussion.
Executives presenting to the internal financial control and risk management.
Membership of the Audit Board may be invited to attend if appropriate.
Committee and details of its activities during the year are set out in the Audit Committee Report on pages 71 to 75.
At the conclusion of every formal Board meeting, the Chairman holds a session with the other Non-Executive Directors, without the Executive Remuneration Committee Directors present, providing further opportunity for the Non-Executive The Remuneration Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its oversight Directors to assess the performance of the Executive Directors and help responsibility by ensuring that Remuneration Policy and practices reward drive future agenda items.
fairly and responsibly: are linked to corporate and individual performance: and take account of the generally accepted principles of good Operating and financial reports from the Executive Directors are discussed governance.
Membership of the Remuneration Committee during the at each Board meeting, and detailed presentations may be made by year is set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 81.
The non-Board members on material matters to the Group.
report details the current policy on remuneration and sets out Executive Directors remuneration, Non-Executive Directors fees and share ownership.
Board governance structure Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability, Ethics and Compliance Committees of the Board Committee The Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability, Ethics and Compliance The Board has established four Board Committees to assist in the Committee CRSEC Committee was established in July 2016 to support execution of its responsibilities.
These are the Nomination Committee, the Board in reviewing, monitoring and assessing the Companys Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and the Corporate approach to responsible, sustainable, ethical and compliant corporate Responsibility, Sustainability, Ethics and Compliance Committee.
Each conduct and to assist the Board in upholding its values of honesty and committee operates under terms of reference approved by the Board.
Details of the priorities which it has set itself for the coming year The terms of reference are reviewed regularly, the last review taking and its achievements to date are set out in the report on pages 76 to 77. place in November 2017, and can be found on the Companys website.
The current committee membership of each Director is shown on pages Board attendance at scheduled meetings 52 to 55.
The Board has also established two supporting management In 2017, there were five scheduled Board meetings, plus five additional committees: the Disclosure Committee, which ensures accuracy and meetings principally relating to the M&A transactions in the year.
There timeliness of disclosure of financial and other public announcements: and were four regular Audit Committee meetings plus two additional the Executive Committee, which is RBs key management committee.
meetings: one as part of the audit tender process, and one at the Board September strategy meeting, four Remuneration Committee meetings, Corporate three Nomination Committee meetings and four meetings of the CRSEC Responsibility, Committee.
The following table sets out the attendance by individual Sustainability, Directors at the main Board and individual committee meetings which Ethics and each Director was eligible to attend.
Directors who were not members of Compliance Remuneration Nomination individual Board Committees were also invited to attend one or more Audit Committee Committee Committee Committee meetings of those committees during the year.
Where a Director is See more See more See more See more unavoidably absent from a Board or Board Committee meeting, they still on page 71 on page 76 on page 78 on page 69 receive and review the papers for the meeting and typically provide verbal or written input ahead of the meeting, usually through the Chairman of Executive Committee Disclosure Committee the Board or the Chairman of the relevant Board Committee, so that their views are considered at the meeting.
Given the nature of the business to be conducted, some Board meetings are convened at short notice, which can make it difficult for some Directors to attend due to prior commitments.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 63 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 5 Board Audit Remuneration CRSEC Nomination Independence 1 Adrian Bellamy 5 of 5 4 of 4 4 of 4 2 of 2 n a Nicandro Durante 5 of 5 4 of 4 4 of 4 y 6 6 2 Mary Harris 5 of 5 2 of 2 2 of 2 1 of 1 y Adrian Hennah 5 of 5 n a Pamela Kirby 5 of 5 4 of 4 4 of 4 3 of 3 y 3 Ken Hydon 5 of 5 4 of 4 1 of 1 y Rakesh Kapoor 5 of 5 3 of 3 n a Andr Lacroix 5 of 5 4 of 4 3 of 3 y 4 2 Chris Sinclair 4 of 5 4 of 4 1 of 1 y 1 Judy Sprieser 5 of 5 4 of 4 2 of 2 y Warren Tucker 5 of 5 4 of 4 y 1 Retired from the Nomination Committee on 19 September 2017.
2 Joined the Nomination Committee on 19 September 2017.
3 Retired from the Nomination Committee on 4 May 2017.
4 Unable to attend in person due to prior standing commitment.
5 As determined by the Board for the purposes of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
6 Retired from the Audit Committee on 4 May 2017 and joined the Remuneration Committee on 4 May 2017.
The Chairman The Executive Directors The roles of the Chairman and the CEO have a clear division of The Executive Directors have additional responsibilities for the operation responsibilities, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The of RBs business as determined by the CEO.
Every Director may request Chairmans principal responsibility is for the effective running of the that any matter not delegated to the CEO should be discussed by the Board and chairing Board and Shareholder meetings.
Effective leadership Board and that no action should be taken before the Board has decided and governance of the Board allows the Directors to focus on the key on the matter.
strategic, financial and operational issues, to make sound judgements and be comfortable to challenge any uncertainties, as well as ensuring a The Non-Executive Directors transparent approach in communicating with Shareholders.
The Non-Executive Directors share full responsibility for the execution ofthe Boards duties, are independent of management and provide The Chairman leads the annual performance evaluation process of the critical input into Board decisions through their contributions to Board and its committees, which in 2017 was conducted using Boarddiscussions and their roles on, and Chairmanship of, the Board questionnaires and analytics software provided by Independent Audit Committees.
With a wealth of experience and skills between them, they Limited, in line with good governance.
Details of the evaluation follow on are well placed to help develop the Companys long-term strategic, page 65. financial and operational goals, as well as constructively challenge and examine the day-to-day management of the business against the The Chief Executive Officer performance targets and objectives set.
The CEO is principally responsible for the day-to-day management of RB, in line with the strategic, financial and operational objectives set by the The Non-Executive Directors are responsible for setting appropriate levels Board.
He chairs the Executive Committee, consisting of the CEO, the of remuneration for the Executive Directors, and ensuring performance CFO and senior management executives, who together are responsible targets are closely aligned with Shareholder interests.
They are also for execution of the Companys strategy and achieving its commercial critical to the development of succession planning and the appointment aims.
More details about the members of the Executive Committee are and removal of senior executives and management.
The Non-Executive Directors are also responsible for ensuring that The CEO has the power delegated to him by the Board to enable him to adequate internal controls and risk management systems have been carry out his duties efficiently.
Such powers include delegation of the developed and implemented, that these are continually monitored and day-to-day management of the business of the Company to each of the suitably robust and that financial information is complete, accurate and Officers of the Executive Committee, acting individually or as a group or transparent.
sub-committee: acquisition and disposal of businesses and unbudgeted capital expenditure projects subject, in each case, to a 50 million limit: Company Secretary and instructing advisors and instigating legal proceedings on behalf of The Company Secretary takes responsibility for compliance with all the Company in respect of matters for which no further Board authority relevant governance requirements and assists the Chairman with ensuring is required.
The Company Secretary in his or her role further advises the Board on changes to relevant legal and corporate The Senior Independent Director governance regulations.
The Board is collectively responsible for the The Senior Independent Director provides a sounding board for the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary.
Chairman and is available to the other Directors and Shareholders who have concerns that cannot be addressed through the Chairman, CEO orCFO.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 64 Corporate Governance Statement continued We always recruit the best and most suited candidates for any role and Effectiveness we strive for a well-balanced representation of backgrounds, nations, cultures, skills and experiences, at all levels across the Group.
Board composition and succession planning The Board regularly reviews its composition to determine whether it has We are committed to equality of opportunity in all areas of employment the right mix of skills and background to effectively perform its duties.
and business, regardless of personal characteristics.
Our diversity policy The Board also considers internal executives and senior management can be found at www.
Ultimate positions to ensure a proper breadth of talent is developed.
The Board responsibility and sponsorship of this policy rests with our Executive has appointed Directors from a wide variety of business backgrounds Committee.
Senior managers are accountable and all RB employees are toprovide it with a strong balance of skills and experience.
The Board responsible for ensuring that our diversity policies and programmes are iscomprised of the Chairman and a majority of Non-Executive Directors actively followed and implemented.
who, together with the Executive Directors, help maintain a solid, collective understanding of the Company and its daily business.
Board balance and independence Moredetails about the current Board members can be found on On appointment, Non-Executive Directors are made aware and are pages 52 to 55. required to confirm they will allocate sufficient time to their role to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
They are also required to seek Andr Lacroix has acted as the Senior Independent Director since agreement from the Chairman before taking on additional commitments, June 2013.
All Non-Executive Directors, excluding the Chairman who and to declare any actual or potential conflicts of interest.
Non-Executive was independent on appointment, are determined by the Board to Directors are engaged under the terms of a Letter of Appointment.
The Board has deemed Andr Lacroix independent, terms of appointment are for three years with one months notice, with notwithstanding that he has served more than nine years, by all Directors standing for election or re-election at every AGM of virtue of his robust challenge of scenarios and decisions, and his Shareholders.
independent and rigorous judgement of issues for Board decision.
The Nomination Committee has principal responsibility delegated to it for The Shareholder agreement between the Company and JAB Holdings making recommendations to the Board on new appointments as well as B. V. JAB at the time of the merger in 1999 entitled JAB to nominate the composition of the Board and its committees.
The Board and each BoardDirectors.
A holding in excess of 20% or 10% of the Companys ofits members are confident they individually have the expertise and ordinary shares entitles JAB to nominate two Directors or one Director relevant experience required to perform the functions required of a respectively.
JABs current holding is below this amount and there is Director of a listed company.
currently no nominated Director on the Board.
The Company recognises the developmental advantages of an external In accordance with the Code, every Director submits him or herself for non-executive role on a non-competitor board and Executive Directors election re-election at every AGM of Shareholders.
are permitted to seek such a role, provided that they do not take on more than one non-executive directorship in, or become the Chairman of, a Board diversity FTSE 100 company.
Adrian Hennah is a Non-Executive Director of RELX We meet the recommendations set by the Davies Report on Women Group PLC and RELX NV.
We have taken note of the Hampton-Alexander Review published in November 2017, which identified that RB is on target The 2017 evaluation of the Boards performance during the year for 33% female representation at Board level, but has less than concluded that the Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors continue 20% female representation in the combined Executive Committee to devote sufficient time to carrying out their duties to the Company.
In 2015, we launched our DARE Develop, Each Director standing for re-election has individually provided Attract, Retain and Engage talented women programme to give more assurances that they remain committed to their roles and can dedicate women the chance to compete and succeed at RB.
Through focus sufficient time to perform their duties.
Accordingly, the Board groups and a quantitative survey, we have a sound understanding recommends that all Shareholders vote in favour of the resolutions to of the reasons women drop off the talent bench when they reach re-elect the Directors at the 2018 AGM.
Work-life balance and international mobility while managing dual careers are some of the key issues that Director inductions and training have been identified.
We have implemented several solutions that will RB has established a comprehensive induction programme for new help us improve the retention rates of our women managers, such as Directors.
The programme covers RBs business, legal and regulatory a global maternity leave policy, spouse and dual career support for requirements of Directors and includes one-to-one presentations from international moves and a mentoring programme for our senior female senior executives across the Group covering topics such as strategy, managers.
However, we recognise that there is still work to be done, investor relations, taxation, internal audit, supply and the Companys two and have set ourselves the goal of doubling women in senior roles.
business units Health and Hygiene Home.
The induction programme has several aims and serves multiple purposes.
It provides new Directors We also meet the recommendations of the Parker Review published in with an understanding of RB, its businesses and the markets and October 2017, with at least one person from an ethnic minority on regulatory environments in which it operates, provides an overview of the theBoard.
Our Executive Committee, comprising the most senior responsibilities for Non-Executive Directors of RB and builds links to RBs management level in the business, represents five different nationalities people and stakeholders.
Incoming Board members will also have legal from across the globe, embodying our corporate diversity and inclusion due diligence meetings and meet with the Groups External Auditor.
The Companys wider global leadership community holds over 50nationalities between them, representing a broad background of Site visits are arranged to the Groups operations to gain an insight into collective skills, cultures and experience.
This widens our understanding the business, and also form part of the annual Board meeting cycle, with of our consumers, who themselves come from the broadest possible at least one meeting held at an off-site business location.
backgrounds, allowing us to be best placed in serving their needs.
The Chairman has overall responsibility for ensuring that the Directors receive suitable training to enable them to carry out their duties.
As part of their role, Directors are also expected to personally identify any additional training requirements they feel would benefit them in performing their duties to the Company.
Ongoing training arranged by the Company covers a wide variety of sector-specific and business issues, as well as legal and financial regulatory developments relevant to the Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 65 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Company and the Directors.
Training is also provided by way of briefing Director or Officer if that individual was found to have acted fraudulently papers or presentations at each scheduled Board meeting, as well as or dishonestly.
Additionally, Directors and Officers liability insurance meetings with senior executives or other external sources.
cover was maintained throughout the year at the Companys expense.
Board support Evaluation of the Board The Company Secretary is responsible for organising Board meetings, as The Board annually reviews its own and its committees performance and well as collating any papers for the Board to review and consider.
In line with the Code requirements, an internal review took and committee papers are accessible to all Directors through a secure and place in the year, with targeted questionnaires and analytics software confidential electronic document storage facility.
This facility is provided by Independent Audit Limited.
Independent Audit Limited maintained by RBs Secretariat function and additionally holds other provides board evaluation services and has no other connection with information which the Chairman, the CEO or Company Secretary may theCompany.
deem useful to the Directors, such as press releases and pertinent Company information.
The questionnaire was based around the themes of strategy and risk-taking, risk management, line of sight, leadership and accountability, All of the Directors have individual access to advice from the Company roles and responsibilities, and the manner of working together with Secretary and a procedure exists for Directors to take independent management.
Positive feedback was received in all areas.
A report, with professional advice at the Companys expense in furtherance of their action points and recommendations for the Board to consider, was duties.
distributed to Directors and the results of the assessment subsequently discussed by the Board at its November meeting.
Conflicts of interest and indemnity Directors have a duty under the Companies Act 2006 CA 2006 to avoid In addition, the Chairmans performance was separately considered by interests, direct or indirect, which might conflict with the interests of the the Senior Independent Director with input from his fellow Non-Executive Group.
Under the terms of the Companys Articles of Association, such Directors and discussed in November.
conflicts can be authorised by the Board which at all times takes responsibility for ensuring compliance with laws and regulations on The Board believes it is an open and collaborative team, and the refresh corporate governance, and that Directors potential conflicts of interest of talent and diversity brought by the newer Non-Executive Directors has are regularly reviewed.
worked very well in delivering the acquisition of MJN, the divestiture of the Food business, remediation of the South Korea Humidifier Sanitizer The Company indemnifies the Directors and Officers of the Company and HS tragedy, and the development of the new organisation structure as any Group subsidiary to the extent permitted by CA 2006 and the FCA two business units, Health and Hygiene Home.
Listing Rules in respect of the legal defence costs for claims against them and third-party liabilities.
The indemnity would not provide cover for a The principal outcomes for the Board to focus on in the coming year are: continuing its focus on succession planning and leadership development, and renewal of the Board: supporting and providing oversight of the reorganisation of the Group into two business units, including monitoring delivery of the benefits Board visit to of that reorganisation and the benefits of the MJN acquisition: supporting a culture of safety and responsibility: Hull, UK R&D ensuring management presents a thorough and understandable risk Local business insights framework and analysis, that the Board considers reputational-related risks, and that the Board understands the key assumptions and Tour of the RB World of uncertainties of strategic proposals, through rigorous discussion of Inspiring Science stress-testing and scenarios.
The Board should consider the impact Heritage of the Hull site ofreward systems on risk attitudes, decision-making and reporting, Visit to assess the progress anddiscuss RBs current attitude to risk and its target culture: and of the 105 million Centre September strategy sessions agreeing the critical issues for for Scientific Excellence discussion in advance, and subsequently agreeing an agenda for the the largest single site following year that addresses the issues identified in the strategy In September 2017, the RB investment to date which session.
will step change RBs Board travelled to Hull, UK for its annual off-site consumer health The 2017 review of the Boards performance and that of its committees capabilities from its May strategy session.
concluded that the Board, its committees and individual Directors were 2018 completion date continuing to perform effectively.
Recommendations have been taken on The Hull site is home to some board to be addressed and these will be reassessed as part of the 2018 Presentations by local 1,300 RB colleagues across evaluation.
management experts on R&D, supply and other global current status, challenges functions with a consumer and future visions, health R&D focus combined showcasing a range of with broad-ranging capabilities initiatives around across other categories and optimising culture, technologies such as aerosols.
developing talent, driving innovation, and leveraging our supplier partnerships Discussion and tour of the RB manufacturing facility Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 66 Corporate Governance Statement continued Internal control Accountability Internal control processes are implemented through clearly defined roles and responsibilities, delegated by the policies to the executive team and Risk management senior management.
The Board has ultimate responsibility for preparing the Annual Report andFinancial Statements.
RB has implemented robust internal controls RB operates three strands in monitoring internal control systems and tosafeguard the integrity of both the Group and its subsidiary Financial managing risk: Statements and ensures that adequate verification processes are in place Management ensures the controls, policies and procedures are to enable it to confirm that the Groups Financial Statements present followed in dealing with risks in day-to-day business.
Such risks are afair, balanced and understandable assessment of RBs position and mitigated at source with controls interwoven into the relevant systems prospects, in line with Code requirements.
The Board considers that and processes.
Supervisory controls either at management level or theAnnual Report and Financial Statements taken as a whole are fair, through delegation ensure appropriate checks and verification takes balanced and understandable and provides sufficient information for place, with any failures dealt with promptly and awareness raised Shareholders to be able to assess the Companys position, performance, inorder to review gaps in existing controls.
Throughout RB, a key business model and strategy.
responsibility for any line manager is to ensure the achievement of business objectives with appropriate risk management and internal RBs finance function, headed by the CFO, has implemented a number control systems.
ofpolicies, processes and controls to enable the Company to review and Each function and operating unit has its own management which fully comply with changes in accounting standards, financial regulations actsas a second line of oversight and verification.
This level sets and recognised practices.
These processes are kept under review on thelocal level policies and procedures, specific to its own business anongoing basis.
Multiple teams including consolidation and financial environment, subject to Group policy and authorisation.
They further accounting, together with technical support, ensure both internal and act in a supervisory capacity over the lower level management external developments are reviewed and responded to.
The Group also implementation of controls.
The financial performance of each maintains a Finance Policy Manual setting out the required standards function and operating unit is monitored on a monthly basis against offinancial reporting and approvals across the Group and its operating pre-approved budgets and set against forecasts, developed higher units, including a structured process for the appraisal and authorisation upthe management chain, and ultimately overseen by the executive of any material capital projects.
The third strand is provided through independent review by both The basis for the preparation of the Group Financial Statements is set Internal and External Audit teams, who challenge the information and outon page 113 under Accounting Policies.
assurances provided by the first two strands.
This review ultimately gets reported back to the Board, via the Audit Committee, with The Companys External Auditors' Report, setting out its work and actiontaken to address matters identified.
More details on the Audit reporting responsibilities, can be found on pages 100 to 107.
The terms, Committee and its duties can be found on pages 71 to 75.
The areas of responsibility and scope of the External Auditors' work are Groups compliance controls further include operating an independent agreed by the Board and set out in the Auditors' engagement letter.
and anonymous whistleblowing facility, annual management reviews and providing training specific to individual needs within the business.
More information on the Groups principal risks and strategy for growth The Board is also provided with reports on the effectiveness of these and achieving targeted goals is detailed in the CEOs Statement and the controls to ensure full oversight of the business.
Strategic Report, which can be found on pages 1 to 51.
RB has a strong culture of support for its internal controls.
Function and The Viability Statement can be found on page 43. operating management meet to discuss performance measured against strategic aims and goals, with risks and risk controls incorporated into the The Directors Statement of Responsibilities on page 98 details the Going discussions.
During the year, the Directors undertook a robust assessment Concern Statement as required by the Listing Rules and the Code and of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that could theDirectors responsibility for the Financial Statements, for disclosing threaten RBs business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity.
relevant audit information to the Auditor and for ensuring that the More detail on the Groups principal strategic risks and uncertainties can Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable.
be found in the Strategic Report on pages 42 to 51.
Risk appetite RB has developed a Code of Business Conduct on which employees must The Board has overall responsibility for complying with the Code and the undertake training.
In January 2018, a revised Code, which updated and Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on Risk Management, Internal integrated the existing RB and MJN codes, was issued to all employees Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
It oversees aspart of the RB 2.0 launch communication materials.
Every employee theinternal controls established, and monitors their effectiveness, in isrequired to complete compliance and conduct training and certify their managing risk.
The sectors and environment within which RB operates commitment to RBs Responsibility value and to doing the right thing are dynamic and fast moving, and the controls are continually kept under even when it is hard.
The training consists of five modules, including review to minimise the potential exposure to risk.
The system is designed Code of Conduct, Anti-Bribery, Competition Law, Data Privacy and to evolve and manage, rather than eliminate, risks to RBs business Conflicts of Interest training and testing.
objectives, and the Board relies on these controls in so far as they are ableto provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material Employee training includes reminding employees of the Groups misstatement or loss.
The Groups major risks and mitigating factors are strictpolicies on the reporting of any adverse events in relation to its detailed on pages 42 to 51. products, as well as the availability of an independent and anonymous whistleblowing facility.
Together they help ensure our employees fully As part of its risk control, RB regularly evaluates principal risks to understand RBs non-negotiable expectations in terms of ethical and achieving objectives, the likelihood of such risks materialising and responsible behaviour.
determining the ability of the Group to cope with the circumstances should they occur.
In doing so, it also looks to actions that can be taken, controls that can be implemented and processes that can be followed to reduce the chances of risk events taking place, mitigating the potential impact and ensuring that the cost of doing so is proportionate to the benefit gained.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 67 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements This culture of ethical and responsible conduct has been further Annual General Meeting and Shareholder voting The Board views the AGM as a valuable opportunity to meet with its strengthened with the attention of the Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability, Ethics and Compliance Committee CRSEC Committee.
private Shareholders, giving them an opportunity to put questions to The focus of this committee is on the Companys corporate social theChairman, Chairs of the committees and the Board.
responsibilities, environmental and sustainability issues and overall ethical conduct and regulatory compliance.
More details on its work can be All Shareholders can vote on the resolutions put to the meeting.
In line found on pages 76 and 77. with good governance, voting is by way of poll, providing each share with one vote.
Results of the poll are released to the LSE and published on the The Board confirms that reviews and monitoring of the appropriateness Groups website shortly after the AGM.
and effectiveness of the system of internal control and risk management throughout the financial year and up to the date of approval of the The Investment Association IA has launched the public register of FTSE Annual Report and Financial Statements have been satisfactorily All-Share companies which have received votes of 20% or more against completed with no significant failings or weaknesses identified.
any shareholder resolution, or which withdrew a resolution prior to a shareholder vote, along with company statements of actions taken Relations with Shareholders following the vote.
At our AGM in May 2017, all resolutions were passed, The Board values effective communication with Shareholders and is although a high number of votes were received against the re-election committed to regular, clear and transparent dialogue.
This includes formal as Directors of Adrian Bellamy, Chairman, and Ken Hydon, Chair of the presentations of full year and interim results, together with quarterly Audit Committee.
We believe this was related in part to the desire of statements on the Companys key performance indicators, with Shareholders to ensure Board-level accountability for the tragic events roadshows to meet with institutional investors following results in South Korea, relating to a humidifier sanitizer product withdrawn in announcements.
The Board has formally apologised and taken extensive remediation action in relation to the HS tragedy and we have engaged fully with our RB maintains regular dialogue with sector analysts and fund managers Shareholders in relation to this.
A subsequent statement was published toensure a widespread understanding and availability of information by the Company and is available at www.
A link to the statement regarding developments for the Group, as well as the industry sectors can also be found on IAs public register page on their website.
The CEO, CFO and the Director of Investor Relations meet regularly with institutional Shareholders and analysts to discuss the Website performance of the Group and its strategy.
Where appropriate, the views The Investor Relations section on the RB website provides the Board of Shareholders are also sought in relation to remuneration plans and withan additional method of communicating to Shareholders.
asthe latest regulatory disclosures, copies of the latest and previous years Annual Reports, latest share price information and copies of Feedback is presented to the Board to ensure all Directors are fully aware previous investor presentations, as well as key calendar dates, are of the views of existing Shareholders, investors and analysts.
The website can be found at www.
RBs Shareholder register is made available to the Board and reports prepared by the Groups brokers and public relations advisors are Shareholders can also access our Sustainability Report, our Modern provided to all Directors after every significant corporate event and on Slavery Statement, our Gender Pay Gap Report and associated policies on other relevant occasions.
We will also be publishing our first Payment Practices Report in July 2018.
On a monthly basis, and at each Board Meeting, the Board receives updates from the CEO on the Companys share price movements, major share transactions and the views of both investors and analysts on the Groups performance.
All Shareholders may speak with the Companys Investor Relations team and the Company Secretary and a section of the RB website is dedicated to Shareholders.
The Chairman is also available to discuss governance andstrategy with major Shareholders and does so regularly, providing feedback on the meetings to the rest of the Board.
In November 2017, Chris Sinclair spent a number of days meeting with many of the Groups major institutional investors individually as part of his induction as incoming Chairman.
Judy Sprieser, in her then role as Chair of the Remuneration Committee, met with investors in January 2017, along with RB's Head of Global Reward, and Deloitte LLP, our remuneration advisors.
In November 2017, Mary Harris, on taking over the Chairmanship of the Remuneration Committee, and Judy Sprieser carried out a two-day roadshow with institutional investors focusing on governance, remuneration policy and the Companys strategy.
Pam Kirby, as Chair of the CRSEC Committee, and RBs Chief Safety, Quality, Compliance & Regulatory Officer also met with investors during the year to discuss compliance policies.
If required, key executives, along with the Senior Independent Director, are available to discuss matters of concern.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 68 Corporate Governance Statement continued B.
3 Commitment Compliance with the Code The Board is satisfied that the external commitments of the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors set out on pages 52 This section of the Annual Report, together with the Audit Committee to55 do not conflict with their duties and commitments to the Report on pages 71 to 75, the Nomination Committee Report on Company and that any new commitments are disclosed to pages 69 to 70, the CRSEC Committee Report on pages 76 to 77 and theBoard.
the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 78 to 94, describes how In the reporting period, Adrian Hennah, CFO, continued to serve the Company has applied the main principles contained within the asa Non-Executive Director of RELX Group PLC and RELX NV.
The Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Councils Details of the Executive Directors service contracts and Nonwebsite at www.
Executive Directors letters of appointment are shown in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 78 to 94 and are The Company confirms that, throughout the year ended 31 December available for inspection at the Companys registered office and 2017, it has complied with the Code.
5 Development and information and support A.
1 The role of the Board A description of the process of induction, training and A description of how the Board operates and an overview of the development, as well as access to the Company Secretary and Matters Reserved for the Board is set out on page 61. independent professional advice, is set out on pages 64 and 65.
The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Senior Independent Director and respective Chairs of the committees are set out on B.
An overview of the Board, its committees and the individual The Board held five scheduled meetings during the year, as set out Director evaluation process is set out on page 65. in the Directors attendance table on page 63.
Appropriate insurance cover is in place in respect of legal action B.
7 Re-election and election against the Directors.
It is the Boards practice that all Directors stand for re-election at the AGM, or election at the first AGM following their A.
3 Division of responsibilities and the role of the appointment.
Chairman The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are set out C. Accountability on page 63 and are set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
C. 1 Financial and business reporting The Chairman and the Chairman-elect were independent on The Directors Statement of Responsibilities is set out on page 98. appointment.
The fair, balanced and understandable assessment is set out on page 98.
4 Non-Executive Directors The Auditors' Report is set out on pages 100 to 107.
Andr Lacroix is the Senior Independent Director.
The Going Concern statement is set out on page 98.
Both the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director make themselves available during the year to attend meetings with major C. 2 Risk management and internal control shareholders.
The assessment of principal risks and how they are being managed The Chairman held five meetings during the year with the or mitigated is described on pages 42 and 51.
Non-Executive Directors, without the executives being present.
The Viability Statement is set out on page 43.
The Senior Independent Director led the review of the Chairman as An overview of the Companys risk management and internal outlined on page 65. control systems is described in full on page 66.
No unresolved concerns about the running of the Company, or a proposed action, were raised by any Directors in the reporting C. 3 Audit Committee and Auditors period.
A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the Audit Committee Report on pages 71 to 75.
Effectiveness Its terms of reference are available at www.
1 The composition of the Board The Board considers all Non-Executive Directors to be independent.
D. Remuneration Adrian Bellamy, July Sprieser and Ken Hydon have served D. 1 and D. 2 The level of components of remuneration and significantly more than nine years from their election.
They have procedure each decided to step down from the Board at the Annual General A description of the work of the Remuneration Committee is set Meeting on 3 May 2018 and not stand for re-election.
out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 78 to 94.
Its terms of reference are available at www.
2 Appointments to the Board A description of the work of the Nomination Committee is set out E. Relations with Shareholders on pages 69 to 70 which includes a description of the process for E. 1 and E. 2 Dialogue with Shareholders and constructive use Board appointments and the Boards policy on diversity.
of General Meetings Its terms of reference are available at www.
An overview of engagement with Shareholders and the use of General Meetings is included on page 67.
