54 Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Effectiveness continued Nominations Committee Report Dear fellow Shareholder I am pleased to present the Nominations Committee Report which summarises our work over the past year.
Once again, Board succession planning and its implementation has Sir John Armitt CBE been a main area of focus for the Committee, together with talent Committee Chair development at senior management level.
The process of building and strengthening an effective Board requires the right blend of expertise, continuity and refreshment and the Committee has borne this in mind in its deliberations throughout the year.
Primary role To ensure that the Board and its Committees are properly Board composition structured and balanced including the requisite skills, knowledge and experience and that rigorous succession planning is in place The successful delivery of our strategy depends upon attracting and for Directors and senior management including the identification retaining the right talent.
This starts with having a high-quality Board of candidates from both within and outside the Group.
in place and balance is an important requirement for its composition, not only in terms of the number of Executive and Non-Executive The Committees terms of reference, reviewed and approved Directors, but also in terms of expertise, diversity and backgrounds.
annually, are available on the Companys website at www.
The composition of the Board was reviewed during the year with the Committee concluding that the balance post the changes referred to below remained appropriate to the Groups forward-looking needs Key responsibilities and its ability to continue delivering against our strategy.
Monitor the structure, size and composition of the Board and its Committees and make recommendations to the Board accordingly At the date of this report, the Board consists of 12 members Succession planning for Directors and senior management comprising myself as Non-Executive Chairman independent on Identify and nominate, for approval by the Board, suitable appointment, three Executive Directors, seven Independent candidates to fill Board vacancies Non-Executive Directors and one non-Independent Non-Executive Lead the process for new Board appointments Director.
The chart opposite demonstrates the strong and in-depth Review the time commitment required by the Non-Executive mix of skills and experience possessed by the current Board.
Directors to fulfil their duties Board changes Activity highlights In January, and as previously reported, the Committee completed its Completion of recruitment of new Group Finance Director and search, selection and recommendation process which ultimately led appointment of new President and CEO, North America to Chris Davies joining the Board as an Executive Director on 10 May Assessment of composition of the Board and its Committees and being appointed Group Finance Director on 1 June 2017.
He was Review of succession planning and executive talent management recruited to replace Matt Ashley who, after two and a half successful Rigorous review of three Non-Executives to remain in office years and as part of a career development opportunity within the Group, relinquished that role but not his executive directorship on Membership, meetings and attendance 31 May.
This was to take up the operational position as President and CEO of our North America business, based in Chicago, on Meetings Meetings 1 September.
Both of these appointments were well planned and well Committee member Appointed held attended executed and details of their tailored induction programmes, overseen Sir John Armitt Chair 01.01.13 2 2 by myself and the Company Secretary, can be found on page 52.
Lee Sander 01.06.11 2 2 As a result of these two changes, I believe that the quality of the Jorge Cosmen 01.12.05 2 2 Board, its leadership and our succession plans which remain high on the agenda have been strengthened.
Chris Muntwyler 11.05.11 2 2 Joaqun Ayuso 01.06.11 2 2 During the year, there were no Non-Executive Director changes to Jane Kingston 26.07.16 2 2 the Board or membership of any of its Committees as these are all working well and effectively as endorsed by the results of this years 1 Non-Executive Chairman of the Board.
external Board and Committee evaluation see pages 50 and 51 and 2 Independent Non-Executive Director.
remain compliant with the UK Corporate Governance Code Code.
Other attendees by invitation : Group Chief Executive, Group Human Resources Director and, as required, external advisers.
Biographical details of the members are set out on pages 48 and 49.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Corporate Governance Report 55 Diversity at Board level Board experience While all appointments are made on merit, the Board strongly believes that an increasing diversity at Board level is acknowledged as essential in maintaining a competitive advantage.
A truly diverse 92% Finance Board and senior management team will include and make good use of differences in the skills, experience, knowledge, thinking styles, 100% Operational background, race, gender, independence and other qualities of individuals.
These differences are considered by the Committee 100% International in determining the optimum composition of the Board and will 75% Transport futures continue to be balanced appropriately to maintain and enhance its effectiveness.
83% Public Board The appointment of Mr Davies to the Board has meant that our 75% Government regulatory female Director representation has reduced to 17% from 18% last 67% Remuneration year.
The Committee believes a natural opportunity exists in relation to Non-Executive Director rotation over the next three years to 8% Digital marketing influence the gender and ethnic diversity mix of the Board which would form part of our commitment to increase female representation 25% IT on the Board to 33% by 2020, as per the recommendation of the Hampton-Alexander Review.
Diversity in the business National Express is committed to a culture that attracts and retains Board tenure talented people to deliver outstanding performance and enhances the success of the Group.
In that regard, diversity across a broad range of criteria is recognised as an important business asset that fosters innovation and helps us better understand and meet the needs of our customers and the communities we serve.
The Group has a Diversity Policy which applies to all employees and supports and promotes our commitment: the ethos is also reflected in our embedded Values.
Local management is responsible for implementation and communication of the policy and training forms part of a new employees induction process.
Recognising the racial and cultural diversities of the business and territories in which we operate, diversity is far more than gender based.
During the year, we have we continued to embrace the benefits of workforce diversity and we are making progress in this regard.
For example, in the UK, where our employees span more than 50 different nationalities, new mechanisms and initiatives introduced 02 years 1 male to support and encourage women in business have led to an 24 years 1 female, 3 male increased number of women in supervisory and management roles, as well as in revenue protection, driving instruction and engineering 46 years 1 female, 1 male apprenticeships.
That said, the Board has challenged the executive to promote and communicate an inclusive, positive and proactive story 69 years 4 male across the whole Group and to identify and pursue opportunities where we could be more active and drive change over time.
The 9 years 1 male monitoring and development of our diversity programme will remain a key focus in 2018.
Board composition 25% Executive 75% Non-Executive 17% Female 83% Male 56 Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Effectiveness continued Nominations Committee Report continued Succession planning It is important for the Board to anticipate and prepare for the future It is critical to our continued success and to ensure that the skills, knowledge and experience of the Directors and senior management reflect the changing demands of that we have the right people with the the business and are aligned to delivering on the Companys strategy.
right range of skills and experience on the The Board recognises that an active Nominations Committee is key to promoting effective succession planning and ensuring that a strong Board and in senior management positions.
pipeline of future senior management has been identified from which At present we do, and our succession plans future Board appointments can be considered.
Equally important is the need to support the development and skill set enhancement of are geared towards ensuring that we do in the current Executive Directors.
Led by the Committee, succession plans are formally reviewed at least annually by the Board as a whole, with quarterly talent and development updates from across the business presented by the Group HR Director.
The Group has a well-established and robust succession planning process which covers all Group Executive Committee members and their direct reports, divisional management and other employees who have longer-term high potential for senior Directors re-election roles.
The Committees opinion is that the plans are aligned to the Based on the above Director assessment, the Board is Companys strategy, are well prepared and appropriate for the size recommending the formal election to office of Mr Davies and of the Group and its management structure, and there is a range of the re-election to office of all the other Directors at this years AGM.
good candidates in the pipeline for senior roles.
Any potential gaps Details of the Service Agreement for the Executive Directors and are the subject of both internal development plans and or timely Letters of Appointment for the Non-Executive Directors, and their selected external recruitment.
availability for inspection, are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 68 to 99.
Independence, effectiveness and commitment Committee effectiveness The independence, effectiveness and commitment of each of the The Committees operations and activities formed part of the external Non-Executive Directors is annually reviewed by myself and I share review of Board effectiveness performed in the year and which my views with the Nominations Committee and the Board.
During the confirmed the Committee continues to operate well and effectively.
year, the Committee satisfied itself as to the individual contributions Details of this review and the identified areas for further development and time commitment of all the Non-Executive Directors bearing in are provided on pages 50 and 51. mind their other offices and interests held.
The Board considers myself and each of the Non-Executive Directors, other than Jorge Looking forward Cosmen, to be independent and free of any relationships which could In 2018, the Committee will continue to look at Board and senior materially interfere with the exercise of our independent judgement.
management succession planning with a focus on diversity development.
In response to such ongoing internal and external Mr Cosmen is not considered to be independent due to his close succession planning work, and given the expected increase in the links with the ALSA business in Spain and the significant share number and scope of changes likely to arise from a busy governance interests that the Cosmen family hold in the Company.
Despite his pipeline, the Committee will also consider increasing the number non-independent status, I feel that the Board benefits greatly from of scheduled meetings it holds each year.
having Mr Cosmens extensive local market knowledge and experience to hand in the boardroom.
In respect of Lee Sander, Chris Muntwyler and Joaqun Ayuso, who each attained six years service since last years AGM, I conducted a rigorous review of their suitability to remain in office for up to a nine-year term including taking account of the need for progressive Sir John Armitt CBE refreshing of the Board.
This was undertaken because the Code Nominations Committee Chair suggests that length of tenure is a factor to consider, particularly 1 March 2018 where service is six years or more, when determining the independence of Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee was confident that all three Directors remain independent, committed to their role and, as with the other Non-Executive Directors, would continue to be highly effective members of the Board and able to fully discharge their duties and responsibilities going forward.
