50 Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Effectiveness Performance evaluation In line with the guidance provided under the UK Corporate Governance Code Code, a performance evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees, and of the Directors, is conducted annually within a three-year cycle set out below.
The purpose is to identify opportunities to build on strengths, improve effectiveness and highlight areas for further development.
2017 2018 2019 Year 1 External Year 2 Internal Year 3 Internal Evaluation by Evaluation focused on Progress review generally independent consultants Year1 issues raised and questionnaire based plus any specific new issues 1:1 interviews between arising questionnaire based Chairman and Directors External effectiveness Conclusions from Key areas of focus and Progress against actions review of the Board and this years review development in 2018 from last years internal Committee workings review 2017 external evaluation Conclusions from this years review With internal evaluations having been carried out in each of the last The Directors concluded that, overall, the Board and its Committees two years, an external evaluation of the Board and its Committees operate to a high standard and work well.
The dynamics, culture and was conducted in 2017 as the beginning of a new three-year cycle.
effectiveness had improved noticeably since the last external review It was conducted by Helen Pitcher of Advanced Boardroom and the Directors believe they are functioning effectively as a team.
Excellence ABE, a specialist consultancy which undertakes The external evaluation had captured a number of strengths of the no other business for the Company, although she and ABE did Board including the effectiveness of the Committee structure, undertake the Companys last external evaluation in 2014. particularly the Audit Committee, and the strong interaction and integrity by which it carried out its role.
The Directors were observed The Chairman and Company Secretary provided a comprehensive to take their duties and responsibilities, and the discharge of them, briefing to ABE ahead of the review programme commencement in extremely seriously and be committed to a culture of openness and November.
The programme included attendance and observation transparency which is seen as a key strength.
at Board and Committee meetings as well as access to supporting materials to enhance the evaluation teams understanding of how As with any Board, the Directors continue to look for areas of the Board and its Committees operate.
In addition, detailed faceincreased focus and further development and key areas identified to-face interviews were held by Helen with each Director against from this years evaluation are set out below.
Progress against them a tailored agenda.
will be reviewed as part of the 2018 internal evaluation and reported on next year.
A final report and recommendations were presented to the Board in February 2018 and considered by the Directors.
Separate reports The Senior Independent Director, in consultation with the Nonfor each of the Nominations, Audit, Safety & Environment and Executive Directors, led the annual performance evaluation of the Remuneration Committees were also prepared and their conclusions Chairman during the year.
It concluded as did the external evaluation will be discussed with the respective Committee Chair in due course.
that the Chairman was performing strongly and is highly effective in The Chairman also received a report on each Director which he will his role.
Board meetings were well chaired and the relationship be discussing with them individually together with any identified between the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive was development or training needs.
Lee Sander, as Senior Independent considered to be very effective.
The Chairman continued to devote Director, received the report on the Chairman and he has reviewed sufficient time and attention to his role and maintained good informal that with him.
relationships with all the Directors outside of meetings.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Corporate Governance Report 51 Key areas of focus and development in 2018 Information and support The key areas identified from this years external evaluation for To enable the Directors to fulfil their duties and responsibilities increased focus and development in 2018 are set out below.
A effectively, they are provided with and given access to all necessary number of these anticipate the actions which will be required of the resources and expertise.
This includes access to the Company Board emerging from the new Code expected in the summer in the Secretary who acts as Secretary to the Board and its Committees areas of executive succession and diversity.
and management and, through an established procedure, the ability to obtain, at the Companys expense, independent professional advice.
Executive succession Further details about the role and responsibilities of the Company Requiring increased engagement of the Board with the long-term Secretary can be found on page 46. executive succession and leadership planning of the business.
Board and Committee succession To facilitate effective review and decision-making, Directors receive Requiring a focus on Board and Committee succession to ensure in advance of meetings high-quality papers, including from senior that the diversity and capability of the Board continues and is executive, management and advisers, who are also regularly invited enhanced, with particular reference to gender balance.
to attend meetings for discussion of specific items in greater depth.
External viewpoints The papers are published via a secure web portal which also hosts Requiring the Board to receive and be engaged with more external a library of other relevant Company information, including previous viewpoints as the uncertainty around Brexit and the rapid evolution meeting papers, minutes and Board procedures.
of the transport sector technology continues.
If a Director is unable to attend a meeting because of exceptional circumstances, they still receive the papers and other relevant Progress against actions from last years information in advance of the meeting and have the opportunity internal review to discuss with the relevant Chair or the Company Secretary any matters on the agenda they wish to raise or to follow up on the In addition to considering the results of this years external Board decisions taken at the meeting.
evaluation, the Directors reviewed progress against the actions identified from last years internal evaluation with the outcomes In addition to Board meetings and private sessions held between set out in the following table: the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors, there are other opportunities arranged during the year allowing for informal discussions between Directors on relevant items.
Action point Outcome Bring more external viewpoints Achieved, most notably in respect of the Board: i hearing directly from US Congressmen and women as part of the tothe Boards attention Boards visit to Capitol Building in Washington DC last September see page 53 : and ii receiving a presentation from Bank of America Merrill Lynch, joint house broker, in support of the Groups Strategy 2018-2020 as part of the Boards annual strategy review.
Enhance education and Deloitte Academy membership has been made available to all the Non-Executive Directors.
This provides training, development opportunities discussion and briefing forums on topical matters and includes access to an online information library.
The introduction for Directors of quarterly human capital and talent development reports to the Board is proving extremely useful from a broader people management and talent identification perspective across the Group.
Extend length of Audit Audit Committee meetings have been extended by 30 minutes to allow for greater in-depth discussion on certain topics.
Committee meetings This arrangement will continue going forward.
Keep leadership and succession The Nominations Committee continued to review both the Boards and the Companys leadership and succession plans plans under review during the year.
Further details are set out on page 56.
Maintain focus on cyber security The Audit Committee continued to review the Groups management of its cyber security agenda, risk register and progress against a prioritised remediation programme.
Further details are set out on page 58.
52 Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Effectiveness continued Induction Development and training All new Directors receive a structured and comprehensive induction As part of an ongoing programme of development and training, programme.
It is prepared and arranged by the Chairman and which is the responsibility of the Chairman: Company Secretary, with executive input as necessary, tailored the Board held various specific briefing sessions during the year to the experience and background of the individual and the on matters such as Brexit, technology, digital marketing and other requirements of the role.
economic and political risk factors that may affect the business Such an induction programme was formulated for Chris Davies who or the wider transport sector in our main operating territories took up his first executive appointment in joining the Board on 10 May Directors receive relevant information, as part of and between and becoming Group Finance Director on 1 June 2017.
He replaced meetings, regarding the Groups business, financial performance, Matt Ashley who relinquished that position but not his executive shareholder sentiment and the legal, regulatory and governance directorship to take up a new role with the Group as President and environment in which it operates CEO, North America, on 1 September.
Mr Ashley and the Company all Directors are encouraged to attend training, discussion and Secretary led the induction programme which also provided for a briefing forums on relevant topical matters.
For the Non-Executive smooth handover of responsibilities and included: Directors, this is available through the Deloitte Academy which facilitates such events, with online and remote follow up the issue of a Board induction pack to assist with understanding access available.
the Groups history, culture, business, markets, strategy, risk management framework including the risk environment, Additionally, to provide Directors with further opportunities to meet internal controls and financial position with senior and local management and increase their visibility and hands on briefing meetings coupled with introductory meetings working knowledge of the Groups operations and market dynamics, with direct reports, members of the Group Executive Committee, the Board aims to visit two of the Groups locations each year.
To that the Chairman and the Audit Committee Chair and subsequently end, the Board meetings in June and September 2017 were held in with all Directors Madrid and Washington DC respectively, the latter also facilitating the meetings with the Companys external auditors, brokers and lead Boards annual strategy review meeting.
Details of the Washington trip bankers and subsequently with other key advisers and can be found on the page opposite.
stakeholders The Chairman also undertakes a busy programme of local site and specific information and training sessions with the Company management visits, which this year included a number of UK sites Secretary, the Companys corporate lawyers and the Director of and a trip to our operations in Bahrain.
To a lesser extent, but also Safety regarding Directors duties, responsibilities and liabilities, encouraged, other Non-Executive Directors undertake similar Board mechanics, corporate governance practices and key policies personal visits from time to time.
and procedures including the Groups Health & Safety policy, plan and standards Executive Directors are permitted to accept one external nona number of site visits in the UK, Spain and the US, including with executive directorship with a non-competing company provided the Board in June to Madrid and in September to Washington DC.
they first obtain Board approval.
No such external appointments are currently held by any of the Executive Directors.
Mr Ashley also benefited from a structured business and customer focused induction programme provided to him in Chicago by his predecessor, local management and the US General Counsel.
Conflicts of interest The Board operates a policy to identify and manage declared actual Both of the above induction programmes, and their progress and potential conflicts of interest which Directors or their connected to completion, were overseen by the Chairman and reported persons may have and are obliged to avoid under their statutory on to the Board through the Company Secretary.
duties and the Companys Articles of Association.
The Board considers each Directors situation and decides whether to approve any conflicts based on the overriding principle that a Director must at all times only be able to consider and exercise judgement to promote the success of the Company.
The policy has been in place and operated effectively throughout the year.
Authorisations given by the Board are reviewed on a regular basis.
There are no material conflicts currently in place save in respect of Jorge Cosmens position as a non-Independent Non-Executive Director and his association with the Cosmen family as a substantial shareholder see page 103.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Corporate Governance Report 53 Our visit to the recently acquired business in Baltimore enabled us to see how we take best practice from our existing operations and apply them to new operations, especially with regards to safety.
The visit allowed us to see how our Board discussions and priorities Board in action are translated into action on the ground, A conventional view of non-executive directors is that they govern where it really matters.
In todays business world, particularly given the increasing risk, governance and public scrutiny environment, that simply doesnt Dr Ashley Steel, Non-Executive Director work, and it doesnt exist at National Express.
We believe that connection with and understanding of the business are key fundamentals for our Non-Executive Directors if they are to maximise their contribution to an effective Board.
Thats why, as part of an ongoing development programme, we aim to take the Board out of the boardroom and visit the business twice a year.
This increases the visibility of the Board and provides the Non-Executives with valuable opportunities to engage with local management and employees, and increase their working knowledge of the Groups operations and market dynamics.
With this in mind, the Board went to Madrid in June to meet with ALSAs management and various business teams.
In September, the Board went to Washington DC and visited four of our bus and transit Customer Service Centres CSCs in the area, and the local Safety and Training Centre.
The Directors toured the facilities and received presentations from management and employees about the business and their role in the operation.
They spent time with drivers and maintenance technicians gaining valuable feedback on the Groups culture and values and how those are interpreted and exist locally.
The Directors also had a unique and insightful opportunity while in Washington to meet with Congressmen Holding and Rokita and Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers during an evening visit to Capitol Building.
They heard relevant political views on Brexit and its potential impact on the future trading relationship between the US and the UK, and the importance placed on safe customer services in the areas of transport in which we operate.
Above: In September, the Board visited Capitol Building in Washington DC and met with three Congressmen women Its always a pleasure and source of inspiration to meet our front-line colleagues and drivers teams absolutely committed to the children and communities they serve.
The stand out for me from the Washington trip was to see our investment in DriveCam CCTV being rolled out and in action.
Already we can see the power of this investment, its Above: Various members of the contribution to driver learning and coaching Board receive a management presentation on their visit to the and of course the early signs of a significant Odenton, Maryland, CSC improvement in some of our safety metrics.
