48 Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Leadership continued Board of Directors Committee Chair A Audit Committee We have in place a highly experienced Board of Directors.
N Nominations Committee The independent Non-Executive Directors bring sound R Remuneration Committee judgement and objectivity to the Boards deliberations S Safety & Environment Committee and decision-making process, helping to support and I A Independent on Appointment I constructively challenge the Executive.
Sir John Armitt CBE 72 Chairman Non-Executive Director 1 2 Appointed: January 2013 and as Chairman on 1 February 2013 Skills, competencies and experience: Sir John Armitt has a wealth of experience in the rail, engineering and construction industries.
He was President of the Institution of Civil Engineers from 2015 to 2016 and a member of the Board of Transport for London from 2012 to 2016.
Sir John was Chairman of the Olympic Delivery Authority 3 4 from 2007 to 2014 and Chairman of the Engineering and Physical Science Research Council from 2007 to 2012.
From 2001 to 2007, he was Chief Executive of Network Rail and its predecessor, Railtrack.
In 1997, he was appointed as Chief Executive of Costain Group PLC, a position he held until 2001.
Before this, Sir John was Chief Executive of Union Railways, the company responsible for the development of the high-speed Channel Tunnel Rail Link.
This followed 5 6 a 27-year career at John Laing PLC.
Sir John was awarded the CBE in 1996 for his contribution to the rail industry and received a knighthood in 2012 for services to engineering and construction.
Current external appointments: Deputy Chairman of Berkeley Group Holdings PLC, and Chairman of the City & Guilds Group, the National Infrastructure Commission and the Government Commission on the Thames Estuary.
Independent Non-Executive Director of Expo 2020.
Dean Finch 51 Group Chief Executive Appointed: February 2010 Skills, competencies and experience: Dean Finch qualified as a chartered accountant with KPMG, where he worked for 12 years, specialising in Corporate Transaction Support Services, including working for the Office of Passenger Rail Franchising on the privatisation of 9 10 train operating companies.
Prior to joining National Express, he was Group Chief Executive of Tube Lines from May 2009.
Before that he worked for over ten years in senior roles within FirstGroup PLC where he was Managing Director of the Rail Division from 2000 to 2004 and then was appointed to the main board as Group Commercial Director in 2004, before being made Group Finance Director.
With the completion of the Laidlaw acquisition, Dean became Chief Operating Officer in North America before returning to the UK as 11 12 Group Chief Operating Officer.
Until May 2016, he was a Non-Executive Director of the Royal Free London NHS Foundation Trust.
Current external appointments: n a Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Corporate Governance Report 49 A S I N S I 3.
Joaqun Ayuso 62 Group Finance Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed: May 2017 Appointed: July 2015 Appointed: June 2011 Skills, competencies and experience: Skills, competencies and experience: Skills, competencies and experience: A qualified management accountant, Chris Davies Mike McKeon is a chartered accountant.
He Joaqun Ayuso has more than 35 years experience joined National Express in May 2017 from Inchcape has developed his core skills during extensive with Ferrovial, the 10 billion Spanish transport plc where he was Group Financial Controller and experience over many years of financial and infrastructure and services group that employs Treasurer from 2013.
He also acted as interim business management in various sectors and over 100,000 people worldwide.
He was appointed Group Chief Financial Officer for Inchcape from countries around the world and in increasingly CEO in 2002, and held that position until October January to April 2016.
Chris has significant senior roles.
During this time, he acquired in depth 2009.
During this period, Ferrovial expanded international senior financial experience having knowledge of how to develop and restructure internationally with business interests in the UK, started his career with Andersen Consulting, before different businesses, adapting strategy and US, Canada, Latin America and Europe.
joining Boots, then Marakon Associates a strategic operations to achieve success.
Mike was Group Current external appointments: Board Vice consultancy.
He spent ten years at Diageo plc, Finance Director of Severn Trent plc from 2005 until Chairman for Ferrovial, Non-Executive Director of where he held a number of strategic and financial his retirement from the board in 2015.
Prior to that, Bankia, Chairman of the Board of Autopista del Sol positions on three continents, culminating in him between 2000 and 2005, he was Group Finance SA, Non-Executive Director of Hispania Activos being Chief Financial Officer of its North American Director of Novar plc.
He has held various senior Inmobiliarios SA and Senior Advisor to AT Kearney division from 2010-2012. roles, both in the UK and internationally, at in Spain and Portugal.
Current external appointments: n a Rolls-Royce plc, CarnaudMetalbox, Elf Atochem R S I and .
Matt Ashley 44 Mike was also Senior Independent Director and Non-Executive Director Executive Director Chairman of the Audit Committee at investment Appointed: May 2015 trust, The Merchants Trust PLC.
Appointed: January 2015 Skills, competencies and experience: Current external appointments: n a Skills, competencies and experience: Matthew Crummack has 25 years experience A qualified chartered accountant, Matt Ashley was in both consumer product and digital service N R S I 8.
Jane Kingston 60 appointed as President and CEO of the North industries.
He has successfully worked across Non-Executive Director America business on 1 September 2017.
He multiple functions, geographies and sectors, while originally joined National Express in 2010 as Group Appointed: February 2014 in the last 12 years building up significant leadership Financial Controller and most recently served as Skills, competencies and experience: experience in technology enabled digital companies.
Group Finance Director from October 2014 until Jane Kingston has a very experienced background In 2016, Matthew was awarded an Honorary the end of May 2017.
Prior to joining the Company, in Human Resources.
She served as Group Human Doctorate from Aston University for his Matt worked at Deloitte where he was a Director Resources Director for Compass Group PLC from achievements as an alumnus, and is Chair of the specialising in transport and infrastructure and the 2006 until her retirement in 2016.
Prior to this, she Universitys Business Advisory Group.
He previously auditing of listed companies.
served as Group Human Resources Director for served as CEO of lastminute.
com, the online travel Current external appointments: n a BPB PLC from 2002 until its acquisition by Saint and leisure retailer, from 2011 until March 2015 when Gobain SA in 2006.
Janes earlier career in HR the business was acquired by Bravofly Rumbo N S 5.
Jorge Cosmen 49 spanned a variety of sectors, including engineering Group subsequently renamed lastminute.
com Deputy Chairman Non-Executive Director and building materials with Enodis PLC and Blue Group.
He served as Deputy CEO and Chief Circle PLC now Lafarge SA and garment and Integration Officer until December 2015, following Appointed: December 2005 textiles with Coats Viyella PLC, as well as the which he served as a member of its Strategic Skills, competencies and experience: British car industry.
She has significant international Advisory Committee.
In addition, Matthew was JorgeCosmen was appointed to the Board at the experience, having had responsibility for the people formerly a Senior Vice President of Lodging at time of the ALSA transaction.
He was appointed agenda in most parts of the world at some point Expedia in Europe and the US, has previously Deputy Company Chairman in October 2008. during her career.
worked for Nestl UK, and spent eight years at He was Corporate Manager for the ALSA Group Current external appointments: Non-Executive Procter & Gamble in a variety of roles.
Between Director, and Chair of the Remuneration Current external appointments: Chief Executive 1986 and 1995, he worked in sales, distribution Committee, of Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc.
com Group plc, a consumer and banking.
Jorge is a Business Administration services price comparison website.
A Director of graduate and has an International MBA from A N S I 9.
Chris Muntwyler 65 his own UK-based company, Interventus Limited.
the Instituto fide Empresa in Madrid.
Non-Executive Director Current external appointments: Non-Executive A S I 12.
Dr Ashley Steel 58 Director of Bankia, as well as of other Appointed: May 2011 Non-Executive Director private companies.
Skills, competencies and experience: Chris Muntwyler has more than 35 years Appointed: January 2016 A N R S I 6.
Lee Sander 61 experience in the IT, Aviation and Transport Skills, competencies and experience: Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Industries.
During his 27 years at Swissair, he held Dr Ashley Steel has significant international top executive positions in the commercial areas experience and has advised numerous FTSE Appointed: June 2011 and as CIO in Switzerland, Sweden and North Fortune 500 boards.
Her skills include, strategy Skills, competencies and experience: America.
In 1999 he joined DHL Express as development, M&A, organisation effectiveness, Elliot Lee Sander has significant experience in Managing Director of Switzerland, Germany and risk management and HR, and her sector strengths the transportation sector.
He is the former Chief Central Europe and from 2005 to 2008 as CEO lie in transport, professional services, media, Executive Officer of the Metropolitan Transportation of DHL Express UK Ltd, based in London where technology, infrastructure and business services.
Authority of New York and the former Commissioner he was also a member of the CBI Presidents She is a former Vice Chairman at KPMG and was of the New York City Department of Transportation.
Chris previously served as a Director of Global Chair for its transport, leisure and logistics He is the Chairman Emeritus of the Regional Plan ATPCO USA and Pilatus Aircraft Ltd Switzerland.
practice until her retirement from the firm in Association, an NGO that has played a guiding role Current external appointments: President and September 2014.
She previously served on the in the planning of the New York Metropolitan area.
CEO of the Swiss Management Consulting International Business Advisory Board at British Lee was Group Chief Executive for Global company, Conlogic Ltd and Non-Executive Director Airways.
She has a PhD in Management from Transportation at AECOM, a global architecture of Panalpina World Transport Holding Ltd Henley Business School.
He served as President of Switzerland and the Austrian Post Ltd Austria.
Current external appointments: Non-Executive The HAKS Group Inc and The I.
Grace Company, Director of Gocompare.
com Group plc, the Civil which also specialised in architecture, engineering, Aviation Authority and the BBC as Nations and construction in the public and private sectors.
Independent In addition, Lee founded the Rudin Center for Non-Executive Director to global law firm, Ince Transportation Policy and Management at New & Co. She is also a founding member on the York University.
Until 2017, he was a Senior External Global Advisory Board for Out Leadership, a New Adviser to McKinsey & Company.
York-based business helping chairmen and CEOs Current external appointments: Managing of finance and law firms become LGBT aware.
Director, Global Transportation and US Infrastructure of Hatch, a global management, engineering and development consultancy, Chairman Emeritus of the Regional Plan Association and Vice Chairman of the Greater Jamaica Development Corporation.
