Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 71 Strategic Report Audit Committee Report Governance Financial Statements Each year the Committee has a detailed standing agenda of matters to be considered and reviewed.
In addition to our regular agenda reviews, we have carried out focused reviews of: integration of the infant nutrition Maintaining the integrity of our financial business systems following the MJN acquisition on 15 June 2017: the causes and impact of the June 2017 cyber attack and remedial actions reporting, monitoring the robustness of and control: legal and product non-compliance: taxation issues: and the internal controls and overseeing risk progress of the Groups global SAP programme.
The risk and control challenges around the RB 2.0 reorganisation were reviewed and continue management processes continues to be our to be closely monitored, to track implementation of the programme and primary focus.
The Committee also met with operational management at its meetings to consider financial, legal, regulatory and IT risks and controls.
The Committee appreciated the open discussions with local senior executives from the UK and from China on internal control risk.
During the year, we reviewed the Companys major risk assessment process, which identified and prioritised the principal strategic risks and uncertainties that might affect the Group, how they could be mitigated and whether they have increased, diminished or remained the same, compared to the previous year.
Looking at the major risks process is a key Introduction element of our review of the effectiveness of RBs risk management and On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Audit Committee control systems and identified risks are clearly and consistently reflected Report for the financial year ended 31 December 2017.
This is my first in our communications to Shareholders in this report.
Details are set out statement as Chair of the Audit Committee since I succeeded Ken Hydon.
We also carried out an assurance mapping exercise, I look forward to continuing his efforts as Chair in leading the Committee to draw up an assurance map of our second and third line of defence to review and challenge management on the robustness and assurance activities, as a basis to drive and embed a more structural effectiveness of our internal controls and risk management systems and approach to management of and assurance required on our systemic as to continue to provide oversight and reassurance to the Board on the risk well as our specific principal risks.
management process and control procedures.
The Committee has reviewed the 2017 Annual Report and Financial Maintaining the integrity of our financial reporting, monitoring the Statements to provide assurance that they are fair, balanced and robustness of internal controls and overseeing risk management understandable and provide sufficient information to enable the processes continues to be our primary focus.
This enables the Committee Shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business to endorse the results, provide reassurance to the Board and be able to model and strategy.
The form and content of the Annual Report and say that the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, Financial Statements were reviewed and approved, and consistency of arefair, balanced and understandable, as well as providing the necessary narrative within the document confirmed.
The preparation and information for Shareholders to assess the Groups position and verification processes were determined to be robust.
Following our performance, business model and strategy.
review, we advised the Board that we were satisfied that the 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, met its objectives and supported the Board in making its statement on page 98.
In 2017, the Committee led a rigorous external audit tender process leading to the Boards recommendation at the 2018 AGM to appoint Andr Lacroix KPMG as auditor for the 2018 financial year.
Details of the audit tender are provided on page 73.
I would like to record my thanks to our Chair of the Audit Committee outgoing auditor PwC and their partners and staff for their many years of excellent service to our Shareholders.
The Audit Committee has enjoyed working with them and we have valued their challenge and independent and robust approach to the audit, as well as the professionalism they have brought to Audit Committee meetings.
I would like to acknowledge and thank Ken Hydon, who I succeeded in May 2017 as Audit Chair, for his valued leadership of the Committee for the last ten years, and the other members of the Audit Committee for their diligence and support during the year.
Ken will stand down from the Committee and from the Board at the AGM in May 2018, and I wish him well in his future endeavours.
Mary Harris ceased to be a member of the Audit Committee from May 2017 in order to devote herself to her new responsibilities as Remuneration Committee Chair from November 2017 and I thank her for her input to date and wish her well in her new role.
Andr Lacroix Chair of the Audit Committee 19 March 2018 Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 72 Audit Committee Report continued Composition The Audit Committees responsibilities include, but are not limited to, the The members of the Audit Committee during the year were: following matters: Financial reporting Name Monitoring the integrity of the Financial Statements of the Company.
1 Andr Lacroix Chairman Reviewing and challenging, where necessary, the actions and 2 Mary Harris judgements of management before submission to the full Board.
Pamela Kirby Considering significant legal claims and regulatory issues.
3 Ken Hydon Warren Tucker Narrative reporting Reviewing the content of the Annual Report and Financial Statements and advising the Board on whether it is fair, balanced and 1 Appointed Chair of the Committee on 4 May 2017. understandable and provides the information necessary for 2 Stepped down from the Committee on 4 May 2017.
3 Stepped down as Chair of the Committee on 4 May 2017.
Shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
The Deputy Company Secretary was Secretary to the Committee throughout the year.
Risk management and internal controls Reviewing and monitoring on an ongoing basis the scope and Members of the Committee are appointed by the Board on the effectiveness of internal financial, operational and compliance risk recommendation of the Nomination Committee, which reviews management processes.
membership in terms of skills, knowledge and experience.
The Board is Reviewing and approving the statements to be included in the Annual satisfied that each member of the Audit Committee is independent and Report concerning internal control, risk management and the Viability that Committee members as a whole have competence relevant to the Statement.
All of the members have financial, economics and or Ensuring that procedures are in place for detecting fraud and business management expertise in multinational organisations and they prevention of bribery, and secure arrangements are in place by which are expected to have an understanding of the principles of, and recent staff may raise concerns about possible wrongdoings in matters of developments in, financial reporting and an understanding of the Groups financial reporting and financial controls.
The skills and expertise of each Committee member are summarised on pages 52 to 55.
Internal Audit Assessing and approving internal audits annual work plan to ensure On joining the Committee and during their tenure, members receive itis aligned to the key risks of the business and ensuring that the additional training tailored to their individual requirements.
Such training Internal Audit function has sufficient resources and access to includes meetings with internal management covering internal audit, management to perform its role.
legal, tax, treasury and financial matters as well as meetings with the Reviewing internal audit activities, significant recommendations External Auditor.
All members of the Committee receive regular briefings andfindings and related management actions.
from senior executives on matters covering governance and legislative Monitoring and assessing the effectiveness of the Internal Audit developments, accounting practices and policies and tax and treasury.
Meetings External Audit During 2017, the Committee held four scheduled meetings at times Considering and making recommendations to the Board to put to related to the Companys reporting cycle, and the attendance of Shareholders for their approval at the AGM regarding the members at the meetings is set out in the table on page 63.
In addition, a appointment of the External Auditor.
less formal Committee session with local financial management was held Monitoring the rotation of the External Audit partner and managing in September 2017 as part of the Boards strategy visit to Hull.
Senior the competitive tendering process of the audit services contract.
representatives of the External Auditor, the Group Head of Internal Audit Reviewing and monitoring the External Auditors independence, and the CFO regularly attend meetings.
The Chairman and CEO are also objectivity and effectiveness.
invited to all meetings and other senior management attend when Developing, implementing and keeping under review policy on deemed appropriate by the Audit Committee.
Time is allocated at each non-audit services, taking into account relevant ethical guidance.
meeting for private discussion with the Head of Internal Audit and the External Auditor without the other invitees being present, as well as a The Committees main activities during the financial year were as follows: private meeting of the Committee members.
Financial reporting Audit Committee meetings take place ahead of Board meetings and the Reviewing and approving the appropriateness of the interim and Audit Committee Chairman provides an update of the key issues annualFinancial Statements and related announcements, including: discussed to the Board at each meeting.
Copies of Audit Committee recommending that, in the Audit Committees view, the Financial papers are provided to all Board Directors in advance of each meeting Statements were fair, balanced and understandable.
In addition to the and minutes of each Committee meeting are provided to the Board and detailed preparation and verification procedures in place for the 2017 the External Auditor.
Annual Report and Financial Statements, management continued its focus on narrative reporting and clear written and visual messaging to Role and responsibilities communicate the Groups strategy.
The Audit Committee concluded The Audit Committee is part of the Groups governance framework and that the disclosures contained in the Financial Statements and supports the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities in ensuring the integrity theunderlying processes and controls were appropriate and of the Groups financial reporting, internal controls and overall risk recommended to the Board that the Annual Report and Financial management process.
Its role and responsibilities are set out in its terms Statements, taken as a whole, were fair, balanced and understandable of reference which can be found at www.
In 2017, the Committee and provided the necessary information for Shareholders to assess the reviewed and updated its terms to take account of the 2016 UK Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: and Corporate Governance Code and the associated Guidance on Audit reviewing the appropriateness of the accounting policies, judgements Committees, EU Audit Directive and Regulation and recommended best and estimates used as set out on pages 113 to 118 and concluding practice.
that the judgements and assumptions used were reasonable.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 73 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The significant financial judgement and complexity areas in relation to the The first two years of the Viability Review were used for the purpose of supporting the going concern assumption.
2017 Group Financial Statements considered by the Audit Committee, together with a summary of the actions taken, were as follows: Risk management and internal control matters Impairment assessments In monitoring the adequacy and effectiveness of the system of internal Management performed its annual impairment review for goodwill controls, the Audit Committee reviewed compliance procedures and and other intangible assets with indefinite lives.
Key judgements RBs overall risk framework including the Groups whistleblowing included the allocation of these assets to cash generating units arrangements and considered operational risk and control processes.
CGUs and groups of CGUs Health, Hygiene Home and IFCN as well There were no significant failings or weaknesses during the year as estimates of future business performance and cash generation, meriting disclosure in this report and the Audit Committee considers discount rates and long-term growth rates see Note 9 to the Group the internal control framework to be functioning appropriately.
The Audit Committee reviewed managements analysis, including the appropriateness of specific risk factors applied In addition, the Audit Committee also addressed the following matters to individual and groups of CGUs, as well as the adequacy of during the year: sensitivities applied.
As a result of this review, the Audit Committee Reviewed the Circular and the accounting workstreams and confirmed that it was comfortable that no impairment was required verification carried out by management and advisors in respect of the and that the intangible assets with indefinite lives remained MJN transaction.
This included review of the reconciliation process: appropriate.
synergies: pro forma: risk factors: working capital statement and financial position and prospects risk assessment, review of bond financing, as well as provisional purchase price accounting and fair Legal liability provisioning At 31 December 2017, a provision of 501 million 2016: value adjustments made to the acquired balance sheet.
Assessed the impact and causes of the cyber attack in June 2017.
329million was held on the Groups Balance Sheet in relation toregulatory, civil and or criminal investigations by government Reviewed the Groups major risk assessment process.
Detailed consideration was given to principal risks and internal control authorities as well as litigation proceedings and a provision in respect of the South Korea HS and DoJ issues.
In addition, an external assurance mapping exercise was commissioned to review second and third line of defence assurance as management on legal judgments made in determining the level of provisioning and were satisfied with the level of provisioning.
a basis to identify any gaps and enhance assurance going forward.
Kept abreast of changes in financial reporting and governance matters by way of technical updates throughout the year, such as the duty to Tax provisioning report on payment practices and performance from April 2017.
From time to time the Group may be involved in disputes in relation Engaged with senior executives and local management to receive and to ongoing tax matters in a number of jurisdictions around the discuss control reviews of the Groups ENA and DvM areas, and China worldwhere the approach of the authorities is particularly difficult and the UK.
The level of provisioning for these investigations is an Approved the External Auditors annual terms of engagement and issuewhere management and tax judgement are important.
The reviewed and updated the provision of non-audit services policy.
Committee debated the key judgements made with management, Approved and assessed the deployment of the External Audit plan.
including relevant professional advice that may have been received in Conducted the External Audit services retender process.
each case, and considers the tax provisioning levels to be appropriate.
Approved the Groups Internal Audit plan and risk controls and reviewed Internal Audit reports.
Adjusting items Reviewed fraudulent activity or reports raised under the The Committee considered the presentation of the Group Financial whistleblowing procedure.
Statements and, in particular, the presentation of adjusting items and Reviewed tax and treasury matters, including provisioning and the elements included within such measures.
The Audit Committee compliance with statutory reporting obligations.
discussed this with management and agreed that the presentation provided meaningful information to Shareholders about the External Auditor and the tender of External Audit underlying performance of the Group.
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing and monitoring theindependence and objectivity of the External Auditor and the effectiveness of the External Auditor and the audit process.
The Audit Trade spend Trade spend remains a significant expense for the Group, and the Committee approves the Auditors terms of engagement and reviews the strategy and scope of the audit and the work plan.
RB has a formal policy main judgements relate to trade accruals, specifically the timing and extent to which temporary promotional activity occurred.
The Audit in place to safeguard the External Auditors independence.
Committee reviewed with management its assessment of the control environment and the findings of Internal Audit relating to trade The Committee reviews the nature and level of non-audit services undertaken by the External Auditor during the year to satisfy itself that spend and considered that management operates an appropriate control environment which recognises the risks in this area.
there is no impact on its independence and is required to approve all non-audit services over 250K.
The Board recognises that in certain circumstances the nature of the advice required may make it more timely Going concern and Viability Statement and cost effective to appoint an auditor who already has a good A Viability Review was undertaken by management, encompassing understanding of RB.
The total fees paid to PwC for the year ended itsgoing concern review.
The Audit Committee reviewed the key 31 December 2017 were 7.9 million, of which 4.2 million related to assumptions used by management in its Viability Review and going non-audit work to which PwC was appointed principally for the above concern assessment, as well as the scenarios applied and risks reasons.
Details of non-audit services are set out in Note 4 on page 122. considered.
Based on its review, the Audit Committee considers that the application of the going concern basis for the preparation of the Following the introduction of EU reforms, the Groups internal policy on Financial Statements was appropriate and confirmed the suitability non-audit fees was revised to reflect prohibited non-audit services, ofthe Viability Statement covering the next five years as set out on including all tax services provided to entities within the EU.
The use of a five-year period for the Viability Review was became effective as at 1 January 2017.
The policy states that, on an approved by the Board in 2018 as it is the period of the Groups annual basis, non-audit fees should not exceed 50% of the Groups long-term forecasting process and covers the various business cycles.
External Audit and audit-related fees for the year.
The Board confirms that, for the year ended 31 December 2017, non-audit fees were 54% Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 74 Audit Committee Report continued ofthe audit and audit-related fees.
The Audit Committee exercised its Following a detailed tender process outlined on the following page, discretion to appoint PwC to perform audit-related services in connection the Committee recommended to the Board that KPMG be appointed with the acquisition of MJN and notes that the non-audit fee remains as External Auditor for the 2018 financial year.
The Board concluded below the FRCthreshold of 70%.
In the opinion of the Audit Committee, that it was in the best interests of the Shareholders to appoint KPMG the relationship with the External Auditor works well and remains for the year ending 31 December 2018 and, in accordance with section satisfied with its independence and effectiveness.
489 CA2006, resolutions to propose the appointment of KPMG as the Companys External Auditor and to authorise the Audit Committee The Audit Committee is exclusively responsible on behalf of the Board to fixits remuneration will be put to the Shareholders at the AGM.
for matters relating to the appointment of the Auditor and for the Management and the Committee are working to ensure that there will yearended 31 December 2017 the Company has complied with the be a seamless transition between auditors.
KPMG has commenced the Competition and Markets Authority Order: The Statutory Services for audit transition and attended the Committees meeting in February 2018.
Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014.
Internal Auditor The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing and monitoring the The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing and making effectiveness of the Internal Audit function.
The Head of Internal Audit recommendations to the Board on the re-appointment of the External reports to the Chairman of the Audit Committee and to the CFO for Auditor and tendering of the External Audit contract.
The Audit administrative matters and updates the Audit Committee at each Committee also monitors the rotation of the lead Audit Partner, who meeting.
The Internal Audit department is responsible for impartially rotates every five years in accordance with best practice standards.
The assessing the key risks of the organisation and appraising and reporting current lead Audit Partner, Mark Gill, has just completed the final year on the adequacy and effectiveness of RBs risk management and internal ofhis five-year term.
controls in financial, information systems and other business and operational areas to develop and improve the effectiveness of the PwC was appointed as Auditor of Reckitt Benckiser plc in 2000, the year Groups risk management control and governance processes and after the merger of Reckitt & Colman plc and Benckiser N. V. in 1999.
RBs identified Group major risks and their mitigating controls the time of the merger, PwC was the auditor of Reckitt & Colman plc and are described in detail on pages 42 to 51.
Deloitte LLP was the auditor of Benckiser N. V. Post-merger, the Audit Committee at the time undertook a review and subsequently selected The annual Internal Audit plan is prepared under an agreed cover and PwC as Auditor for the Group for the December 2000 year end.
PwC has scope policy and reflects a risk-based approach.
Designated audit been the Auditor of the Parent Company since the formation of Reckitt locations are determined at the start of each year following a risk and Benckiser Group plc in 2007. control assessment of each commercial and supply unit.
Information systems and Head Office locations also fall within Internal Audits remit In the Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended and are subject to audit.
Following each audit, findings are reviewed and 31 December 2016, the Committee confirmed its intention to put a reported to management and to the Audit Committee, together with recommendation to Shareholders to appoint a new External Auditor for recommendations and updates.
Resulting management actions and the year ending December 2018.
A detailed pre-selection process was progress are tracked until a report is satisfactorily closed.
In 2017, routine carried out in 2016 in preparation for the tender during 2017.
Detailed internal audit work covered 57% by Net Revenue of RBs global investigations were carried out during 2016 to identify those firms with commercial business and 36% by industrial sales of global sufficient geographical reach, experience, expertise in the consumer manufacturing facilities.
products industry, that provided a good cultural fit and which were not conflicted by virtue of substantial ongoing non-audit work.
Following Governance detailed reviews and preliminary meetings with potential firms, a During the year, the Committee undertook a self-evaluation of its preliminary shortlist was identified and firms asked to submit proposals performance using a questionnaire.
Matters reviewed by Committee against a detailed invitation to tender.
members included effectiveness in the areas of risk strategy and framework, internal and external audit, external reporting, roles and Following review and agreement on a final shortlist, partners of two firms responsibilities, and working together with management.
In summary, met with management and members of the Audit Committee to outline the results concluded that the effectiveness and performance of the further the skills and attributes expected of an external audit team.
The Committee was good, and that the dynamics and culture of the selection criteria were developed into a scorecard for the Audit Committee were particularly strong.
The main improvement area Committee.
The categories were: discussed during the Committee evaluation was the need for the Audit Audit quality Committee to spend more time on the Group Risk Assurance mapping.
Audit service Capabilities and competencies The Internal Audit effectiveness review was carried out by way of direct Relationships and past track record post-audit feedback and questionnaires targeted at Audit Committee Behavioural influences during the process members, Executive Committee members and functional heads.
The Fees evaluation of the Internal Audit function, which covered performance, plan and resources, indicated that the reviewers appreciated the quality The final shortlisted firms met with Area management over several and capability of the Internal Audit team which assisted with the daysin meetings held at the Companys offices in Slough, Amsterdam improvement of internal controls and processes throughout the Group.
One or more members of the Committee also joined each Areas highlighted for improvement were the resourcing of larger audits meeting.
Following feedback received from management, the Chairman, as well as the timing of staged audit interventions for change CEO, CFO and the Audit Committee Chair met with key partners for programmes.
The Audit Committee considered the effectiveness review one-to-one discussions.
In May 2017, each of the two firms presented and the work carried out by the Internal Audit function as reported at tothe Audit Committee, CEO, CFO, SVP Corporate Control and Head of every Committee meeting and concluded that it was an effective Internal Audit ahead of the Audit Committee making its final decision operation.
In light of 2017 being PwCs final year as auditor, the assessment was conducted during the Committees November 2017 meeting and found to be satisfactory.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 75 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The external audit tender process 2015 September 2016 March 2017 Year ending 31 December 2017 Pre-selection Following detailed Final shortlisted firms met process reviews and preliminary with Area management at PwC carried out final commenced.
meetings with potential Slough, Amsterdam and audit in respect of year firms, a preliminary Dubai offices.
ended 31 December 2017. shortlist was identified and firms asked to submit proposals against a detailed invitation to tender.
April May 2017 Final shortlisted firms met with the Audit Committee and key CHQ management.
August 2016 February 2017 AGM, 3 May 2018 Long-list of firms reviewed Shortlisted firms met with Shareholder approval to identify those with management and members sought for the sufficient geographical of the Audit Committee to appointment of KPMG reach, experience, outline further the skills asExternal Auditor for expertise in the consumer and attributes expected of thefinancial year ending products industry, that an external audit team.
31 December 2018. provided a good cultural fitand which were not conflicted by virtue of substantial ongoing non-audit work.
4 May 2017 Recommendation made to the Board for appointment of KPMG.
