Report of the Nomination Committee Committee membership No.
of meetings 2017: 7 Main committee responsibilities Director Attendance Regularly review the structure, size and composition including the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of the Board and make A. M. Thomson 7 recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes.
B. Duncan 7 Give full consideration to succession planning for directors and other E. Lindqvist 7 senior executives in the course of its work.
P. Larmon 7 Be responsible for identifying and nominating for the approval of the resigned membership on 24 July 2017 Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise.
Dear Shareholders I am pleased to introduce the Nomination Committee report for 2017.
The Committees key objective is to support the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities to ensure there is a formal, rigorous and transparent process for the appointment of new directors to the Board and to ensure that effective succession planning processes are in place across the Group.
This was a busy year for the Committee.
In addition to its main responsibilities, the Committee oversaw the process of appointing a new Chairman and a new Non-Executive Director.
Alan Thomson, Chairman, retired on 31 December 2017 after more than nine years of service.
Lili Chahbazi was appointed Non-executive director on 1 January 2018 at the same time as I took over as Chairman from Alan.
The Committee will continue to focus on ensuring that the present and future composition of the Board is appropriate for the delivery of the Groups strategy and that all relevant UK Corporate Governance Code requirements continue to be met.
A. C. Quinn Chairman of the Nomination Committee Role of the Nomination Committee Vacancy for a director is identified when one of the existing The Nomination Committee is a sub-committee directors confirms his her intention to retire.
of the Board, whose principal purpose is to advise Succession on the appointment and, if necessary, dismissal Planning of executive and non-executive directors.
The Committees terms of reference, which are listed on the Groups website, include all matters required by The need for specific knowledge, skills and role behaviours the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
is identified during discussions at Nomination Committee Board Further information on the Code can be found on meetings.
Composition the Financial Reporting Councils website www.
The terms of reference are reviewed annually by the Group Company Secretary and the External international search consultancies were appointed Chairman, and any changes are then referred to the to assist with the search.
Zygos assisted the SID in the Board for approval.
No changes were made to the Chairmans recruitment and Russell Reynolds assisted the Recruitment terms of reference during the year.
Chairman with the NED recruitment.
Composition of the Nomination Committee A sub-committee examined the long list of candidates As recommended by the Code, the Chairman of against the role specifications and a shortlist of candidates the Board acts as the Chairman of the Committee was identified.
Selection whose members also comprise the directors listed above.
The Chairman cannot chair the Committee when it is dealing with either the succession to the Chairmanship of the Group or the review Candidates were initially interviewed by the SID and the Chief of his or her own performance.
Only members Executive for the Chairmans position and by the Chairman and of the Committee have the right to attend the Interview the Chief Executive for the non-executive director role.
Other individuals and external candidates then met with all other directors.
advisers may be invited to attend for all, or part of, any meeting when it is appropriate.
The quorum In order to maximise the effectiveness of the Board an necessary for the transaction of business is two.
additional non-executive director was appointed increasing Balance The Group Company Secretary is secretary to the the size of the Board and ensuring that the Board has the of Skills Committee.
The Committee has the authority to seek any information that is required, from any officer or Anne C. Quinn and Lili Chahbazi were announced as joining employee of the Company or its subsidiaries.
Anne succeeds Alan Thomson as Non-Executive In connection with its duties, the Committee is Chairman.
Appointment authorised by the Board to take such independent advice including legal or other professional advice, at the Groups expense as it considers necessary, The Committee and the Group Company Secretary will play including requests for information from, or an active part in an induction programme that is tailored to commissioning investigations by, external advisers.
the needs, skills and experiences of the new non-executive Induction directors.
48 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2017 25695 19 March 2018 3:29 PM Proof 7 Director appointment policy and progress The Committee has developed a formal rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors.
Prior to making any appointment, the Committee, having evaluated the skills, experience and diversity of the Board, will determine the qualities and experience they seek and will then prepare a detailed description of the role with a view to appointing the most appropriate candidate.
The Committee will use open advertising or the services of independent external advisers to facilitate the search.
A long list of candidates will be drawn up, from which an appropriate number will be selected for interview.
Upon completion the Committee will recommend to the Board the appointment of the preferred candidate.
Board succession planning Upon the retirement of A. M. Thomson on 31 December 2017, he was replaced by A. C. Quinn as Chairman as of 1 January 2018.
The recruitment process was led by the Senior Independent Director, I.
Ian was advised by international search consultancy Zygos in the process of identifying suitably qualified individuals.
Lili Chahbazi joined the Board as a non-executive director on 1 January 2018 and A. M. Thomson was advised by international search consultancy Russell Reynolds.
Neither Zygos nor Russell Reynolds have other connections to Bodycote plc.
Main activities of the Nomination Committee Nomination Committee In 2017 the Committee formally met seven times and reviewed the composition and skills allocation of agenda time of the Board, with a view to considering the current and future skills and experience that the Board might require.
The Committee discussed succession planning and Board diversity, and reviewed the performance of the Group Chief Executive and other senior executives.
In particular, the need to broaden the Board membership with respect to gender, ethnicity and age was discussed.
The Committee has sought to ensure that appointments are of the best candidates to promote the success of the Company and are based on merit, with due regard for the benefits of diversity on the Board.
Further information concerning Board diversity can be found on page 39 as part of the corporate governance report.
We are pleased to report that as of 1 January 2018 the female representation on the Board has risen to 43% compared to 17% in 2017.
The Committee considered and authorised the potential conflicts of interest which might arise where a director has fiduciary responsibilities in respect of other organisations.
The Committee concluded that no inappropriate conflicts of interest exist.
The Committee also Board composition assigned the Chairman to review and agree with the Group Chief Executive his personal and succession planning 65% objectives for the forthcoming year.
Performance of Chairman Following the external Board evaluation in 2015, the Board agreed to undertake an internal and Group Chief Executive 20% evaluation during 2017.
Further details of the review can be found in the Corporate Governance Governance and section of the Annual Report.
Recommendations arising from the 2017 Board evaluation are in 10% reporting the process of being addressed.
Independence and PI CHARTS In our 2017 AGM results announcement we stated that Eva Lindqvist had confirmed to re-election 5% reduce her number of directorships with listed companies.
Consequently, Eva will not stand for re-election at three listed companies: Caverion Oy in March 2018, Assa Abloy AB in April 2018 and Alimak Holding in May 2018.
This will reduce Evas other directorships to five.
In our view, this enables Eva to allocate sufficient time to Bodycote to discharge her responsibilities effectively.
In December 2017 the Nomination Committee reviewed the Boards size and composition, the frequency of the process for Board and Committee meetings, and best practice for dealing with Board issues including drawing up a training and or induction programme for the directors.
The terms of reference of the Committee were reviewed in conjunction with the Model Terms of Reference issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
The biographical details of the current directors can be found on pages 36 and 37.
The Committee, having reviewed their independence and contribution to Board matters, confirms that the performance of each of the directors standing for re-election at this years AGM continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to their roles, including independence of judgement and time commitment for Board and Committee meetings.
Accordingly the Committee has recommended to the Board that all current directors of the Company be proposed for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
As Chairman of the Committee, I will be available at the AGM in May 2018 to answer questions relating to the work of the Committee.
On behalf of the Nomination Committee: A. C. Quinn CBE Chairman of the Nomination Committee 6 March 2018 49 Stock code: BOY www.
com 25695 19 March 2018 3:29 PM Proof 7 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
