Governance Board and committees Board meetings Board meetings took place at the London and Oslo offices during 2017, giving the Board members anopportunity to engage withemployees based inthe Oslo office, which is the second largest office inthe Group after London.
In addition to the meetings in the table below, a number of additional meetings and conference calls have been held during the year, including those regarding the cyber security incident.
Total number of meetings held in 2017 6 James Hughes-Hallett Chair Independent Non-Executive Director 6 Peter M. Anker Executive Director 6 Peter Backhouse Independent Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director 6 Andi Case Executive Director 6 1 Marie-Louise Clayton Independent Non-Executive Director 5 2 James Morley Independent Non-Executive Director 4 Birger Nergaard Independent Non-Executive Director 6 Ed Warner Independent Non-Executive Director 6 Jeff Woyda Executive Director 6 1.
Appointed to the Board on 1 January 2017.
Retired from the Board on 12 May 2017.
Board focus in 2017 Throughout the year, the Board concentrated on business development and strategic goals, whilst also more formally analysing business trends and ensuring the execution of the business plan meets goals and targets.
Specific agenda items throughout the year also included the following: Fixed agenda items Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Business updates Budget Shareholder Interim report Board evaluation engagement planning Chief Executive Insurance renewals Interim dividend Officers report Investor reports Audit committee report Board update on global Investor roadshow Finance report MDs week Annual General Succession planning Risk management Meeting, including Treasury report Review of Board Audit committee report agenda and appraisals Shareholder matters trading update and analysis Anti-bribery training Stockbroker reports Annual report Legal update Preliminary statement Presentations from Final dividend business units Audit committee report Risk management For more information on the Boards responsibilities and activities in the year, please see the corporate governance statement on pages 58 to 61.
Committees Clarkson PLC Board James Hughes-Hallett Chair Peter Backhouse Birger Nergaard Andi Case Marie-Louise Clayton Ed Warner Jeff Woyda Peter M. Anker Audit committee Nomination committee Remuneration committee Marie-Louise Clayton Chair James Hughes-Hallett Chair Ed Warner Chair Peter Backhouse Peter Backhouse Peter Backhouse Ed Warner Marie-Louise Clayton Marie-Louise Clayton Ed Warner James Hughes-Hallett Birger Nergaard See pages 80 to 83 for the See page 63 for the See pages 64 to 79 for the audit committee report.
The responsibilities of each committee are set out in their respective terms of reference, which are approved by the Board and available on the Companys website at www.
