Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 65 Audit Committee Report However, there remain a few areas where enhanced arrangements arebeing put in place to control risks which materialised in 2017.
Rigour in monitoring payroll tax compliance is an area of focus for 2018, where failures to keep up to date on changing regulations caused non-material issues on holiday pay and incentives in a small number of countries during the year.
In North America, ongoing complexity in the finance and IT systems while the replatforming programme proceeds is placing heavy organisational demands on the business.
Despite continuing strong organic and acquisition-led growth, and improvements in service productivity, this has made reporting and forecasting of revenue and profit in the business more challenging, an issue that should be fully resolved as that complexity is significantly reduced through the first half of 2018.
The Audit Committee has discussed ways to ensure that the Julie Southern Chairman of the finance and control environment, the culture, and the capability of key Audit Committee functions including Finance and Internal Audit, remain fit for purpose following the promotion of the Company into the FTSE100 and the growth in its profile, scale and geographic reach.
It is encouraging to Dear Shareholder see no apparent correlation between the level and type of internal control issues and the maturity of the local business environment or In 2018, the Audit Committee has distance from head office, although the Audit Committee will maintain maintained its focus on financial reporting its focus on successful integration of acquisitions and entries into new territories.
The M&A process continues to be robust, from preand controls, while looking at broader risk acquisition assessment and deal structuring to post-completion checks, management and compliance issues with execution of integration programmes and post-acquisition reviews of business cases 12 months on.
the support of the Internal Audit function.
In response to changing regulations and the reforms of the audit The Companys growth strategy has again this year included a market created by the EU Audit Directive and EU Audit Regulation, and significant amount of M&A activity, including the formation of joint following the publication by the ICSA of new best practice guidance, venture structures with Haniel in Europe and Rentokil PCI in India.
the Audit Committee undertook a detailed review of its terms of As North America continues to grow and become more material to reference during the year.
A more comprehensive document was Group performance, so the Audit Committee has taken a closer look adopted which more accurately reflects the existing practices of at the component parts of the business and the change programme theAudit Committee.
The terms of reference are available to view to consolidate operations from multiple systems onto a single platform.
A thorough, and highly competitive, audit tender exercise was The membership of the Audit Committee has been refreshed with undertaken in the second half of the year, resulting in the reappointment Sir Crispin Davis and Linda Yueh joining in 2017 and John Pettigrew of KPMG as Group auditor see page 69 for further details.
joining at the beginning of 2018.
The timing of these appointments Over the past five years steps have been taken by the Companys did unfortunately mean that there was one meeting, in July, where the executive management to improve the control environment across Audit Committee only had two members but as explained in greater a broad range of financial and operational processes.
2017 saw detail on page 51, it was known that this would be a temporary situation notable improvements in the IT security environment, customer due to recruitment timing, with the Committee adding a third member contracting controls including improvement in pricing processes, before the end of July.
I am pleased to report that I believe that the and in communication of core governance policies and training.
Audit Committee continues to have the necessary balance of skills, The Company is less exposed than for many years to litigation risk experience, professional qualifications and knowledge as detailed and has no material contingent liability arising from legal action, onpage 66. following diligent efforts over a number of years to pursue and In the principal risks analysis, the IT security environment continues resolve historic disputes.
to present an evolving set of challenges such as the WannaCry ransomware attack, as do geopolitical issues such as the uncertainty of the ultimate trading arrangements between the UK and EU27 postHighlights of 2017 Brexit.
The Company continues to be well-insulated from changes Internal control framework continues to mature and strengthen.
in international trading arrangements by its predominantly localised Thorough audit tender process completed.
business model and absence of significant cross-border movement Improvements in key risk areas, from IT security to record low of people, products and services.
In Europe in particular, 2018 will see health & safety results.
a significant increase in the risk associated with personal data when Audit Committee refreshed and induction of new members.
the EU General Data Protection Regulation GDPR comes into force Review of terms of reference.
in May, and this will be an area of increased focus in terms of controls and compliance framework, alongside the linked topic of IT security.
Areas of focus for 2018 North America operational platform consolidation.
Implications of increased business complexity and scale.
IT security and data privacy GDPR.
Julie Southern Chairman of the Audit Committee 28 February 2018 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 66 Audit Committee Report Meetings of the Audit Committee are attended by the Company Role of the Audit Committee Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer, the external The Audit Committee assists the Board in its oversight and monitoring auditor, the Director of Risk & Internal Audit, the Group Financial Controller of financial reporting, risk management and internal controls.
The Audit & Treasurer, the Company Secretary and the Assistant Company Committees focus is to review and challenge in these areas both with Secretary.
The Audit Committee meets at least once per year separately management and with internal and external auditors.
with the Companys auditor, KPMG LLP, and the Director of Risk & Internal The Audit Committee: Audit without executive management present.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports to the Board at the next Board meeting on the activity monitors the integrity of the annual and interim results, including a of the Audit Committee and any matters of particular relevance to the review of the significant financial reporting judgements contained Board in the conduct of its work.
therein the Directors statement of responsibilities for preparing theAnnual Report and Financial Statements can be found in the Directors Report on page 165 : Audit committee members and attendance in 2017 keeps under review the Companys internal financial controls and internal control and risk management systems: reports to the Board on its activities and provides the Board with an independent assessment of the Groups accounting affairs and financial position to enable it to meet the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code requirement to present a fair, 100% 100% 100% balancedand understandable assessment of the Companys positionand prospects: monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the Companys internal 1 2 Julie Southern, Sir Crispin Davis Chris Geoghegan audit function: Chairman 2 2 meetings attended 2 2 meetings attended establishes and oversees the Companys relationship with the 4 4 meetings attended external auditor, including setting their fees, monitoring their independence and effectiveness and ensuring that the Companys policy relating to their engagement on non-audit matters is appropriate and observed: reviews correspondence from regulators in relation to the Companys 100% 100% financial reporting and, if appropriate, reviews managements response: and monitors matters raised pursuant to the Companys whistleblowing arrangements.
3 4 Alan Giles Linda Yueh 1 1 meeting attended 2 2 meetings attended Terms of reference Following the publication of the ICSA updated guidance for audit 1.
Sir Crispin Davis was appointed to the Audit Committee on 20 July 2017. committees which contains model terms of reference, the Audit 2.
Chris Geoghegan resigned from the Audit Committee on 18 September 2017.
Committee undertook a full review of its terms of reference during 2017.
Alan Giles retired from the Audit Committee on 10 May 2017.
Linda Yueh was appointed to the Audit Committee on 1 November 2017.
This resulted in the Audit Committee adopting new, more extensive terms of reference which more accurately reflect the existing practices Activities of the Audit Committee in 2017 of the Audit Committee.
These new terms of reference were approved In 2017, the Audit Committee considered the following key areas: by the Board in December and are available on the Companys website.
Internal controls and risk Composition and attendance of the Audit Committee The effectiveness of the internal control and risk management The Audit Committee met four times during the year and the framework including an assessment by the external auditor of the membersof the Audit Committee and their attendance during 2017 Companys risk management framework relative to peer group canbe found below.
companies to ensure that best practices are applied where relevant.
During the year Alan Giles and Chris Geoghegan stepped down and The statement to shareholders on the control environment.
Sir Crispin Davis and Linda Yueh were appointed as members of the The outcome of internal audit investigations and status of resolution Audit Committee.
John Pettigrew was also appointed as a member of issues raised.
Group risks and actions to enhance their measurement, monitoring and mitigation actions.
Julie Southern, Chairman of the Audit Committee, is a Chartered Review and enhancement of relevant policies and procedures Accountant and is considered to have relevant and recent financial including the Group authority schedule, tax and treasury policies experience.
Sir Crispin Davis and John Pettigrew have extensive and the internal audit charter.
commercial and operational experience in overseeing the financial Group reporting processes and the central control environment, affairs of substantial business undertakings and Linda Yueh has a strong including the review of Group Risk Committee minutes.
The Audit Committee as a Output from financial controls testing carried out across the Group whole is, therefore, considered to have competence relevant to the by the Companys auditor, KPMG LLP.
sector in which the Company operates.
Full biographical details of the The conclusions and themes emerging from the internal audit members of the Audit Committee are contained on pages 52 and 53. investigations conducted during the year and approval of the plans All Audit Committee members are independent Non-Executive for 2018 in parallel with the Boards strategic review and operating Directors.
The Audit Committee did not find it necessary to seek plan for the year.
external advice during the year, other than through its usual dialogue with the external auditor.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 67 Audit Committee Report External audit Accounting and financial reporting The reappointment of KPMG LLP following the outcome of a formal The annual and interim financial statements, together with the and competitive audit tender process.
significant financial reporting judgements relating to each statement.
The terms and scope of the audit engagement for the annual and Reviews of material litigation and disputes.
Reviews with Regional Finance Directors including the control The effectiveness of the external audit process.
A review of the annual financial statements, consideration of principal A review of and recommendation to the Board in relation to the going areas of accounting judgement or materiality, further details of concern analysis and the viability statement.
which are provided below, including discussions with the auditor A review of and recommendation to the Board of the Companys without executives present.
The audit strategy for the 2017 audit including the key areas of focus, Significant accounting judgements materiality levels, scope and coverage including the decision to After discussion with both management and the auditor, the Audit enhance the US audit scope.
Committee has determined the key issues of accounting judgement An analysis setting out the basis on which KPMG LLP continued affecting the financial statements and therefore providing the potential tomeet the appropriate professional standards of independence for material misstatement in the 2017 Annual Report.
The significant as auditor to the Company.
areas of focus considered and actions taken are set out below.
These issues have been discussed and reviewed by the Audit Committee during the year, notably at the review of the interim results and at the review and agreement of the audit plan for 2018.
Significant matter Action taken The Group holds substantial deferred tax assets recognised on Where judgements are material to the Group the auditor uses its Deferred unused tax losses.
The amount recognised is judgemental and own specialists to assist in the review of the approaches taken and tax assets is based on future profitability which is inherently uncertain, and assumptions made by management to ensure these are consistent with recognised on involves judgement in determining the forecast period.
previous years and result in adequate provisions.
The Audit Committee reviews the position at the half-year and year-end balance sheet dates unused tax supported by papers from the Group Tax Director and is satisfied that losses the assumptions supporting the valuations are appropriate and that the assets are reasonably stated in the financial statements.
The Group holds a number of provisions for tax contingencies The Group employs local tax experts to support judgements where Tax provisions in relation to various potential claims from tax authorities, there is significant uncertainty and the amounts involved are material.
which require significant judgements and estimates in relation In respect of transfer pricing across tax jurisdictions the Group has to tax risks.
The complexity is increased as a result of the benchmarked its approach using international tax experts to ensure largenumber of tax jurisdictions in which the Group operates, the risk of breaching local tax authority requirements is mitigated.
As and the time taken for tax matters to be agreed with the noted above, the Audit Committee reviews the position at the .
year and year-end balance sheet dates supported by papers from the Group Tax Director and is satisfied that the assumptions supporting the valuations are appropriate and that the liabilities are reasonably stated in the financial statements.
The Group carries material balances for intangible fixed assets The Groups intangible assets are grouped into cash-generating units Valuation arising on acquisitions, and due to the acquisition programme CGUs for the purpose of assessing the recoverable amount usually of intangible makes material additions to these balances each year.
Impairment tests are carried out using a impairment tests are based on value-in-use calculations centrally provided model.
Cash flows are based on recent strategic assets which require significant judgements in relation to the inputs plans as amended for any significant changes since preparation.
used, including forecast growth rates and discount rates.
Discount rates used for cash flows must be the applicable rate from Management is required to perform annual tests for impairment the internally published Group discount rates, which are adjusted for ofgoodwill balances over 1m as well as other acquired intangible local country risk.
assets when there are indicators of impairment.
The Audit Committee receives a summary of the results of the annual impairment review process from management.
Although the total values of intangible assets are significant, management has been ableto demonstrate to the Committee that there is material headroom in the major balances based on the assumptions made.
The Group makes a large number of acquisitions each year, At each balance sheet date, management provides the Audit Acquisition many of which require the valuation of acquired intangible assets Committee with a summary of M&A activity in the period, including accounting such as brands, customer lists and goodwill.
The calculations updates to provisional accounting as well as details of new for valuing these assets on acquisition are subject to significant acquisitions.
The Audit Committee reviews the accounting treatment judgement and estimation about the future performance of the of certain aspects of significant acquisitions, including determination acquired business, such as forecast customer termination rates, of the consideration paid, the identification and valuation of acquired discount rates and growth rates.
The Group utilises the allowances intangible assets and a review of provisional opening balance sheets.
for provisional accounting within the standards where appropriate, and there is judgement required during this period as to whether the adjustments relate to the preor post-acquisition period.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 68 Audit Committee Report Audit-related and non-audit services Internal audit To safeguard the objectivity and independence of the auditor, the The Group has an operational internal audit team of six led by the Company has a policy on the engagement of the auditors services on Director of Risk & Internal Audit.
The Director of Risk & Internal audit-related and non-audit services.
The Audit Committee accepts that Audit reports to the Chief Financial Officer and has direct lines of certain work of a non-audit nature is best undertaken by the auditor.
communication with the Chairman of the Audit Committee, the Chief Executive and the Company Chairman, as well as to all operational The policy sets out the nature of services that are permitted and those andfunctional leaders in the business.
In general, permitted services would be limited to matters that are closely related to the annual audit process or During the year, internal audit continued to review a broad range of where a detailed knowledge of the Group is advantageous.
The auditor business processes in depth at business locations across all regions.
is permitted to be engaged on transaction services but not to undertake These included: any work which would itself be subject to audit.
key financial controls: entertainment and expenses: The Audit Committee regularly reviews the amount and nature of authority schedules: non-audit work performed by the auditor to ensure that the auditors compliance with Group insurance requirements: independence is not compromised and in 2016 updated the Companys IT general controls and entity level controls: policy to ensure full compliance with the EU Audit Directive and EU Audit pricing strategy: Regulation.
Any engagement fee on permitted services in excess of sales and customer account management: 10,000 requires the approval of the Chairman of the Audit Committee customer contract management: and any engagement fee in excess of 250,000 requires the approval stock and warehousing: of the Audit Committee.
A copy of the policy on engagement of the operational effectiveness: auditors service is available at rentokil-initial.
There was no business continuity management: and significant non-audit service engagement during 2017. compliance with the Code of Conduct, anti-corruption policy, Fees for audit-related services incurred during the year amounted to andpolicies for reporting serious incidents.
0.6m 2016: 0.2m and fees for non-audit services incurred during The internal audit plan approved by the Audit Committee in December the year amounted to 0.1m 2016: 0.7m.
The ratio of non-audit fees 2017 was largely completed, but with some re-prioritisation of the to audit fees for the year was 0.25:1 2016: 0.37:1.
The majority of internal audit programme to incorporate short-term changes in the risk the audit-related services were in relation to non-statutory accounts profile of the business.
Thus, additional audits were included during the audits.
Further details of the fees paid for audit services, audit-related year covering North America financial controls and payroll, including in services and non-audit services can be found in Note A8 to the the newly acquired Residex distribution business, and of key financial FinancialStatements.
controls in France following some weaknesses identified earlier in Disclosure of information to the auditor 2017.
In all cases controls were found to be working effectively at the The Audit Committee monitors the process leading up to the time of the internal audit visit.
A number of lower-priority internal audits preparation of the financial statements, including the arrangements were consequently delayed to early 2018.
The common themes arising theCompany has in place for disclosing all relevant audit information from the internal audit work were presented to the Audit Committee in to the auditor.
A formal confirmation on disclosure of information to December 2017, together with recommendations to further enhance the theauditor is provided in the Directors Report on page 165.
Effectiveness None of the failures identified in the control environment by internal audit or any of the recommendations resulting from individual audits Under the Code, the Audit Committee is required to review and monitor represented a systemic underlying issue.
The overall work of the internal the auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of audit function is supportive of the Audit Committees and the Boards the audit process, taking into consideration relevant UK professional view that the financial and operational controls environment, set out in and regulatory requirements.
The 2016 audit was completed and all the Risks and uncertainties section on page 42, is working adequately.
milestones reached, and there were no significant unexpected events The Boards statement on the effectiveness of risk management and relating to the publication of the year-end results.
internal control can be found on page 62.
In 2017, the Audit Committee considered the findings of the review of the auditors effectiveness of the 2016 audit process which had been External audit conducted during the preparation of Group and local statutory accounts Audit services for the 2016 financial period.
The process drew input from the Chief The auditor is appointed by shareholders to provide an opinion on Financial Officer, the Director of Risk & Internal Audit and other members the financial statements and certain other disclosures prepared by the of the senior finance management team as well as from the majority of Directors.
KPMG LLP has acted as the auditor to the Group throughout the Finance Directors of the Groups subsidiaries.
The process made the year.
The Audit Committee is responsible for oversight of the auditor, use of a formal evaluation using a questionnaire which was completed agreeing the audit strategy and related work plan as well as approving by 34 business units as well as by the central accounts and tax functions.
In order to allow direct comparability of the evaluation scores across The auditor attends all meetings of the Audit Committee and meets with periods, the questions were exactly the same as those used previously.
the Audit Committee without executive management present.
The main The questionnaire covered: engagement with the Audit Committee in 2017 has been over the audit resources and expertise of the external audit team: and publication of annual and periodic financial statements, including effectiveness of the audit process: and the auditor's scope and priorities approach and key judgement areas, as effectiveness of the financial controls testing process.
well as advising on the reporting requirements relating, for example, to The Audit Committee considered the comprehensive findings of the significant acquisitions and disposals.
The Audit Committee considers review where it was noted that the accounting environment continued that it has an effective working relationship with the external audit team.
to be impacted by the significant acquisition activity across the Group, As reported below, the Audit Committee has formally reviewed the with 41 acquisitions concluded during 2016.
None of the findings effectiveness of the auditor and is satisfied with their performance.
were considered material in the overall context of the Group audit but comments received were helpful in relation to improvements in the Companys processes and those of the auditor.
Taking all responses into account, the scoring mechanism demonstrated that the audit performance was effective and at a similar level to the previous year.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 69 Audit Committee Report Audit tender The Company considers that there are sufficient controls and processes in place to ensure that the required level of independence of the auditor As previously disclosed, the Audit Committee oversaw a formal and is maintained.
The Board does not consider that there is any material risk competitive tender process during 2017 in relation to the Groups of the Companys auditor withdrawing from the market.
This was undertaken in accordance with the UK Competition and Market Authority Order the Order, which states that a Groups approach to risk management and internal control competitive tender process must be undertaken at least every ten years: The Groups approach to managing risk and ensuring that an effective the last tender process took place in 2009 resulting in the appointment internal control environment is maintained is described below.
The of KPMG LLP as the Groups external auditor.
Boards statement on risk management and internal control is set out The process started in July with a broad and unrestricted review of inthe Corporate Governance Report on page 62. potential audit firms to be invited to participate in a detailed selection The identification and management of risk is fully integrated into the exercise.
Of the firms contacted, three were selected and sent a formal development of the Groups strategy and the day-to-day operational Request for Proposal RFP.
They each met with a number of Board execution of the strategy by the regions and business units.
Ensuring members and senior executives, including: that risks are identified and managed effectively is a part of every the Chairman and the Audit Committee Chairman: managers and supervisors job through leadership of the teams for the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer: which they are responsible.
the Managing Directors and Finance Directors of each of the five The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups risk management regions: and approach, which includes: the Group Financial Controller & Treasurer, Group Tax Director, Headof Treasury, Group M&A Director, Director of Risk & Internal review and approval of the Groups overall strategy, including overall Audit, and Finance Development Director.
This includes reviewing the risks that may prevent the Group from achieving its objectives and ensuring that these risks are The firms were also invited to present their IT software to a smaller mitigated or managed to an acceptable level: group comprising the Group Financial Controller & Treasurer, regular reviews of business performance including updates of the Finance Director of UK & Rest of World, Director of Risk & Internal risks that the business is facing, and challenging management to Auditand Finance Development Director.
obtain assurance that these risks are being effectively managed: Formal written responses to the RFP were then submitted and review of managements approach to identifying and managing each firmpresented to a Steering Group comprising the Audit risk including approval of the Group principal risks schedule and Committee Chairman, the Chief Financial Officer, the Group Financial recommending enhancements: Controller & Treasurer, and the Director of Risk & Internal Audit.
evaluation of the effectiveness of internal controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls: A formal evaluation process was followed at all stages with the Audit evaluation of the effectiveness of internal and external audit: and Committee and Board being regularly updated and key reflections delegation of authority to the Chief Executive and Chief Financial of the Steering Committee being presented to the Audit Committee Officer to make commitments on behalf of the Company.
Areas of consideration included commitment to building a long-term relationship, cultural fit, a demonstrable Some of the above responsibilities are delegated to the Audit understanding of Rentokil Initials business, technical expertise and Committee as previously described.
The Audit Committee receives proposed fee structure and development.
The tender was further used regular reports from the Chief Financial Officer and the Director of as an opportunity to seek input on the approach to the audit and the Risk & Internal Audit on financial controls and process improvement Companys external reporting.
Further to the outcome of the tender, programmes.
These include: the Audit Committee recommended to the Board that KPMG LLP be an annual report on the overall status of the control environment in reappointed as the Companys external auditor while identifying certain the Group including the results of testing and reports on identified opportunities for improvements, for example in the use of technological areas of weakness in controls: tools as part of the audit.
action plans on control environment improvements and updates ontheir implementation: The Board approved the Audit Committees recommendation and updates on control weaknesses and planned actions to prevent theDirectors will be proposing the reappointment of KPMG LLP for the are-occurrence: and financial year ending 31 December 2018 and the setting of its fees at periodic reports from regional and Group Finance executives, theCompanys 2018 AGM.
KPMG LLP are required to rotate the audit partner responsible for the Independent reassurance of the effectiveness of risk management Group audit every five years and, as previously communicated, the andinternal controls across the Group is provided to the Chief Executive current lead audit partner, Paul Sawdon, having served since 2013 will, and the Board by Group Internal Audit.
therefore, rotate after the 2017 year end.
The new KPMG audit partner isMike Maloney.
The Audit Committee has continued its practice of reviewing in depth the risk and control environment in the five main regional businesses, The Company confirms its compliance with the provisions of the as well as the Regional Finance Directors assessment of the quality Orderfor the financial period ending 31 December 2017. and priorities of the Finance function in that part of the business.
Auditor independence and objectivity Thisprovides a high-level insight for the Audit Committee as well as In concluding that KPMG LLP should be proposed for reappointment an opportunity to challenge key managers on potential risks.
It further as auditor at the AGM in May 2018, the Board and the Audit Committee supports the discussions that take place in the Nomination Committee took into account the need to ensure that auditor independence was on talent and succession in the Finance function.
The Audit Committee also took into account the review undertaken of the effectiveness of the audit process as well as input from executive management.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 70 Audit Committee Report The number of control issues across the Group remains relatively low, The Audit Committee is also informed of feedback from senior with those which do occur not resulting in a material impact on Group management who are required to provide an annual Letter of performance.
During 2017 the Audit Committee reviewed the following Assurance confirming compliance with key Group policies, including specific control issues: the Code of Conduct, and the dissemination of these policies to their respective country and functional teams.
There are policies and weakness in the US financial control environment in the second half procedures in place for the reporting by colleagues of suspected of 2016, including forecasting, and in the implementation of a new wrongdoing, for these suspicions to be formally investigated, and for payroll system in Q1 2017: theresults of the investigation to be reported to the whistleblower.
control weaknesses in Brazil and Norway in 2016 which were identified in early 2017.
These were the result of weak oversight by the There were 17 control incidents reported in 2017 2016: 16.
Details of the local finance managers, both of whom have since left the business: types of incidents can be found below.
There have been no anti-bribery a few instances of incorrect social security deductions and or anti-corruption matters reported during the year.
miscalculation of statutory holiday and annual leave pay.
In response, The Audit Committee also periodically reviews processes which the a self-assessment checklist has been developed for all countries to Company has in place to ensure that in all territories there is an effective confirm compliance with local social security regulations by the end communication process through which colleagues are kept informed ofQ1 2018: and about the whistleblowing process.
incorrect accounting for share options in the UK resulting in an understatement of profit: the accounting was corrected in the secondhalf of the year.
Reported control incidences by category There is a Group Risk Committee composed of key functional and 14 operational senior managers which considers the risk framework and key risks.
The Group Risk Committee supports the Audit Committee andexecutive management by: 11 providing oversight of the framework for managing risk throughout theGroup: providing oversight of the processes for reviewing the effectiveness of the Group risk management framework and internal control systems: assisting the Audit Committee and the Board in assessing the risks 5 the Group is prepared to take and monitoring emerging risks: and determining internal responsibility for appropriate mitigating strategies.
0 1 1 1 0 Copies of the minutes of the Group Risk Committee are provided Controls HR Fraud SHE totheAudit Committee.
2016 2017 Governance and compliance Audit Committee effectiveness The Audit Committee has responsibility for reviewing the Companys In November 2017, the Audit Committee conducted a review of its procedures for handling compliance with the Companys Code of effectiveness using the services of Lintstock, an independent external Conduct, including its anti-corruption policy and confidential reporting corporate governance consultancy.
The review concluded that the whistleblower arrangements.
The Code of Conduct, a fundamental Audit Committee was performing effectively and had received sufficient, commitment to comply with all applicable legal requirements and with reliable and timely information from management to enable it to fulfil high ethical standards, can be found on the Companys website.
During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed assurance of the compliance procedures in place and the degree to which mandatory training has been undertaken by senior management relating to the Code of Conduct, which was revised and reissued in 2016.
In 2017, the mandatory corporate compliance training was refreshed with new online modules on the Code of Conduct, preventing anti-competitive Julie Southern practice, preventing bribery and corruption, and securing information Chairman of the Audit Committee and protecting privacy.
Full details on the application of the U learning 28 February 2018 management platform throughout the Company can be found in the Corporate Responsibility Report on the Companys website.
Read our Corporate Responsibility Report at rentokil-initial.
com responsible-delivery Read our Code of Conduct at rentokil-initial.
com responsible-delivery code-of-conduct Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017
