Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 49 Governance at a glance Our values and culture Our ambition is to be both a world-class service company and a world-class Employer of Choice.
Therefore our culture is critical to our success.
Across our different businesses, our people share our mission, values and culture.
Our mission What we're here to do Protecting People.
Our values The core things Service Relationships Teamwork that underpin We are passionate about delivering We value long lasting relationships Our business is all about great everything we do excellent customer service to withour colleagues and customers teamwork getting it right, for everycustomer ourcolleagues and customers Our culture What its actually Customer Commercial Diverse Down to earth Innovative like to work focused We employ smart We want our We dont like big We use the latest withand at people who help workforce to egos.
People who advancements to Firstly, were a Rentokil Initial the Company grow reflect the diverse succeed with us are build an innovation service company.
profitably by making customers we friendly, comfortable pipeline that sets We strive to meet good decisions serve.
We value in their own skin, us apart from the our customers' that benefit our everyones talents straightforward, competition.
We needs and our customers.
We and abilities and constantly seeking embrace digital people go the constantly seek out strive to attract, to improve, open technologies that extra mile to do new opportunities recruit and retain to new ideas and help us create new so.
We work hard for growth and the best people experiences and products and be to support our ways to work more from the widest acknowledge the more efficient.
possible pool contribution of each other.
things go wrong weput them right.
Our measures How we make World-class service World-class Employer sure our culture company of Choice is working Customer satisfaction Colleague retention Net Promoter Score Your Voice Counts Trustpilot Employer brand Customer retention e. g. Glassdoor Diversity Board composition Age of Directors Professional background Principal business sectors Academia broadcasting Airlines Chemicals Distilled beverages Energy Financial services Media information Retail 45-55 56% Finance 33% 55-65 11% Science 11% 65-75 33% Legal 17% Economics 17% Marketing 22% Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 50 Chairmans introduction best practice and would be more appropriate for future recruitment at Dear Shareholder Board level.
The Board currently comprises three women, meaning that we have achieved the recommendation under the Hampton-Alexander 2017 has seen further successful delivery Review to have 33% women on the Board by 2020. of our RIGHT WAY plan across a broad During the year, both the Remuneration Committee and the Board range of key areas, and increasing spent time reviewing and approving the Companys Gender Pay Gap Report.
Our data shows that across our UK business as a whole, no pay recognition by investors of the continuing gap exists between our male and female employees.
This is supported opportunity the Company represents.
by our most recent colleague engagement survey, completed in September 2017, which showed that globally 95% of our colleagues The completion of a number of major transactions, especially the joint believe that in the Company male and female colleagues are not venture with Haniel in Europe, and a strategic move to market leadership precluded from having equal opportunities to succeed.
While these both in India with the formation of Rentokil PCI, have complemented good represent strong and pleasing results, we are in no way complacent, and organic growth delivery, stronger governance performance and improved continue to monitor our approach very carefully to ensure we maintain health and safety statistics.
The Board believes that the Company is our principles of fairness and equity.
The full Gender Pay Gap Report for positioned well to move into the next phase of our strategic plan.
2017 is available to view on our website.
Further information on diversity can be found in the Nomination Committee Report on page 73 and in As a Board we are nonetheless mindful that the Company must not our Corporate Responsibility Report which can be found on our website.
lose sight of its key values and culture, which have been a consistent source of strength through its history.
The Companys ambition is to Board changes be both a world-class service company and a world-class Employer of There were several changes to the Board composition during the year.
Choice and getting the culture right is viewed as critical to the long-term In May 2017 Alan Giles stepped down as a Non-Executive Director, success of the business.
Examples of how we measure our values Senior Independent Director SID, Chairman of the Remuneration andculture can be found in the Corporate responsibility section on Committee and member of the Nomination and Audit Committees pages 34 to 39.
In addition, details on how we as a Board understand at the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM.
Chris Geoghegan and monitor what it is actually like to work at Rentokil Initial and with succeeded Alan Giles as SID and Chairman of the Remuneration thebusiness are contained on page 64.
Committee from May 2017 until his resignation in September 2017.
Health and safety Following Chris Geoghegans departure, Richard Burrows was appointed as SID and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
There is nothing more important at Rentokil Initial than ensuring that Everyone Goes Home Safe at the end of their working day.
Health and I am very pleased with the calibre as well as the diverse background and safety will always be the business first priority, the first item on the Board experience of the three Non-Executive Directors that have joined us in agenda at every meeting and there can be no compromise on this.
Sir Crispin Davis joined the Board in July as a Non-Executive therefore pleased to be able to report that we continue to improve our Director and a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
We look health and safety standards as demonstrated in the continued reduction forward to benefiting from, amongst other things, his digital and international of our rates of lost time accidents and level of working days lost.
Linda Yueh, an economist with considerable Asia these have been reduced by 8% and 28% respectively, exceeding experience, joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director in November the targets set for the year and achieving new record lows.
However, 2017, bringing a diverse set of skills and experience from her academic this does not mean that 2017 was without incident and, as detailed on and broadcasting background.
She also became a member of the Audit, page 41, there have sadly been three fatalities during the year.
As a Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Then in January 2018 John Board, we are satisfied that there is no complacency in the business Pettigrew joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director and a member of with regards to health and safety but we will continue to challenge the Audit and Nomination Committees.
John Pettigrew, as a serving Chief the leadership team to maintain a constant focus on the safety of our Executive of a FTSE 50 company, brings strong leadership experience in colleagues and customers and their health and wellbeing, particularly addition to his economic background.
Full details of all Directors can be in areas where some risk inevitably arises such as driving within found on pages 52 and 53.
To ensure continuity in the light of three new ourpredominantly route-based businesses, and working at height.
Non-Executive Directors joining within a six-month period, Richard Burrows Formore details on our health, safety and environment performance, has agreed with the Board to remain as a Director, subject to his re-election see the Corporate responsibility section on pages 34 to 39. by shareholders at the AGM in May, until the end of December 2018.
Strategy Further information on the Boards succession planning and recruitment The long-term strategic aims of the Company have once again been processes in 2017 can be found in the Nomination Committee Report central to the Boards activities during the year.
The Board held its on pages 72 and 73.
Details of the induction that new Non-Executive annual strategy away day in November, providing the opportunity to Directors undertake following their appointment are contained in focus in-depth on the strategy of the Company and each of its core the Corporate Governance Report on page 59.
In accordance with businesses as well as its portfolio as a whole.
This extended meeting the UK Corporate Governance Code, Sir Crispin Davis, Linda Yueh over two days gives us the time to review the strategic plan for 2018 to and John Pettigrew will be subject to election by shareholders at 2020.
It also provides an opportunity to meet members of the extended the Companys AGM on 9 May 2018, being the first such meeting senior management team and to raise any areas of interest or concern.
More information on the topics covered at the strategy away day can Whilst I am aware that there have been significant changes to the Board, befound on page 59.
I am satisfied that the Companys succession planning and recruitment Talent and diversity processes have operated effectively during this period.
In addition, The Board is always mindful of diversity and we believe that a diverse the Nomination Committee was well able to oversee the various company, in all regards not just gender, provides a more balanced, changes which resulted in a number of additional meetings being held.
effective and innovative organisation with a broader skill set from I believe we continue to have a Board with the appropriate and relevant which to draw.
As indicated in last years report, the Board decided to membership and with the right conditions for sound decision-making.
develop and adopt its own Diversity Policy, which is aligned with the I would like to thank all the Board members for their ongoing support Groups Diversity and Inclusion Policy that was subsequently adopted and challenge, and for the input and value they continue to bring to atthe beginning of 2018.
It was felt that this could then be used to guide boththe boardroom and the Company.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 51 Chairmans introduction Board highlights of 2017 Compliance with the UK Corporate Board visit to India and in-depth review of Asia businesses.
Governance Code Refreshed Board with appointments of Sir Crispin Davis, LindaYueh and John Pettigrew from 1 January 2018.
The principal governance framework applying to the Company Adoption of Board Diversity Policy: improving Board is the UK Corporate Governance Code, published in April 2016, gender diversity to 38% female, 62% male, meeting the which applies to accounting periods beginning on or after recommendations of the final Davies Review and the 17 June 2016 the Code.
The Code is published by the Financial Hampton-Alexander Review ahead of 2020.
Reporting Council FRC and the full text is available on its Supporting execution against strategy, and portfolio focus website at frc.
asaresult of the Haniel and Rentokil PCI transactions.
The Company has complied throughout 2017 with the Awards for quality of reporting and disclosure: positioning requirements of the Code with the exception of the two Code intop 20% of Good Governance Index.
Areas of focus for 2018 Code Provision C. 3.1 states that the Board should establish North America.
an Audit Committee of at least three, or in the case of smaller Digital and innovation agenda.
companies two, independent Non-Executive Directors.
Risk management, including IT security and data privacy.
A recruitment process was undertaken during 2017 for a M&A execution.
successor to Alan Giles who retired at the AGM in May 2017.
Continuing to reflect corporate governance best practice.
It was anticipated that a successor would be appointed in advance of the next Audit Committee meeting to be held in June 2017.
However, the process took longer than anticipated Remuneration and Sir Crispin Davis was not appointed until following the As outlined in the Remuneration Committee Chairmans introduction June Audit Committee meeting which resulted in that meeting on pages 75 and 76, the Company undertook a detailed consultation being held with only two members, which whilst quorate was in2017 on its Directors Remuneration Policy.
This was in response to not compliant with the recommendations of the UK Corporate the continued growth of the business and to update our existing policy Governance Code.
to improve our remuneration governance arrangements, for instance The Board was aware shortly in advance that this situation would by the introduction of holding periods in executive share plans for arise but that it would be a temporary position which would Executive Directors.
It was also felt that it was required to address a real be resolved upon the appointment of the new Non-Executive concern of the Boards about management retention and its potential Director.
It was felt that it was more appropriate to wait for the risk to future performance and stability of the business.
As a result of the planned appointment rather than appoint an existing Nonconsiderable support received from investors during the engagement Executive Director on an essentially temporary basis.
process, the Remuneration Committee decided to propose a new remuneration policy for shareholder approval at the 2018 AGM.
Full Code Provision D. 2.1 states that the Board should establish a details on this can be found in the Remuneration Committee Report.
Remuneration Committee of at least three, or in the case of smaller companies two, independent Non-Executive Directors.
Compliance Due to the unplanned resignation of Chris Geoghegan as a I am able to report that the Company has complied fully with all the Non-Executive Director in September 2017, the membership principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code during 2017 with ofthe Remuneration Committee, of which Chris was chair, the exception of two provisions as a result of Board changes.
A full reduced from three to two.
This resulted in the Remuneration explanation on this is provided below.
Committee meetings in September and October being held withonly two members.
In December 2017 the FRC published its proposed changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code which will come into effect for reporting This was a situation that could not have been foreseen but due periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
The Company will be tothe ongoing recruitment and succession planning in place reviewing the new code thoroughly in 2018 and will consider any by the Nomination Committee, it was again known to be of a elements of the new provisions which may need to be addressed ahead temporary nature.
Similarly, it was felt that it was more appropriate of its implementation.
The Board will also consider the new guidance to wait for the appointment of the new Non-Executive Director on board effectiveness produced by the FRC at the same time.
rather than to appoint an existing Non-Executive Director for the short term.
Both Committees now have or exceed the advised During 2017, the Board approved the Companys first annual Modern three members.
Slavery Statement in relation to the business during the previous year.
This is available to view on the Companys website.
In 2017, the Company also published its first tax strategy under the Finance Act 2016.
This can be found on our website and more information on our tax governance can be found in the Financial Review on page 106.
Yours faithfully Read our Corporate Responsibility Report at rentokil-initial.
com responsible-delivery Read our Modern Slavery Statement at rentokil-initial.
com modern-slavery John McAdam Chairman Read our Gender Pay Gap Report at 28 February 2018 rentokil-initial.
com gender-pay Read our Tax Strategy at rentokil-initial.
com responsible-delivery policies Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017
