Governance Audit committee report Main areas of responsibility monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial statements and any formal announcements relating to financial performance: reviewing and challenging the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control and risk management: monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of and need for the Companys internal audit function: monitoring the objectivity, effectiveness and performance of the external Auditors: MARIE-LOUISE CLAYTON recommendations for appointment, AUDIT COMMITTEE CHAIR re-appointment, removal and remuneration of external Auditors: examining the adequacy and security of the Companys arrangements for employees to raise concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting: reviewing the Companys systems and controls for the prevention of bribery: assessing reports from the Compliance and Money Laundering Reporting Officer: and reporting findings to the Board.
Meetings Total number of meetings held in 2017 3 Committee members 1 Marie-Louise Clayton Chair Independent Non-Executive Director 3 Peter Backhouse Independent Non-Executive Director 3 2 James Morley Independent Non-Executive Director 1 Ed Warner Independent Non-Executive Director 3 Non-members and Executive Directors attending by invitation James Hughes-Hallett Independent Non-Executive Director 3 Andi Case Executive Director 1 Jeff Woyda Executive Director 3 1.
Joined the committee on 2 March 2017 and became Chair on 12 May 2017.
Chair of the committee until 12 May 2017 when he retired from the Board and left the committee.
Generally, both the external Auditors and management are invited to, and attend, committee meetings.
Inaddition, the committee ensures that it meets regularly in private with the external Auditors without management present.
Membership James Morley and Marie-Louise Clayton have been deemed by the Board to have recent and relevant financial experience.
The Board is satisfied that the majority of members are independent Non-Executive Directors.
The external Auditors are invited to attend committee meetings on a regular basis and attended allthree meetings held in 2017.
Terms of reference The committees terms of reference are regularly reviewed to ensure compliance with the requirements of the Code.
The committees terms of reference can be found at: www.
80 CLARKSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Strategic report Financial statements Other information Chairs statement I joined the committee in March 2017 and became Chair following James Morleys retirement in May 2017.
During the course of my first year as committee Chair, I have focused on gaining a detailed understanding of the Company, its systems and its risks.
To that end, I have spent considerable time with individual management members, both in the finance team and the broader business.
I have also met with the external and internal Auditors.
The committee works well with the Company and its Auditors and has an open and frank relationship with both.
Activities during the year During the year, the audit committee the committee addressed the following areas: 1.
Financial reporting and significant issues: 5.
Internal control and risk management: 6.
Financial reporting and significant issues The committee reviewed and considered the robustness and integrity of the Groups financial reporting, by focusing on the following areas in relation to the preparation of the interim and annual financial statements: the appropriateness of accounting policies used: compliance with internal and external financial reporting standards and policies: principal judgemental accounting matters, based on reports from management and external Auditors: and whether or not the annual report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The committee also reviews reports by the external Auditors on the full year and half year results which highlight any issues with respect to the work undertaken on the audit.
The issues and how they were addressed by the committee are set out below: Issue Area of focus How the issue was addressed by the committee A number of judgements are made in the The committee discussed with management the results of its review, the Recoverability of calculation of the provision, primarily the age of internal controls and the composition of the related financial information.
trade receivables the invoice, the existence of any disputes, recent The committee also discussed with the external Auditors their review of historical payment patterns and the debtors the provision.
The committee is satisfied that the judgements made by management are reasonable and that appropriate disclosures have been included in the financial statements.
In the broking and financial segments, the The committee considered the revenue recognition processes in place for Revenue Groups entitlement to commission revenue all four business segments with management and cut-off procedures with recognition usually depends on third party obligations being the external Auditors.
Since the Group has no control over this, The committee is satisfied with the control environment and that revenue it is important to recognise revenue at the has been recognised in the correct periods.
The committee is satisfied that the implementation of IFRS 15 will have no significant impact on the revenue recognition for the Group.
See note 2.2 for further details.
Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires The committee discussed with management and reviewed the results of its Carrying value an estimation of the value-in-use of the cashtesting and evaluated the appropriateness of the assumptions used within of goodwill and generating units to which these assets have been its impairment models.
The committee also discussed with the external intangible assets allocated.
The value-in-use calculation requires Auditors their review of managements testing.
The committee then estimation of future cash flows expected to arise discussed with both management and the external Auditors the headroom for each cash-generating unit, the selection of in each of the cash-generating units and the impact of sensitivity analysis suitable discount rates and the estimation of future from changes in key assumptions.
The committee is satisfied with managements assumptions, judgement and the conclusion not to record impairment in any of the cash-generating units and that appropriate disclosures have been included in the financialstatements.
The work described above, together with a review of the content of the strategic report, provided the assurance to the committee andto the Board that the annual report for the year ended 31 December 2017, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups and the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
com 81 Governance Audit committee report continued 2.
Internal control and risk management review of the employee handbook: The Company continually seeks to improve and update approval of an updated IT acceptable use policy: existing procedures and to introduce new controls development of a new cyber training package for where necessary.
The risk management system is all employees: and designed to identify principal risks and to provide establishment of a global compliance support assurance that these risks are fully understood team to help oversee new policies and and managed.
Key functions of the committee are to: 6.
Viability statement review and challenge the Groups internal control The committee considered the form of the viability and risk management systems and processes to statement.
In particular, there was a debate over the ensure that they remain adequate and effective, period of time that it was appropriate to consider and including financial, operational and compliance itwas decided that it was appropriate to limit the controls and procedures: statement to three years.
identify any significant deficiencies or material The committee reviewed the analysis supporting the weaknesses in the internal control and risk viability statement and the processes underpinning the management systems and processes: and assessment of the Groups longer-term prospects.
review the external Auditors report in relation Further assessment of viability and the viability tointernal control observations.
statement is set out on page 43.
As an ongoing process, the committee oversees the development of the internal control procedures which 7.
External Auditors provide assurance to the committee that the controls The committee reviews and makes recommendations which are operating in the Group are effective and to the Board regarding the re-appointment and sufficient to counteract the risks to which the Company remuneration of the external Auditors.
The committee considered the following: No significant control deficiencies were identified quality and effectiveness of the audit for the duringthe year.
prior year: Further details of risk management, including the external audit strategy for the current year: Companys principal risks, are shown on pages 42 to 47. overall work plan: 3.
Internal audit terms of engagement: The need for an internal audit function is reviewed external Auditors overall performance and regularly by the Board and the committee.
An internal independence: audit function is in place for our banking and finance effectiveness of the overall audit process: operations headquartered in Norway, given their scale level of non-audit and audit fees: and and regulatory nature.
Ernst & Young perform this length of appointment as external Auditors current function on an outsourced basis and the results are length: nine years.
There were no significant issues identified during the last year.
The Financial Reporting Council FRC During the year, the 2016 external audit of the Group by The committee has reviewed the requirement for an PwC was reviewed by the FRCs Audit Quality Review internal audit function in respect of the Groups other team AQR.
The AQR routinely monitors the quality of activities and to date, the committee has concluded audit work of certain UK audit firms through inspections that there is no current requirement for such a function.
of sample audits and related procedures at individual This will be kept under review in 2018. audit firms.
The committee and PwC have discussed the review findings and the committee does not 4.
Whistleblowing consider any of the findings to have had a significant The committee, in conjunction with the Board, has impact on PwCs audit approach.
established arrangements by which employees of the Group may, in confidence, raise concerns about In November 2017, the Group received a letter from possible improprieties or wrongdoing.
This has been theFRC confirming that the annual report for the year approved by the committee for the year.
ended 31 December 2016 had been subject to review by its conduct committee, which is responsible for 5.
Compliance reviewing and investigating the annual accounts, In 2017, the committee has reviewed the processes for Directors and strategic reports of UK public the prevention, detection and reporting of fraud and the companies.
The only area covered by this enquiry was Groups Code of Business Conduct and Ethics.
In order a request for the Company to provide further details to further strengthen these processes, the committee inrelation to revenue, trade receivables and related have overseen the following activities during the year: impairment.
As a result of the FRCs enquiry, we review of the Companys compliance manual which committed to providing additional disclosures in the consolidates all compliance policies and will 2017 annual report.
The FRCs enquiry closed with supersede the Code of Business Conduct and nofurther questions.
Ethics when it is launched in 2018: 82 CLARKSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Strategic report Financial statements Other information The FRC noted that its role was not to verify The committee as a whole will be briefed on the legal information, but to consider compliance with reporting requirements and mechanics of a tender process.
requirements, and it did not take responsibility for Allcommittee members will be involved throughout reliance on its letter by any party.
The committee Chair is expected to take a lead role in overseeing and developing the approach for Effectiveness the tender.
In setting the approach, the committee will During 2017, the committee conducted an effectiveness consider the key factors which will drive the decisionreview of the external Auditors.
The review included a making process.
These factors are expected to include: questionnaire, completed by committee members, the 1.
Industry expertise of the firm and the audit team: Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer, the 2.
Experience of the lead audit partner and the firm: PLC Board Chair and the Group Financial Controller, of various key criteria for judging effectiveness and 3.
Use of technology in the process: feedback from management.
Global reach of the firm: and understanding of the business, effective use of audit, 5.
Experience of transitioning this type of account.
experience of team and quality of recommendations.
The committee will oversee the tender and expect to The committee reviewed the results of the report in full on the process followed, the outcome and, questionnaire.
No significant issues or areas of concern if appropriate, the transition, in the 2018 annual report were raised.
which will be published in 2019.
Non-audit services To ensure that the Auditors maintain their independence 8.
Cyber security and objectivity, the committee agreed, with effect from During November 2017, as mentioned in the Chief November 2016, that the Auditors and their associated Executive Officers review on page 19, the Company audit network firms would no longer be used for became aware that it had been subject to a cyber non-audit services.
There are two exceptions: where security incident.
The Chair of the audit committee, services are either required by statute or where, together with the Board more generally, was closely exceptionally, the local statute law permits the provision involved in the management of this incident.
At no time of such services, the Auditors are best placed to was Clarksons ability to do business affected, and the preserve the quality of the non-audit service and there incident was contained in early December 2017.
The are limited feasible alternatives.
Legacy non-audit implementation of additional enhancements to controls services approved by the committee are shown in has since been accelerated to further reduce risks and note 3. best prevent a similar incident happening in the future.
In October 2017, the committee and the Board The committee will review all improvements in cyber reviewed the policy on non-audit services and controls and changes in work practices in its 2018 renewed it for 2018.
It remains the Companys position programme of works.
See the cyber risk section of that the external Auditor will not be used for any ourrisk management report on pages 42 to 47 for non-audit services.
Meetings Effectiveness of the audit committee The committee meets privately on a regular basis with The effectiveness of the audit committee is reviewed the external Auditors in the absence of management.
Each committee member, the ChiefFinancial Officer and Chief Operating Officer, Appointment of external Auditor thePLC Board Chair and the external audit lead partner The committee does not consider that PwCs complete a questionnaire, provided by PwC, which independence or effectiveness is impaired and is focuses on the committees processes and the satisfied with the results of the effectiveness review.
underlying knowledge and behaviour of the committee Accordingly, the committee has recommended to the as it carries out those processes.
Board that PwC be re-appointed as Auditors and that shareholder approval be sought at the 2018 AGM.
The results of the 2017 effectiveness review have been considered by the committee Chair and anonymous Tender responses circulated to the other committee members, 2018 will be the tenth year of PwCs appointment as the giving them an opportunity to make further Companys Auditor.
The committee has discussed the observations.
This took place in early 2018. requirements of the Code and the Competition and No significant areas of concern were raised in the Markets Authority in respect of tendering the Groups review for 2017.
Committee members are encouraged external audit.
The committee recommended to the to raise concerns with the committee Chair if they arise Board that a tender be carried out in 2018 for external during the year.
audit, with a view to appointing the external Auditor with effect from 1 January 2019.
The Board has approved this recommendation.
Marie-Louise Clayton As per the FRCs guidance, the goal of the tender Audit committee Chair process will be to appoint the external audit firm which will provide the highest quality, most effective and 9 March 2018 efficient audit.
