Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 55 Corporate Governance Report The Corporate Governance Report, in addition to the Audit, Nomination The role of the Board and Remuneration Committee Reports, details how the Company has The Boards role is to govern the Company within a framework of prudent applied the main principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
and effective controls that enables risk to be assessed and managed.
It operates to ensure that the Company is delivering excellent operational Code Principles regarding Leadership and Effectiveness performance and innovative services for its customers in order to S ee the Corporate Governance Report on pages 49 to 64 and create sustainable, long-term value for shareholders.
The Board sets theNomination Committee Report on pages 71 to 74. the Companys strategic aims, based on recommendations made by Code Principles regarding Accountability the Chief Executive, and ensures that sufficient resources are available S ee the Corporate Governance Report on pages 49 to 64 and for the successful execution of these aims.
The Board is kept abreast of theAudit Committee Report on pages 65 to 70. performance and of any major developments affecting the business by reports from the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer at each Board Code Principles regarding Remuneration meeting.
The Board strives to operate in an ethical and transparent S ee the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 75 to 98. manner at all times and sets the tone for the Company from the top.
Code Principles regarding Relations with Shareholders Details of the governance framework within which the Board operates S ee the Corporate Governance Report on pages 63 and 64. to discharge its responsibilities can be found on page 61.
This framework Further key areas which set out our approach to applying the Code along with clearly communicated authority guidelines provides the canbe found in the Annual Report as detailed below.
Board with confidence that the appropriate decisions are being taken at the appropriate levels and further allows the Board to ensure that S ee our business model, value generation and strategy in our itsobligations to the Companys shareholders and other stakeholders Strategic Report on pages 1 to 41. are being met.
See our approach to risk management and internal control on Board composition and roles page 62 and in our Risks and uncertainties section on pages 42 to 47.
The Board currently comprises a Non-Executive Chairman, two S ee our Directors Report on pages 163 to 165.
ExecutiveDirectors and six Non-Executive Directors.
They are advised and supported by the Group General Counsel & Company Secretary S ee the statement of Directors responsibilities on page 165. andtheir key responsibilities are set out below.
Leading and managing the Board.
Leading the Non-Executive Directors Chairman Senior Setting the agenda and managing the appraisal of the Chairman.
Independent John McAdam Boards time.
Working with the Chairman on Board Ensuring effective communication with Director effectiveness.
Providing an alternative channel of Richard Burrows Director induction, training and development.
communication for investors, primarily on Building a well-balanced Board, considering corporate governance matters.
succession planning and its composition.
Being a sounding board for the Chairman.
Performance evaluation of the Board and Chairing the Nomination Committee when Chief Executive.
it is considering succession to the role of Chairman of the Board.
Recommending and executing strategies Chief Executive and strategic priorities.
Contributing independent challenge and Independent Andy Ransom Managing operational and financial rigour.
Non-Executive performance, including monthly Assisting in the development of the performance reviews with all regions and Directors Companys strategy.
identifying and managing risks to delivery Ensuring the integrity of the financial Richard Burrows, of strategy.
information, controls and risk management SirCrispin Davis, With the Chief Financial Officer, explaining processes.
Monitoring the performance of the Executive Chairing the Executive Leadership Team and Directors against agreed goals and  Committee see page 61. objectives.
Jackson, Executive management capability and Advising and being a sounding board for Julie Southern, development.
Executive Directors and senior management.
Linda Yueh Overall development of Group policies and communicating the Companys values.
Responsibility for all corporate responsibility matters which are reviewed at least annually by the Board.
Secretary to the Board and each of its Company Committees, reporting directly to their Secretary Chairmen.
Supporting the Chief Executive in Assisting the Chairman and Senior Chief Financial Daragh Fagan developing and implementing strategy.
Independent Director in their evaluation Officer & Chief Supporting the Chief Executive in managing ofthe Boards effectiveness.
Information the operational and financial performance Advising the Board and its Committees of the Group.
on governance matters and managing Officer With the Chief Executive, explaining effective corporate governance and Jeremy Townsend performance to shareholders.
compliance arrangements for the Board Chairing the Group Risk Committee and andthe Group.
Facilitating Board induction and Recommending appropriate financing, development programmes.
Executing the agreed IT strategy.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 56 Corporate Governance Report Full details of all Board members who served during 2017 and in 2018 published investor guidance.
The fact that several members of the Board tothe date of this report can be found on pages 52 and 53. hold multiple non-executive positions has not presented any difficulties in their ability to manage potentially competing demands for their time.
The The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Chairman typically attends all Committee meetings by invitation and NonExecutive is set out in writing.
Non-Executive Directors have regular Executive Directors often attend too, even where they are not members opportunities to meet with members of executive management and of the relevant Committee.
All Directors have demonstrated high levels of also hold discussions under the leadership of the Chairman without availability and responsiveness for additional meetings and discussions executive members present.
At least once a year, Non-Executive where these have been required.
At present there is therefore no concern Directors meet under the leadership of the Senior Independent Director that other board commitments have affected any Directors availability or without the Chairman being present.
effectiveness in carrying out their Board responsibilities at Rentokil Initial, but the situation is kept under review.
A Nomination Committee comprising all the Independent Non-Executive Directors and chaired by the Chairman has responsibility for managing Any changes to the commitments of a Director are reported to the the appointment process to ensure a formal, rigorous and transparent Board.
Directors regularly review a conflicts register and any conflicts procedure for appointing Directors.
Pro-forma letters of appointment identified are submitted to the Board for consideration and, as appropriate, and Directors service contracts are available for public inspection at authorisation in accordance with our Articles of Association and the rentokil-initial.
Further information can be found in the Nomination Companies Act 2006.
No material conflicts have been declared.
Committee Report on pages 71 to 74.
Furtherdetails of this process can be found in the Nomination Committee Report on page 74.
Details of the Directors share interests in the The Board considers that it and its Committees have an appropriate Company can be found in the Remuneration Report on page 94. composition to discharge their duties effectively and to manage succession issues.
The Board keeps its membership and that of Independence of Board members itsCommittees under review to ensure that an appropriate balance The independence of Directors is reviewed as part of the individual ismaintained.
Director performance evaluation process, to ensure that all NonThree new Non-Executive Directors were recruited in 2017.
In order Executive Board members retain the necessary independence of to achieve the desired composition of the Board and its Committees, judgement.
This continues to be reflected in constructive challenge to a candidate profile was devised as illustrated below to assist with the the executive team and senior management at Board and Committee recruitment process.
Further details on the recruitment process can meetings, and during informal interaction outside those meetings.
befound in the Nomination Committee Report on page 72.
The Board considers that an individuals independence cannot be All Directors may serve on a number of other boards, provided that determined arbitrarily on the basis of a particular period of service.
they can demonstrate that any such appointment will not interfere with In the case of Richard Burrows who has served as a Director for their time commitment to the Company and that they obtain the prior ten years, the Board benefits from his considerable experience and agreement of the Chairman before proceeding.
This also ensures knowledge resulting from his length of service as well as from his thatany potential conflicts of interest are considered and addressed.
widerbusiness experience and the Board continues to consider The major commitments of the Directors are shown in their biographical Richardas independent.
Currently Non-Executive Directors All the remaining Non-Executive Directors, other than the Chairman, areobliged to commit at least 20 days a year and the Chairman is have also been determined by the Board to be independent, having obliged to commit at least two days a week to the Company.
retained their independence of character and judgement.
In making this The issue of Board Directors becoming overcommitted by taking on too determination the Board has taken into account indicators of potential many potentially onerous positions, including the need to retain flexibility non-independence as set out in the Code.
No Director took part in the to deal with unforeseen events, is recognised and is monitored in line with Boards consideration of their own independence.
Board skills matrix for recruitment of Non-Executive Directors in 2017 Competencies and behaviours Diversity Diversity Operational focus Skills and experience Customer service to cover expertise of Influencing and partneringstyle departing NEDs International mindset Personality Competencies and Integrity and independence Background education, behaviours Strategic acumen socio-economic etc.
Gender Knowledge and experience Ethnicity Current or former CEO orGeneral Nationality Manager Non-Executive International, particularly USA Director orAsia experience Digital or technology familiarity orexpertise B2B Service Sector salesand Knowledge and marketing Operational effectiveness experience Understanding of public listed company ideally FTSE100 governance Inclusion Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 57 Corporate Governance Report Meetings and attendance The Board met ten times during the year, all of which were scheduled meetings, and a Committee of the Board met four times in relation to the release of financial results, the joint venture with PCI Pest Control Private Limited in India, and the acquisition of the Cannon Hygiene Services businesses.
The membership and attendance at Board meetings during 2017 is shown below.
Board members and attendance in 2017 100% 100% 100% 90% 100% 1 John McAdam, Chairman Andy Ransom Jeremy Townsend Richard Burrows Sir Crispin Davis 10 10 meetings attended 10 10 meetings attended 10 10 meetings attended 9 10 meetings attended 4 4 meetings attended 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 2 3 4 Chris Geoghegan Alan Giles Angela Seymour-Jackson Julie Southern Linda Yueh 6 6 meetings attended 4 4 meetings attended 10 10 meetings attended 10 10 meetings attended 2 2 meetings attended 1.
Sir Crispin Davis was appointed to the Board on 20 July 2017.
Chris Geoghegan resigned from the Board on 18 September 2017.
Alan Giles retired from the Board on 10 May 2017.
Linda Yueh was appointed to the Board on 1 November 2017.
All Board members attended all meetings apart from one instance due to a conflicting commitment.
As in all cases where a Director is unable to attend a Board or Committee meeting, copies of all papers are still received in advance and the Chairman will seek the individuals views ahead ofthe meeting and provide a briefing on any relevant outcomes from the meeting.
Directors tenure at 28 February 2018 Name Appointed Service length years 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 Executive Directors Andrew Ransom 1 May 2008 Jeremy Townsend 31 August 2010 Non-Executive Directors John McAdam 14 May 2008 Richard Burrows 14 January 2008 Sir Crispin Davis 20 July 2017 John Pettigrew 1 January 2018 Angela Seymour-Jackson 5 March 2012 Julie Southern 21 July 2014 Linda Yueh 1 November 2017 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 58 Corporate Governance Report Each Board meeting starts with a review of health and safety Board activities in 2017 performance.
The Board also receives reports from the Chairmen The Chairmans introduction on pages 50 and 51 highlights some of the of the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees following key focus areas for the Board in 2017.
In addition to these, the Board each Committee meeting.
receives regular updates on the Groups financial results, and receives reports from the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer at Further details of the main activities of the Board undertaken during each meeting as standing items.
Strategy Operations Regional presentations Regional presentations and Strategy away day customer visit Review of non-core businesses Overseas site visit Talent strategy and succession Approval of the 2017 Annual review Operating Plan Diversity and inclusion strategy Your Voice Counts colleague 36% 30% Digital and innovation survey Contract approvals above set Read more about leading the field threshold in innovation on pages 4 and 5.
Read more about being an Employer of Choice on pages 6 and 7.
Financial Monitoring and oversight Approval of the 2016 financial Safety, health and environment statements reports Review of the 2017 Interim Results Review of key risks and internal and Q1 and Q3 Trading Updates controls Dividend treatment and Review of KPIs recommendation approval Reports from the Committee chairs 14% 8% Review of financial performance Review of material disputes Approval of treasury policies and Going concern funding Viability statement Investor relations Cyber risk Tax strategy Read more about our KPIs and Read more in our Financial Review risks on pages 40 to 47. on pages 104 to 107.
Mergers and acquisitions M&A Governance and compliance Performance review of completed Board evaluation acquisitions including delivery of Approval of the 2016 Annual integration plans Report and 2017 Notice of Meeting Oversight of M&A pipeline Approval of 2016 Corporate Completion and integration of JV Responsibility Report with Haniel Governance procedures review 7% 5% Formation of Rentokil PCI JV in and oversight India Conflicts of interest Acquisition of OCS Groups Setting 2019 Board calendar Cannon Hygiene Services Disclosure obligations, including businesses Gender Pay Gap Report Other major transactions above Data privacy 10m Read more about our Read more about our valueBoardevaluation on page 60. enhancing M&A on pages 2 and 3.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 59 Corporate Governance Report Following the transformational change in the Group as a result of the major transactions in the year, the 2017 strategy away day focused on the Companys new reporting framework, as outlined on page 20, and the next phase of the RIGHT WAY plan.
Progress against medium-term targets from 2014 to 2017 were reviewed and the key areas for driving performance in 2018 to 2020 were outlined.
Through a series of presentations and discussions, the Board considered opportunities to deliver further value for shareholders in the coming years.
These opportunities would come through leveraging the Companys position as the global No.
1 in Pest Control, driving growth and margin in Hygiene, returning the French Workwear business to profitable growth and investing in innovation and accelerating the digital and technology agenda.
The Board also considered the strategic opportunities represented by the Employer of Choice agenda and newer business lines such as Premium Scenting and Brand Standards.
There was a strategic review of the Protect & Enhance category, a review of the three-year financial plan, and consideration of the Companys relations with key stakeholders from employees to investors.
Non-Executive Director sitevisit Board performance, training and development As part of her induction it was arranged for Linda Yueh The Board ensures that the Directors continue to provide suitable to visit the local Rentokil Initial business while she was leadership for the Company through a regular performance evaluation in China in December 2017.
Linda visited the North process, training processes, Board succession planning and annual Region headquarters in Beijing where she was provided re-election by shareholders.
with a tour of the facility and had the opportunity to Director induction process meet with colleagues.
Diana Cheng, Regional Director, Following the appointment of any new Director, the Chairman, in North Region, provided Linda with an overview of the conjunction with the Company Secretary, ensures that a full, formal and history of the company in China, and the North Region customised induction to the Company is made available.
The induction business in particular, as well as providing a summary process is summarised below.
On appointment, the Company Secretary provides information on the Groups businesses, including: After the office visit, Linda visited a hotel in Beijing which Board and relevant Committee minutes and Board papers from the is serviced by Rentokil Initial China where she spoke most recent meetings held: with both the housekeeping manager and the local key policies, procedures and governance information about the technician servicing the hotel.
She then accompanied Company, including the Code of Conduct, Board Governance Manual, the technician on a site check and had the opportunity Corporate Responsibility Report and the Group Authority Matrix: details of the Group structure: to understand the working environment and personal analysis of the Companys key shareholders and share capital: development opportunities within the business.
copies of the most recent Board and any relevant Committee evaluation reports: and guidance for Directors on their legal and regulatory responsibilities Board site visit ina UK publicly listed company, including briefings, on request, from Each year one scheduled Board meeting is held as part of a larger site the Companys external legal advisors.
visit to one of the Companys overseas operations.
In 2017, the Board went to India following the Company entering into the Rentokil PCI joint Before and after the first Board meeting the new Director will: venture.
As a result of this transaction, the Company became the largest attend business briefings with the Chief Executive and the Chief provider of pest control services and products in India.
The Board Financial Officer: members visited Mumbai where they had the opportunity to meet the attend meetings with other members of the Executive Leadership joint venture partner, Anil Rao and family, and the Asia management Team and senior management: team, as well as key members of the India management team.
Paul participate in visits to sites within the UK and or overseas, such Cochrane, Managing Director, Asia, presented an overview of the as The Power Centres research and training facilities, including business in Asia and its strategic plan for 2018 to 2020.
Case studies opportunities to spend time shadowing frontline sales and and strategic plans from all the Groups key Asian businesses were also service staff in the course of their duties: and presented.
In addition, the Board received a wide range of presentations be offered meetings with relevant external advisors such as the covering subjects such as innovation and digital technology, market external auditor, remuneration advisors, financial advisors and dynamics and the competitive landscape.
Whilst in Mumbai, the Board took the opportunity to meet customers, During 2017, a review of the induction process was carried out to suppliers and other regional contacts at a reception hosted jointly ensure that Non-Executive Directors received the most relevant papers by Rentokil Initial and the British Deputy High Commissioner at his on the Company ahead of their first Board meeting.
In addition, it was residence in Mumbai.
agreed that new Directors should undertake the same online induction modules in U as new colleagues on core compliance subjects such Board strategy review as the Code of Conduct, anti-bribery and corruption, competition law, In addition to regular scheduled Board and Board Committee meetings, and information security and privacy.
the Board undertakes an annual strategy away day each year.
This is structured to follow a scheduled Board meeting and is spread over the course of two days.
The agenda for the strategy away day is agreed inadvance, including specific strategic issues which have been raised atprevious Board meetings or requested by the Board.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 60 Corporate Governance Report Training and development Directors are provided with opportunities to participate in peer group discussion forums and seminars related to the listed company environment and targeted at specific needs, for example executive remuneration, financial reporting or risk management.
Training opportunities also cover the Group, its business sectors and governance matters more generally, including individual experiences with frontline staff.
In 2017, the Board received a presentation on the Companys award-winning learning and development platform, U more details of which can be found in the Companys Corporate Responsibility Report.
All Directors now have access to a tailored range of modules regarding the business and core compliance training via U.
Performance evaluation A comprehensive evaluation of the Board, its Committees and each of the Directors is carried out annually, a process led by the Chairman and supported by the Company Secretary.
This was once again undertaken in 2017 using an external independent facilitator, Lintstock.
Lintstock is a specialist corporate governance consultancy and has nocommercial dealings, or any other connection, with the Group, other than for the provision of corporate governance services to the Board Board tour of The Power Centre and the provision of software to manage the Companys insider lists Following their Board meeting in September, the requirements under the Market Abuse Regulation.
Directors were given a tour of The Power Centre, The evaluation process involves a customised online questionnaire Rentokil Initials new science, innovation and training and commentary, moderated by Lintstock and capable of being academy in the UK which was opened in 2017.
The tour benchmarked against peers and previous years responses.
The was led by Savvas Othon, Service & Science Innovation evaluation is initiated immediately following the strategy away day withresponses collated and analysed by year end.
There are then Director, and Andy Brigham, General Technical Manager, reviews of the results with the Chairman, Committee chairs, Senior Science and Service.
They had the opportunity to meet Independent Director and individual Directors ahead of a group with members of the team and received demonstrations discussion at the Board meeting in February.
of the latest technology being developed or applied.
The 2017 evaluation reported high ratings for performance across They were also able to see the classrooms in the new a number of areas, as well as proposing some greater focus in 2018 training academy being used and were shown the on North America and the digital agenda, executive succession, simulated onsite locations for training and testing, enhancing understanding of key competitive threats, reviewing the which include an attic space, bathroom and governance and control framework in the light of the Companys supermarket area.
FTSE100 status and increased prominence and scale, and continuing toreview the portfolio of businesses.
No major concerns were raised.
The Board considered the output from the 2017 review at its meeting in February 2018 and agreed the actions for 2018 as detailed below.
2016 review actions Progress 2017 review actions Focus on the performance of the business Divested eight flat linen laundries in Focus on North America performance and Operational in France.
France and appointed a new Managing integration replatforming programme.
business Monitor portfolio and growth strategy.
Deepen Board understanding of digital reviews Maintain regional deep dive programme.
Two M&A activity reviews undertaken and strategy.
focus for 2017 strategy away day.
Deep dives for each region and Latin America held in 2017. Review the effectiveness of the Regular updates provided by the Chief Deep dive review of one key risk per Risk oversight additional support for the North Executive and Chief Financial Officer.
Internal controls framework and internal Review data privacy and GDPR Review internal controls in the light of audit resourcing reviewed.
Full review of terms of reference Undertake Board review of culture and Review scope of Audit Committee terms of undertaken with new terms adopted.
reference to consider whether to include Increased monitoring of effectiveness certain non-financial controls and risks.
of internal controls and internal audit resourcing.
Nomination Committee review of Board Three new Non-Executive Directors Continue to monitor progress in talent Succession and executive succession.
appointed in 2017 and early 2018. pools and executive succession planning Aim for exposure of key Executive Director Strategy away day and overseas Board bench strength.
and talent and ELT succession candidates to the visit provided opportunities to meet with Increased exposure of SLF members to Board.
the Board e. g. during June overseas visit.
management Review progress and performance talent Talent strategy update provided by the Board succession plans for Remuneration pools and talent strategy.
Committee chair and Senior Independent Review diversity performance including New Board diversity policy adopted.
Gender pay was reviewed and report Monitor impact of updated diversity approved for 2017. policies.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 61 Corporate Governance Report Governance framework The Board of Directors Collectively responsible for the governance of the Company, the Board ensures that it is effective at undertaking its duties through the use ofclear authority and reporting governance structures.
Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Board Committees Reviews and recommends the executive Ensures the correct balance, structure remuneration policy to the Board and and composition of the Board and determines the remuneration packages its Committees, and reviews Board of the Executive Directors and senior and executive succession planning management.
Audit Committee Provides effective financial governance with oversight of the Groups financial and narrative reporting, risk management and the external and internal audit process.
Chief Executive Senior Leadership Forum SLF Executive leadership Manages the overall performance Forum where the 25 most senior of the business and, with senior operational and functional colleagues management, implements the Groups globally meet to share progress and strategies and values.
discuss a range of issues that are critical to the operational performance of the Executive Leadership Team ELT Group as a whole.
Supports the Chief Executive in managing the business at Group level, overseeing Category boards safety, performance, operational plans and Forums where the senior operational actions, governance and risk management.
and functional leaders of Pest Control, The Executive Leadership Team Hygiene and Ambius meet to coordinate membership is provided on page 54. the development agenda for innovation, growth and productivity initiatives and to oversee the sharing of best practice.
Disclosure Committee Investment Committee Management Supports the Boards responsibility for the Reviews and approves investments Committees accuracy and timeliness of the disclosures below the threshold requiring approval made by the Company and compliance bythe Board, including M&A transactions, with the requirements of the Market property sales and investments and Abuse Regulation.
It also conducts post-acquisition reviews Group Risk Committee PARs of completed M&A transactions Monitors the internal control environment andreviews material litigation quarterly.
and reviews the effectiveness of the Groups internal control policies and Treasury Committee procedures for the identification, Reviews and approves capital structure assessment and reporting of risks.
andfinancing strategy as well as risk and cash management within set thresholds.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 62 Corporate Governance Report Strategic process Matters reserved for the Board and delegated authorities The Executive Directors and senior management closely monitor To ensure a clear division of responsibilities at the top of the Company progress against the Companys strategy and this is communicated between the running of the Board and the executive responsibility for to the Board at each meeting by the Chief Executive and the Chief running the Companys business, the Board has set out in writing matters Financial Officers reports.
All Board members attend an annual strategy which are specifically reserved for its decision.
The matters reserved for away day, details of which can be found on page 59.
In addition, the the Board and the terms of reference of each of its Committees, which are Board receives detailed presentations from the Regional Managing reviewed annually, most recently on 6 December 2017, are available on Directors of the Company and their Finance Directors over the course the Companys website at rentokil-initial.
These review the operations and strategy of the region, The Boards governance procedures delegate the day-to-day highlight specific areas of progress or challenge, review the financial management of the Groups businesses to the Chief Executive who in and control environment, and present the opportunity for the Board turn cascades authority to the wider management population through to challenge management on any area.
In 2017, as in 2016, the Board a documented schedule of authorities, setting out responsibilities, received an additional deep dive review on our emerging business decision-making and approval powers of managers at different levels region of Latin America.
Board review of risk management and internal control Monitoring and oversight The Board has overall responsibility for maintaining sound systems Policies of risk management and internal control that are both fully effective The Company has a robust Group-wide policy and procedure framework and ensure compliance with the Code on internal control and risk in place to supplement local policies or legislation.
Risks are considered in the context of long-term strategic appropriateness of policies are reviewed periodically by the relevant and emerging threats, and shorter-term risks to the delivery of the functional department head and approved by the Chief Executive.
The Board has also assessed the viability of The cornerstone of this policy framework is the Code of Conduct.
the Group over a period of three years, and the potential impact of Full details of the Companys policies relating to environmental, social the principal risks and stress testing financial forecasts for severe but and governance matters and their application can be found in the plausible scenarios, and the anticipated effectiveness of mitigating Companys Corporate Responsibility Report and the key policies actions.
The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal are disclosed on the Companys website.
In addition to the policies risks facing the Company, including those that would impact its business described there, the Company has a treasury policy in place to ensure model and future performance.
The principal risks identified can be the Group has sufficient liquidity and to manage financial risk as outlined found in the Risks and uncertainties section on pages 42 to 47, along in Note C1 to the Financial Statements on page 136.
In 2017, the Board with the Companys viability statement.
Additional briefings on risk also approved the Companys tax strategy which has been published and control topics included health and safety, IT security, data privacy, onour website in compliance with the Finance Act 2016.
More details funding and foreign exchange impact, tax strategy, environment and ontax governance can be found on page 106. emissions, litigation and contingent liabilities, as well as a review of aggregate M&A transaction performance and a forward-looking Specific programmes are in place to support implementation of the corporate governance tracker twice a year.
Code of Conduct and underlying policies, national laws and regulations, and monitoring and reporting compliance with them.
In some cases In 2018, the above structure will be continued and refined, with additional dedicated specialists are in place to ensure that standards are set topics to be covered in more depth scheduled to include data privacy and complied with, for example in health and safety, IT security and and GDPR ahead of the regulation coming into force in May 2018, data privacy, regulatory compliance, pensions and tax.
More broadly, assurance on how the requirements of balance and disclosure in the e-learning training, principally on the Companys online learning and Annual Report preparation process are fulfilled, and reviews of business development platform U, is used to ensure that expected standards continuity planning and workforce engagement.
of behaviour are widely disseminated and adopted across the Group.
The framework of risk management and internal control described Clear guidelines are provided to all colleagues on how to seek further in the Audit Committee Report on page 69 is designed to manage advice or report concerns.
Compliance is monitored through an annual and mitigate risk rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve Letter of Assurance process covering all Group senior management, business objectives.
In pursuing business objectives, internal controls and by monitoring control incidences reported via the Companys and risk management can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, confidential reporting process Speak Up.
Further details of the assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Review of its Companys governance and compliance framework can be found on effectiveness is achieved through regular and transparent management page 61.
The Group Risk Committee considers current and emerging reporting, the governance processes and external and internal risks, reviews current arrangements and makes recommendations for assurance processes, and in the Audit Committee and Boards annual enhancements as appropriate.
review of strategy and operational risks.
In 2017, the Company reviewed its data privacy arrangements The Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the system of across its European businesses and established a project to achieve internal control for the year ended 31 December 2017 and confirms that: compliance with the forthcoming EU General Data Protection Regulation the Group has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and GDPR, which comes into force on 25 May 2018.
A multidisciplinary managing the significant risks faced by the Group: project team has undertaken significant work since then to ensure this process has been in place for the year under review and up to that the Companys handling of personal data meets all the regulatory thedate of approval of the Annual Report and Financial Statements: requirements, and external consultants have been engaged to provide the process is regularly reviewed by the Board: and benchmarking and project assurance.
Following updates throughout the process operates in accordance with the Code.
theyear, the Board received a detailed presentation on data privacy and GDPR compliance at its meeting in December 2017.
At the same meeting, the Board also received an update on cyber security.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 63 Corporate Governance Report Fair, balanced and understandable We believe it is important that we receive feedback from our investors and are seen to act upon it.
The Board and Executive Leadership The Directors statement on fair, balanced and understandable can be Team are given detailed quarterly updates of the Companys Investor found on page 165.
The requirement under the Code to provide a fair, Relations activity which include feedback from investors, as well as balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position shorter commentary and updates at each Board meeting.
Specialist and prospects in its external reporting is considered throughout the advisors and the Head of Investor Relations provide regular updates process of producing the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
In order to provide the information necessary to comply with this The Board fulfils its obligations of accountability to shareholders requirement, the Board places particular reliance on the conclusions throughclear and open reporting on current performance and plans for and recommendations arising from the Audit Committees review of the future, engagement with shareholders and investor representative the Annual Report and Financial Statements, further details of which bodies, and taking into account the views expressed by shareholders.
In addition, the Board has oversight and Details of substantial share interests notified to the Company are takes into account the following elements: contained on page 164. the Chairman and Chief Executive provide input and agree on keyelements to be included which set the tone and balance of The Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and Committee theStrategic Report: Chairmen are available to attend meetings with investors, as required, all contributors to the Annual Report are made aware of the and will typically do so on a number of occasions annually.
During 2017 requirement for content to be fair, balanced and understandable: Chris Geoghegan undertook a series of introductory meetings with key regular review meetings are held with the appropriate senior investors following his appointment as Senior Independent Director.
management to ensure consistency of the whole document: Between June and October 2017, Richard Burrows, as Remuneration extensive review and verification processes are undertaken by Committee Chairman and Senior Independent Director, subsequently the appropriate departments and senior managers to ensure the met with representatives of almost 50% of the share register as well accuracy of the content: and as with the Investment Association, Glass Lewis and ISS as part of additional independent internal reviews are undertaken to ensure the consultation about the potential introduction of a new Directors thatany perceived lack of clarity, balance or understanding in the Remuneration Policy.
Further details on this can be found in the Annual Report is identified and addressed.
Engagement with shareholders The Companys website rentokil-initial.
com contains information on the Companys operations and services.
The Investor section contains As a Company we maintain effective channels of communication with information on past results and publications, press releases and analyst our debt and equity institutional investors and individual shareholders.
presentation material as well as dividend history.
It also contains This helps us to understand their views about the Company and information to help shareholders manage their holdings, including allows us to make sure they are provided with timely and appropriate providing the contact details of our Registrar, who manages all share information on our strategy, performance, objectives, financing and administration on the Companys behalf.
We do this in a number of ways.
Additional information for investors can be found on pages 166 and 167.
Our shareholders are invited to attend our twice-yearly presentations on our preliminary and interim results.
Recognising that attending in Annual General Meeting person is not always going to be possible not least for our non-UK The Board welcomes the opportunity to enter into dialogue with both shareholders we have been providing live webcasting of our results private and institutional shareholders at the Annual General Meeting days for over 10 years so that all shareholders can be kept fully up to AGM and views it as an opportunity to engage with all our shareholders date of our progress and strategic objectives going forward.
on the performance of the business they own.
We believe Capital Markets Days presentations are an excellent way The 2018 AGM will be held at 12 noon on 9 May 2018 in the for our shareholders to gain a deeper insight into our business.
These Ascot Suite at the Hilton London Gatwick Airport, South Terminal have been historically very well attended and have given our investors Gatwick Airport, Gatwick, RH6 0LL.
A separate Notice of Meeting, the chance to meet with and engage with our wider senior management containing an explanation of the items of special business, has been team from around the business.
We plan to host two Capital Markets sent to shareholders and is available on the Companys website.
Days in May 2018 in London and New York with a primary focus on our In accordance with the Code, the Directors are subject to annual global Pest Control business.
re-election by shareholders and will, therefore, be stepping down We believe regular and ongoing engagement with our shareholders is and seeking re-election at the AGM.
The exceptions to this are Sir paramount.
Members of our senior management and Investor Relations Crispin Davis, John Pettigrew and Linda Yueh, who have all been teams held 185 separate interactions with 160 different institutions appointed since the last AGM and so, in accordance with the Code, during 2017.
These were conducted through telephone calls and video will be subject to election by shareholders at the AGM, being the conferences, roadshows, one-to-one meetings, group meetings and first such meeting since their appointment.
In 2017 we undertook investor roadshows in London, New to shareholders the election of Sir Crispin Davis, John Pettigrew and York and Boston and participated in conferences in London, New York, LindaYueh, and re-election of the other Directors on the basis that Paris and Frankfurt.
Key subjects of discussion with our shareholders they are all effective Directors of the Company and demonstrate the over the year have been the performance and future potential of our appropriate level of commitment to the role.
Pest Control and Hygiene businesses: the status of our joint venture Biographical information in respect of the Directors as well as with Haniel: our strategy for the remaining France Workwear business: information as to why the Board believes the Directors should be our M&A programme: our ongoing focus on digital and innovation: and elected and re-elected can be found on pages 52 and 53, and in capital allocation.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 64 Corporate Governance Report Engagement with colleagues and customers Board engagement with colleagues during 2017 The Company is aiming to be both a world-class service company and a world-class Employer of Choice.
As an integral part of the Directors Received a duties, the Board considers the Companys relationships with its key presentation stakeholders and this year has given particular attention to achieving on learning and the strategic aims of the business and the means of monitoring the valueand culture which underpin such ambitions.
development available on U Details of the ways in which the Company engages with its colleagues, Read more customers and other key stakeholders can be found in the Corporate on page 60 responsibility section on pages 34 to 39, with further information also provided in the Companys 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report.
During the year both Alan Giles and Linda Yueh attended the Companys Executive Talent Pool programme where Alan shared his perspective on operating at Chief Executive level and how boards operate, and Linda presented a social-economic and political discussion on China, Brexit and the US.
In 2018 the Board will consider the new provision in the revised UK Received regional deep Received a presentation Corporate Governance Code due to apply to reporting years starting dive presentations on Your Voice Counts on or after 1 January 2019, as to the best method of strengthening Read more on page 62 Read more on page 35 the employee voice in the boardroom.
The recommendations given in the draft revised Code are the appointment of a director from the workforce, the creation of a formal workforce advisory panel, orhavingadesignated Non-Executive Director.
Monitored Glassdoor Met with senior managers during Read more overseas visits on page 35 Read more on page 59 2 3rds During 2017, the Board met over two thirds of the senior management team.
Met with members of Met with frontline staff the Companys graduate as part of induction and programme at the AGM ongoing development Read more on page 63 Read more on page 59 Received verbal updates on the Employee of Choice agenda and other key colleague developments from theChief Executive Read more at rentokil-initial.
com investors Read the 2018 Notice of Annual General Meeting at rentokil-initial.
com investors shareholder-centre J Jo ohn hn M Mc cA Ad dam am Read the 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report at C Ch hai air rma man n rentokil-initial.
com responsible-delivery 2 28 8 F Fe eb br ru ua ar ry y 2 20 01 18 8 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017
