DIRECTORS REPORT ACCOUNTABILITY The Board has established formal and transparent arrangements AUDIT COMMITTEE to apply the corporate reporting, risk management and internal control principles as set out in the Code.
This section outlines the DEAR SHAREHOLDER Groups system of internal control and risk management as well On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present this years Audit as the work of our Audit Committee during the year.
It has been another busy and interesting year for the Audit Committee Committee.
INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT The Board is responsible for monitoring the Groups system As announced last year, I succeeded Michael Wareing as Chair of ofinternal control and risk management and for reviewing its this Committee on 1 March 2017 and he remained a member until effectiveness so as to be in line with best practice.
I wish to thank Michael for his diligent management and internal controls are embedded in the running handover and his exemplary stewardship of the Committee since of each business line, country and support function and oversight 2012.
In July 2017 we also announced the appointment of is provided by divisional, regional and functional risk committees.
Jean-Michel Valette to the Board and to this Committee.
His Each risk committee in turn reports to the Group Risk Committee appointment brings a new perspective to the Committee and I am 'GRC'.
pleased to welcome him aboard.
The Group identifies and tracks its risk environment using a risk  LLP PwC completed their first full register process: the risk committees produce a register of risks audit for the year ended 31 December 2016, following a smooth intheir area of responsibility, and these risk registers are then handover from the previous auditor.
The audit process continues consolidated at Group level.
The GRC reviews the risks and to be effective with PwC establishing positive relationships and mitigation plans throughout the year and the Board approved the providing a good level of service to the Company.
During 2017 final Group RiskRegister in December.
The Group General Counsel the Committees primary focus centred on the accuracy of the presents aquarterly integrated control and compliance risk Groups financial reporting, together with improvements in review to the Board covering matters such as the Group risk internal control activities and risk and compliance matters.
This register and mitigation action plans, quarterly action plans to built on new developments in corporate governance and address any risk developments and a review of any changes extensive regulatory change in the UK and EU statutory audit tothe Groups risk environment.
reporting, which the Committee had already considered and reported on in the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts.
The new COMPLIANCE, WHISTLE-BLOWING AND FRAUD legislation introduced mandatory rotation of auditors and tighter Intertek is committed to maintaining a culture where issues of restrictions on the provision of non-audit services, as well as integrity and professional ethics can be raised and discussed.
The setting out requirements in relation to the responsibilities and Groups key ethics and integrity policies are set out in the Code of composition of audit committees.
Ethics and a detailed description of the topics covered by the Code of Ethics, its operation during the year and the outcomes of This report aims to outline the activities and the responsibilities these policies are contained in the Sustainability and CSR report of the Committee, on behalf of the Board, in responding to on pages 44 to 61. thesechanges and in scrutinising the conduct of the business, itsmanagement and auditors to protect the interests of To enable all employees, contractors and others representing ourshareholders.
Intertek to confidentially report suspected breaches of the Code of Ethics, a global hotline system is in place.
In addition, dedicated compliance officers across the Groups markets undertake investigations of issues that arise either from reports to the hotline system or from other sources, such as routine compliance questions.
The Group Compliance function is independent of the Groups operational business and reports directly to the Group General Counsel.
Andrew Martin Chair of the Audit Committee INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 75 DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTABILITY continued COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE COMMITTEE The membership of the Committee at the year end was Andrew Our role and responsibilities, as authorised by the Board, are set Martin Committee Chair, Jean-Michel Valette and Lena Wilson.
out in the terms of reference of the Committee and fall into the Alan Brown was a member of the Committee until 24 May 2017 categories below: and Michael Wareing remained a member until 30 September Financial reporting 2017.
With effect from 1 January 2018, Dame Louise Makin was Monitor the integrity of the financial statements and their appointed a member of the Committee.
The Board considers that, compliance with UK statutory requirements.
as a whole, the Committee has the competence and broad experience relevant to the sectors in which Intertek operates.
In Review significant financial reporting issues and judgements, addition, Andrew Martin has extensive recent and relevant accounting policies and compliance with accounting standards.
financial experience, particularly gained as the Group Finance Narrative reporting Director of Compass Group PLC.
An overview of the background, Where requested by the Board, to review the Annual Report knowledge and experience of the Committee Chair and each of and Accounts, and advise the Board on whether, taken as a the Committee members can be found on pages 68 and 69 as per whole, it is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the table on page 67. theinformation necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model On appointment new Committee members receive an appropriate andstrategy.
induction, consisting of the review of the terms of reference, previous Committee meeting papers, information on the Internal control and risk management systems Companys financial and operational risks and also have access to Review the adequacy and effectiveness of the internal financial and meetings with senior management and the Groups internal controls and internal control and risk management systems.
Review and approve the statements to be included in The business of the Committee is linked to the Groups financial theAnnual Report concerning internal controls and risk calendar of events and the timetable for the annual audit.
the year, the Committee held four formal meetings.
Attendance of members at meetings is shown in the table on page 65.
The Whistle-blowing and fraud Group Company Secretary attends all the meetings of the Review the adequacy and security of the Companys Committee.
At the invitation of the Committee, the Chairman, arrangements for its employees and contractors to raise CEO, CFO, Group Financial Controller and the Group Audit Director concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial attended the meetings.
The audit partner and his team attended reporting or other matters ensuring that these arrangements all meetings held during the year.
Other senior executives were allow proportionate and independent investigation of such invited to attend the Committee meetings asrequired.
matters and appropriate follow up action.
Review the Companys systems and procedures for detecting During the year the Committee also ensured that separate fraud: for the prevention of bribery and receive reports on meetings with the CFO, Group Audit Director and the external non-compliance.
auditor without management present took place in order to provide a forum for any issues to be raised.
Internal audit The internal evaluation of the performance of the Committee Monitor the effectiveness of the internal audit function.
was conducted during the year and entailed the completion of a Agree internal audit plans and review reports of the internal detailed questionnaire by each of the Committee members, audit work.
thereview and discussion of the results of the evaluation and identifying and agreeing areas for improvement.
It was shown Review and monitor managements responsiveness to control that the Committee is able and effective in discharging its duties observations made by the internal auditor.
in accordance with its terms of reference and the requirements External audit ofthe Code.
Consider and make recommendations to the Board, to be put toshareholders for approval at the AGM, in relation to the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the Companys external auditor.
Oversee the relationship with the external auditor.
Ensure that at least once every 10 years the audit services contract is put out to tender.
Monitor and review the independence and performance of the external auditor and evaluate their effectiveness.
For the Committees terms of reference, see www.
76 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 DIRECTORS REPORT SIGNIFICANT ISSUES CONSIDERED BY THE COMMITTEE Restructuring In preparation for each year end, the Committee reviews the In reviewing the provision for restructuring, the Committee significant accounting policies, estimates and judgements to reviewed details of the activities pursued as part of the beapplied in the financial statements and discusses their restructuring to ensure that the appropriate level of provision is applicationwith management.
The external auditor also put in place, and that these activities are aligned with the Group's considers the appropriateness of these assessments as part strategy.
The Committee also sought confirmation from the ofthe external audit.
external auditor that the restructuring plan met the criteria for recognising a provision under IAS 37 before determining that the In accordance with the Code, the external auditor prepares a provision was appropriate.
report for the Committee on both the half-year and full-year results, which summarises the approach to key risks in the Accounting for acquisitions external audit and highlights any issues arising out of their The provisional recognition of goodwill, intangible assets, other workon those risks, or any other work undertaken on the audit.
assets and liabilities and estimates of thefair value of During the year, the Committee reviewed and considered the consideration transferred for acquisitions made are based on a following areas of judgement to be exercised in the application of number of assumptions.
In 2017, management concluded its the accounting policies: finalassessment of these assets and liabilities for acquisitions made in 2016 and presented anupdate to the Committee.
The Claims Committee reviewed managements final accounting paper on From time to time the Group is involved in various claims and acquisitions made in 2016 and 2017, and took into account the lawsuits incidental to the ordinary course of business.
The report presented by the external auditor, before determining that Committee considered the claims provision which reflects the the acquisition accounting is appropriate.
estimates of amounts payable in connection with identified claims from customers, former employees and others.
Impairment The Groups strategy includes acquisition-led growth to generate TheCommittee noted that once claims have been notified the new services and expand into new locations.
These acquisitions, finance teams liaise with the business to determine whether being in the service sector, can generate significant goodwill that aprovision is required, based on IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent benefits the Group as a whole and specifically the business to which liabilities and Contingent assets IAS 37. the acquisition relates.
Goodwill, aggregated at the cash generating The level of provision is subsequently reviewed on a regular basis unit CGU level, must be tested annually for impairment under IAS with the Group General Counsel, taking into account the advice of 36 Impairment IAS 36, or when there are indicators of external legal counsel.
The Committee, following assurance from impairment.
management and review of the report presented by the external The Committee reviewed the impairment consideration and auditor, considered and agreed that the claims provision was calculations prepared by management considering the trading appropriate given the size and status of claims reported.
assumptions, the discount rates used as well as the sensitivities Taxation included by management, details of which are contained in The determination of profits subject to tax is calculated note9to the financial statements.
The Committee also took into according to complex laws and regulations, the interpretation account the work undertaken by the external auditor in respect andapplication of which can be uncertain.
In addition, deferred of impairment and is satisfied that no impairment is required tax assets and liabilities require judgement in determining the against any CGU.
amounts to be recognised, with consideration given to the timing The significant issues considered by the Committee in relation to and level of future taxable income.
The main areas of judgement the financial statements were consistent, with the exception of in the Group tax calculation are the expected central tax restructuring, with those identified by the external auditor in provisions for the full year and the recognition of the UK their report on pages 157 to 163. deferredtax asset.
Twice a year, the Committee receives a report from management providing an evaluation of existing risks and tax provisions which is reviewed by the Committee.
The Committee also considered reports presented by the external auditor before determining that the levels of tax provisioning were appropriate.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 77 DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTABILITY continued ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR During the year the Committee discussed the following items: AUDIT COMMITTEE AGENDA ITEMS 2017 Financial statements and reports Feb May Jul Dec Full-year results 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Management highlights memorandum Going concern assessment Fair, balanced and understandable assessment Review of significant accounting policies Half-year results 2017 Risk Register and Viability Statement process External audit PwC 2017 audit plan Audit fee proposal 2017 PwC engagement letter PwC year-end report and controls update PwC half-year report and controls update Intertek assessment of PwC effectiveness Letter of representation to the auditors Independence confirmation and review of non-audit spend and policy PwC pre year-end report to the Committee Internal Control Environment 2018 Internal Audit plan and Charter Internal Controls process and sign-off Internal audit reports Assessment of Internal Audit effectiveness Core Mandatory Controls and Assurance Map update Other 2017 Rolling Committee agenda 2016 Evaluation of the Committee and Committee terms of reference Update on FRC focus areas and letter New IFRS accounting standards update FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE ASSESSMENT A verification process dealing with the factual content The Code provides that through its financial reporting, the Board ofthereports to ensure accuracy and consistency: should provide a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys prospects.
Comprehensive review by the senior management team toensure overall consistency and balance: At the Boards request, the Committee reviewed the Annual Report and Accounts to determine whether it considered that the Review conducted by external advisors and the external document, taken asawhole, meets this standard and provides auditor on best practice with regard to the content and the necessary information for shareholders and other readers of structure of the Annual Report and Accounts: the Annual Report and Accounts to assess the Groups position Review and consideration of the Annual Report and Accounts and performance for 2017, its business model and strategy.
by the Committee: and In justifying this statement, the Committee has considered the Final sign-off provided by the Board.
robust process that underpins it, which includes: The results are presented to the Committee to ensure compliance Clear guidance and instruction given to all contributors, with the Code.
The Committee challenges judgemental including at business line level: statements to ensure that they are reasonable within the context Revisions as a result of regulatory requirements monitored of the report.
This process enabled the Committee, and then the onaregular basis: Board, to confirm that the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and Pre year-end discussions held with the external auditor provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the inadvance of the year-end reporting process: Companys position, performance, business model andstrategy.
Pre year-end input provided by senior management and corporate functions: 78 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 DIRECTORS REPORT EXTERNAL AUDITOR financial information systems design and implementation: The Statutory Auditors and Third Country Auditors Regulations appraisal or valuation services: actuarial services: internal audit 2016, which implement the EU Audit Directive and Audit outsourcing or co-sourcing services: management functions or Regulation, has resulted in changes to the Companies Act 2006 human resources services: broker or dealer, investment advisor and to the Code.
Amongst other things, the Company is now orinvestment banking services: legal services which can only be required to rotate its auditors every 10 years, to give advance provided by a qualified lawyer: expert services unrelated to the notice of any tendering plans and to cap the non-audit fees paid audit that include advocating Interteks interests in litigation, to auditors at 70% of the three-year average audit fees at Group regulatory or administrative proceedings not precluding the level, with there being a prohibition on the provision of certain auditors providing factual accounts to explain positions taken non-audit services.
during the course of their work: tax services in relation to marketing, planning, or opining in favour of an aggressive tax As noted in this report last year, the Group completed position or transaction: any other services that, locally, are atransparent and independent audit tender process in 2015. prohibited through regulation: and personal tax compliance Following this process PwC have been the Companys auditors services to members of the Groups management who have and Ian Chambers the Audit Partner since May 2016. afinancial reporting oversight role.
In line with current regulation, the Company is required to put its In the event that an engagement for non-audit services arises, external audit process out to tender again in 2025-2026. the policy is designed to ensure that the external auditor is only appointed where it is considered to be the most suitable supplier The independence of the external auditor is critical for the of the service and the necessary prior approvals have been given integrity of the audit.
We are satisfied that PwC are fully in accordance with the policy.
independent from the Companys management and free from conflicts of interest.
The Committee annually reviews and reapproves the framework Effectiveness of the external audit of permitted non-audit services as set out in the policy, taking The Committee conducts an annual review to assess the into account any changes in legislation and best practice.
PwC independence and objectivity of the external auditor and the also provide an update on the spend for non-audit services effectiveness of the audit as part of the year-end process.
This against the annual cap twice a year.
process is conducted in three parts: A summary of the fees paid for non-audit services is set out below and further information is contained in note 4 to the PwC presents its approach to maintaining audit quality financial statements on page 116: annually to the Committee: The views of management and the Directors on PwCs service AUDIT FEE BREAKDOWN FOR SERVICES PROVIDED BY are obtained via a questionnaire survey and feedback is PWC IN 2017 presented to the Committee: and 2017 2016 m m The key findings and recommendations from both processes Total non-audit fees 0.2 0.2 form the basis of the assessment of PwCs effectiveness audit-related services 0.2 0.1 together with the Committees experience of dealing with tax services 0.1 PwCduring the year.
other non-audit services The survey assessed the effectiveness of the PwC audit across its Audit fee 3.6 3.1 three main stages: Planning, Fieldwork and Reporting, as well as on % of audit fee 5% 6% transition commitments in the first year of their tenure.
The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Following this review, the Committee considered in detail the Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender feedback received and concluded, at the meeting held in May 2017, Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order that PwC remained independent and provided a service that was 2014 CMA Order Statement of compliance robust and fit for purpose and that the overall audit process was The Company confirms that it complied with the provisions of the effective.
The effectiveness for the 2017 audit of the Group will be CMA Order for the financial year under review.
reviewed by the Committee in May 2018.
INTERNAL CONTROLS AND FINANCIAL REPORTING Audit and non-audit fees Doing Business the Right Way is at the heart of what we do and The Company has set out a policy on the provision of non-audit is a key enabler of our 5x5 strategy for growth.
The Intertek Core work by the external auditor consistent with the Revised Ethical Mandatory Controls CMCs are an integral part of Doing Standard 2016 issued by the FRC and it isdesigned to ensure Business the Right Way, and provide the mechanism by which we that the provision of such services does notcreate a threat to the define, monitor and achieve consistently high standards in our external auditors independence andobjectivity.
control environment throughout the whole organisation.
An It identifies certain types of engagement that the external updated set of CMCs v3.0 has been developed reflecting auditor shall not undertake, including bookkeeping or other feedback on the existing framework and how the Groups risk services related to accounting records or financial statements: environment has evolved during the year.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 79 DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTABILITY continued In order to provide assurance that the Intertek controls and policy PRIORITIES FOR 2018 framework is being adhered to, a self-certification exercise is The priorities for the Committee over the next 12 months are undertaken across the Groups global operations.
This exercise is asfollows: reviewed and refreshed each year to ensure that it encapsulates Continue to monitor the external auditor: all new areas of risk identified and to support the continued development of the Groups control environment.
An online Continue to facilitate the understanding of the business by questionnaire requesting confirmation of adherence to controls, theexternal auditor: financial and operational, is sent to all Intertek country and Ensure that the audit continues to evolve and align with the finance operations.
Where corrective actions are needed, the changes in the business and strategic objectives: country is required to provide an outline and a confirmed timeline.
These items are monitored closely to ensure timely completion.
Continue to develop and refine the CMCs in line with the This process is facilitated by the Legal, Risk and Compliance evolving risk environment of the Company: function.
Continue to monitor the impact of external economic factors on the Group and its financial position: and A consolidated assessment is made at regional level for senior leadership approval.
An evaluation is then undertaken with Monitor any relevant changes in the corporate governance Executive Management Team following which a Company-wide andregulatory arena.
position is submitted to the CEO and the CFO.
A final summary GOING CONCERN assessment is provided to the Committee.
The self-assessment The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has exercise has been reviewed during the year to ensure global adequate resources for a period of at least 12 months from the coverage and to reflect Interteks operational and financial date of signing this Annual Report and Accounts, and have structure, and in order to enhance the alignment of the selftherefore assessed that the going concern basis of accounting is assessment to the assurance process.
appropriate in preparing the financial statements and that there A detailed verification programme also provides assurance to the are no material uncertainties to disclose.
Committee and the Board when checking that all the statements made in the Annual Report and Accounts are accurate.
Interteks This conclusion is based on a review and an assessment of the Manual of Accounting Policies and Procedures is issued to all levels of facilities expected to be available to the Group, based finance staff and gives instructions and guidance on all aspects onlevels of cash held, Group Treasury funding projections, and of accounting and reporting that apply to the Group.
the Groups financial projections for a period to 31 December 2022.
With the exception of $100m of facilities maturing in The Committee can confirm that it reviewed the Groups internal 2018, all the current borrowing facilities are expected to be controls and risk management systems and concluded that there available at31 December 2018. was a sound and effective control environment in place across In making this assessment, management has considered the the Group during 2017, and up to the date upon which these covenants attached to the Groups borrowing facilities and financial statements were approved.
No significant failings or performed downside scenarios on the Groups financial weaknesses had been identified.
projections of 10% and 20% reduction in EBITDA forecast.
INTERNAL AUDIT Evenin these circumstances, there is significant headroom on The annual Internal Audit plan is reviewed and approved by the thedebt covenants.
Where there is no internal expertise to perform aspecialised audit, a third-party auditor with the requisite skills After making diligent enquiries the Directors have a reasonable isappointed to undertake the audit, the findings of which are expectation based upon current financial projections and bank reported to the Committee.
In its reports to the Committee, facilities available, that the Group has adequate resources to Internal Audit provided summaries of each audit performed, continue in operation.
Accordingly they continue to adopt the withcommentary on the robustness of internal control design going concern basis in preparing the Groups financial statements.
In 2017, Internal Audit focused onreviews of financial control in a wide range of businesses, aswellas regular follow-up activities.
As part of its annual programme, the Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the Group Internal Audit function including feedback from key business stakeholders.
An independent review of Internal Audit effectiveness is conducted every three years, with the latest review having been completed in 2016, and the Andrew Martin Committee reviewed progress against the recommendations.
Chair of the Audit Committee 80 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017
