DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE EFFECTIVENESS continued I n 2017, we again received a strong shareholder vote 96.76% NOMINATION COMMITTEE on the approval of our 2016 Remuneration report.
DEAR SHAREHOLDER The enhancement of the risk management and controls Succession planning has been a key focus of the Nomination processes during 2017, now reporting directly through the CEO, Committee Committee during the year.
We continued our focus have ensured that risk is owned and operated by management on the Non-Executive Director refreshment programme, and the with comprehensive quarterly reports to the Board.
ongoing review of the composition of the Board and its The quality and level of information and papers for board Committees.
In keeping with this, the Committee carried out a meetings is good, and the progress on the strategic agenda is robust recruitment process resulting in the appointment of reviewed and discussed at each meeting and reviewed again Gurnek Bains and Jean-Michel Valette in July, and the appointment annually.
There is good balance and constructive debate at the of Graham Allan in October 2017, further enhancing the range of meetings.
There is good communication to the Board between skills, breadth of experience and diversity on our Board.
meetings and a good example of this is the weekly updates MAIN RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE COMMITTEE received by the Board following the storms in the US until the Review the structure, size and composition of the Board and situation had stabilised.
The Board visit to Interteks business in Singapore was Identify, review and nominate candidates to fill Board excellent and gave the Board a thorough review of the region.
The CEO also encourages Non-Executive Directors to visit laboratories and management covering the important Evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and geographies and business lines.
diversity on the Board and its Committees.
Our people continue to be our most important asset and we Review the results of the performance evaluation process that continue to focus on becoming the best-in-class through talent relates to the composition of the Board and the Committees.
mapping, talent development and customer-centricity.
We Review the time commitment required from Non-Executive believe we can achieve significant competitive advantage as Directors.
we work through our people programme.
Neither the Chairman nor the CEO participates in the recruitment of their On sustainability, another area where we are on a journey to own successor.
best-in-class following a detailed review in December 2016, we For the Committees terms of reference see www.
have seen further significant progress in 2017.
We work globally with our clients to improve the social, ethical and MEMBERSHIP OF THE COMMITTEE environmental impacts of their services, supply chain and their The membership of the Committee at the year-end was Sir David products.
We have further exciting plans for 2018, for our Reid Committee Chair, Graham Allan, Gurnek Bains and Dame customers, and all our stakeholders.
Michael Wareing was a member of the Committee until 30 September 2017 when he stepped down from the Board.
Lastly on growth, our Board is totally focused on driving With effect from 1 January 2018, Lena Wilson was appointed to organic sales growth, together with taking advantage of the Committee.
During the year, the Committee held four formal investment and acquisition opportunities.
Growth is a key meetings, although members of the Committee correspond and driver and will be accompanied by margin-accretive revenue meet informally on a number of occasions to consider, and meet growth and delivering good returns on capital invested.
with, individuals that the Committee had identified as possible Chairman and Director evaluation The Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, conducted a performance review of theChairman.
They considered his leadership, performance andoverall contribution to be of a high standard and he continuesto have their full support.
The Chairman met with each Director to discuss individual contributions and performance, together with training and development needs.
Following these reviews, the Board remainssatisfied that, in line with the Code, all Directors are ableto allocate sufficient time to the Company to enable them todischarge their responsibilities as Directors effectively and thatany current external appointments do not detract from theextent or quality of time which the Director is able to devoteto the Company.
The Board recommends that shareholders should be supportive of their election or re-election to the Board at the 2018 AGM.
Sir David Reid Chair of the Nomination Committee 72 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 DIRECTORS REPORT candidates to join the Board.
Attendance of members at formal discusses and reviews extensively the skills and capabilities meetings is shown in the table on page 65.
The Group Company foreach Board vacancy as well as outlining the qualities of the Secretary attends all the meetings of the Committee.
The individual required to ensure the right fit with the culture and Committee invites the CEO and the EVP, Human Resources to style of Intertek.
The Committee has also developed an attend meetings when it deemsappropriate.
information pack on Intertek to enable potential candidates to gain a thorough understanding of the Group to ensure that this ACTIVITY OF THE COMMITTEE DURING THE YEAR isa company that they wish to be part of.
The Committees programme of work for the year was as follows: In the context of the retirements from the Board, the Committee Considered and discussed the results of the internal annual initiated a search for new Non-Executive Directors.
In addition to review into the effectiveness of the Committee.
the specific skills, knowledge and experience deemed necessary, the role specification contained criteria such as competency and Reviewed and appointed recruitment consultants.
personal qualities that would be required for each of the positions.
Reviewed the shortlist of candidates against a revised The Committee also paid close attention to ensure that those comprehensive and focused requirement of the skills, candidates selected exhibited the right behaviours to fit the experience and behaviours of our Non-Executive Directors in culture, values and ethics of the Group and would also be able the light of our refreshment programme.
toallocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge their responsibilities.
The Committee separately engaged Egon Reviewed the composition of each Committee and approved Zehnder and Russell Reynolds, both external search agencies the appointment of Andrew Martin as a member of the with no other connection to the Company, to assist with the Remuneration Committee on 1 July 2017. different selection processes.
Russell Reynolds were specifically Reviewed training and development for Non-Executive chosen to assist with the search in the US.
Following this rigorous selection process, the Committee, having Recommended to the Board that Gurnek Bains and Jean-Michel considered the relative merits and fit of each candidate, made Valette be appointed as Non-Executive Directors and as arecommendation to the Board, which was accepted, to appoint members of the Nomination and the Audit Committees as independent Non-Executive Directors Gurnek Bains and respectively on 1 July 2017.
Gurneks wide-ranging Recommended to the Board the appointment of Graham Allan experience, working with senior leaders across a range of as the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and a industries internationally, and his thought leadership on culture member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees and leadership development, provides a strong addition to the on1 October 2017. current skills on the Board and we extended a warm welcome tohim as a member of this Committee.
SUCCESSION PLANNING Jean-Michel Valette brings strong US and global management As recommended by Provision B.
2.3. of the Code, we are experience, especially in consumer branding and luxury goods committed to a progressive refreshing of the Board.
We have companies, which will broaden the international and customer continued our discussions, not just on the qualities and skills knowledge on our Board.
With more than 30 years experience in required on the Board in the short term but also considered the management, US public company corporate governance, strategic importance in understanding the evolving needs of the business planning and finance he is well placed as a member of the Audit over the next five to ten years.
This is to ensure that the core Committee which he joined on appointment.
skills and attributes required of future candidates support the growth agenda of the Group.
The Committee continues to ensure We are also delighted to say that Graham Allan became the that the composition of the Board retains the right balance of Companys Senior Independent Non-Executive Director in skills, diversity, experience, industry and technical knowledge to October 2017.
He brings strong management knowledge provide the quality of leadership necessary, to further implement asaCEO and experience in the pan-Asian market, as well as the strategy and achieve the strategic objectives necessary for international experience in consumer and retail business, to the long-term success of the Company.
The Committee also complement the current skills on the Board.
ensures plans are in place for orderly succession for appointments Throughout the year the Committee reviewed the composition to the Board, and reviews the succession plans for other senior ofeach Committee and approved the appointment of Andrew management positions.
Responsibility for making senior Martin as a member of the Remuneration Committee on 1 July management appointments rests with the CEO.
To further ensure continuity of knowledge and Board Last year we reported to you our intention to annually review the dynamics, he also succeeded Michael Wareing as Chair of the Boards effectiveness and composition in relation to long-term Audit Committee on 1 March 2017. succession planning.
To ensure that the Board comprises a broad range of skills, experience and attributes, the Committee Biographies for all the Directors are available on pages 68 and 69 and aresolution for each new Director will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM for their election.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 73 DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE EFFECTIVENESS continued DIVERSITY CONCLUSION We remain strongly supportive of the principle of boardroom As Chairman of the Nomination Committee, I believe we have diversity, of which gender is an important, but not the only made significant progress in the last six years, and particularly in aspect.
It is the Companys policy, in line with the Code, that the last three years, in building a strong PLC board at the proposed appointments to the Board, and succession planning, Executive and Non-Executive level as well as within the are based on merit, judged against objective criteria, whilst also Executive Management Team.
making the best use of differences in culture, gender, skills, We are a people business and so this will continue to be a key background, regional and industry experience and other qualities.
focus on an ongoing basis.
An example of our commitment to All of these factors are considered by the Committee in People is the recent appointment of Gurnek Bains who is a determining the composition of the Board and each new leading expert on People and his skills are complementary and appointment must complement existing skills, knowledge add value to the Executive Team in terms of attracting, andexperience.
developing and retaining good people.
He is also a thought leader The Board is mindful of the recommendations by both Lord on Leadership Culture.
Davies in his report 'Women on Boards', and the Hampton Similarly, Jean-Michel Valette's vast experience of US and global Alexander Review, which builds on the Davies Review, which management and Graham Allan's experience in consumer and encourages FTSE 350 companies to achieve at least 33% women retail management pan-Asia including China, as well as in the US, on boards by 2020. has added complementary perspectives and insight to the Board.
As at 31 December 2017, Intertek had three female members on These geographies represent over 50% of our global revenues.
the Board out of ten representing 30%.
Whilst the Boards wish is to return to a level of at least 33% female representation at Board level, the need to ensure the progressive refreshing of the Board to maintain the correct balance of skills, knowledge and experience remains paramount.
The Group also supports and already complies with the Parker Review Beyond One by 21 recommendation that FTSE 100 and Sir David Reid 250 company boards should have at least one ethnically diverse Chair of the Nomination Committee director by 2021 and 2024 respectively.
Gurnek Bains, currently a Non-Executive Director, fulfils this criterion.
The Company remains committed to providing equal opportunities, eliminating discrimination, and encouraging diversity amongst our global workforce.
An analysis of the diversity of the senior leadership group, their direct reports and other employees as at 31 December 2017 is set out on pages 48and 49 respectively.
74 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017
