DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE LEADERSHIP COMPLIANCE WITH THE 2016 UK CORPORATE toriskmanagement and internal control systems and the Groups GOVERNANCE CODE 'CODE' Risk Register.
The overall powers of Directors are set out in This report has been prepared in order to provide the theCompanys Articles of Association Articles and may be shareholders and other stakeholders with a comprehensive amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
understanding of our governance framework and to meet the The Board is ultimately responsible for ensuring that appropriate requirements of the Code, the Listing Rules 'LR' and the financial and human resources are in place to achieve its longDisclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules 'DTR'.
A copy of term strategy and deliver sustainable performance.
Our strategy the Code is also available at www.
During 2017, the and progress towards delivering these strategic aims is set Company has complied with the provisions of the Code in full.
A outinthe Strategic report on pages 2 to 61. more detailed explanation of our compliance can also be found on our website at www.
The information required to be The Board Approval Matrix formally outlines the matters disclosed in accordance with DTR 7.2.
6 can be found in the Other specifically requiring the consent of the full Board.
Each of the Statutory Information section on pages 99 to 101.
Boards Committees has received delegated authority to carry out the business defined in its respective terms of reference.
THE BOARD TheBoard is satisfied that the terms of reference for each The Board has the ultimate responsibility to the Companys ofthese Committees continue to reflect current best practice shareholders for the proper conduct and success of the business andsatisfy the terms of the Code.
through innovative leadership, setting the strategic aims of the Company, its values and standards.
The Board also decides and The Board also delegates specific responsibilities, subject reviews all key policies and regulations, itsstrategy, operating tocertain financial limits, to management and this is governed plans, large acquisitions, corporate governance, major bythe Authorities Cascade, which is regularly reviewed and investments and disposals, appointment andremoval of refreshed to ensure it continues to meet business needs.
Directors, risk management, financial reporting, audit, Anagreed framework of controls enables strategic aims and sustainability, ethics, the environment and people policies.
financial performance to be delivered whilst also allowing TheBoard reviews and approves the method and approach risktobe assessed and managed.
Intertek Board of Directors Biographical details can be found on pages 68 and 69.
Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Membership as at Membership as at Membership as at 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 - Andrew Martin Chair - Gill Rider Chair - Sir David Reid Chair - Jean-Michel Valette - Graham Allan - Graham Allan - Lena Wilson - Dame Louise Makin - Gurnek Bains - Andrew Martin - Dame Louise Makin Read more on pages 75 to 80.
Group Risk Ethics and Compliance Investment Disclosure Executive Committtee GRC Committee Committee Committee Management Team Responsible for assisting Responsible for Interteks Responsible for the management of risk: Responsible for the Responsible for reviewing the CEO in overseeing the global operations, the Team to develop, oversee and promote the monitoring of ethical, significant contracts, Groups compliance with meets regularly to discuss continuous improvement of the Groups compliance and HSE issues leases and acquisitions, securities dealing as well as and decide business and risk management, internal controls and a ecting any part of the undertaking post continuous and periodic operational issues.
assurance framework and the related Intertek Group.
Biographical details of the procedures and systems: to oversee the reviews, overseeing Team can be found on development, implementation and adoption capital expenditure and pages 20 and 21. of any policies, procedures and systems investments as dened in which are identied as being required to the Authorities Cascade.
address, or as a consequence of, Group risks.
The GRC provides an integrated, Group-wide approach to identifying and managing the Group's emerging and systemic risk environment.
Divisional & Country Support Functions Management 64 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 DIRECTORS REPORT ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES There is a clear division of responsibilities between the running ofthe Board a key responsibility of the Chairman and the day-to-day running of the Companys business the responsibility of the CEO.
These responsibilities have beenformalised in writing.
Roles of the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer andSeniorIndependent Non-Executive Director ROLE NAME RESPONSIBILITIES Chairman Sir David Reid Leading and governing theBoard to ensure its effectiveness in all aspects.
Ensuring the Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information to enable them todischarge their duties.
Ensuring effective two-way communication with shareholders and communicating to all Directorsany of the major shareholders issues and concerns.
Facilitating openness and debate and the effective contribution of Non-Executive Directors.
Andr Lacroix Proposing and agreeing thestrategy with the Board.
Chief Running the day-to-day operation of the business in line with the agreed strategy Executive andcommercial objectives.
Officer Promoting and conducting the affairs of the Company with the higheststandards of ethics, integrity and corporate governance.
Leading the Executive Management Team.
Providing a sounding board forthe Chairman.
Senior Michael Wareing Being available as an intermediary between other Directors and the Chairman.
Independent to 30 September 2017 Leading the annual performance reviewof the Chairman.
Non-Executive Graham Allan Being available to meet with shareholders should they have any concerns that have Director from 1 October 2017 notbeenresolved through the normal channels.
GROUP COMPANY SECRETARY Board and Committee membership & Meeting attendance The Group Company Secretary supports the Chairman in the DIRECTOR BOARD AUDIT NOMINATION REMUNERATION delivery of the Board and governance procedures, in particular Sir David Reid with the planning of agendas for the annual cycle of Board Chairman 5 5 4 4 andCommittee meetings, the planning of the induction for Andr Lacroix newDirectors and in ensuring that information is made available Chief Executive Officer 5 5 tothe Board members on a timely basis.
She arranges for the Edward Leigh Non-Executive Directors to meet with investors to discuss Chief Financial Officer 5 5 1 aspects of Interteks corporate governance arrangements on Graham Allan Senior Independent request and supervises the arrangements for them to visit Non-Executive Director 2 2 1 1 1 1 Interteks operations to enhance their knowledge and 2 Gurnek Bains understanding of the business.
She also provides updates Non-Executive Director 3 3 2 2 totheBoard on regulatory and corporate governance issues, 3 Alan Brown newlegislation, and Directors duties and obligations.
Non-Executive Director 1 1 1 1 All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group Dame Louise Makin Company Secretary, including access to independent professional Non-Executive Director 5 5 4 4 3 3 4 advice at the Groups expense.
She ensures that an accurate Andrew Martin record of all the Board and Committee meetings is taken and if Non-Executive Director 5 5 4 4 1 1 5 amember of the Board has any concerns about the Company Gill Rider Non-Executive Director 4 5 3 3 orany of the decisions taken, the minutes reflect this.
No such 6 Jean-Michel Valette concerns were raised during the year.
Non-Executive Director 3 3 2 2 The Company has granted an indemnity, to the extent 7 Michael Wareing permittedby law, to each of the Directors and the Group Senior Independent Company Secretary.
Directors and Officers liability insurance Non-Executive Director 3 3 3 3 3 3 2 2 isalso in place.
Lena Wilson Non-Executive Director 5 5 4 4 MEETING, ATTENDANCE & INDEPENDENCE The table on the right sets out the Board and Committee When required the Board also met at short notice on a quorate basis.
membership and attendance during the year to 31 December 1.
Graham Allan was appointed to the Board and joined the Nomination and Remuneration Committees on 1 October 2017.
Attendance is shown as the number of meetings attended 2.
Gurnek Bains was appointed to the Board and joined the Nomination Committee outofthe total number of meetings possible for the individual on 1 July 2017.
Alan Brown stepped down from the Board and the Audit Committee on 24 May 2017.
Director to attend during the year.
The Board has reviewed the 4.
Andrew Martin joined the Remuneration Committee on 1 October 2017. independence oftheNon-Executive Directors, other than the 5.
Gill Rider missed one Board meeting due to illness however she attended the Chairman, andconsidersthat all of them continue to demonstrate preceding management presentations.
Jean-Michel Valette was appointed to the Board and joined the Audit Committee independencein both character and judgement.
Michael Wareing stepped down from chairing the Audit Committee on 1 March 2017 and stepped down from the Board on 30 September 2017.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 65 DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE LEADERSHIP continued Whenever a Director is unable to attend a meeting, they will DIVERSITY gothrough the papers, which have been circulated in advance, and give feedback and discuss any issues with theChairman.
30% 70% The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors meet regularly without the Executive Directors or management being present.
The Chairman also maintains regular contact with the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
BOARD BALANCE & COMPOSITION As at 31 December 2017, the Companys Board comprised the Male Chairman, two Executive Directors and seven Non-Executive Female Directors.
Biographical details of individual Directors are set out onpages 68 and 69.
The Directors are of the view that the Board and its Committees consist of Directors with the appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of COMPOSITION theGroup to ensure the business continues to be run effectively and the Board's decision-making is not dominated by any one 1 specific view or individual.
There continues to be a focus on maintaining an effective 7 andcomplementary Board, whose capability is appropriate 2 forthescale, complexity and strategic positioning of the Groupsbusiness.
Chairman The Nomination Committee is responsible for reviewing the Executives composition of the Board and its Committees.
More detail on Non-Executives theprocess for appointments can be found in the report of the Nomination Committee on pages 72 to 74.
The Chairman iscommitted to ensuring the Board comprises TENURE NON-EXECUTIVES amajority of independent Non-Executive Directors who constructively challenge and scrutinise the day-to-day 29% 43% management of the business, balanced against the need to ensure continuity ontheBoard.
The Non-Executive Directors are appointed for specified termssubject to election and re-election by shareholders at theAnnual General Meeting 'AGM' each year, if the Board, on Under 1 year therecommendation of theNomination Committee, deems it 28% 1 to 3 years appropriate that they remain inoffice.
The Board recognises the 3 to 6 years recommended term withintheCode and as such, any term beyond six years for aNon-Executive Director is subject to a particularly rigorous review to ensure the progressive refreshing of the Board meetsthe evolving needs of the Company.
The letters of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors, aswell as the service agreements of Executive Directors, areavailable for inspection at the Companys registered officeand at the AGM.
66 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 DIRECTORS REPORT EXPERIENCE OF THE BOARD With a wide range of knowledge and experience from sectorsandindustries which complement the Companys operations, the Companys Non-Executive Directors bring external perspectives and strong independent insight to the deliberations of the Board and its Committees.
The table below shows the professional experience on appointment for new Directors and as at 1 January 2017 for all other Directors.
Professional Experience PREVIOUS LISTED CURRENT OUR RISK CUSTOMER COMPANY CHIEF NED DIRECTOR SECTORS CONSULTING MANAGEMENT SERVICE CARE PEOPLE FINANCE INTERNATIONAL DIRECTOR EXECUTIVE EXPERIENCE Sir David Reid Andr Lacroix Edward Leigh Graham Allan Gurnek Bains Dame Louise Makin Andrew Martin Gill Rider Jean-Michel Valette Lena Wilson PRODUCTS TRADE RESOURCES BOARD ACTIVITY DURING THE YEAR The Chairman, and respective Committee Chairs, develop andagree a forward agenda for Board and Committee meetingsfor the year ahead to ensure that proper oversight ofkey areasof responsibility are scheduled regularly and that adequatetime is available during the year for the Board to fullyconsider strategic matters.
Papers, including minutes ofBoard and Committee meetings held since the previous meeting, are circulated in advance of each meeting.
In addition toscheduled Board meetings, there was frequent ad hoc contactbetween Directors to discuss the Groups affairs andthedevelopment of its business.
Board agenda items for 2017 Finance Corporate Governance Approval of full-year results, Annual Report and Accounts, Reports of the activities of the Audit, Nomination and half-year results, the AGM circular and dividends Remuneration Committees 2018 annual budget and five-year plan Updates on governance Chief Executives Business Performance Reports Conflicts of interest Monthly Business Performance Reports to the Board, Director and Committee evaluation process Non-Executive Directors 2016 Board Effectiveness Review Group funding strategy Strategy & Business Development Tax strategy Updates on Group strategy and commercial objectives People Management Presentations by regions, country and business lines Group People strategy Updates on developments, acquisitions and disposals Talent mapping and succession planning Group IT strategy Approval of changes to the composition of the Board anditsCommittees Group M&A strategy Re-election of Directors at the 2017 AGM Group Sustainability strategy Board, Committee and Director evaluation process Shareholder Engagement IR reports Since the year end, theBoard approved the Annual Report and Accounts for 2017 and has concluded that, taken as a whole, Risk they are fair, balanced and understandable.
The Notice of AGM Quarterly Risk, Control, Compliance and Quality reports was also approved, the payment of a final dividend The Group Risk Register toshareholders was recommended and the Board has received anddiscussed the report on the effectiveness of the Board during 2017.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 67
