Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 71 Nomination Committee Report Dear Shareholder The Nomination Committee has been central to refreshing the composition of the Board during 2017.
The Nomination Committees key objective is to make sure that the members of the Board have the appropriate balance of skills, knowledge and experience to govern the Company in a professional, ethical and transparent manner and to ensure that the Board is rigorous and effective in discharging its responsibilities.
In 2017, we have executed on our succession planning and recruitment John McAdam processes, and taken the opportunity to enhance the composition of the Chairman of the Board in key areas.
We have also reviewed the commitments of Board Nomination Committee members to ensure that they all had sufficient capacity and commitment to devote the necessary time to performing their duties alongside their roles with other organisations.
The Nomination Committee has overall responsibility for succession I am very pleased with planning and recommending to the Board new appointments as well as annual reappointments of Directors.
In addition, the Nomination the calibre, background Committee is responsible for assessing the composition, diversity, experience, knowledge, skills and independence of the Board.
The Nomination Committee also has oversight of the Companys and experience of policy andprocedures with regard to managing conflicts of interest.
the three new NonDuring 2017, the Nomination Committee held four scheduled meetings and met an additional three times.
This was in response to the recruitment of three new Non-Executive Directors: Sir Crispin Executive Directors.
Davis, John Pettigrew and Linda Yueh.
I am satisfied that the process undertaken worked acceptably in each case although there was a John McAdam short gap between the departing Director and their successor joining Chairman of the Nomination Committee on two occasions.
One was due to the unplanned departure of Chris Geoghegan in September, and on the other occasion this was due to an unexpectedly lengthy recruitment process.
Despite this noncompliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, more details Highlights of 2017 of which are set out on page 51, it was critical to use this opportunity Refreshing the Board with recommended appointments to reinforce the strength and diversity of the Board, taking the time of Sir Crispin Davis, Linda Yueh, and John Pettigrew toachieve the best long-term result.
I am very pleased with the calibre, background and experience of the Improving Board gender diversity at year end to 38% female, three new Non-Executive Directors and confident that they will enable 62% male.
the Board to continue to carry out its duties to a very high standard Improved focus on talent and succession.
We have reviewed our processes and will in the Areas of focus for 2018 future try to ensure that any potential gap between one Non-Executive Director resigning and the appointment of a successor is avoided.
Maintaining focus on executive talent and succession, including talent pools and improving bench strength in I am also very pleased to be able to report that the Company reached key operational roles.
38% female representation at Board level during the year, in excess Diversity and future female leaders.
of the recommended minimum level.
More information on this and Succession of Senior Independent Director at year end.
theCompanys approach to diversity and inclusion can be found withinthe Nomination Committee Report on page 73.
Yours faithfully John McAdam Chairman of the Nomination Committee 28 February 2018 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 72 Nomination Committee Report Role of the Nomination Committee Activities of the Nomination Committee in 2017 The Nomination Committee has delegated authority from the Board The key activities of the Nomination Committee were the review of as set out in its terms of reference.
The terms of reference of the Board succession planning, including key skills and experience to Nomination Committee were reviewed by the Nomination Committee prioritise in the search for new Directors: updating the forward multiduring 2017 and are available at rentokil-initial.
year succession plan: and the recommendation of the appointments ofSirCrispin Davis, John Pettigrew and Linda Yueh to the Board.
Other Membership and attendance items discussed by the Nomination Committee during 2017 included: All Non-Executive Directors are members of the Nomination Committee a review and selection of executive search consultants: in order to ensure that all Directors are able to provide input and a review of the Nomination Committees terms of reference: help determine the future composition of the Board.
The Nomination a review of the Nomination Committees effectiveness, Committee met formally four times during the year.
There were three externally facilitated by Lintstock, an independent corporate additional meetings to oversee the recruitment process or recommend governance consultancy: the appointment of the new members of the Board of Directors.
the review and adoption of a new Board Diversity Policy: The members of the Nomination Committee that served during 2017, a review of the performance of individual Directors, using output along with their attendance at Nomination Committee meetings, can fromthe Board evaluation process, and making recommendations be seen below.
tothe Board over the re-election of Directors at the AGM: and a review of potential conflicts of interest authorised by the Board and the processes in place to ensure that they are properly considered.
Nomination Committee members More detailed information is provided below, where appropriate.
and attendance in 2017 Appointment process to the Board The Nomination Committee has responsibility for managing the appointment process to ensure a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for appointing Directors.
In order for the Board to discharge 100% 100% 100% its duties and responsibilities effectively, it must comprise a diverse group of individuals whose skills and experience are gained in a variety of backgrounds.
Successful candidates must demonstrate independence of mind and integrity, and must enhance the overall 1 John McAdam, Richard Burrows Sir Crispin Davis effectiveness of the Board.
Appointments are considered objectively, Chairman 7 7 meetings attended 3 3 meetings attended 7 7 meetings attended regardless of gender, ethnicity or other personal characteristics, and are made on merit.
Pro-forma letters of appointment and Directors service contracts are available at rentokil-initial.
The process of appointing new Directors to the Board is supported through the use of an external recruitment consultant.
After their 100% 100% 86% selection, the recruitment consultant is briefed on the skill sets and candidate experience being sought, as illustrated on page 56, and prepares a candidate specification for approval by the Nomination Committee.
Thereafter potential candidates are identified and 2 3 Chris Geoghegan Alan Giles Angela Seymourinterviews take place with members of the Nomination Committee, 4 4 meetings attended 3 3 meetings attended Jackson 6 7 meetings attended Executive Directors and, usually, the Group HR Director.
The Nomination Committee then forms a recommendation for consideration by the Board.
Recruitment for Executive Leadership Team ELT roles tends to be led by the Chief Executive and the Group HR Director with oversight from the Nomination Committee.
100% 100% In 2017, this process was undertaken in the search for a replacement Director following the retirement of Alan Giles at the AGM in May 2017 and the resignation of Chris Geoghegan in September 2017.
Inzito Partnership, an external executive search consultancy with no other 4 Julie Southern Linda Yueh connections with the Company, was engaged by the Company to 7 7 meetings attended 1 1 meeting attended undertake recruitment during the year.
Inzito Partnership is a signatory toThe Enhanced Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms.
Sir Crispin Davis was appointed to the Nomination Committee on 20 July 2017.
Following a formal, rigorous and transparent process, the Nomination 2.
Chris Geoghegan resigned from the Nomination Committee on 18 September 2017.
Committee recommended to the Board that Sir Crispin Davis, John 3.
Alan Giles retired from the Nomination Committee on 10 May 2017.
Linda Yueh was appointed to the Nomination Committee on 1 November 2017 Pettigrew and Linda Yueh be appointed as Non-Executive Directors.
John Pettigrew joined the Nomination Committee upon his appointment Succession planning and talent development to the Board on 1 January 2018.
Both the Nomination Committee and the Board recognise that strategic, thoughtful and practical succession planning is critical to Where any member is unable to attend a meeting, the Nomination the long-term success of the Company.
The Nomination Committee Committee Chairman will seek their views in advance and provide looks to bring new energy, challenge and oversight to the Board and abriefing on outcomes if appropriate.
All Nomination Committee to reflect the business strategy and operational goals in appointments.
members are provided with the papers and the minutes of the The Board is ultimately responsible for succession planning for meeting, whether or not they are able to attend.
The Chief Executive Executive and Non-Executive Directors and senior management, also normally attends meetings, especially to assist with discussions with the Nomination Committee having oversight and making ofexecutive succession and talent programmes.
Board and senior manager succession planning has been an action highlighted by the Board and Nomination Committee evaluations for the last three years, although the Nomination Committee recognised that good progress had been made in 2017 in this area.
The Board evaluation also identified the importance of longterm planning for the Chairman and Chief Executive succession.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 73 Nomination Committee Report The Group HR Director presented an overview of the Companys talent The Company has committed to working only with executive strategy to the Nomination Committee during the year, which reviewed search firms who have signed up to The Enhanced Voluntary Code the current succession pipeline for key senior management roles as of Conduct for Executive Search Firms on gender diversity and best well as wider talent development priorities, and the creation of three practice, to make sure that it attracts and recruits the best people talent pools.
The talent pools have been established to help identify from the widest possible pool of talent.
Any search firm engaged to successors for roles in the ELT and Senior Leadership Forum SLF, to assist the Company in identifying candidates is specifically directed improve the succession pipeline for senior operational management, toinclude a diverse range of candidates.
and to identify and accelerate the development of fast-track talent.
Our data shows that, across our UK business as a whole, there is Identified members of the talent pools are offered development that no pay gap between our male and female employees 0% mean, focuses on individual needs and stretches people in the areas required -2% median.
Beyond pay, the workforce reports that the Company for their next role within the Company.
Descriptions of the ELT and SLF is delivering in offering career opportunities and interesting work can be found in the Corporate Governance Report on page 61. equally to men and women, a fact supported by the Companys mostrecent colleague engagement survey, completed in September The aim of the talent strategy is to ensure that activity is focused 2017.
This showed that 95% of colleagues globally believe that in on the key priorities of the organisation, in particular strengthening this Company we do not preclude male and female colleagues from internal succession paths to key operational and leadership roles in having equal opportunities to succeed.
the short and medium term, and retaining critical talent and specialists.
In addition to gender, in a number of areas of diversity, such as Reinforcing operational management career paths from branch to national origin, the Company believes there is a strong track record country and regional management, and reducing reliance on the UK and that underlines its commitment to creating a workforce that reflects Rest of World region as a source of talent for the wider Group are areas the diverse nature of the markets in which it operates and the specifically targeted for improvement.
This is being addressed through customers it serves.
Further efforts will be needed in future in data regional talent pools, for example in Europe and Asia.
The increased capture and reporting to demonstrate this in a robust way.
focus on these areas is already producing encouraging results.
Key areas for the future include improving the diversity of the succession Proportion of males and females bench, especially by gender, and further information on this can be As at 31 December found in the diversity section below.
Fostering a diverse and inclusive culture Board A key strategic aim of the Company is to be recognised as a world- 75% 25% classEmployer of Choice that is able to attract, recruit and retain thebest people from the widest possible pool of talent.
There is, 2016 therefore, a commitment to creating a diverse and inclusive working 8 members environment for all employees through, at all times, striving to be an organisation that values everyones talents and abilities and where 62% 38% diversity is encouraged.
2017 It is critical that the Companys workforce reflects the diverse nature 8 members of the business environment and markets in which it operates and the customers that it serves.
A more diverse and inclusive workforce will boost the Companys financial performance, enhance its reputation, Executive Leadership Team increase innovation and support colleague engagement.
90% 10% Building on the diversity programme launched in 2016, the Group Diversity and Inclusion Policy was reviewed in 2017 and new policies 2016 were issued for the Board in June 2017 and for all colleagues at the start 10 members of 2018.
These aim to ensure greater clarity, detail and focus on this area 89% 11% and to drive the right actions and culture across the Group.
In particular: The new Board Diversity Policy reaffirms the Companys commitment 2017 to meeting the recommendation made in the final Davies Review 9 members and in the Hampton-Alexander Review on improving gender balance in FTSE leadership, which set a target of 33% female Board 1 representation by 2020.
In 2017, the Company achieved this ahead Executive Leadership Team Direct Reports of schedule, with females representing 38% of Board members at year end and 33% following the appointment of John Pettigrew in 76% 24% January 2018.
2016 The new Group Diversity and Inclusion Policy explicitly outlines and 76 members makes public the Companys commitment to improving the gender mix of its senior management team.
Whilst there was no change in the 73% 27% composition of the Executive Leadership Team in 2017, nor therefore in the proportion of women in it, the number of women excluding 2017 non-managerial, administrative and support staff reporting into this 78 members group increased by 17%.
As a result, female leaders now represent Males Females 27% of our senior management population, up from 24% in 2016.
The Company is working to enhance the pipeline of future female 1.
Executive Leadership Team ELT Direct Reports includes those individuals reporting to members of the ELT who are defined as senior managers, with responsibility for planning, directing or controlling senior leaders.
Global succession plans feature a number of the activities of the Company, or a strategically significant part of the Company.
Non-managerial and female candidates and the Company monitors progress against its administrative staff who report to the ELT have not been included.
efforts to develop female leaders for the future.
For example, the Companys current Corporate Graduate Scheme comprises 56% female participants and the Global Fast Track programme, aimed at developing individuals in junior management roles who have the potential to move into senior leadership positions, includes 40% female participants.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 74 Nomination Committee Report Managing conflicts of interest Nomination Committee effectiveness The Directors have a statutory duty to avoid a situation where they have, The Nomination Committee has conducted an independence evaluation or could have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts or might possibly of each Non-Executive Director seeking election or re-election and conflict with the interests of the Company.
The Board is permitted, under recommended to the Board that they be put forward for election or powers from shareholders contained in the Articles of Association, to re-election on the basis that their performance, both individually and authorise actual or potential conflicts of interest.
in aggregate, continues to be effective and that each demonstrates commitment to the role.
In addition, the Nomination Committee The Company has a procedure in place to deal with the situation where conducted a review of how it operates, which concluded that the a Director has a conflict of interest and as part of the process the Board Nomination Committee had operated effectively in 2017.
In 2018, the considers each potential conflict situation on its merits.
Since the focus of the Nomination Committee will be on supporting the talent and procedure was introduced a number of potential situational conflicts diversity programmes, and considering the effectiveness of Executive have been authorised after review by the Chairman, with support from Director and senior management succession, as well as longer-term the Company Secretary.
The Board maintains a register of authorisations planning around Chairman succession.
granted and the scope of any approvals given, which is circulated to Board members prior to each meeting.
Conflicts are divided into transactional conflicts arising from a specific matter and situational conflicts arising from appointments on other boards or through some other ongoing relationship.
All of the approvals given have been situational, none of which is subject to any specific limitation or condition.
These potential conflicts are not material either to John McAdam the Company or, the Directors believe, to the other companies that are Chairman of the Nomination Committee the subject of the potential conflict.
The Company has not encountered 28 February 2018 any transactional conflicts involving Directors that would require a Director to be excluded from any part of the Boards activities.
We have also carefully considered the impact of each Non-Executive Directors other commitments on their ability to perform their role on the Board.
While not strictly a conflict of interest, the implications for effective conduct of Board responsibilities of so-called overboarding are clear, and an increasing concern for some investors.
Our experience shows that all the Companys Non-Executive Directors have been able not only to perform their roles on the Board, but also to go beyond their formal commitments, including for example attendance in many cases at meetings of other Committees in addition to those of which they are members.
Further details can be found in the Corporate Governance Report on page 56.
Under its terms of reference the Nomination Committee has responsibility to review the current schedule of authorisations with a view to considering whether they remain appropriate or whether they should be revoked or otherwise limited.
This review is undertaken annually and also considers the process for considering and authorising potential conflicts of interests.
In 2017, the process for the disclosure of any perceived conflicts upon the appointment of a new Director was reviewed and updated.
All authorisations given were considered appropriate and none were revoked or otherwise limited.
Read the Nomination Committee terms of reference at rentokil-initial.
com investors governance Read our Group Diversity and Inclusion Policy at rentokil-initial.
com responsible-delivery policies Read our Gender Pay Gap Report at rentokil-initial.
com gender-pay Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017
