Strategic report Financial statements Other information Nomination committee report Main areas of responsibility Regular reviews of the structure, size and composition of the Board taking into consideration skills, knowledge and experience: Leading the process for Board and committee appointments: and Making recommendations on Board appointments based on the balance of independence, skills andexperience.
JAMES HUGHES-HALLETT NOMINATION COMMITTEE CHAIR Meetings Total number of meetings held in 2017 4 James Hughes-Hallett Chair Independent Non-Executive Director 4 Peter Backhouse Independent Non-Executive Director 4 Marie-Louise Clayton Independent Non-Executive Director 1 James Morley Independent Non-Executive Director 2 Ed Warner Independent Non-Executive Director 4 1.
Joined the committee on 22 June 2017.
Retired from the Board and left the committee on 12 May 2017.
Terms of reference The committees terms of reference are regularly reviewed to ensure compliance with the requirements of the Code.
The committees terms of reference can be found at: www.
The committee is chaired by James Hughes-Hallett, In part, this decision was made to ensure stability except when the committee is dealing with the matter and continuity on the Board during a period of change of succession to the Chair.
On these occasions, it is following the retirement of James Morley.
chaired by Peter Backhouse as the Senior During 2017 and in 2018, the committee has been Independent Director.
leading the process for the appointment of a new The committee gives full consideration to planning Non-Executive Director.
In considering candidates, for future succession to the Board, in particular for the committee has used the services of external the key roles of Chair and Chief Executive Officer, search consultants.
It is anticipated that a new and other senior executives.
Clarksons recognises appointment will be made during 2018. and embraces the benefits of a diverse Board.
The nomination committee is also leading the search The committee will consider suitable candidates for for a new Company Secretary following the Board appointments on the basis of a wide range of resignation of Penny Watson on 21 December 2017. criteria including personal merit, ability, knowledge, Mike Cahill fulfils the role on an interim basis.
This is to ensure that we are appointing the best possible candidate for James Hughes-Hallett each vacancy and to ensure a well-balanced Board.
Nomination committee Chair During 2017 the nomination committee gave due consideration to the continued independence of Ed 9 March 2018 Warner as he reached nine years tenure on the Board in June 2017.
The committee determined that Ed remained independent in character and judgement and, as a key member of the Board, his contract was renewed for a further 12 months to June 2018. www.
