Governance Corporate governance statement During 2017 and early 2018, the nomination Principles statement committee have led the search for a replacement Good corporate governance underpins the Non-Executive Director.
Companys objectives, strategy and business model, The Board, supported by its committees, is as set out in the strategic report on pages 1 to 54. responsible for ensuring leadership and setting The Board is committed to maintaining a high strategic direction with the aim of delivering standard of corporate governance, which is critical sustainable shareholder value.
It is imperative that to retaining investor and stakeholder trust in the the combined experience and knowledge represented Company and in the Board as custodian of the by the Board is appropriate to lead the Company in Companys assets and values.
maintaining its market-leading position and achieving its strategic objectives.
On appointment, the Chair Statement of compliance and the Non-Executive Directors met the The statement of corporate governance practices set independence criteria set out under the Code and out on pages 55 to 92, and information incorporated confirmed that they have sufficient time available by reference, constitutes the Clarkson PLC corporate to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
governance report setting out how the Company has Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an applied the principles of the 2016 UK Corporate initial three-year term, subject to re-election by Governance Code the Code, which was applicable shareholders at each AGM, after which their to the Company for the financial year ended 31 appointment may be extended, subject to mutual December 2017.
We are compliant with the Code.
All members of the Board will retire and We are aware of the proposed new version of the seek re-election by shareholders at the 2018 AGM.
Code which is expected to be in place for the There is a clear division of responsibilities between reporting year ending 31 December 2019.
During the Chair and the Chief Executive Officer which is set 2018 2019, the Board and committees will be out in writing and has been approved by the Board: considering how Clarksons already comply with therevised provisions so that we can make any Chair Chief Executive Officer necessary changes ahead of implementation.
Leading the Board Running the day-to-day business The September 2014 and April 2016 editions of the Code can be viewed on the Financial Reporting Ensuring Board Implementing Council website at https: frc.
uk Our-Work  Board strategy Governance-Reporting Corporate-governance.
Promoting high standards of corporate governance Leadership The Non-Executive Directors have a vital role in The Board comprises James Hughes-Hallett Chair, ensuring that the strategies proposed by the Andi Case, Peter M. Anker, Jeff Woyda, Peter Executive Directors are appropriately discussed and Backhouse Senior Independent Director, Birger constructively challenged.
They help scrutinise the Nergaard, Ed Warner and Marie-Louise Clayton.
performance of management against the agreed goals Marie-Louise Clayton joined the Board on 1 January and strategic objectives of the Board and monitor the 2017 and James Morley retired on 12 May 2017. integrity of the Companys financial information and On 21 December 2017, Penny Watson resigned as systems of risk control and management.
For more Company Secretary and Mike Cahill was appointed information, see page 60.
In addition, Non-Executive as Interim Company Secretary.
The Board is working Directors are responsible for considering and to identify a suitable replacement Company Secretary approving executive remuneration.
For more on a permanent basis.
The Chair maintains direct communication with each of the Non-Executive Biographies of the Directors in office at the date of signing the financial statements are set out on pages 56 to 57.
Directors without the Executive Directors present where necessary.
Ed Warner reached nine-year tenure on the Board in June 2017.
Ed was re-appointed for a 12-month period to aid the stability of the Board during a period of change.
The Board and nomination committee recognised the need for stability and acknowledged the contribution, continuity and experience that Ed, as a long-serving Non-Executive Director, brought to the Board overall and the support he provided.
It was determined that this was appropriate as Ed continues to demonstrate qualities of independence of character and judgement in carrying out his role.
58 CLARKSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Strategic report Financial statements Other information Powers of the Board Effectiveness The Board meets regularly with at least four Succession planning scheduled meetings each year plus additional There are currently eight Directors on the Board of meetings where required to address matters arising Clarkson PLC.
The structure of the Board is regularly outside the normal course of business.
The Nonreviewed and we seek to appoint the best candidate Executive Directors serve on a number of committees for each vacancy ensuring the correct balance of established by the Board.
Details of committee skills, experience and independence.
activities are shown on pages 63, 64 and 80.
The Board oversees the Groups senior management The Board has powers and duties as set out in all succession plan to ensure that there are appropriate relevant laws and the Companys articles of skills and experience within the Company and on association the articles.
Amendments to the articles theBoard.
may be made in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, requiring any amendment to be The process for Board appointments is led by the approved by special resolution of the shareholders.
nomination committee which, in accordance with its terms of reference, evaluates the balance of skills, The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters experience, independence and knowledge on the it reserves for its own decision-making.
This includes Board and makes recommendations for appointments decisions relating to: to the Board.
strategy and management: Non-Executive Directors are appointed for a specific financial reporting and controls: term.
Details of their service contracts can be found shareholder communications: on page 77. executive remuneration: the Groups corporate and capital structure: A report on the work carried out by the nomination committee during the year is set out on page 63. material contracts: Board and other senior management appointments and membership of Board committees: and Director induction, training and support A careful assessment is made of the time commitment corporate governance procedures and other required from the Chair and the Non-Executive Group policies.
Directors to discharge their roles properly and, For more information on the Boards focus during 2017, on appointment, new Directors are provided with please see page 62. a tailored induction programme relating to the Companys business.
Procedure to deal with Directors All Directors are encouraged to regularly update conflicts of interest and refresh their skills and knowledge by attending A Director has a duty to avoid a situation in which he seminars and training sessions.
During the annual or she has a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or Board and committee evaluation processes the may conflict, with the interests of the Company.
The Directors have opportunities to highlight any areas in Board may authorise any potential conflicts, where which they feel professional development would be appropriate, in accordance with the articles.
The beneficial, either individually or as a unit.
The Board Company has established comprehensive procedures has access to the Company Secretary for advice on for the disclosure of any such conflicts by Directors, corporate governance matters.
and for the consideration and authorisation of these The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring by the Board.
The Board considers each conflict on that the Board has access to the information it its particular facts and in the context of the other requires and that such information is supplied in duties owed by the Director to the Company.
The a timely manner and is of appropriate quality to Board regularly reviews and monitors potential enable Directors to discharge their duties effectively.
These checks are done for all In addition, Directors may take independent Directors of subsidiary companies as well as the professional advice at the Companys expense in PLC Board.
the course of discharging their duties.
Where a potential or possible conflict of interest The Senior Independent Director provides a sounding arises, a Director will declare their interest and not board for the Chair and serves as an intermediary for participate in the decision-making process in respect other Directors when required.
The Company purchased and maintained directors and Jeff Woyda, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating officers liability insurance throughout 2017 and it has Officer, is a Non-Executive Director of the International been renewed for 2018.
Cover is reviewed annually, with Transport Intermediaries Club ITIC.
During the year, the assistance of the Companys insurance brokers, to Jeff Woyda received 16,600 remuneration for serving ensure that it remains appropriate and fit-for-purpose.
as a Non-Executive Director of ITIC.
com 59 Governance Corporate governance statement continued Performance evaluation Appointment of Directors As reported last year, an external Board evaluation In accordance with the articles, all Directors was facilitated by Boardroom Review Limited in 2016. shallretire from office and, subject to continued As per our evaluation schedule, the 2017 evaluation satisfactory performance, are put forward for was conducted internally by the Company Secretary.
This is compliant with the The next external review is anticipated to take place in Code requirement that Directors are submitted for 2020.
The review involved completion of re-election at regular intervals.
The Company has questionnaires provided by our external Auditors, maintained this cycle of re-election since 2015.
Accountability The evaluation process is as follows: The Board is responsible for promoting the long-term success of the Company for the benefit of shareholders, assessing the Companys position Questionnaires andprospects, and for ensuring that the information presented to shareholders is fair, balanced and Company Secretary co-ordinates the completion of understandable.
Further details of Directors confidential questionnaires by each Director, and in the case responsibilities for preparing the Companys financial of the audit committee evaluation by the external Auditor statements are set out in the Directors responsibilities and the Group Financial Controller.
The audit committee members also complete a The Board is responsible for: questionnaire on the effectiveness of the external Auditor.
determining the nature and extent of the risks it is Separately, the Senior Independent Director leads the willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives: Non-Executive Directors in a performance evaluation of the Chair, taking into account the views of the maintaining the Companys system of internal Executive Directors.
controls and risk management: and reviewing the effectiveness of these Evaluation systemsannually.
For information on the responsibilities of the audit committee, The Chair reviews the responses by the Directors for the see its report on page 80. main Board evaluation questionnaire.
Each committee Chair reviews the anonymous responses Risk management and internal control to their respective committee questionnaires.
Managing risk to deliver opportunities is a key element of the Companys business activities, Discussion which is undertaken using a practical and flexible framework, providing a consistent and sustained approach to risk evaluation.
The Board has Results of the Board and committee evaluation questionnaires are discussed at the next meeting.
established policies and risk management procedures together with key controls, which are reviewed in For the Board, this is usually at the first meeting of the year.
accordance with applicable regulations and best Any issues raised are addressed between the Directorsand practice guidelines, to ensure that they continue to be external parties as appropriate.
effective and protect the Companys stakeholders.
Please refer to pages 42 to 47 for more information on risk Planning for year ahead management, including the principal risks.
The Companys internal control system includes Any actions arising from the evaluations are scheduled tobe reviewed during the year.
This could include, for example, financial reporting, operations, compliance and risk areas for Board training and development.
Such a system is designed to evaluate and manage, rather than eliminate, risk and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, Following the evaluation, the Board, its committees assurance against material misstatement or loss.
and individual Directors were determined to be functioning effectively.
There is a comprehensive budgetary process in place with both annual and regular forecasts being In 2017, the Non-Executive Directors, led by the considered and approved by the Board and monthly Senior Independent Director, concluded that the monitoring of trading results taking place in order to Chaircontinues to be effective in his role.
mitigate risks associated with financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated financial statements.
An established compliance, legal and governance 60 CLARKSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Strategic report Financial statements Other information process is in place to monitor regulatory Board engagement with investors and developments and to ensure that all existing and relations with shareholders forthcoming regulations are complied with.
The AGM gives all shareholders the opportunity to communicate directly with the Board.
Participation In addition to compliance with the Code, as required of all shareholders is encouraged.
for all listed entities, the regulated entities in the Group are all governed by the respective regulators The Companys AGM will be held on 10 May 2018 in their jurisdictions.
at the Companys office in Commodity Quay, St. Katharine Docks, London E1W 1BF.
Further details Regulated entities in the Group are: of the business to be addressed at the meeting can Company Regulated by be found in the notice of meeting which will be Clarksons Platou Regulated by the available online at https: www.
Securities AS Norwegian FSA The Executive Directors meet regularly with the Clarksons Platou Regulated by the Companys major shareholders and make Project Sales AS Norwegian FSA presentations to analysts, institutional investors and Clarksons Platou Regulated by the investment managers following the announcement Project Finance AS Norwegian FSA of the interim and full year results.
The Senior Clarksons Platou Regulated by the Independent Director is available to meet with Property Management AS Norwegian FSA shareholders and institutional investors as required.
Clarksons Platou Regulated by FINRA We primarily communicate with shareholders via the Securities Inc in the US Companys annual and interim reports and the Clarksons Platou Regulated by the NFA Companys website on which the Company publishes Commodities USA LLC in the US its trading updates and other news released to the Clarksons Platou Regulated by the FCA London Stock Exchange.
Futures Limited in the UK, the NFA in the US and MAS in Singapore All reports and results for the year can be found at: https: www.
All entities comply with the applicable regulations as required by their regulated entity status.
In 2018, the Company plans to publish the interim report online only.
This is a change from previous For information on internal audit of regulated entities, years where a paper copy has also been produced.
The Board is pleased to be moving towards  methods of communications.
In 2018, the Board has approved the issuance of a new compliance manual to replace the Code of For shareholder information see pages 84 to 85 or visit Business Conduct and Ethics.
com investors and for more information on how the Board has engaged with shareholders during 2017, expected to adhere to the compliance manual, in see page 65. order to maintain Clarksons status as a responsible and trustworthy business.
All employees are responsible for ensuring compliance with Group policies and for identifying risks within their business areas and to ensure that these risks are controlled and monitored in the appropriate way.
Training is provided where necessary.
The Board has established arrangements by which employees of the Company may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties or wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters.
The audit committee regularly reviews this arrangement.
The Board, with advice from the audit committee, has carried out an annual review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control and risk management and confirms that the ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups principal risks has operated throughout the year and up to the date of the approval of this annual report.
For more information about the audit committees role in risk management, go to page 82. www.
