54 Executive Leadership Team including Dixons Carphone, where he was Chief Gary Booker Marketing Officer and oversaw its Currys and PC Chief Marketing, Innovation and World brands: Telefonica O2 : and Electronic Arts, StrategyOfficer where he gained strong experience across strategy Appointed: January 2018 and digital marketing.
Prior to that Gary held senior Skills and experience roles at Dunlop Slazenger, Corinthian and Unipart.
Garys career includes senior leadership roles Gary holds an MBA in Strategic Marketing University covering strategy and innovation as well as customer of Hull and a BS Hons in Business Studies, Law and marketing for several high-profile businesses Psychology University of Hertfordshire.
New Zealand & Fiji, Managing Director of Ambius in Paul Cochrane the UK, Managing Director of Initial Hygiene Pacific Managing Director, Asia Australia, New Zealand and Fiji and then Senior Appointed: March 2016 Vice President of Rentokil Initial Asia before becoming Skills and experience Regional Managing Director for Asia.
Paul has a Paul joined Rentokil Initial in 1990 as Branch Manager diploma in Business from the University of Auckland of the Initial Hygiene business in New Zealand.
and a Trade Certificate of Automotive Engineering He later became Managing Director of Rentokil Initial from Manukau Technical Institute in New Zealand.
She joined Rentokil Vanessa Evans Initial from RSA Group plc where she was Group HR, Group HR Director Communications and Customer Director.
Prior to that Appointed: January 2016 Vanessa was Global HR Director at Lego and Head of UK HR at GAP.
She is a Fellow of the Chartered Skills and experience Institute of Personnel and Development and holds Vanessa has had a successful career with some of a BA Hons in Geography from Bulmershe College, the worlds best known consumer brands.
She brings University of Reading.
valuable business experience and expertise in International.
He also has international management Jrgen Hfling consultancy experience gained as Founding Partner Managing Director, Europe of Theron Management Advisors, an international Appointed: October 2014 management consultancy.
Jrgens early career was Skills and experience with Werner & Metz in various sales and marketing Jrgen has significant experience in senior positions roles.
He is a German national and fluent in English, in the logistics sector and in sales and marketing, French and German.
Jrgen holds a degree in principally from 14 years at Deutsche Post and DHL Integration & Marketing from Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania.
He has significant experience in Alain Moffroid marketing, sales and business development acquired Managing Director, Pacific during 23 years with Unilever in Europe, Asia and Appointed: March 2016 Pacific.
Alain is a dual national Belgian Australian and Skills and experience is fluent in English, French and Dutch.
He holds an Alain joined Rentokil Initial in 2013 as Managing MSc in Business from the Solvay Business School, Director, Pacific.
He joined from Unilever where he University of Brussels.
held a number of senior roles across multiple management roles at Cintas Corporation.
Prior to that, John Myers he was President and Chief Executive at Bio Quest LLC.
Managing Director, North America John has a diverse business background, with Appointed: October 2013 extensive sales, marketing and business strategy Skills and experience experience.
He is a graduate of the University of John joined Rentokil Initial in 2008 as President and Vermont where he earned a Bachelors degree in Chief Executive of the Pest Control division in North Business Administration.
Additionally, he earned an America.
Previously John held various senior MBA from Mercer University in Atlanta.
He became Managing Director Phill Wood ofUK & Rest of World in 2013.
Prior to joining Managing Director, UK & Rest of World RentokilInitial, Phill held a number of top management Appointed: October 2013 positions at Lex Services RAC plc where he served Skills and experience for15 years.
Phill has extensive commercial and Phill joined Rentokil Initial in 2006, holding various business development experience.
He is a Chartered senior Pest Control roles in Europe before his Management Accountant and holds a BSc Hons in appointment to lead the UK businesses Pest and Management Science from Loughborough University.
Andy Ransom, Jeremy Townsend and Daragh Fagan are also members of the Executive Leadership Team.
Their biographical information can be found on pages 52 and 53.
The Chief Executive chairs the Executive Leadership Team.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017
