Corporate governance report 2017 was a year of challenge and change for the Group.
We responded well to the elevated level of customer complaints and concerns arising from the difficult end to 2016 and have since achieved significant improvement in the delivery of the service our customers expect.
Our people, subcontractors and suppliers have worked tirelessly to bring about the operational change essential to the future success of the Group, as the business resets in line with the operational priorities established early Ian Tyler in the year.
Chairman Our new Chief Executive, Greg Fitzgerald, The Board has ultimate responsibility for 2017, and was coupled with a review has brought clarity to our strategic thinking the success of the Company and my task of events leading up to the operational and direction and, with his extensive focuses on ensuring that it provides strong difficulties of 2016.
This has allowed the housebuilding experience, provided a strategic leadership, monitors the delivery Board to form a view of performance over driven hands on operational focus, of strategic priorities and objectives and an extended period.
Actions were already regularly visiting development sites.
rises to challenges along the way, whilst underway in a number of areas and, whilst Reducing the rate of production and having an eye on the principal risks.
In many aspects of the Boards performance investing in the business for the future has doing so, the Board must uphold the have moved forward, the in-depth had the expected impact on profitability highest standards of integrity and promote independent evaluation allowed the and returns in 2017, but has placed effective relationships, communication, actions to be refined and supplemented.
us in a much stronger position, with openness and accountability in the More structured succession planning and improved production processes and greater boardroom, throughout the business and the development of a formal competency operational and commercial focus, to externally with stakeholders.
Rebuilding framework is one such example.
In deliver for all our stakeholders in 2018. trust is seen as vitally important and high addition, although the Board is working standards of corporate governance help to well and has since added a non-executive The Board faced into the Groups underpin this process.
The Board believes director with strong housebuilding operational difficulties right from the that the right culture and values play a experience, it was important for us to start of 2017 and, having set focused pivotal role in delivering long term success reflect on its role in events leading up to operational priorities to deliver significant and require continuous focus, while the end of 2016 and to ensure that any legacy and urgent improvement, was objective right standards and behaviours enable the issues are being adequately addressed.
and performed effectively during a period Board to function effectively in supporting As a result, we are continuing to focus on of corporate activity in considering two and overseeing senior management as they the quality of information received by the potential merger proposals and arriving drive and reinforce the Groups culture and Board to ensure it provides clear visibility at the best outcome for shareholders.
Initiatives were already underway in of performance and are maintaining our A strategic and structural review followed, this area and have moved forward in 2017, focus on culture, as described above.
completed by the new Chief Executive, including an improved induction process Following discussion of this wider view of and the outcome was announced in for all new staff, leadership sessions, and performance, an action plan for 2018 has September 2017 to positive response.
a concerted push from the Chief Executive been agreed by the Board and progress During this time, the demands on the to publicise whistleblowing, designed to will be assessed mid-way through the year.
Board were maintained at a high level promote transparency and accountability.
Further information is provided on pages and its performance was underpinned by I am making personal visits to the regions 70 to 71. our determined approach to governance and holding one to one meetings with the and the quality of the advice and support The main activities of the Board during Division and regional MDs.
The Board has it received.
Although 2017 was a testing 2017 are provided in detail in the report toured regional offices and sites, and nonperiod, the leadership from the Board and and, in addition to regular activities, executive directors will have a programme the willingness of our staff to bring about included four visits to the regions, the of site and office visits, all of which will change has allowed us to emerge well consideration of merger proposals, provide valuable feedback to the Board, positioned to deliver on our medium term recruitment of a new Chief Executive, an including regarding culture.
These targets will re-establish the in-depth review of strategy at the annual Group as a leading UK housebuilder and The Board completed an external strategy day, and receiving reviews and deliver improving shareholder returns in a independent performance evaluation presentations on a range of topics from sustainable business that delivers quality towards the end of 2017, which followed senior management and the NHBC.
the internal evaluation at the start of | 60 Our governance Our governance Two new regional offices were opened towards the end of 2017, one of which was visited in January this year.
In total, five regional office visits and one training centre visit will be made by the Board during 2018.
Our corporate governance practices remain aligned with the latest version of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Board reviewed its diversity policy in 2017 and will do so again in 2018 in light of the expected new Code requirements.
The non-executive directors continued to be effective in providing broad and constructive challenge in Board meetings and in testing proposals put forward by the executive directors.
I was delighted to welcome Mike Stansfield as a non-executive director in November 2017, bringing as he does a strong housebuilding background spanning three decades and skills and experience which strengthen the Board going forward.
I would like to thank my colleagues on the Board for their collective support and strong individual contributions during a testing, but productive and ultimately successful year in 2017.
Alastair Lyons will retire from the Board at the 2018 AGM, having served as Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director for nine years since the date of his first election and as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee for four years.
I and my colleagues would like to thank him for the very great contribution he has made during this time and wish him well for the future.
We value dialogue with all our shareholders, institutional and retail, and have had ongoing engagement with our major shareholders during 2017.
Our 2018 AGM will be held on 23 May 2018 and you will find the Notice at the end of this Annual Report.
This report has been approved by the Board and I can confirm that your Company was compliant with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code during 2017.
Ian Tyler Chairman Glassthorpe Grange, Flore || Bovis Homes Group PLC Bovis Homes Group PLC 61 61 Corporate governance report Whitehouse Park, Milton Keynes | 62 Our governance Strategic report | Business over Our governance view Corporate governance report Introduction This report sets out the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council publicly available at www.
uk and also describes how the governance framework, explained in our corporate governance policy guidelines, available on the Companys website www.
co. uk investors corporategovernance, is applied.
The Board is pleased to report that the Company has, throughout 2017, complied with and applied the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
| Bovis Homes Group PLC 63 T Corpor itle ate governance report These activities are carried out within The Group has seven regions, reduced The leadership structure an approved risk appetite and with from eight in the first half of the year, each The Board is responsible to the regular monitoring of internal operating within a specified geography Companys shareholders for the controls and risk management.
and run by a regional board comprising long-term success of the Group The Board has a schedule of matters directors responsible for specific disciplines.
and its values, strategy, business reserved for its decision, which is reviewed Standardised operating procedures and model and governance.
and approved on an annual basis.
A copy systems have been adopted and their is available on the Companys website implementation and consistent application It sets and reaffirms the Groups culture, www.
co. uk investors is monitored to provide an effective provides leadership and direction and corporate-governance.
method of operating across the Group, determines strategy and strategic which reduces risk and supports the objectives.
The implementation of strategy Below the Board, the Executive Leadership delivery of forecast outcomes.
The regional is monitored and business plans, budgets Team ELT is responsible for the day to MDs report in to the Division MDs.
and forecasts are reviewed and challenged, day operations of the Group and the CEO applying independent judgement.
and Group Finance Director report in to Group functions provide support to the The monitoring of overall performance and the Board, with the other members of the Board, the executive directors, the ELT, progress with operations against business ELT also attending meetings and reporting the Divisions and the regions.
In total, the plans, using KPIs and coupled with site and during the year.
leadership team comprises approximately regional office visits, allows the Board to 85 members of staff.
The leadership and Operations are managed in two Divisions, test the collective capabilities of the Group governance structure in the second half of which are responsible for the collective and its ability to deliver quality homes, on 2017 and for 2018 is shown below.
management of the regions within their time and on budget to satisfied customers.
Division staff provide operational direction and finance support.
The Divisions report through the Division MDs to the CEO and the ELT.
Bovis Homes Group PLC Board Responsible for leadership, strategy, values and governance Audit Committee Remuneration Nomination Oversees financial Committee Committee statements and reporting Sets and reviews Reviews balance and Monitors internal controls remuneration policy composition of the Board Executive Leadership Team ELT and risk management Determines remuneration Maintains focus on Monitors effectiveness and incentives of the succession planning Bovis Homes Limited Board of external and internal executive directors and the Leads recruitment process Responsible for the operations of the Group Chairman auditors for the Board Sets performance criteria Recommends for incentive plans appointment of directors West Division board East Division board Responsible for the operational Responsible for the operational management of the East Division management of the West Division Northern Home Mercia region West Midlands South East region Counties region board region board board board Western region South West Southern Counties board region board region board | 64 Our governance Strategic report | Business over Our governance view The Board held nine meetings in accordance The importance of culture The Board with its scheduled calendar and, as a result The Board keeps a focus on culture and During the majority of the year the Board of the level of activity during the year, held uses meetings coupled with regional visits comprised the non-executive Chairman, nine additional meetings, the majority of to tour regional offices and sites, talking to four independent non-executive and two which were telephone conference calls.
staff at all levels to get a true sense of the executive directors.
prevailing culture and underlying behaviours The Board has a broad range of expertise Mike Stansfield was appointed an and attitudes.
and experience and a strong blend of skills, independent non-executive director on 28 which has allowed it to perform effectively These visits also provide opportunity for November 2017, increasing their number during a challenging year for the business.
the non-executives to engage in a way to five, and brings a strong housebuilding The non-executive Chairman brings a strong that models and reinforces the Groups industry background to the Board.
The track record of commercial experience in values of Integrity, Caring and Quality, provision of a comprehensive and tailored construction and infrastructure related supporting the message from executive induction is ongoing for Mike and includes industries, which benefit the Group in management.
Together with KPIs and site visits, visits to the regional offices, the delivery of its strategy and oversight other data, this engagement allows the meetings with senior management, and of its business plans and performance.
Board to periodically assess whether briefings on specific topics.
Alastair Lyons has a broad base of business culture is as expected and reflects that experience, with a particular focus on David Ritchie stepped down as Chief set by the Board and to influence where mortgage lending and insurance industries Executive on 9 January 2017 and, with the necessary.
The Groups vision, mission and including chairing listed companies.
number of executive directors reduced to statement and values are messaged to all Chris Browne brings a strong commercial one, Earl Sibley, Group Finance Director, staff through a range of communications, and operational background from a was appointed Interim Chief Executive, a including inductions, presentations, consumer facing industry and Ralph Findlay position he held from 9 January to 18 April informal discussions and branding materials, adds strong commercial, financial and 2017.
Greg Fitzgerald was appointed CEO together with expectations regarding general management expertise, again on 18 April 2017 and Earl Sibley returned to supporting behaviours, including openness from a consumer facing industry.
Nigel his role as Group Finance Director, restoring and transparency.
Keen brings an in-depth construction and the number of executive directors to two.
property background and experience of Biographical details for the directors are running property strategy and portfolios, provided on pages 58 to 59.
Their dates of once again from a consumer facing appointment, length of service to the end industry, and Mike Stansfield adds a of 2017 and attendance at Board meetings strong housebuilding industry background, are shown below.
Attendance Attendance Date of Tenure in at scheduled at additional The Board keeps a focus Name appointment Current role current role meetings meetings on culture, supporting the Ian Tyler 29 11 13 Chairman 4 years 9 9 9 9 message from executive management Alastair Lyons 01 10 08 Deputy Chairman 9.25 years 9 9 9 9 Chris Browne 01 09 14 Non-executive 3.3 years 9 9 7 9 Ralph Findlay 07 04 15 Non-executive 2.75 years 9 9 9 9 Nigel Keen 15 11 16 Non-executive 1.1 years 9 9 7 9 Mike Stansfield 28 11 17 Non-executive 1 month 1 1 - Directors names and functions are listed on Greg Fitzgerald 18 04 17 Chief Executive 0.75 years 6 6 3 3 pages 58 to 59 Group Finance Notice of the 2018 Director Earl Sibley 16 04 15 2.75 years 9 9 9 9 Annual General Meeting Interim Chief Executive pages 150 to 155 from 09 01 17 to 18 04 17 || Bovis Homes Group PLC Bovis Homes Group PLC 65 65 Corporate governance report The five non-executive directors have In accordance with the Companies Act as age, gender, or educational and been determined by the Board to be 2006 and as permitted by the Companys professional backgrounds, beyond the independent in character and judgement Articles of Association, the Board has requirement for qualified professional staff with no relationships or circumstances authorised actual and potential conflicts to hold certain positions.
likely to affect, or that could appear to of interest and conflicts are reviewed The policy is implemented by circulation affect, their judgement.
The Board is satisfied that powers through the Group and publication on to authorise actual and potential conflicts All the directors will be offering themselves the Groups website and the Group also are operating effectively.
for re-election at the forthcoming AGM, has a long standing equal opportunities in accordance with the Code, with The Board has a diversity policy which policy.
The Board has one female nonthe exception of Alastair Lyons who has been in place since September 2011 executive director and three female will retire from the Board at the AGM, and strongly supports the principle of members of senior management report having completed nine years as a nonboardroom diversity, acknowledging that in to the level below the Board.
The executive director since the date of his gender is but one element of many.
The Board intends to review its diversity policy first election.
The Board strongly supports Board seeks a mix of talented people with during 2018, in light of the expected all the individual directors re-elections, a range of experience, skills, vision and new Code requirements.
Gender metrics taking account of the balance of skills independence, recognising the importance are contained in the corporate social and expertise and the performance of the of a blend of abilities, views and responsibility report on page 40.
Ralph Findlay will be backgrounds to enable it, as the objective All the directors have service agreements appointed Senior Independent Director of the policy, to function effectively.
or contracts and the details are set out in with effect from the conclusion of There are no particular considerations, the current remuneration policy, available the AGM.
applicable to the Board or senior at www.
management, concerning aspects such The Boards site visit to the Groups Barming development market, production, sales rates and customer satisfaction, In October 2017, the Board visited South East followed by a tour and inspection of the show homes.
regions Orchard Fields, Barming development in Maidstone.
A tour of the construction site was then conducted by the site team, which provided the opportunity for discussion and Opened in March 2016 and located close to the M20, the site feedback on progress with the build programme, specific offers two, three, four and five bedroom homes in an edge issues experienced in development, training and support to site of town setting, convenient for local living and commuting to teams, welfare, and health and safety performance.
Returning to the sales office, discussion summarising the Viewing of the sales office was coupled with discussion with sites overall performance and objectives for 2017 and 2018 regional management and site and sales staff on the local concluded the visit.
| 66 Our governance Our governance Board meetings The main activities at Board meetings in 2017 were as follows: and main activities the Interim Chief Executive presented the Board received regular reports There were nine scheduled meetings proposals and regular updates on covering health and safety and and nine additional meetings operational priorities for 2017 and the discussed performance against during 2017. way forward in resetting the business, KPIs, areas for improvement and including reports on customer service monitored actions taken, including the The Board maintains and reviews a issues, the actions taken and progress effectiveness of engagement with site rolling agenda plan, which ensures made.
The Interim Chief Executive teams and subcontractors.
that all key issues and matters reserved also presented the 2017 Budget for A presentation on a new behavioural to the Board are discussed at the approval and continued to provide a health and safety system was also appropriate time, and any requirement regular finance report, with support received and discussed.
for additional meetings is identified by from the Group Financial Controller, the Chairman, in conjunction with the the Board reviewed IT strategy, before reverting to the position of Chief Executive, Group Finance Director receiving a presentation from the Group Finance Director.
The finance and Company Secretary.
Head of IT, which included the security report includes, at various times, strategy and input to key projects.
rolling forecasts, Group KPIs, budgets, The Chairman reviews meeting results, projections, leading market agendas with the Chief Executive and a summary of Quality Construction indicators, analyst consensus data and Company Secretary and the Company Reviews completed by the NHBC was an analysis of share price valuation Secretary maintains a rolling schedule reviewed and a presentation was given and movements.
of matters arising, which tracks by the NHBC, followed by a question progress with actions and is reviewed and answer session.
the Board held several meetings at each meeting.
and conference calls to discuss the the 2016 results and the 2017 interim relative merits of the merger proposals The Board receives a comprehensive results were reviewed and approved, received from Redrow plc and electronic meeting pack a week in including release to the London Galliford Try Plc versus the Groups advance of each meeting plus other Stock Exchange.
operational and financial plans and, information required to enable it to having considered the feedback discharge its duties.
Meetings are the Budget for 2018 was the subject from engagement with shareholders, conducted in an atmosphere of open of debate, challenge and detailed decided that both proposals should and free flowing discussion and debate, consideration.
with a questioning approach which actions arising from the 2016 enables the non-executive directors the Board reviewed progress with the Board performance evaluation were to challenge and test the strategy, appointment of a new Chief Executive monitored and the provider for the progress made with implementation, and appointed Greg Fitzgerald with 2017 external independent evaluation and proposals put forward by the effect from 18 April 2017. was identified and the evaluation executive directors.
Members of the process commenced.
ELT and the Group Financial Controller the new Chief Executive presented attended a number of meetings in an initial report on his thoughts and succession planning reviews were 2017, increasing the range of views findings and subsequently provided presented by the Head of HR for the and the input available to the nonreports and updates spanning the ELT and for the leadership team below executive directors.
Groups activities, including progress the ELT.
with implementation of the strategy, progress with the recruitment of customer satisfaction, health and a new non-executive director was safety, HR matters, investor feedback, monitored, appointing Mike Stansfield trading performance, land acquisitions with effect from 28 November 2017. sales, affordable housing, and progress with key projects.
the Board completed a broker review, appointing Deutsche Bank AG London an operating review pack containing as joint broker.
standardised processes and controls for the regional operations was presented by the Division MDs.
The Board also reviewed dividend policy, principal risks and mitigation, regulatory announcements, major shareholdings, litigation, the share dealing code, the process for the longer-term viability statement, and plans for the 2017 strategy day.
|| Bovis Homes Group PLC Bovis Homes Group PLC 67 67 T Corpor itle ate governance report Five of nine scheduled meetings were The Board considers stakeholders in its Customer feedback received detailed held in London and four were held in the deliberations and takes into account the consideration during 2017 and was regions, providing opportunity to interact views of and feedback from shareholders, carefully monitored, including individual with local management teams and tour employees, subcontractors, suppliers, and meetings, feedback from sites, and the regional offices and sites, meeting staff customers.
Comprehensive discussions HBF customer satisfaction survey score, at all levels.
Three regional management took place with shareholders during to ensure that customer issues were teams provided presentations to the Board the first half of 2017 and feedback has being properly resolved to an in open discussion and question and continued to be taken following the appropriate standard.
answer sessions, which followed site visits publication of the strategic review The annual strategy day held in July to view construction activities, show homes update published with the Groups halfprovided the Board with the opportunity and sales offices.
All sessions concluded year results.
for an in-depth review of the strategy for with an evening meeting with regional Indirectly through the executive team, the Group and received a presentation management and members of the ELT.
the views of employees are received on from brokers on the external environment, specific topics via employee liaison groups considered the political backdrop, and and reports from the HR function and are reviewed the risk appetite and factors taken into account in decisions affecting leading up to the Groups operational operations and employment conditions.
difficulties, which peaked at the end of Subcontractors attend adjudication and 2016.
Progress with the Groups strategic The regional management project meetings and recent feedback and structural review was discussed has been taken on the product range, and development of the strategy was teams presented to the ease of build and means of improving progressed.
Structure based on operational Board in open discussion engagement and communication.
They factors was also reviewed, requiring a and question and also have ongoing involvement regarding reduction from eight regions to seven, and answer sessions health and safety.
Suppliers attend regular capital investment, affordable housing, meetings and provide input to product people and balance sheet optimisation and specification.
Feedback on these were discussed.
areas arises from updates received by the During the year, the Chairman held a Board and the impact on stakeholders is meeting with the non-executive directors, considered as part of proposals put to The Board considers without the executive directors present, the Board.
and the Senior Independent Director held a stakeholders in its meeting with the non-executives, without deliberations the Chairman present.
| 68 Our governance Strategic report | Business over Our governance view The Avenue, Moreton-in-Marsh Ensuring an effective Board Culture Succession planning The Board carried out an internal formal evaluation of its 2016 The Board placed greater emphasis Succession planning and the talent performance at the beginning of 2017 on understanding the relationship pipeline were reviewed by the Board using Independent Audits Thinking between central, divisional and and progress was made, allowing more Board software.
regional management, the impact on direct focus on the identification of the development of an accountable and necessary skills and characteristics and The overall result reflected the customer centred culture across the the development of individuals to deliver challenges that the business faced business, and on identifying measures of the Groups strategy.
The Head of HR in 2016 and, whilst the underlying the extent to which changes to culture presented succession planning reviews direction, culture and management of and practice were becoming embedded.
to the Board and it was agreed that the the Board were strong, the evaluation Regional visits, discussion with staff at all exercise will be repeated in mid-2018 identified material areas for focus in levels, KPIs and other data were used for and again at the end of 2018 to ensure 2017, which were set out in the 2016 this purpose, concluding that a customer that a rigorous approach evolves.
During 2017, therefore, centred culture was developing, but that the Board focused on the following there was more to do in some areas.
aspects of its performance: Risk management Strategy and execution Reward structure Greater focus was given to the impact Material weaknesses in the Groups Measures of performance adopted and visibility of customer service and production planning capability led to for variable reward were found to quality failures on the Groups wider customer service issues arising and the have focused too heavily on financial reputation.
Customer service and quality Board instigated a full review, both performance and a new directors issues were discussed at each Board of the Groups production planning remuneration policy was approved at meeting in 2017 and non-financial KPIs process and the Groups approach to the 2017 AGM and included for were used to monitor progress.
These reviews resulted non-financial variable reward metrics.
Head of Internal Audit & Risk completed in the implementation of standard several reviews which included the operating processes, controls and review monitoring of build programme delivery mechanisms in the regions.
and customer service controls and reported to the Audit Committee.
|| Bovis Homes Group PLC Bovis Homes Group PLC 69 69 Corporate governance report Towards the end of 2017, the Board iii Board and Committee meeting and is highly supportive of the approach completed its third external independent attendance by IBE to observe the the CEO is taking as he resets the business.
This was dynamics and culture of the boardroom, Over the coming year, Board members conducted by Independent Board which took place in December 2017. are aware of the need i to ensure that Evaluation IBE, who have no sufficient challenge is presented to the Feedback was also collected on the other connection with the Company.
executive directors: ii to ensure that they Chairman, for reporting to the SID, and The interview based methodology and are close enough to the business and on the individual directors for feedback approach allowed the Board to review its senior management to drill down if there to the Chairman.
The feedback for the 2017 performance in considerable depth.
are nascent problems: iii to focus on committees was presented to each succession planning amongst the executive The process comprised: Committee Chair.
The output for the and for the Board: and iv to determine i a briefing with the Chairman, Chief Board was discussed with the Chairman the medium to long term strategy.
Executive and Company Secretary to and the Chief Executive and was presented Board members felt that good progress establish the background and set tone: to the Board by IBE at a meeting held in had been made during 2017 in several January 2018. ii a confidential and consistent interview areas, such as risk management, Board process with Board members, the Overall, board members considered focus and Board culture, whilst there Company Secretary, the remainder that the Board had established an open were areas of performance that could of the ELT, six members of senior and transparent relationship with the be improved for the future.
IBE made a management below the ELT, the new CEO during 2017, which was number of recommendations and the engagement partner at PwC, the working well.
Board members have clarity Chairman formulated an action plan, external auditor, and the partner at on the challenges facing the Board, which was discussed and approved by the Deloitte responsible for advice to the what needs to be done, and the degree Board, based on the key recommendations Remuneration Committee, and: of change that it needs to drive in and areas of focus for the Board to take the organisation.
The Board operates what forward in 2018, set out below.
is described as a strong collegiate culture 2018 action plan Strategy Induction Following a clear exposition by the CEO of the re-set strategy, The current programme will be optimised for future joiners, the Board will participate in a strategy day in July 2018 to review reflecting the needs of their particular skill sets and backgrounds.
the three to five year horizon.
Whilst relevant to all aspects of the Boards operation, the outcome of these discussions will Decision making be fed into the Nomination Committee in so far as they affect The Chairman and the Company Secretary are to review the board composition, board skills training, and succession planning delegation of authority to ensure that there is absolute clarity in the executive.
on the areas where the board is to be consulted or informed and the issues that are within the remit of management.
Board composition Clearer signposting of decision making areas in the Board papers A formal competency matrix is to be developed to assess the will follow.
Boards current strengths and weaknesses, and to reflect the skills and characteristics required once the longer term strategy Board meetings has been determined.
With the retirement of the Deputy The Chairman and the Company Secretary are to review whether Chairman and SID at the AGM, the Board is seeking a candidate sufficient time is allocated to the topics under consideration and with strong PLC experience who will enhance the diversity of the are to consider revising the schedule and timetable for Board current Board.
and committee meetings, with consequent adjustments to agenda management.
The best way of establishing a feedback Individual performance evaluation loop on the effectiveness of Board meetings with the nonIn tandem with the competency matrix, a more formal annual executive directors will also be considered.
process will be instigated by the Chairman to review individual director performance and to identify development goals for each Board papers director, to be reviewed by the Nomination Committee.
Improvements to the format and content of the Board pack were identified.
This will include further work on KPIs to provide Succession planning a clearer at a glance view of critical areas including customer, Progress has been made during the sessions noted above, but production, quality, HR and cultural indicators.
The Board will further work is required in a structured approach, particularly also be furnished with more external data and input, including regarding longer term planning around the Chief Executive and regular presentations from NHBC.
| 70 Our governance Our governance It is intended that IBE attend a meeting in July 2018 to discuss progress with the action he developed his understanding of the plan with the Board and assess whether any additional actions are needed during 2018.
Company and then his future strategy for the business, which was announced last During the interview process, IBE also facilitated discussion on the events leading September after appropriate challenge by up to the operational difficulties which peaked in December 2016 and resulted in the Board, led by the Chairman.
the Group putting a clear set of operational priorities in place in early 2017.
The Throughout the challenges and changes discussion presented Board members with an opportunity to reflect with the benefit faced by the Company he maintained of hindsight and to draw out lessons learned that might still be relevant to the constructive dialogue with the Companys resetting of the business under the new CEO.
principal institutional investors, providing The feedback from participants presented a consistent view that the problems insightful feedback to the Boards experienced in the business were cumulative and that there were a number of assessment of the most effective direction contributory factors.
These included reflections on the risks of the strategy for for the Company to take.
growth, the embedded culture of the Group, and the depth of succession planning.
As Chairman of the Nomination The feedback indicated that during 2015 and 2016, the Board had identified a Committee, the Chairman has sought to number of the issues and was taking steps to remedy them, but for a number of increase the Boards effectiveness through reasons, did not have a wide enough view of operations, was not able to read the succession planning, adding during 2017 true position of the business from the information presented to it, and did not have a non-executive director with a housesufficient access to an independent assessment of quality and customer service.
building background, having towards the Many of the actions to address these shortcomings form part of the areas of focus end of 2016 also recruited a non-executive for the Board to take forward in 2018, set out on page 70.
In addition, the Board director with property experience.
took immediate steps in early 2017 to: Recruit a non-executive director with a deep operational pedigree in the Board committees housebuilding industry, resulting in the appointment of Mike Stansfield to The Board is supported by standing the Board.
Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Engage with the NHBC on the Groups performance in delivering construction Induction quality and customer service, receiving a presentation during a Board meeting in Membership, roles and activities are December 2017 and establishing a programme of regular interaction and annual The current programme will be optimised for future joiners, set out in separate reports.
reflecting the needs of their particular skill sets and backgrounds.
Committee report is on pages 98 to 101, Continue its focus on organisational culture and ensuring it has strong relationships the Nomination Committee report is on Decision making with senior management below the CEO with more frequent interaction.
This pages 102 and 103, and the Remuneration includes a programme of formal and informal regional office and site visits by all Committee report is on pages 78 to 97.
The Chairman and the Company Secretary are to review the Board members and a programme of one to one meetings between the Chairman Each Committee reports to and has terms delegation of authority to ensure that there is absolute clarity and Division and regional MDs.
of reference approved by the Board and on the areas where the board is to be consulted or informed and the minutes of Committee meetings are the issues that are within the remit of management.
The Chairman provided strong and circulated to the Board for review.
The performance evaluation of the Clearer signposting of decision making areas in the Board papers effective leadership of the Board during Chairman was led by the Senior will follow.
The Audit Committee is chaired by Ralph a difficult period for the Company, when Independent Director, with input from Findlay, the Remuneration Committee operational shortcomings caused it to fall all other members of the Board.
It was Board meetings is chaired by Alastair Lyons and the short of expectations: there was a change again considered that the Board had been Nomination Committee is chaired by Ian The Chairman and the Company Secretary are to review whether of Chief Executive: and the Company effective under the Chairmans leadership Tyler.
It is proposed that Nigel Keen take sufficient time is allocated to the topics under consideration and received two unsolicited approaches with well-planned meetings, appropriate the Chair of the Remuneration Committee are to consider revising the schedule and timetable for Board to merge with other housebuilders.
agendas based on a good understanding on the retirement of Alastair Lyons at the and committee meetings, with consequent adjustments to Throughout these challenges he acted of the Companys business model and 2018 AGM.
The best way of establishing a feedback decisively and always with the best strategy, and broad effective contribution loop on the effectiveness of Board meetings with the noninterests of shareholders in mind.
Board meetings continue to The external independent Board evaluation executive directors will also be considered.
be held in a conducive environment with a included performance evaluations of the During the year he has spent significant strong focus on the important issues and Committees and all were identified as time both on sites and with the Companys Board papers open debate and constructive challenge.
having areas where performance could executives and relevant external advisers.
Further detail is given in the Improvements to the format and content of the Board pack He has developed a good working individual Committee reports.
This will include further work on KPIs to provide relationship with Greg Fitzgerald, the a clearer at a glance view of critical areas including customer, new Chief Executive, supporting him as production, quality, HR and cultural indicators.
The Board will also be furnished with more external data and input, including regular presentations from NHBC.
|| Bovis Homes Group PLC Bovis Homes Group PLC 71 71 T Corpor itle ate governance report Governance through the business The Board aims to meet governance best practice in light of the Groups business model, organisation structure, processes and internal controls.
The Group currently complies with and applies the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code and will review the new edition of the Code during 2018 to determine the actions it should take to meet the revised requirements.
Further details of the Groups current approach to governance best practice are set out below.
Amongst matters reserved for the Board are the overall leadership of the Group, setting the Groups values and standards, approval of strategy and budgets, oversight of operations and performance, structure and Tadpole Cross, Swindon capital, financial reporting, internal controls, corporate governance, and approval of major expenditure and transactions.
The advice and services of the Group The Deputy Chairman supports the The Board has approved a written Company Secretary are available to Chairman in ensuring that the Board is division of responsibilities between the nonthe directors.
All directors have access to effective and constructive relations are executive Chairman and the Chief Executive the Companys professional advisers and maintained, in addition to acting as the and the role of the non-executive Deputy can seek independent professional advice Senior Independent Director, in which Chairman has been similarly defined.
There was no capacity he leads the annual performance advice sought during the year.
evaluation of the Chairman and provides an The Chairman is primarily responsible for: additional point of contact for shareholders.
Training is made available to directors at the effective working of the Board, induction and as required to develop and The control framework is subject to Board taking a leading role in determining the maintain knowledge and the Chairman review.
The Group has a defined set Boards composition and is responsible for ensuring that directors of authorities, procedures and controls structure, and continually update and refresh their across the range of its activities, which knowledge and skills appropriate to their ensuring that effective communications have been mapped and documented and role on the Board and Board Committees.
are available to all staff via the Groups Directors are also required to maintain their intranet, including the authorities and The Chief Executive is responsible for: awareness of the culture and operations decision making delegated by the Board to of the Group.
During 2017, the directors the operational management of management in respect of the operational received training on the legal and regulatory the Group, control of the Group.
These are regularly framework for UK Takeovers and a and formally assessed both by Internal developing strategic operating plans and general corporate governance update, and external audit, in addition to being presenting them to the Board, and including the FRCs proposals for a revised subject to a quarterly self-assessment Corporate Governance Code, and other the implementation of strategy agreed by process established in 2017.
leadership structure provides the framework for governance control, reporting and risk The Company has an insurance policy in management and is set out on page 64. place which insures directors against certain liabilities, including legal costs.
Information on share capital is provided on pages 105 and 106.
| 72 Our governance Strategic report | Business over Our governance view Nine Acres, Bishopstoke An increased level of shareholder All shareholders have the opportunity Shareholder engagement engagement has since been maintained, to exercise their right to vote and can The Company has a comprehensive including with the strategic update appoint proxies if they are unable investor relations programme, which which took place in September 2017 and to attend.
To facilitate ease of voting allows the Chief Executive and Group subsequent announcements, enabling the we provide an electronic voting facility.
Finance Director to regularly engage with Board to monitor shareholder sentiment.
Shareholders attending the AGM have the our major shareholders.
opportunity to ask questions relevant to the The Board reviews feedback from investor business of the meeting and hear the views In addition to one-to-one meetings relations meetings, visits and presentations, of other shareholders before casting through the year, the Company holds including commentary on the matters their vote.
After the meeting the results of a series of presentations and meetings discussed.
The feedback received during voting on all resolutions are published on following the announcement of 2017 was extremely helpful to the Board the Groups website.
the final and half-yearly results.
and assisted with the focus of the strategic These presentations are made publicly review and the direction of the Group.
available so that all shareholders can access them on the Groups website at The Board also values other channels to www.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that all directors During the early part of 2017, the are aware of any issues or concerns Chairman held a series of meetings and raised by major shareholders.
In addition, calls with shareholders relating to the the Deputy Chairman also the Senior merger proposals received from Galliford Independent Director is accessible Try Plc and Redrow plc to provide to shareholders.
information, explore their views and take conclusions regarding the relative merits All shareholders are invited to attend the of the proposals versus the Groups Companys AGM, which this year will be future operational and financial plans.
An increased level of held on 23 May 2018.
The full Board, These meetings were extremely useful in including all Committee Chairmen, attend shareholder engagement guiding engagement on the proposals to a and value this meeting as a means of took place in 2017 conclusion, including the recruitment communicating with private investors, of Greg Fitzgerald as the new encouraging their participation.
| Bovis Homes Group PLC 73 T Corpor itle ate governance report Risk management and internal control The Board has responsibility for maintaining and monitoring sound risk management and internal control systems.
The Boards role includes responsibility for the risk appetite and the identification, management and mitigation of risk.
Risk is a regular discussion item, which allows the directors to review the risk appetite and principal risks and assess the quality of risk management processes and risk mitigation.
Risk is also a theme running through many other Board discussions.
In setting its approach, the Board aims to ensure that the Company is neither prevented from taking opportunities nor Recommendations for improvements to The Audit Committee reviewed build exposed to unreasonable risk.
internal controls were made during the programme delivery and customer service Monitoring and review forms part of the year and corrective action was taken, but controls via regional reviews, together work undertaken by the Audit Committee they did not represent significant control with the measures taken to strengthen and is based principally on the review of failings or weaknesses.
their effectiveness and reduce operational reports from the co-sourced Internal Audit pressures.
During the year, it monitored A period of ambitious growth led to function and from management.
It covers the outcome of the reviews put in place by considerable operational pressures and all material controls, including financial, the Board, which resulted in a significant challenges being experienced, resulting operational and compliance controls improvement in the control environment.
in operational difficulties, which peaked and compliance with risk management in December 2016.
Weaknesses in the The Board has complied with Principle processes.
In addition, a Risk Governance application of operational and customer C. 2 of the Code by completing a robust Committee operates with representation service controls manifested themselves as assessment of the principal risks facing from the regional businesses to support control failures under these pressures, the Company and it has established the monitoring of existing threats, with the outcome that, whilst the a continuous process for identifying, alongside the identification of emerging controls are fit for purpose, they evaluating and managing the principal risks across the Group.
were not fully effective in maintaining risks, in accordance with the FRCs In reviewing the effectiveness of the operational control in respect of quality Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Companys system of internal control and customer service.
Control and Related Financial and Business and risk management systems, the Board Reporting.
This process has been in place In early 2017, the Board reviewed the i considered the risk appetite and ii for the period under review and up to the events leading up to the 2016 yearreviewed changes in the nature, likelihood date of approval of the Annual Report and end and the causation of the control and impact of the principal risks, their Accounts and includes compliance with failures and reasserted the importance mitigation, the controls placed against provision C. 2.3. of leadership and the right behaviours them and the Companys ability to and of controls being properly applied It is designed to manage rather than respond to changes and iii received by the business.
It also put a clear set of eliminate risk and can only provide reports from the Audit Committee on the operational priorities in place, including reasonable and not absolute assurance operation and effectiveness of the risk a focus on customer service, a review of against material misstatement or loss.
management and internal controls customer service procedures and a review systems and their integration with of the build process.
strategy and the business model.
The Board also reviewed the minutes of The Risk Governance Audit Committee meetings and the minutes Committee has representation of Risk Governance Committee meetings.
from the regional businesses | 74 Our governance Our governance The Company maintains computer systems The Company maintains a regular Control framework that record financial transactions and weekly and monthly financial reporting The Company maintains a comprehensive whose effectiveness is reviewed by the cycle, allowing management to assess control environment, which is regularly co-sourced Internal Audit function on a financial progress.
This is further supported reviewed by the Board.
Any findings arising from by a formal budget and monthly rolling these exercises are reported to the Audit forecasting process which ensures that The principal elements of the control Committee and action is taken, there is a recent financial forecast in environment include regular board as appropriate.
place at all times against which to meetings, the Division and regional assess performance.
Together with this structure, defined operating controls and Control over cash expenditure is a financial reporting, the Company requires authorisation limits, a co-sourced Internal key component.
The Company maintains its Division and regional management Audit function and a comprehensive tight control in this area through a teams to report key business issues financial reporting system.
centralised and regional payment function, promptly and as part of a monthly regularly maintained authorisation regional operational reporting pack on There are a number of elements of documents and segregation of a standard basis.
the Companys internal control and authorisation accountability.
risk management systems that are Finally, there is a process of accounts specifically related to the Companys preparation which ensures that there is financial reporting process: an audit trail between the output from there is a well understood the Companys financial reporting system management structure which and the financial statements as they are allows for clear accountability and prepared for reporting.
an appropriately granular level of financial control.
the structure is underpinned by documented authority levels for business transactions.
the process is further supported by process documents for both internal management reporting and external reporting which stipulates, amongst other things, reporting timetables and the contents of key management reports.
during the last quarter best practice processes and procedures were mapped for all core and support activities.
during the last quarter of 2017 a quarterly self-assessment for all director level employees was put in place to confirm adherence to mandatory controls and nonconformities are reported to the ELT for discussion and remediation.
Directors names and biographies are listed on pages 58 to 59 Notice of the 2018 Mildenhall, Sherborne Annual General Meeting pages 150 to 155 || Bovis Homes Group PLC Bovis Homes Group PLC 75 75 | 76 Our governance Our governance Keeping customers happy Delivering a high standard of customer service has been a priority across the Group Heyford Park, Upper Heyford | Bovis Homes Group PLC 77
