Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Audit Committee Report As Chair of the Audit Committee the Groups longer-term solvency and liquidity in Committee, I am pleased to present the support of the viability statement.
Looking Audit Committees report for the financial ahead, the Committee will continue to monitor year ended 31 December 2017.
The aim of changes in regulation and continue to focus this report is to explain the work undertaken on the audit, assurance and risk processes by the Committee during the year and how it within the Principal Businesses.
The has met the disclosure requirements as set Committee considered its compliance with out in the 2016 Corporate Governance Code the Code and the FRC Guidance on Audit the Code and what it has done to address Committees.
The Committee believes that it continued regulatory change.
The key has addressed both the spirit and the matters considered in the year are set out on requirements of both.
The report provides an The members of the Committee need to overview of the significant issues that the have the right balance of skills and Audit Committee assessed and details the experience to deliver its responsibilities.
Committees major considerations and During the year, the Board carried out an activities during the 2017 financial year in internally facilitated evaluation of its ensuring that the Companys governance performance and that of its Committees.
processes remain appropriate, robust, of a The Board is satisfied that the Committee high standard and are rigorously applied.
members possess relevant experience and The Committee has a key role in ensuring appropriate levels of independence and that the integrity of the Groups financial its members have the depth of financial and statements, internal controls and the commercial experience across various effectiveness of its risk management industries which is essential for the effective processes.
The Committee also has a role in working of the Committee.
representing the interests of Shareholders by At the request of the Board, the Committee monitoring the activities and conduct of has reviewed the content of this years management and the auditors.
Annual Report and Accounts and has During the year, the Committee focused on advised the Board that, in its opinion, the the effectiveness of the Groups internal Report taken as a whole is fair, balanced and controls and reviewed the principal risks, to understandable and it provides the ensure the alignment of these with the information necessary for Shareholders to Companys strategic objectives.
It monitored assess the Groups position, performance, the effectiveness of the control environment business model and strategy.
through the review of reports from Internal The Committee noted the unqualified Audit, management and the External Auditor opinion from the External Auditor on the and ensured the quality of the Companys 2017 Annual Report.
financial reporting by reviewing the 2016 Report and Accounts and the 2017 Half Year Financial Statements.
The Audit Committee also reviewed the Companys 2017 Annual Liz Hewitt Report.
The Committee also considered the Chair of the Audit Committee processes supporting the assessment of the Savills plc 51 Report and Accounts 2017 Audit Committee Report continued its financial dynamics and risks, and Role of the Committee Composition meetings with senior management.
The Committee is authorised to investigate The Committee is a fundamental element of Committee members are expected to have any matter within its Terms of Reference the Companys governance framework.
The an understanding of the principles of, and a copy of which can be found in the Committee is chaired by Liz Hewitt.
Three recent developments in, financial reporting governance section of the Companys Independent Non-Executive Directors, Liz and internal controls, risk management, and website at www.
com en companyHewitt, Tim Freshwater and Rupert Robson Internal and external audit roles and information corporate-governance.
are members of the Committee.
The Terms of Reference were reviewed and the Committee are appointed by the Board updated in June 2017.
The Committee has following recommendations by the Engagement access to the services of the Group Legal Nomination & Governance Committee and The Chair of the Committee meets informally, Director & Company Secretary and, where membership is reviewed annually by the and is in regular contact with the Group Chief necessary, the authority to obtain external Nomination & Governance Committee as Financial Officer, Group Director of Risk legal or other independent professional part of the annual Board performance Assurance and the Group Legal Director & advice to fulfil its duties.
There were no changes to the Company Secretary and prior to each membership of the Committee during the Committee meeting, meets with each of The Committees key role is to assist the 2017 financial year.
As at 31 December 2017 them and the External Auditor individually.
Board in discharging its duties and and up to the date of this Report, the responsibilities for financial reporting, internal Committee comprised entirely Independent In addition to its members, a standing control, the effectiveness of the risk Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee invitation has been extended by the management process and in making members collectively have a broad range of Committee to the Non-Executive Chairman recommendations to the Board on the financial and commercial experiences that and Group Chief Executive Officer to attend appointment of the External Auditor.
enables them to provide oversight of both the Committees meetings.
The Group Chief The Committee is responsible for the scope financial and risk matters, and to advise the Financial Officer, Group Financial Controller, and results of the External Audit work, its Board accordingly.
The Board considers that Group Director of Risk & Assurance, Group cost effectiveness and for ensuring the Liz Hewitt, as Chair of the Committee, Legal Director & Company Secretary and the independence and objectivity of the External possesses recent and relevant financial External Auditor attend each of the Auditor.
The Committee is also responsible experience and that all Committee members Committees meetings.
Other senior for reviewing the Groups whistle-blowing have relevant financial experience as executives from across the Group are invited arrangements as they relate to matters of required by the Code.
Biographical details to present reports to assist the Audit financial integrity, including ensuring that of the Committee members are shown on Committee in discharging its duties.
At least appropriate arrangements are in place for pages 44 and 45. once a year, the Committee meets with the employees to be able to raise, in confidence, External Auditor and the Group Director of matters of alleged financial improprieties and The Company provides an induction Risk & Assurance without management for ensuring that appropriate follow-up programme for new Committee members being present.
which includes an overview of the business, The Chair of the Committee also attends the AGM to respond to shareholder questions on its activities.
The Committee met four times during the year and reports to the Board after each Committee meeting.
Attendance at meetings during 2017 is shown in the table below: Meetings % of eligible Meetings eligible to meetings Committee member Member since attended attend attended Liz Hewitt June 2014 4 4 100% Tim Freshwater January 2012 4 4 100% Rupert Robson June 2015 4 4 100% During the year, in addition to its established focus on cyber security.
The Committee have an impact on the Groups longer-term review processes, the Committee specifically considered the processes and solvency and liquidity.
It also reviewed the considered and reviewed a number of other assessment of the Groups prospects and results of managements scenario modelling, areas.
These included updates on the risk viability made by management to support including severe downside modelling, and and internal control environments within the the viability statement which can be found at the stress testing of those financial models Groups Asia Pacific, European and UK page 29.
The Committees review included supporting the viability analysis and businesses as well as the effectiveness of consideration of the time period adopted, challenged management as to the the Tax & Treasury functions.
In addition, the processes supporting the assessment of appropriateness of the assumptions made.
with the increasing pace of technological the Groups longer-term solvency and change, the Committee considered and liquidity which support the viability reviewed the Groups IT strategy, statement.
The Committee considered and complementing the Boards review of the provided input into the determination of Groups Technology Strategy, with particular which of the Groups principal risks might Savills plc 52 Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Activities of the Committee To enable the Committee to carry out its duties and responsibilities effectively it works to a structured programme of activities and meetings aligned with the annual financial reporting cycle.
This includes items that the Committee considers regularly in accordance with its Terms ofReference.
In addition to its core work, the Committee undertakes additional work in response to the evolving audit and external reportinglandscape.
The Committee relies on information and support from management across the business, receiving reports and presentations from business management, the Heads of Key Group functions, Internal Audit and the External Auditor, which it challenges as appropriate.
Following each meeting, the Committee Chair reports on the main discussion points and any actions arising from these to the Board.
Responsibilities How the Committee discharged its responsibilities Mar June Aug Dec Financial Reporting Reviewed and discussed the key accounting considerations and X judgements reflected in the Groups results for the half year Reviewed and discussed the key accounting considerations and X judgements reflected in the Groups results Reviewed going concern status and considered whether any asset X X impairments were required Reviewed the viability statement and considered the processes X X supporting the assessment of the longer-term solvency and liquidity External Audit Agreed the external audit strategy and scope X Considered and, where appropriate, approved the instruction of the X Groups External Auditor on non-audit assignments Reviewed and considered the External Auditor Report, including the External Auditor observations on the Groups internal control X X environment Discussed the External Auditor performance X Met with the External Auditor without management present to discuss X X their remit and any concerns Discussed and agreed the External Auditor remuneration in respect of X audit services provided Assessed the External Auditors independence and recommended X their reappointment to the Board Compliance, Reviewed the Groups arrangements by which staff can, in confidence, Whistleblowing raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial X and Fraud reporting or other matters.
The Committee also considers any reports made under these arrangements Internal Audit Considered and approved the remit of the Internal Audit function and X the Internal Audit plan Received and considered reports from the Groups Internal Audit team covering various aspects of the Groups operations, controls X X and processes and monitored the progress made by management in addressing recommendations arising out of these reports Monitored and reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups Internal Audit function in the context of the Groups overall risk management X arrangements Met with the Group Director of Risk & Assurance privately to discuss X his remit and any concerns Internal Controls Reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups risk management system X and Risk and internal controls in place to manage the Groups principal risks Management Reviewed and considered the Groups risk register X X Systems Reviewed risk management arrangements for the Groups regional businesses by receiving presentations from the Chief Operating X X Financial Officers of the Principal Businesses Reviewed the Committees own performance, composition and Terms of Reference, and recommended any changes the Committee X considers necessary for Board approval Savills plc 53 Report and Accounts 2017 Accountability continued During the year the Financial Reporting Councils Corporate Reporting Review Team CRRT carried out a review of the Companys Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2016.
The response by the Company to the request for information was discussed with the Chair of the Audit Committee prior to responding to the CRRT.
Details of the enquiry raised by the CRRT and the Companys response thereto were also considered by the Committee.
The CRRT have closed their enquiries with no requirements to restate any disclosures.
Undertakings were given to enhance certain disclosures in the future in response to the CRRT review.
The Committee was satisfied that the enhancements proposed and agreed with the CRRT have been appropriately incorporated in the Companys Annual Report for the year ended 31December 2017.
As part of its monitoring of the integrity of the financial statements, the Committee considers the appropriateness of the accounting policies proposed for adoption and whether management has made appropriate estimates and judgements.
To support its decision-making, the Committee seeks support from the External Auditor in these areas.
The key reporting judgements considered by the Committee and discussed with the External Auditor during the year were: Matter considered Action Impairment of The Committee received reports from management on the carrying value of the Groups businesses, including goodwill.
goodwill The Committee reviewed managements recommendations, which were also considered by the External Auditor.
After review, the Committee was satisfied with the assumptions and judgements applied by management and, with the support of the External Auditor, concluded that, other than the impairment charge of 2.3m recognised against Sweden, no further impairment of carrying values was required.
Aguirre Newman The Committee considered the accounting treatment of the acquisition of Aguirre Newman by the Group on acquisition 29 December 2017 for a total acquisition consideration provisionally determined at 55.1m, with 48.2m settled in cash on completion and the remainder relating to the discounted value of deferred consideration of 6.9m payable in five equal annual instalments from December 2018.
A further 15.5m is payable in five equal annual instalments from December 2018 subject to executive Shareholders remaining actively engaged in the business over a period of up to five years.
With respect to managements fair value exercise which is provisional at 31 December 2017, following review, the Committee was satisfied with the recognition of the 3.4m of separate intangible assets.
Provisions for The Committee reviewed the provisions held in relation to significant legal matters and assessed the appropriateness litigation of these as at 31 December 2017 taking into account the Groups insurance cover and the advice received from external counsel to ensure that appropriate provision had been made.
The Committee agreed with the position taken by management in respect of these matters.
Debtor The Committee considered the recoverability of trader receivables and was satisfied that there were no issues arising recoverability Compliance During the year the Committee reviewed the Groups policies and procedures around regulatory risks including but not with regulatory limited to: requirements Whistleblowing reports: and Anti-bribery and corruption.
After review, the Committee was satisfied that no material regulatory fines or penalties had been incurred and that no significant issues had been identified in this area.
The Committee monitors the status of Internal Audit In performing its review of effectiveness, internal audit recommendations and the Committee reviewed and assessed the During 2017, Internal Audit services were managements responsiveness to their following reports and activities: delivered by the Groups Director of Internal implementation and challenge both Internal Audit with support in delivery by EY.
The Internal Audit reports on the review of the Audit and management where appropriate Boards responsibility for internal control and controls across the Group and its to provide assurance that the control risk is detailed on page 43 and is monitoring of management actions environment is robust and effective.
incorporated into this Report by reference.
arising from these reviews: In assessing the performance of Internal Audit, the Committee considered and The Committee approved the annual Group managements own assessment of risk monitored its effectiveness in the context of audit plan, and received progress against and the performance of the system of the Companys risk management system that plan during the year.
The Committee risk management and internal control and took into account managements ensured that Internal Audit was appropriately during 2017: assessment of and responsiveness to the resourced with the skills and experience reports from the Group Director of Risk Internal Auditors findings and relevant to the operations of the Group and & Assurance including reports on recommendations and reports from the that information was made available to it to Group-wide risk assessment activity and External Auditor on any issues identified enable it to fulfil its mandate to the annual self-assessment findings: and during the course of their work.
reports from the External Auditor on any Internal Control and Risk issues identified during the course of The Committee reviewed Internal Audit Management theirwork.
reports on a regular basis and the Group Director of Risk & Assurance attended The Committee, on behalf of the Board, The Committee and the Board considered meetings and presented to the Committee.
undertook a robust review of the that the information received was sufficient effectiveness of the system of risk to enable a review of the effectiveness of the management and internal control.
Groups internal controls in accordance with the FRCs Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Savills plc 54 Report and Accounts 2017 Business Reporting.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements that PwC be re-appointed as the External During the year, PwC was paid 1.8m for External Audit Auditor for a further year and that their audit services and 0.8m for non-audit The Committee has primary responsibility for re-appointment would be put to the services, principally for advice on overseeing the relationship with the External shareholders at the 2018 AGM.
Details of the Auditor, including assessing the External fees paid to the External Auditor can be Auditors performance, independence and PwC has been the Companys Auditor found in Note 72 on page 108.
During the effectiveness, recommending the since 2001, following a tender for the financial year ending 31 December 2017, appointment, reappointment or removal of External Audit.
The senior partner contracts for non-audit services in excess of the External Auditor, and negotiating and responsible is rotated every five years to 0.1m require Committee approval and the agreeing the external audit fees.
The ensure objectivity and the last lead partner Chair of the Audit Committee is notified of Committee holds private meetings with the change took place at the close of the 2015 new instructions for the delivery of non-audit External Auditor at the March and August audit.
The Committee continues to review services below this level.
Committee meetings to provide additional the auditor appointment and the need to opportunity for open dialogue and feedback tender the audit, ensuring compliance with The Committee was satisfied that in view of to from the Committee and the External the Code.
The Committee has considered their knowledge and experience of the Auditor without management being present.
the timing of a potential External Audit Company, that when PwC was used, it was The Committee chair also meets with the tender timetable and processes and best placed to provide such non-audit external lead audit partner outside the formal concluded that the tender process should services and that their objectivity and Committee process throughout the year.
take place at the end of the next lead audit independence had not been impaired by partner term in 2020.
The Committee is reason of this further work.
In line with the The Committee monitored the performance satisfied that the proposed retender of audit Companys policy for the financial year of the External Auditor during the year services in 2020 was in the best interests of ending 31 December 2017 on the provision and carried out a review of the effectiveness the shareholders of the Company.
of non-audit work, the Committee reviewed of the External Audit process and the provision of non-audit work provided by considered the reappointment of An important aspect of managing the the External Auditor on a case-by-case  LLP PwC and External Auditor relationship, and of the basis.
The Committee was satisfied that the the appropriateness of its fees.
The review annual effectiveness review, is ensuring that overall levels of audit related and non-audit covers a broad range of matters including there are adequate safeguards to protect fees were not material relative to the income amongst other matters, the quality of staff, auditor objectivity and independence.
In of the External Auditor firm as a whole.
its expertise, resources and the conducting its annual assessment, the independence of the audit.
The Committee Committee reviews the External Auditors The restrictions FRCs Revised Ethical considered the External Audit plan for the own policies and procedures for Standard for Auditors June 2016 on the year and assessed how the External Auditor safeguarding its objectivity and supply of non-audit services that the had performed.
In deciding whether to independence.
The Committees External Auditor can provide, including the recommend the reappointment of PwC, the assessment of PwCs independence is cap on the amount of non-audit fees that Committee considered the robustness of underpinned by the Groups policy on the can be billed and a list of prohibited services, their challenge and findings on areas which use of PwC for the provision of non-audit were effective for the Group from 1 January require judgement, the strength and depth of services.
In accordance with the Groups 2017.
As a result the Groups policy on using the lead partners and feedback from the policy in place to 31 December 2017, the the External Auditor for non-audit Groups management.
following non-audit services were not engagements was reviewed in 2016 and provided by the External Auditor: subsequently amended to reflect these The Committee formally concluded the additional restrictions.
As part of the Groups assessment of the performance of the bookkeeping or other services related to monitoring system, all non-audit instructions External Auditor at the December the accounting records or financial with the External Auditor must be approved Committee meeting and made a statements: by either the Group Chief Financial Officer or corresponding recommendation on the the Group Financial Controller and taxation services except for fide minimis appointment of PwC for the forthcoming management must seek approval from the amounts, outside of Europe and outside financial year to the Board.
Shareholders Committee for all non-audit contracts in the scope of the Group audit : formally appoint the External Auditor at the excess of 0.1m.
The Groups policy also AGM in May.
There were no significant financial information systems design and requires that non-audit fees must not exceed findings arising from the evaluation this year implementation: 70% of the average External Audit fees billed and the Committee concluded that both the Internal Audit outsourcing services: over the previous three years.
audit and the audit process were effective.
management functions or human The Committee considered the The Directors confirm that, insofar as they resources advice: or appropriateness of the reappointment of are each aware, there is no relevant audit PwC as the Groups External Auditor and it advising on senior executive including information of which PwC is unaware and was satisfied that it should recommend to Executive Director remuneration.
each Director has taken the steps that ought the Board their reappointment as the to have been taken as a Director to be aware Groups External Auditor.
To further safeguard the independence of the of any relevant audit information and to Companys External Auditor and the integrity establish that PwC is aware of that In light of the assessment and review of the audit process, recruitment of senior information.
undertaken during the year, the Board employees from the External Auditor is not endorsed the Committees recommendation allowed for an appropriate period after they cease to provide services to the Company.
Savills plc 55 Report and Accounts 2017
