Report of the Audit Committee I am pleased to present the formal report of the Audit Committee Auditors independence and objectivity with particular regard the Committee to shareholders.
to the provision of non-audit services: Responsibility for making recommendations on the The primary responsibilities of the Committee are to ensure the appointment, reappointment and removal of the Independent integrity of the Companys financial reporting, the appropriateness Auditor: of the risk management and internal controls processes and the effectiveness of the independent audit process and how this has Reviewing the eectiveness of the Companys risk been assessed for the year ended 31 December 2017. management and internal controls systems including financial, operational and compliance controls, considering the scope Composition of the work undertaken by the Managers internal audit The members of the Committee are myself as Chairman and department and reviewing the Companys procedures for all the other Directors.
Vivian Bazalgette is a member of the detecting fraud: Committee because the Board believes it to be appropriate for Monitoring the integrity of the Companys half-yearly and all Directors to have such responsibility.
The Committee considers annual financial statements to ensure they are fair, balanced that collectively its members have sufficient recent and relevant and understandable: financial experience to discharge their responsibilities fully.
Reviewing the existence and performance of all controls The Committees performance is evaluated as part of the overall operating in the Company, including review of internal controls Board evaluation process on an annual basis.
reporting of its service providers: and Reviewing the relationship with and the performance of third Role and Responsibilities party service providers such as the Registrar, Custodian and The Committees authority and duties are clearly defined in its Depositary.
terms of reference which are available on the Companys pages of the Managers website at www.
The Committee, on behalf of the Board, has reviewed the work These duties include: undertaken by the Managers internal audit team and has sufficient reassurance that a sound system of internal controls Establishing with the Auditor the nature and scope of the is maintained to safeguard shareholders investments and the audit, reviewing the Auditors quality control procedures and Companys assets.
reporting, the eectiveness of the audit process and the Meetings and Business Considered Since the date of the last Annual Report 14 March 2017, the Committee has met three times and the Independent Auditor has attended two of these meetings.
The following matters were dealt with and reviewed at each Committee meeting: The Companys risk management and internal controls framework: The Companys compliance with its investment policy limits: The Depositarys oversight report: The Registrars oversight and assurance report: The Companys revenue and expenses forecasts and its Balance Sheet: and The Committees terms of reference In addition, the following matters were also considered at these meetings: July 2017 Allocation of charges between revenue and capital The Half-Yearly Report and Financial Statements and recommendation of its approval to the Board The Going Concern Statement The Independent Auditors engagement letter and audit plan for the Companys year ending 31 December 2017 November 2017 The allocation of management fees and finance costs March 2018 The Independent Auditors findings from the audit of the Company The Independent Auditors performance, independence and reappointment Compliance with Corporate Governance and regulatory requirements The Annual Report and Financial Statements and recommendation of its approval to the Board The Viability and Going Concern Statements Recommendation of the final dividend payment to be recommended to the Board Allocation of expenses Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2017 33 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY Report of the Audit Committee continued Annual Report and Financial Statements The Annual Report and Financial Statements are the responsibility of the Board and the Statement of Directors Responsibilities is on page 32.
The Committee advises the Board on the form and content of the Annual Report and Financial Statements, any issues which may arise in relation to these and on any specific areas which require judgement.
The Committee members apply their expertise and knowledge in reviewing disclosures made in order to ensure that the Financial Statements are fair, balanced and understandable.
significant issues considered by the Committee Summarised below are the most significant issues considered by the Committee in respect of these Financial Statements and how these were addressed.
Recognition of Investment income is recognised in accordance with accounting policy Note 2 e on page 43.
The Manager Investment Income provided detailed revenue forecasts which the Committee reviewed whilst seeking explanations for any significant variances to these forecasts.
The Committee reviewed the internal audit and compliance monitoring reports received from the Manager to satisfy itself that adequate systems were in place for properly recording the Companys investment income.
Investment income was also tested and reported on by the Independent Auditor.
Valuation, existence The valuation of investments including derivatives is in accordance with accounting policy Notes 2 k and 2 l and ownership of on page 44.
The Committee took comfort from the Depositarys regular oversight reports that investment related investments including activities were conducted in accordance with the Companys investment policy.
The Committee received reports derivatives from the Manager and the Depositary that the valuation, existence and ownership of investments had been veried.
In addition the Committee received conrmation from the Auditor that it had tested the valuation of the Companys investments and derivatives by reference to independent sources and had also confirmed the existence and ownership of the investments with the Companys Custodian and that of the derivatives with the Companys counterparties.
The Company confirms that it has complied with the September 2014 Competition and Markets Authority Order as set out below in relation to the performance and appointment of the Auditor.
Independence and Eectiveness of the Audit Process Ernst & Young LLP acted as the Companys Independent Auditor for the year ended 31 December 2017.
Fees paid to the Independent Auditor for the audit of the Companys Financial Statements are disclosed in Note 5 on page 46.
With regard to the independence of the Auditor, the Committee reviewed: The audit plan for the year, including the audit team and approach to significant risks: The Auditors arrangements for any conflicts of interest: The extent of any non-audit services : and The statement by the Auditor that it remains independent within the meaning of the regulations and its professional standards.
There were no non-audit services provided to the Company during the reporting year and as at the date of this report With regard to the effectiveness of the audit process, the Committee reviewed: The fulfilment by the Auditor of the agreed audit plan: The audit findings report issued by the Auditor on the audit of the Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2017: and Feedback from the Manager on the audit of the Company.
The Committee concluded that the Auditor continues to remain independent and the audit process remains effective.
Auditors Appointment and Audit Tenure Ernst & Young LLP was appointed as the Companys Independent Auditor on 12 May 2016 following a formal audit tender process in 2015.
The Committee has reviewed the Auditors independence and the effectiveness of the audit process prior to recommending their reappointment for a further year.
The Auditor is required to rotate audit partners every five years and this is the second year that the audit partner, Matthew Price, has been in place.
The Committee will continue to review the Auditors appointment each year to ensure that the Company continues to receive an optimal level of service.
There are no contractual obligations that restrict the Companys choice of auditor.
James Robinson Chairman of the Audit Committee 14 March 2018 34 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2017
