Accountability Internal control and risk management The Group has considerable financial The AGM provides the Board with a valuable resources, including a 300m committed opportunity to communicate with private The principal risks and uncertainties faced revolving credit facility augmented by a 60m Shareholders and is generally attended by all by the Group and the associated mitigating accordion option which can be activated to of the Directors.
Shareholders are given the actions for these are set out on pages 25 increase the facility to 360m that extends to opportunity to ask questions before and to 29.
The Group has a broad during the meeting and to meet Directors geographic presence, service offering and following the conclusion of the formal part of The Board has overall responsibility for the extensive client spread ensuring that the the meeting.
In accordance with the Code, Groups systems of risk management and Group is not over-dependent on one the level and manner of voting of proxies internal control across the Group and geography, service line or client.
As a lodged on each resolution at the AGM is for reviewing their effectiveness.
This consequence, the Directors believe that the declared at the meeting and published on responsibility includes the determination Group is well placed to manage its business the Companys website.
The notice of the of the nature and extent of the principal risks successfully.
AGM is sent out at least 20 working days risks the Board is willing to take to achieve before the meeting and at least 14 working its strategic objectives and for ensuring After making appropriate enquiries, the days notice is given before other general that an appropriate culture has been Directors have a reasonable expectation that meetings in accordance with the Code.
the Company and the Group have adequate Risk management is implemented from the resources to continue as a going concern for Details of the resolutions to be proposed at top down.
The Board is supported by the at least 12 months from the date of this the 2018 AGM in May can be found in the Audit Committee in discharging its oversight Report.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt AGM Notice which accompanies this Report duties with regard to internal control and the going concern basis in preparing the and Accounts.
In accordance with the Articles of Whilst the Board is responsible for ensuring Dialogue with Shareholders Association, electronic and paper proxy that an appropriate culture has been appointments and voting instructions must embedded throughout the organisation and In accordance with the Code, the Board be received not later than 48 hours before a establishing and maintaining the Groups recognises the importance of general meeting.
system of risk management and internal communication with its Shareholders and control to safeguard Shareholders fully supports the principles encouraging The Groups website includes a specific investments and the Groups assets and for dialogue between companies and their investor relations section containing all RNS reviewing the effectiveness of this system, Shareholders in the Code.
The Group Chief announcements, share price information and such a system is designed to manage rather Executive and Group Chief Financial Officer annual reports available for download.
The than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve have primary responsibility for investor Company has taken advantage of the business objectives and can provide only relations and lead a regular programme of provisions within the Companies Act 2006 reasonable and not absolute assurance meetings and presentations with analysts which allow communications with against material misstatement or loss.
This includes presentations Shareholders to be made electronically Board has established an ongoing process following the publication of the Companys where Shareholders have not requested for identifying, evaluating and managing the full and half year results.
This programme hard copy documentation.
Details of the Groups principal risks.
The Boards attitude maintains a continuous two-way dialogue information available to Shareholders can be and appetite to risk is communicated to the between the Company and Shareholders, found on page 153.
Groups businesses through the strategy and helps to ensure that the Board is aware planning processes.
The Audit Committee of Shareholders views on a timely basis.
The monitors the ongoing status and progress of full Board is kept informed of any issues action plans against key risks on a regular raised at these meetings and the views of basis and reports its findings to the Board.
Shareholders on a regular basis to ensure that they understand the views of Going concern Shareholders.
The Board also normally receives feedback twice each year from its The Groups business activities, together corporate brokers on investors and the with the factors considered likely to affect its markets perceptions of the Company.
The future development, performance and Chairman and the Senior Independent position are set out in the Strategic Report Director are also available to meet on pages 2 to 35.
The financial position of Shareholders if so required.
The Company the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position has enjoyed and is appreciative of the and borrowing facilities are described on significant Shareholder support that it has page 23.
In addition, Note 3 to the financial had in recent years in relation to the Groups statements includes the Groups objectives, Remuneration Policy and continues to policies and processes for managing its welcome Shareholder views with regard to capital, its financial risk management the Groups Remuneration Policy.
objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging activities, and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Savills plc 50 Report and Accounts 2017
