Nomination Committee report Following focus on the appointment of a new Chief Executive, the Committee has kept the composition of the Board under review, maintained its concentration on succession planning and made one nomination for appointment to the Board.
Committee membership and meetings All members of the Committee are independent non-executive directors, with the exception of the Chairman of the Company.
Ian Tyler chaired the Committee during the year and the other members were Alastair Lyons, Chris Browne, Ralph Findlay, Nigel Keen and Mike Stansfield from 28 November 2017.
Ian Tyler Date of Attendance Role at meetings Name appointment Committee Chairman Ian Tyler 29 11 2013 Chairman 6 6 Overview Alastair Lyons 01 10 2008 Member 6 6 During 2017, the Committee continued to Chris Browne 01 09 2014 Member 6 6 place emphasis on the knowledge, skills Ralph Findlay 07 04 2015 Member 6 6 and experience available to the Board, taking account of future challenges, the Nigel Keen 15 11 2016 Member 6 6 nature of the business and its recent past.
Mike Stansfield 28 11 2017 Member 1 1 The recruitment of a new Chief Executive was a turning point and Board composition The Committee met six times in 2017, The Chief Executive attended three has been a key consideration.
The search with the key focus in the first part of the meetings and the Group Finance Director for a non-executive director with in-depth year being on the recruitment of a new attended four meetings, both by invitation housebuilding experience culminated Chief Executive and Board composition.
The Group Company Secretary acts as in Mike Stansfield joining the Board in Following the Committees contribution, secretary to the Committee.
Succession planning Greg Fitzgerald was appointed Chief was kept under review for the nonExecutive by the Board with effect from Responsibilities and terms executives, with diversity naturally part of 18 April 2017.
Planning then began for of reference this oversight, and a succession planning the retirement of A D Lyons at the 2018 The key responsibilities of the exercise for executive management was AGM and for the recruitment of a nonCommittee are: initiated for Board review.
The Committee executive director with direct experience will continue to monitor the balance and of housebuilding.
The recruitment was Reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board as the future progressed and monitored and culminated composition of the Board including direction of the Group unfolds.
Information in a recommendation to the Board skills, knowledge, experience and on the Boards skillset is set out on pages that Mike Stansfield, who has a strong diversity and making recommendations 58 to 59, together with biographies.
housebuilding industry background, be to the Board.
Planning for non-executive Considering succession planning director succession continued and it for directors and senior executives, was recommended that R G Findlay be taking account of the challenges and appointed the Senior Independent opportunities facing the Company and Director from the conclusion of the the skills and expertise needed in 2018 AGM.
The Committee also scoped the future.
a detailed succession planning exercise for executive management and the results Monitoring the leadership needs of the were presented to and discussed by the Company and leading the process for Board in December 2017.
In addition, the Board appointments, ensuring they are Committee reviewed the diversity policy conducted on merit, against objective and approved a new service contract for criteria, including diversity, using the non-executive director Chris Browne.
services of an appropriate external For all meetings, papers and supporting search consultant.
documentation were circulated in advance, allowing proper consideration of matters for discussion.
| 102 Our governance Our governance Making recommendations to the Board, including on the re-appointment of nonA summary of the Committees activities during 2017 follows: executive directors, the re-election of Providing support to the search for the new Chief Executive.
directors at the AGM, and membership of the Audit and Remuneration Keeping the structure, size and composition of the Board under review, concluding Committees.
that the Board balance and composition should be supplemented by an additional non-executive director with strong housebuilding experience.
The Committee also reviews the results of the Board performance evaluation Running the recruitment process for a new non-executive director, using objective relating to the composition of the Board.
criteria and the external search services of The Zygos Partnership who have no External legal or other independent other connection with the Company, including recommendation of appointment to professional advice can be obtained at the Board.
the Companys expense, although this Considering succession planning for the non-executive directors, with a view to facility was not utilised during the year.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website Scoping a succession planning exercise for executive management for Board review.
co. uk investors Reviewing the Boards diversity policy.
Recommending the directors to stand for re-election at the 2017 AGM in Main activities during the year accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The main activities during the first part of Approving the Nomination Committee report for the 2016 Annual Report.
2017 were focused on the recruitment of a new Chief Executive and Board Reviewing the Committees terms of reference.
Having initiated a search for a candidate with in-depth housebuilding Setting a Committee timetable for 2018. experience, the Committee recommended the appointment of Mike Stansfield as a non-executive director.
Mikes appointment The principle of boardroom diversity is Performance evaluation took place with effect from 28 November strongly supported and the Committee An evaluation of the performance of the 2017.
A formal, comprehensive and reviewed the diversity policy, first published Committee was completed as part of tailored induction is being provided for in September 2011.
The policy sets out the external independent performance Mike, including visits to the regional that appointments to the Board will always evaluation of the Board, completed at offices, site visits, meetings with senior be based on merit, so that the Board has the end of 2017.
The Committee was management, and briefings on specific the right individuals in place with a blend found to be effective, within its current topics.
Succession planning then received of abilities, views and backgrounds.
scope, but should expand its scope with focus for both the non-executives and It also explains that diversity is seen as an deeper consideration of board shape executive management.
important consideration as part of the and composition relative to strategy and objective criteria used to assess candidates Non-executive directors service contracts succession planning, including diversity.
The decision are renewed on an annual basis following was taken not to set measurable objectives the conclusion of a second three year and the Committee continues to consider term, subject to satisfactory performance Ian Tyler boardroom diversity in all its succession and there being no need to re-balance Chairman of the Nomination Committee planning discussions.
the Board, with the third year of the 1 March 2018 third term extending until the subsequent AGM.
Having served for three years, a recommendation was made to the Board that the service contract for Chris Browne be renewed for a second three year term.
This decision followed rigorous review, including the contribution, performance and commitment of Chris and the composition of the Board as a whole.
