Audit committee report I am pleased to introduce the Audit Committee report.
The Committee continues to play a fundamental role in protecting shareholders interests and during the year reviewed the Groups internal control systems, risk management and financial reporting.
It also maintained oversight of external and Internal Audit.
The Committee met four times in 2017 Committee membership and detailed papers and information and meetings were received sufficiently in advance of Ralph Findlay The Committee comprised four meetings to allow proper consideration of independent non-executive directors until Committee Chairman matters for discussion.
The Committee also 28 November 2017, when the number met with the external auditors, without increased to five.
Between them they executive management present, at the Overview have the recent and relevant experience end of three meetings and with the Head During the year, the Committee reviewed required by the UK Corporate Governance of Internal Audit & Risk at the end of the integrity of the Groups financial Code and as a whole they have two meetings.
These discussions continued statements, with focus on significant competence relevant to the sector in which to focus on opportunities for improvement areas of judgement, and kept operating, the Company operates.
Biographical details in the control environment.
Ralph Findlay financial and accounting practices and information on skillsets are provided met privately with the audit engagement under review.
on pages 58 and 59. partner of the external auditors during the year.
The Group Company Secretary The system for internal control, financial Committee membership is determined acts as secretary to the Committee.
reporting and risk management was by the Board following recommendation An overview of the main activities during monitored and its effectiveness reviewed from the Nomination Committee and 2017 is provided below.
in the context of the Groups operational is reviewed as part of the Committees performance and its operational and performance evaluation.
Reporting from became a member of the Committee management, Internal Audit and the on his appointment as a non-executive external auditor was openly debated, director on 28 November 2017. testing conclusions and audit outcomes The Company Chairman and Group and judgements.
Focus on the Finance Director were present at all effectiveness of the Groups Internal Audit meetings in 2017 and the new Chief function continued, with a new Head of Executive attended three meetings, all Internal Audit & Risk commencing in early by invitation.
The external auditors, The Committee is satisfied 2017 and co-ordinating the co-sourced  LLP, attended with the progress made arrangement put in place in 2016. three meetings and Grant Thornton UK in improving the control The overall review of risk management LLP attended one meeting as co-sourced environment in 2017 was progressed through the Risk Internal Audit provider.
appointed Head of Internal Audit & Risk and the Executive Director attended two meetings each and the Group Financial Controller attended three meetings.
Attendance Name Date of appointment Role at meetings Ralph Findlay appointed Chairman 15 05 15 07 04 2015 Chairman 4 4 Alastair Lyons 01 10 2008 Member 4 4 Chris Browne 01 09 2014 Member 4 4 Nigel Keen 15 11 2016 Member 3 4 Mike Stansfield 28 11 2017 Member 1 1 | 98 Our governance Our governance Reviewed the 2016 annual report and Reviewed the Companys whistleblowing Responsibilities and terms accounts, so as to recommend to the policy and arrangements.
of reference Board that, taken as a whole, it was fair, The key responsibilities of the Reviewed the Committees terms balanced and understandable.
Assessed the results and effectiveness of Monitoring the integrity of the financial Reports were received from Internal the 2016 final audit.
statements, the accompanying reports to Audit covering various aspects of the shareholders and corporate governance Groups regional operations, controls and Reviewed and discussed with the statements, including reviewing the processes.
Progress with regional reviews external auditor the key accounting findings of the external auditor.
was monitored throughout the year and considerations and judgements reflected reports considered, with many findings in the Groups results for the six months Reviewing and monitoring the being common across the regions and ended 30 June 2017. effectiveness of systems for internal related to steps being taken to improve the control, financial reporting and risk Evaluated and agreed the external control environment, including a quarterly management.
auditors audit strategy memorandum in self-assessment process.
Early in 2017, Overseeing and reviewing the advance of the 2017 year-end audit.
a review was completed on customer effectiveness of Internal Audit.
payments by Grant Thornton for review by Received reports from Internal Audit the Committee, with the vast majority being further detail below.
Making recommendations to the Board found to relate to compensation arising from in relation to the appointment and build delivery being later than anticipated Assessed the co-sourced Internal Audit removal of the external auditor and and completion dates being moved.
providers full audit plan for 2017. approving their remuneration and terms of engagement.
In August 2017, the Committee discussed Reviewed and assessed the Groups the outputs to date from the 2017 Internal risk appetite.
Reviewing and monitoring the external Audit plan with emphasis on a remediation audit process and the independence and Assessed progress with the overall review strategy to overcome inconsistencies across objectivity of the auditor, as well as the of risk management and the work being the Group in relation to key processes.
nature and scope of the external audit completed by the Risk Governance and its effectiveness.
In December 2017, the Committee Committee, including review of minutes.
reviewed outputs from the completed Developing the policy on the Reviewed the effectiveness of the Internal Audit plan, with discussion engagement of the external auditor to system of internal control and risk focussing on the improvement of build supply non-audit services, taking into management systems and monitored and cost forecasting processes and account relevant ethical guidance.
progress in the delivery of improvement controls.
In addition, time was spent in the control environment.
reviewing the wider change programme The Committees terms of reference are taking place within the Group to agree a available on the Companys website Completed an assessment of anti-bribery, common approach and ensure improved www.
co. uk investors fraud risk and anti-fraud measures.
Monitored progress with the IT security Whistleblowing was also discussed in Main activities during the year review and further steps to be taken.
light of a substantial increase in the The Committee followed a programme number of reported cases and subsequent Reviewed managements going concern structured around the annual reporting investigations.
The Group operates a assessment at each reporting period cycle and received reports from co-sourced confidential reporting service run by an end, considering detailed financial Internal Audit, the external auditors and external provider and investigations are forecasts, future cash flow projections management.
The key activities completed by independent resource within and the resources available to the Group, undertaken were: the Group.
Eleven cases were raised during including the current banking facility and 2017, with the majority in the second forecast covenant compliance.
Discussed with the external auditors the half following a concerted awareness key accounting considerations campaign that will continue throughout Reviewed managements viability and judgements reflected in the 2018.
The Committee remains committed assessment for the year end reporting Groups results for the year ended to ensuring that the whistleblowing facility period covering strategic planning, 31 December 2016. is well publicised throughout the Group principal risks, detailed financial and will continue to monitor reporting and forecasts, resources available to the investigations to ensure that appropriate Group, scenario testing, qualifications action is taken and cases are closed out on and assumptions and the period chosen.
| Bovis Homes Group PLC 99 Audit committee report At its meeting in February 2018, the Following discussion, the Committee External auditors Committee discussed with the external was satisfied that the judgements  LLP PwC were auditor the key accounting considerations exercised were appropriate and that the appointed as external auditor at the and judgements reflected in the Groups provision was appropriately stated at the 2015 AGM, following the completion results for the year ended 31 December year end.
Details of the movements in of a competitive audit tender process 2017 and reviewed the 2017 Annual Report the provision are provided in note 3.1 to supervised by the Committee.
In doing and Accounts, to be able to recommend the accounts on pages 123 to 124. so, the Committee complied with the to the Board that, taken as a whole, it provisions of the Competition & Markets Margin recognition - the gross margin was fair, balanced and understandable Authority Order, including the appointment from revenue generated on each and provided the information necessary of the auditor to audit and non-audit individual site within the year is based on for shareholders to assess the Companys services.
Our 2018 AGM Notice contains a the latest forecast for the gross margin performance, business model and strategy.
resolution for the re-appointment of PwC expected to be generated over the life of The approach taken was to analyse key as auditors to the Company.
The remaining life gross margin areas of progress and challenge during this recommendation, the Committee took is calculated using forecasts for selling the year, followed by reviewing the 2017 into account, amongst other matters, the prices and all land, build, infrastructure annual report and accounts to ensure that independence and objectivity of PwC, and overhead costs associated with that all key areas had been reported upon in a the effectiveness of the external audit site.
The assessment of house prices and balanced and fair way.
There are no contractual cost to complete is based on the specific restrictions on the choice of external details of each site and incorporates Significant areas auditor.
The AGM Notice also contains a certain assumptions and judgements The key accounting judgements considered resolution to give the directors authority by management.
The level of profit by the Committee in relation to the 2017 to determine the auditors remuneration, recognised in the income statement is accounts and discussed with the external which provides a practical flexibility to monitored throughout the year via the auditors, were: the Committee.
Groups usual budgeting, forecasting and management accounts reporting.
The Inventory provisioning - the level of During the year, the Committee reviewed methodology adopted and the Groups inventory provisioning impacts the the independence and objectivity of the performance to date against expectations carrying value of the most significant external auditor, which was confirmed had been audited by the external balance on the balance sheet.
The in an independence letter containing auditors.
Company carries a provision to write information on procedures providing down the value of the land held within safeguards established by the external Customer care provision - following inventories to the lower of cost and auditor.
Regulation, professional legal completion, the Group provides net realisable value, less costs to sell, requirements and ethical standards a two year warranty that covers any where this is less than the historical were taken into account, together with defects which arise during that period.
cost and reviews this provision annually.
consideration of all relationships between The level of provision per completion is The assessment of the level of provision the Company and PwC and their staff.
based on actual costs incurred over the required necessitates the exercise of preceding twelve months.
Judgement is Relations with the external auditors are judgement by management.
applied in determining whether this level managed through a series of meetings of provision is sufficient, or whether it The Committee receives a regular and regular discussions and the should be adjusted to reflect the level of report on this provision, updated by Committee ensures a high quality audit outstanding customer rectification works management, at relevant Committee by challenging the key areas of the at the balance sheet date.
At this year end the report external auditors work.
proposed an adjustment of 4.2m, which included a provision of 3.3m for out of operating area sites and had been audited by the external auditors.
The written down sites, and adjustments proposed were discussed and justified by management and the land write down provision remaining at the period end 5.5 million was reviewed, together with the profit attributable to the reversal of the provision on the sale of written down units during the year, which was not considered to be material.
| 100 Our governance Our governance At its meeting in February 2018, the The attendance of functional team leaders Internal Audit Committee reviewed the effectiveness of and risk owners at Committee meetings, the external audit process as part of its with the Head of Internal Audit & Risk, Towards the end of 2016, a tender consideration of the 2017 final audit.
This is also to be considered to allow more for co-sourced Internal Audit services involved assessing delivery and content direct interaction.
was completed, which resulted in the against the audit plan for the 2017 year appointment of Grant Thornton to The Committee also undertook an end audit, including determination of audit provide the expertise and experience assessment of the effectiveness of the risks and significant areas of judgement, necessary to support the delivery of external auditor and the Groups Internal consideration of the performance and effective Internal Audit services and Audit function.
Building on effective communication of the audit team, and to assist in securing improvement working relationships and having gained the quality of reporting, observations, in the control environment.
In early a strong understanding of the Groups recommendations and insight.
It also 2017, a Head of Internal Audit & Risk business, the Committee considers PwC included reviewing comprehensive papers was appointed to lead the function to have carried out a high quality and from the external auditors, discussing and and coordinate the co-sourced thorough audit in the third year since challenging their conclusions and audit provision through Grant Thornton.
The Committee was satisfied judgements and assessing responses from Internal Audit & Risk was further with the scope of the external audit and, the external auditor.
Lastly, feedback was strengthened during 2017 with an having reviewed all services provided to taken on the effectiveness and conduct of additional team member joining to the Group by PwC, that they demonstrate the audit from those involved, including ensure an improved balance between independence.
The Committee believes the feedback from the regional businesses on the internal resource and co-sourced external audit to be effective.
Regarding visits to the regions, which was positive.
The Committee has Internal Audit, the Head of Internal Audit reviewed the progress being made The Committee keeps under review its & Risk, appointed to lead the function to enhance the effectiveness of the policy which requires the Committee to and coordinate the co-sourced provision, work of Internal Audit and the profile approve all audit related and non-audit is considered to have made significant of the Risk Governance Committee in services proposed to be undertaken by progress, establishing credibility through identifying and mitigating threats to the external auditors, with the exception the business, identifying risk and control the business.
Overall, the Committee of compliance work undertaken in the weaknesses, producing clear and wellis satisfied with the progress made ordinary course of business, which is articulated reports for Committee review and the plan for future improvements treated as pre-approved.
and supporting an improvement in in the control environment and risk processes and controls.
When a request for approval is made, the has also kept the effectiveness of the Committee has due regard to the nature co-sourced approach under review during of the audit related or non-audit service, 2017 and intends to continue with it Performance evaluation whether the external auditor is a suitable in 2018.
Whilst further improvement in An evaluation of the performance of the supplier, and whether there is likely to be the control environment is needed, the Committee was completed as part of any threat to independence and objectivity Committee is satisfied with the progress the external independent performance in the conduct of the audit.
made and the plan for 2018. evaluation of the Board, completed at The related fee level, both separately the end of 2017.
The Committee is and relative to the audit fee is also considered to be gaining in effectiveness considered.
For an analysis of fees paid and to be making good progress in Ralph Findlay to PwC for audit services see note 2.1 on driving improvements around audit and Chairman of the Audit Committee page 122.
There were no non-assurance risk.
The Chairman has brought focus 1 March 2018 services provided by PwC during the year, and rigour to the Committee and displays beyond a fide-minimis technical accounting a good balance between the technical subscription service.
skills required and ability to challenge.
The agenda is well managed, items are allowed sufficient time for discussion, and Committee members also present the right level of challenge.
Areas for improvement have been identified, principally related to moving the level of assurance that the Committee receives and can give to a higher level.
