Leadership continued Board of Directors Jeremy Helsby Simon Shaw Charles McVeigh Nicholas Ferguson CBE Group Chief Executive Group Chief Financial Officer Independent Non-Executive Director Chairman of Savills plc and Chairman of the Nomination & Governance Committee Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Charles was appointed to the Board Nicholas was appointed to the Board Jeremy joined Savills in 1980 and Simon joined Savills as Group as a Non-Executive Director on as a Non-Executive Director on was appointed to the Board in 1999.
Chief Financial Officer in March 2009.
Background and Background and Background and Background and relevant experience relevant experience relevant experience relevant experience Nicholas has held a number of leadership He was Chairman and Chief Executive Simon is a Chartered Accountant.
Formerly, he was Co-Chairman of roles in the private equity and investment Officer of Savills Commercial and Savills He was formerly Chief Financial Officer of Citigroups European Investment Bank sectors.
He was co-founder of Schroder Europe for seven years until he was Gyrus Group PLC, a position he held for and served on the Boards of Witan Ventures the private equity group which appointed as Group Chief Executive on five years until its sale to the Olympus Investment Company plc, Clearstream, later became Permira of which he served 7 May 2008.
Simon was Chief Operating the London Stock Exchange, LIFFE, as Chairman from 1984 to 2001.
He later Officer of Profile Therapeutics plc for five British American Business Inc and was served as Chairman of SVG Capital plc, a years and also worked as a corporate a member of both the Development publicly quoted private equity group, from financier, latterly at Hambros Board and Advisory Council of the April 2005 to November 2012.
Princes Trust, he was also a Non-Executive Director of Petropavlovsk plc until mid 2015.
He was appointed by the Bank of England to serve on the City Capital Markets Committee and the Legal Risk Review Committee and was a member of the Fulbright Commission.
Charles has recently become Chairman of Rubicon Fund Management, a successful London based hedge fund.
He is Vice Chairman of the European Advisory Board as well as senior Advisor to the private bank of Citigroup.
Other appointments Other appointments Other appointments Other appointments Nicholas was Chairman of Sky Plc from None Non-Executive Chairman of Synairgen plc.
A Senior Adviser at Citigroup, Charles is a April 2012 to May 2016, having been Trustee of the Landmark Trust and the appointed to the board as a NonNatural History Museum Development Executive Director in June 2004 and Board, he is on the Board of the having previously served as Deputy Countryside Alliance and is a former Chairman and Senior Independent Board member of EFG-Hermes.
Chairman of African Logistical Properties: and Chairman and founder of The Kilfinan Group, which provides mentoring by Chairmen and CEOs to heads of charities.
Committee Membership Committee Membership Committee Membership Committee Membership Remuneration and Nomination & Nomination & Governance Committee.
Savills plc 44 Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Tim Freshwater Liz Hewitt Rupert Robson Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director and Independent Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director Chair of the Audit Committee Chair of the Remuneration Committee Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Tim was appointed to the Board as Liz was appointed to the Board Rupert was appointed to the Board a Non-Executive Director on as a Non-Executive Director on as a Non-Executive Director on 1 January 2012.
Background and Background and Background and relevant experience relevant experience relevant experience Liz previously held senior executive roles Rupert has held a number of senior roles Tim is Chairman of Goldman Sachs Asia at Smith & Nephew plc and 3i Group plc in financial institutions, most recently Bank Limited and was formerly Chairman having spent her early career with Chairman of Charles Taylor plc and of Corporate Finance for Goldman Sachs Gartmore, CVC and 3i as a private equity Non-Executive Director of London Metal Asia.
He was also Chairman of investor.
She qualified as a Chartered Exchange Holdings Limited, Tenet Group Grosvenor Asia Pacific Limited until 2013.
Limited and OJSC Nomos Bank.
Prior to Before joining Goldman Sachs, Tim that he was Global Head, Financial worked at Jardine Fleming, becoming Institutions Group, Corporate Investment Group Chairman in 1999, and was a Banking and Markets at HSBC and Head partner at Slaughter and May from of European Insurance, Investment 1975 to 1996.
Banking at Citigroup Global Markets.
Other appointments Other appointments Other appointments Non-Executive Director of Swire Pacific Non-Executive Director of Melrose Chairman of TP ICAP plc, Sanne Group Limited, Corney & Barrow Group Limited, Industries PLC and Novo Nordisk A S. plc, EMF Capital Partners & Governor of Chelsfield Asia Limited former name: External member of the House of Lords Sherborne School.
Dymon Asia Real Estate Limited Commission.
and Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited.
Committee Membership Committee Membership Committee Membership Audit, Remuneration and Nomination & Audit, Remuneration and Nomination & Audit, Remuneration and Nomination & Governance Committees.
Savills plc 45 Report and Accounts 2017
