Governance Report Leadership The Board relevant Committee meetings unless The Board Committee composition prevented by prior commitments, illness The Board relies on executive management The Non-Executive Directors play an or a conflict of interest.
Directors unable to run the business and monitor important governance role in the detailed to attend specific Board or Committee management activities, and holds them work they carry out on our Committees on meetings are sent the relevant papers and accountable against targets and standards.
All the Non-Executive asked to provide comments in advance of The Board also approves long-term Directors are determined by the Board to be the meeting to the Chairman of the Board corporate and strategic plans after a full independent in character and judgement, in or Committee.
In addition, all Board and review and assessment of market and compliance with the Code.
The Chairman Committee members receive the minutes of technology trends, business drivers and was independent on appointment.
meetings as a matter of course.
Having a senior management team The General Counsel and Company that is capable of executing the strategic The Directors attendance record at Secretary supports the Committee Chairmen plans is a key focus for the Board.
Board meetings is set out on page 70. in making sure members are equipped for The Non-Executive Directors meet without The formal schedule of matters informed decision-making and that they the Executive Directors present to discuss reserved for the Boards decision is appropriately allocate their time to subjects.
the Executive Directors performance and available on the Groups website, The Board has satisfied itself that at least other matters.
com, under one member of the Audit Committee, the Governance section.
In addition, during The Senior Independent Director is available namely Clive Watson, has recent and 2017 the Board approved and issued a to discuss concerns with shareholders, relevant financial experience and is revised Authority Limits Policy that sets out in addition to the normal channels of the confident that the collective experience clearly the primary responsibilities, controls Chairman, Group Chief Executive or the of its members enables it to be effective.
and authorisation limits on matters affecting Group Finance Director.
The Audit Committee also has access to the Groups business.
the financial expertise of the Group, the The Board has a Conflicts of Interest Policy The Non-Executive Directors provide external and internal auditors and can seek and has put in place procedures for the independent challenge and review, bringing further professional advice at the Companys disclosure and review of any potential or wide experience, specific expertise and a expense, if required.
There is also one actual conflicts.
Non-Executive Director, Jane Kingston, with relevant sector experience across a range The Board meets as often as is necessary to of different industries, including a strong discharge its duties.
In 2017 the Board met services background, to add additional seven times.
All Directors are expected to support to the implementation of the Groups attend all Board meetings and strategy for growth.
Division of roles and responsibilities Senior Independent Key Board matters Chairman Director Group Chief Executive The approval of corporate Managing the Board Relations with shareholders Leadership and strategic business plans Safeguarding governance Reviewing effectiveness of The Groups short, medium The approval of the annual the Chairman as part of the and long-term performance Business performance with and interim results annual Board evaluation the Group Chief Executive Stewardship of capital, Trading updates technical and human Shareholder contact with resources Integrated risk management the Group Chief Executive framework and the Group Finance Corporate and business Director strategy Major acquisitions disposals Director performance Internal risk management Major capital expenditure controls Succession planning Director appointments Organisational structure Material litigation Governance structure 68 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017 Governance Report Governance structure The Board Committees and their Chairmen are listed below, together with an overview of each Committees responsibilities.
The Terms of Reference for the Committees are published on the Groups website, www.
com, on the Policies and procedures page, within the Governance section.
Group Board Bill Whiteley Chairman Nomination Audit Risk Management Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Committee Bill Whiteley Clive Watson Nicholas Anderson Jane Kingston Chairman Chairman Chairman Chairman Responsibilities Responsibilities Responsibilities Responsibilities Recommend Monitor the integrity of Ensure risk management Recommend a Board appointments Financial Statements is meaningful, relevant remuneration strategy and focused on improving and framework to Review succession plans Ensure significant issues the business attract, retain and reward have been addressed senior executives Risk scenario planning Review effectiveness Determine annual Executive of internal controls, risk Risk review to ensure Director and senior management framework, an effective and robust executive remuneration and internal and external management framework audits to ensure that they Approve Performance Keeping the are robust and integrated Share Plan PSP awards Board informed Determine the Business ethics review Remuneration Policy Further information on each of the Committees activities during the year ended 31st December 2017 is set out on pages 75-108 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017 69 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report Governance Report Leadership Board activity Board activity Board focus during 2017 The Board ensures good governance practices are embedded throughout the Group as they are an integral part of running a successful business.
In the adjacent chart we have set out how the Board spent its 10% time during 2017.
The Board agendas 20% are carefully planned to ensure focus on 10% the Groups strategic priorities and key monitoring activities, as well as reviews of significant issues.
During 2017, the Board devoted 20% of its time to the Spirax Sarco 10% steam and Watson-Marlow Fluid Technology Group WMFTG strategies, the Group 20% 2020 plan and reviewing implementation progress of the Group corporate strategy.
The acquisitions of Gestra and Chromalox 15% rightly demanded considerable focus both in terms of ensuring the transaction 15% was well managed and that post-closing implementation plans were robust.
Health & Safety is of fundamental importance to the business and is Strategy considered at each Board meeting.
It is also Acquisitions considered in detail at each Group Executive Operations and risk Committee meeting.
Governance and shareholders People and succession In June 2017, the Boards annual strategy Finance meeting was held at the Groups steam New product development manufacturing and sales office in Argentina, where we undertook a review of our Spirax Sarco and WMFTG businesses in Board attendance the Americas.
Details of the number of Board meetings, and individual attendance by Director During 2017, the Board regularly reviewed for 2017, are set out in the table below.
the Groups performance and satisfied itself that management was on track in delivering Board meetings Attendance the strategic business plan.
The Board also 1 W. H. Whiteley 86% concentrated its attention on formulating a proactive Brexit strategy, looking at both the N. J. Anderson 100% challenges and opportunities for the Group K. J. Boyd 100% posed by a UK exit from the EU.
The Board N. H. Daws 100% continued to engage with shareholders on governance, remuneration and trading J. L. Whalen 100% during the period.
J. S. Kingston 100% J. Pike 100% G. E. Schoolenberg 100% C. G. Watson 100% 1 Absence due to illness.
70 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017 Governance Report Key activities in 2017 February March Draft Annual Report 2016 financial results General Data Protection Regulation Annual dividend Gestra acquisition, with emphasis on postReview and approval of Annual Report acquisition implementation plans Gestra and Chromalox acquisitions Management presentations - Middle East, Africa Business review - EMEA and Western Europe and the Spirax Academy Management presentation - China May June Argentina Report by Risk Management Committee Succession planning Gestra and Chromalox acquisitions Chairman job description approval Business review - Asia Pacific Gestra and Chromalox acquisitions Asia Pacific offices and distribution centre Business and corporate strategy Business review - Americas and WMFTG Management presentations - Latin America August October Half year results and Interim Dividend Gestra and Chromalox Cybersecurity Business review - Group Supply Gestra and Chromalox Management presentations - WMFTG Europe and Middle East Authority limits Investor view of the Group and peer performance - Bank of America Merrill Lynch Employee Engagement Survey Management presentation - Northern Europe December Miscellaneous Approval of budget An Environmental, Health and Safety update is the first operational matter addressed by the Board effectiveness review Board at each meeting Draft Annual Report and Circular to shareholders The Group Chief Executive and the Group Chromalox lease renewals Finance Director report on monthly, quarterly, 2018 Plan and divisional presentations bi-annual and annual trading, as appropriate The General Counsel and Company Secretary regularly updates the Board on changes to relevant laws and regulations Company share performance and shareholder analyst feedback is discussed at most Board meetings Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017 71 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report
