Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Effectiveness Nomination & Governance Committee Report The Nomination & Governance Committee Committee has an important role to play in ensuring that the Board and its principal Committees have the right mix of skills, experience and diversity to deliver Group strategy and to create value.
The Committee keeps under review and evaluates the composition of the Board and its Committees to maintain the appropriate balance of skills, knowledge and independence to be able to function effectively.
Committee Members Key Objectives Key responsibilities Nicholas Ferguson Chair The primary objectives of the responsible for size, structure and composition of the Board Committee are Tim Freshwater reviewing and progressing appointments to the Board to review the size and Liz Hewitt responsible for succession planning to ensure that the Board is composition of the Board and refreshed progressively such that the balance of skills and experience Rupert Robson its key Committees and to plan available to the Board remains appropriate to the needs of the business Jeremy Helsby Executive for the Boards progressive makes recommendations to the Board on the membership of Director refreshing, with regard to the principal Committees of the Board.
s ave in circumstances where the balance and structure.
to keep under review the Companys compliance with applicable Chairmans succession is considered to monitor of the Companys Codes and other requirements of Corporate Governance compliance with applicable More detailed information on the role and responsibilities of the Committee can be found in codes and other requirements the Committees Terms of Reference which can be accessed on the Companys website at of Corporate Governance www.
Committee meetings proper dialogue with all Directors, the Chairman meets periodically with the Directors individually and the Non-Executive Directors as a The Committee met three times during 2017 and each meeting had group and without the Executive Directors.
The Group Chief full attendance.
Members of the Committee also attend the Executive has responsibility for all Group businesses and acts in Companys AGM at which there is an opportunity to meet with accordance with the authority delegated by the Board.
Any other Director, the Group Legal Director & number of areas where the Board has delegated specific Company Secretary or an external advisor may be invited by the responsibility to management, including responsibility for the Committee to attend the meetings from time to time, as appropriate.
operational management of the Groups businesses as well as Committee Terms of Reference reviewing strategic issues and risk matters in advance of these being considered by the Board and or its Committees.
The Board During the year the remit of the Committee was extended to considers that throughout the year the Company was in full include the monitoring of the Companys compliance with compliance with the Code.
applicable Codes and other requirements of Corporate Governance and the Committee was renamed the Nomination & Assessment of the Independence of Non-Executive Directors Governance Committee.
The revised Terms of Reference for the Committee to this effect were submitted to the Board for formal The Chairman is committed to ensuring the Board comprises a approval and adopted on 15 June 2017. majority of Independent Non-Executive Directors who objectively challenge management, balanced against the need to ensure Board composition and balance continuity in the Board.
On an annual basis, the Board reviews the Balance of Non-Executive Directors and Executive Directors independence of its Non-Executive Directors, particularly those with long service.
The Non-Executive Directors are responsible for bringing independent and objective judgement and scrutiny to matters before the Board and its Committees.
The Board considers Non-Executive Chairman 1 that all of the Non-Executive Directors bring considerable expertise, Non-Executive Directors 4 strong independent oversight and continue to and are Independent Executive Directors 2 Non-Executive Directors, being independent of management and Length of tenure of Non-Executive Directors having no business or other relationship which could interfere materially with the exercise of their judgement.
In particular, notwithstanding his long service on the Board, the Board continues to consider that Charles McVeigh remains entirely independent in 04 years 3 59 years 1 10 years 1 character and judgement.
His experience provides valuable insight, At all times during the year at least half of the Board members, excluding the Chairman, were knowledge and continuity.
The Board recognises the benefit of Independent Non-Executive Directors.
progressively refreshing its membership and therefore is commencing the search for a Non-Executive Director in 2018.
Chairman and Chief Executive The roles of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are distinct and Time commitment and conflicts separate and their roles and responsibilities are clearly established.
The Board is satisfied that the Chairman and each of the NonThe Chairman leads the Board and has particular responsibility for Executive Directors committed sufficient time during the year to the effectiveness of the Groups governance.
In promoting a culture enable them to fulfil their duties as Directors of the Company.
of openness he ensures the effective engagement and contribution of all Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
To help ensure a Savills plc 47 Report and Accounts 2017 Effectiveness continued The Companies Act 2006 places a duty on Group Executive Board since its establishment that the Board continues to best meet the in 2008 and its business and his proven track needs of the Company and its Shareholders.
each Director to avoid a situation in which he or she has or can have a direct or indirect record as Chief Executive of Savills UK The biographies of the Board members since 2008 & Europe since 2013.
The appear on pages 44 and 45. interest which conflicts or may conflict with the interests of the Company.
A Director will Committee unanimously concluded that it The Committee has sought to maintain a should recommend that Mark Ridley be not be in breach of that duty if the relevant balance of skills and experience on the Board matter has been authorised by the other offered the role of Group Chief Executive and its Committees.
The Company adopts a Officer with effect from 1 January 2019, and Directors in accordance with the Articles.
formal, rigorous and transparent procedure The Board has adopted a set of guiding that he should join the Board as an additional for the appointment of new Directors and key Executive Director and Deputy Group Chief principles on managing conflicts and senior executives and we continue to recruit approved a process for identifying current Executive Officer effective from 1 May 2018. based on merit with consideration given to Further details on Mark Ridleys skills and and future actual and potential conflicts of diversity in its widest sense.
The Nomination & Governance experience is set out on page 46. appointment, the Committee assesses the Committee review authorised conflicts at In addition, and specifically during the year, balance of skills, knowledge, independence, least annually or if and when a new potential the Committee: experience and diversity of the Board and, in conflict situation was identified or a potential view of this assessment, will draw up a conflict situation materialised.
During 2017, reviewed the Groups senior level description of the role and competencies actual and potential conflicts of interest that succession plans to ensure that these needed, with a view to appointing the were identified by each Director were remained appropriate: best-placed individual for the role.
In making subsequently authorised by the Nomination a recommendation to the Board on a reviewed and approved the succession & Governance Committee, subject to Non-Executive Director appointment, the plan for senior management in the UK appropriate conditions in accordance with Nomination & Governance Committee businesses to be implemented on Mark the guiding principles.
Procedures adopted specifically considers the expected time Ridleys appointment to the Board as to deal with conflicts of interest continue to commitment of the proposed Non-Executive Deputy Group Chief Executive: operate effectively and the Boards Director and other commitments they may authorisation powers continue to be considered Board succession planning already have.
The Company uses recruitment exercised properly in accordance with the including the tenure, mix and diversity of consultants to assist the Committee in Companys Articles of Association.
skills and experience of the existing delivering its objectives and responsibilities Board Members in the context of the and the search firms are required to present a Committee activities during the year Groups strategy: mix of suitable male and female candidates.
The Committee has standing items that it considered the proposed reappointment No Director is involved in decisions regarding considers regularly under its Terms of of the Non-Executive Directors, before his or her own succession.
Reference: for example, the Committee making a recommendation to the Board considered and approved Directors that each Non-Executive be proposed to The Committee is aware that the number of potential conflicts of interest and reviewed its shareholders for re-election at the 2018 women on Boards remains a topic for debate own Terms of Reference which are reviewed AGM: and for companies and regulators.
We fully agree at least annually or as required, eg to reflect with the spirit and aspirations of the Davies considered and authorised the Directors changes to the Code or as a result of Report to increase the number of women on actual and potential conflict of interests.
changes in regulations or best practice.
All appointments to the Board are made on merit and within this In consultation with the Chairmen of the Group Chief Executive Succession context, whilst having regard to the Board Committees, the Nomination & On 16 January 2018 we announced that, after recommendations of the Davies Report, Governance Committee will continue to 11 years in the role, Jeremy Helsby would retire the Board continues to view diversity in the monitor the needs of the Board and its as Group Chief Executive Officer at the end of widest sense, with a view to appointing the Committees in the context of the delivery the 2018 financial year.
During the 2017 best-placed individual for the role.
Appointing of the Groups strategy, with the aim of financial year the Board, through the the best people to the Board is critical to the ensuring that the Groups succession Committee, commenced the process to success of the Company and our focus planning policy evolves such that there is an identify and appoint a new Group Chief remains on attracting the right talent and skills identifiable supply of talent and experience Executive Officer who would succeed Jeremy irrespective of gender or diversity.
available to the Board and its Committees Helsby effective 1 January 2019.
The process, from which to select successors.
which included evaluation of the merits of selecting an external candidate, was Board composition, succession undertaken by the Committee and led by the planning and diversity Chairman.
The Committee undertook a series Board succession is a key topic at Committee of reviews to scope out the key skills, meetings and we recognise the importance of experience, characteristics and requirements planning for the future and of having for the role.
The Committee agreed that, taking succession plans in place which introduce into account all relevant available information, new skills and perspectives to the Board and Mark Ridley, currently Chief Executive of Savills which complement the experience of the UK and Europe, was the strongest candidate.
The Committee meeting of the Committee formally considered continues to keep the Boards composition Mark Ridleys suitability for the role.
The under review and considers how that Committee noted his considerable existing composition might be enhanced to ensure knowledge of the Group as a member of the Savills plc 48 Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements We have noted the recommendation in the Hampton Alexander Governance Review published in 2016 that a target of 33% female Board The Committee reviewed the Companys compliance with the representation be achieved by FTSE 350 companies by 2020, Code and was satisfied that the Company complied with the Code.
and also the recommendations of the Parker Review Committee The Committee would continue to receive updates on corporate published in October 2017 relating to ethnic diversity on Boards.
governance developments and consider the impact of those developments on the Company In relation to the Non-Executive Directors, in 2018 we will commence the search for a further Non-Executive Director.
In this search the Board is conscious of its objective of further strengthening diversity at Board level.
Nicholas Ferguson CBE Committee Effectiveness Chairman of the Nomination & Governance Committee I am pleased to report that the recent Board performance evaluation 14 March 2018 concluded that the Nomination & Governance Committee continues to operate effectively.
Board effectiveness review This years process The Board recognises that it continually An externally facilitated Board evaluation was carried out in 2016 facilitated by Alice needs to monitor and improve its Perkins of JCA.
This years annual review was facilitated by the Group Legal Director & performance.
In line with the effective Company Secretary.
governance requirements of the Code, the In relation to the 2017 evaluation, each Director and the Group Legal Director & Company Board reviews its own performance and that Secretary completed a questionnaire and the Chairman collated and presented the of the Directors and of its Committees responses of the evaluation for consideration by the Board.
Conclusions from the 2017 review Areas of focus for 2018 The conclusion from this years evaluation To ensure that the Board and Nomination & Governance Committee have good visibility was that the Board and its Committees over the business leaders at Business Executive Committee level, the Board will to meet continued to operate to a high standard and with senior management at business level more regularly: continued to provide effective leadership and To ensure that the Board maintains a good understanding of investor views, the Board will exert the required levels of governance and undertake formal six monthly reviews, facilitated by the Companys brokers, of the investor control.
feedback after the Full and Half Year Results and the AGM.
The Chairman and Senior The review had reconfirmed the need to Independent Director to continue to offer themselves to investors to receive feedback in ensure that effective succession plans were relation to performance or governance issues following the publication of the Groups full in place at Board, Group Executive Board year results and notice being given convening the AGM, in addition to being available as and Business Executive Committee level.
necessary to investors if concerns could not be addressed to the Executive Directors: This will be a key focus in 2018.
The Board to continue to review its procedures, effectiveness and development and to seek to improve and evolve its standards of performance.
As a result of the evaluation, the Board considers the performance of each Director to be effective and concluded that both the Board and its Committees continue to provide effective leadership and exert the required levels of governance and control.
Shareholders would therefore be recommended to re-elect Board Members at the AGM in May.
Board Development The Group Legal Director & Company Secretary, whose appointment is a matter reserved for the Board, is responsible for advising and To ensure a full understanding of Savills and its businesses, supporting the Chairman and the Board on company law and following their appointment to the Board, each Director undergoes a corporate governance matters and for ensuring that Board procedures comprehensive and tailored induction programme which introduces are followed, as well as ensuring that there is a smooth flow of the Director to the Groups businesses, its operations, strategic information to enable effective decision making.
The Group Legal plans and key risks.
New Directors are also provided with Director & Company Secretary is further responsible for ensuring that information on relevant share dealing policies, Directors duties, the Directors receive regular updates on developments in legal and Company policies and governance.
The induction also includes one regulatory matters.
All the Directors have access to the advice and to one briefings from the Heads of the Principal Businesses and an services of the Group Legal Director & Company Secretary and introduction to each Group businesss development strategy.
through him have access, if required, to independent professional advice in respect of their duties at the Companys expense.
Savills plc 49 Report and Accounts 2017
