Corporate Governance Statement The Corporate Governance Statement forms part of the Directors Biographical details of all the Directors are on page 21.
The Company is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance.
Accordingly, the Board has put in Board Responsibilities and Board Meetings place a framework for corporate governance which it believes is The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys affairs and appropriate for an investment company.
for promoting the long term success of the Company.
All matters which are not delegated to the Companys Manager under the Corporate Governance Codes Management Agreement are reserved for the Boards decision.
The Board follows the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Matters reserved for the Board and considered at meetings Code the UK Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council include decisions on strategy, management, structure, capital, the FRC in 2016 and the AICs Code of Corporate Governance share issues, share repurchases, gearing, financial reporting, the AIC Code issued by the Association of Investment risk management, investment performance, share price discount, Companies the AIC in 2016.
The FRC has confirmed that corporate governance, Board appointments, and the appointments investment companies which report against the AIC Code and of the Manager and the Company Secretary.
The Board also which follow the AIC Guide on Corporate Governance will meet considers shareholder issues including communication and investor their obligations in relation to the UK Code and paragraph 9.8.
This Statement, together with the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 32, set out how the principles All Directors are independent of the Manager and considered to have been applied.
be free from any relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The Board follows a The AIC Code and the AIC Guide can be found on the AICs procedure of notification of other interests that may arise as part website at www.
co. uk and the UK Code on the FRCs of considering any potential conflicts and is satisfied that none has website at www.
arisen in the year under review.
All Directors are able to allocate sufficient time to the Company Statement of Compliance to discharge their responsibilities fully and effectively.
Each The Company has complied with the recommendations of the Director is entitled to take independent professional advice, at the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Code for the Companys expense, in the furtherance of their duties.
year under review and up to the date of this report, except in relation to the UK Code provisions relating to the role of the chief The Board considers that it meets sufficiently regularly to executive, executive directors remuneration, and the need for an discharge its duties effectively and the table on page 26 gives the internal audit function.
For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, attendance record for the meetings held during the reporting year.
and as explained in the UK Code, the Board considers that these The Portfolio Manager and key representatives of the Manager provisions are not relevant to the position of the Company, as it is are in attendance at these meetings.
Between these meetings an externally managed investment company and has no executive there is regular contact with the Manager and other meetings directors, employees or internal operations.
Additionally, Board Committees and sub-groups meet to pursue matters referred to them by the Board THE BOARD and the Chairman is in contact with the other Directors regularly Board Composition without representatives of the Manager being present.
The Board, chaired by Vivian Bazalgette, currently consists of six non-executive Directors and will revert to five members when James In addition to the formal Board and Committee meetings, the Robinson retires from the Board on 14 May 2018.
The Directors Board undertakes a two day due diligence trip to Europe every believe that, between them, they have good knowledge and wide other year and a trip was undertaken to Zurich in November experience of business in Europe and investment companies, and 2017.
During this trip, the Board met with the management of that the Board has an appropriate balance of skills, experience, existing and potential investee companies alongside the Portfolio independence and knowledge of the Company and length of Manager.
The Board members also visited Fidelity Internationals service to discharge its duties and provide effective strategic office in the city and met with some of their analysts and leadership and proper governance of the Company.
representatives, thereby gaining valuable insight.
The next due diligence trip will be in November 2019.
The Directors also have James Robinson is the Senior Independent Director and fulfils meetings with Fidelitys Head of Investment Trusts and attend the role of sounding board for the Chairman, intermediary for educational days organised by the Manager.
the other Directors as necessary and he acts as a channel of communication for shareholders in the event that contact through the Chairman is inappropriate.
Mr Robinson will retire from the Board on 14 May 2018 and Marion Sears will be appointed as the Senior Independent Director.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2017 25 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY Corporate Governance Statement continued Management Regular Audit Engagement Board Committee Committee Meetings Meetings Meetings Vivian Bazalgette 5 5 3 3 1 1 Simon Fraser retired 15 May 2017 3 3 n a n a Fleur Meijs appointed 1 September 2017 1 1 1 1 n a Robin Niblett 5 5 3 3 1 1 James Robinson 5 5 3 3 1 1 Marion Sears 5 5 3 3 1 1 Paul Yates appointed 6 March 2017 3 3 2 2 n a Figures indicate those meetings for which each Director was eligible to attend and attended in the year.
Regular Board Meetings exclude procedural meetings held to discharge, for example, formal approvals.
Company Secretary Board Evaluation The Board has access to the advice and services of the Company An annual evaluation of the Board, its Directors and its Committees Secretary.
The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board for is in place.
As a FTSE 350 Company and in accordance with ensuring Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules Code B.
6.2 of the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code, the and regulations are complied with.
Board is required to carry out an externally facilitated evaluation of the Board every three years.
Accordingly for the year ended Changes to the Board 31 December 2017, the performance and contribution of the Chairman and each Director was considered using an external Any proposal for the appointment of new Directors is discussed evaluation agency, Stephenson & Co. which had no connection and approved by the whole Board.
As a consequence, there with the Company or the Manager.
It was concluded that each is no Nomination Committee.
External consultants who have Director had been effective and continued to demonstrate no connection with the Company are used to identify potential commitment to their role.
The performance of the Chairman was candidates.
This was the case for the recruitment of Paul Yates evaluated by the other Directors in the Chairmans absence.
The and Fleur Meijs in the reporting year, for which the Company used Company Secretary and Portfolio Manager were also included Trust Associates Limited.
in the evaluation process to provide all-round feedback.
The tenure of Directors is also considered in the evaluation process Director Training and a Director may serve for more than nine years, provided that Upon appointment, each Director is provided with all relevant Director is considered by the Board to continue to be independent.
information regarding the Company and receives an induction The process is considered to be constructive in terms of identifying on the investment operation and administration functions of areas for improving the functioning and performance of the Board the Company, together with a summary of their duties and and its Committees and action is taken on the basis of the results.
Directors also receive regular briefings from, among others, the AIC, the Companys Independent Other than every third year when an external evaluation is Auditor and the Company Secretary regarding any proposed undertaken, the Board evaluation process takes the form of written developments or changes in law or regulations that could affect the questionnaires and discussions.
Company and or the Directors.
Directors Remuneration and Share Interests Election and Re-election of Directors Details of the Directors remuneration and share interests are All newly appointed Directors stand for election by the disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 29 to 31. shareholders at the AGM following their appointment by the Board.
All other Directors are subject to annual re-election as the Company is a constituent member of the FTSE 350 Index.
Directors standing for election and re-election at this years AGM are accompanied by sufficient biographical details on page 21 to enable shareholders to make an informed decision.
The terms and letters of appointment of Directors are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company and will be available prior to the AGM.
26 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2017 of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide BOARD COMMITTEES reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material The Board has two Committees, the Audit Committee and misstatement or loss.
the Management Engagement Committee, through which it discharges certain of its corporate governance responsibilities.
The Board determines the nature and extent of any risks it is The terms of reference of both Committees can be found willing to take in order to achieve its strategic objectives.
It is on the Companys pages of the Managers website at responsible for the design, implementation and maintenance www.
of controls and procedures to safeguard the assets of the Company although these tasks have been delegated on a dayAudit Committee to-day basis to the Manager.
The system extends to operational The Audit Committee is chaired by James Robinson and consists and compliance controls and risk management.
Clear lines of of all of the Directors.
Full details are disclosed in the Report of accountability have been established between the Board and the Audit Committee on pages 33 and 34. the Manager.
The Manager provides regular reports on controls and compliance issues to the Audit Committee and the Board.
Management Engagement Committee In carrying out its review, the Audit Committee has regard to the The Management Engagement Committee is chaired by Vivian activities of the Manager, the Managers compliance and risk Bazalgette and consists of all of the Directors.
It meets at least functions and the work carried out by the Independent Auditor.
once a year and reports to the Board, making recommendations The review also includes consideration of similar internal control where appropriate.
It is charged with reviewing and monitoring reports issued by the other service providers.
the performance of the Manager and for ensuring that the terms of the Companys Management Agreement remain competitive The Board, assisted by the Manager, has undertaken a rigorous and reasonable for shareholders.
It confirms that there is an effective ongoing process in place to identify, evaluate and manage the Ahead of each AGM, the Committee reviews the performance Companys principal business and operational risks, and that it of the Manager and the fee basis and also that of its peers.
has been in place throughout the year ended 31 December 2017 Since the end of the reporting year, the Directors have had a and up to the date of this report.
This process is in accordance Management Engagement Committee meeting and reviewed the with the FRCs Risk Management, Internal Control and Related performance of the Manager and the terms of the Management Financial Business Reporting guidance.
The Committee noted the Companys good long term The Board has reviewed the need for an internal audit function performance record and the commitment, quality and continuity and has determined that the systems and procedures employed of the team responsible for the Company and concluded that it by the Manager, which are subject to inspection by the Managers was in the interests of shareholders that the appointment of the internal and external audit processes, provide sufficient assurance Manager should continue.
that a sound system of internal controls is maintained to safeguard shareholders investments and the Companys assets.
An internal ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT audit function, specific to the Company, is therefore considered Financial Reporting unnecessary.
The Audit Committee meets the Managers internal Set out on page 32 is a statement by the Directors of their audit representative at least once a year.
It receives a summary responsibilities in respect of the preparation of the Annual Report of the Managers externally audited internal controls report on an and Financial Statements.
The Auditor has set out its reporting annual basis.
responsibilities within the Independent Auditors Report on Whistle-Blowing Procedure pages35 to 39.
Part of the Managers role in ensuring the provision of a good service pursuant to the Management Agreement, includes The Board has a responsibility to present a fair, balanced and the ability for employees of Fidelity to raise concerns through understandable assessment of annual, half-yearly and other price a workplace concerns escalation policy whistle-blowing sensitive public reports and reports to regulators, and to provide procedure.
Fidelity has advised the Board that it is committed information required to be presented by statutory requirements.
All to providing the highest level of service to its customers and such reports are reviewed by the Audit Committee and approved to applying the highest standards of quality, honesty, integrity by the Board prior to their issue to ensure that this responsibility is and probity.
The aim of the policy is to encourage employees fulfilled.
and others working for Fidelity to assist the Company in tackling fraud, corruption and other malpractice within the organisation Risk Management and Internal Controls and in setting standards of ethical conduct.
This policy has been The Board is responsible for the Companys systems of risk endorsed accordingly by the Board.
management and of internal controls and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The review takes place at least once a year.
Such systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2017 27 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY Corporate Governance Statement continued Bribery Act 2010 The Board encourages all shareholders to attend the AGM on 14May 2018 at which they will have the opportunity to meet and The Company is committed to carrying out business fairly, address questions to the Chairman and other members of the honestly and openly.
The Board recognises the benefits this has Board, the Portfolio Manager and representatives of the Manager.
for reputation and business confidence.
The Board, the Manager, the Managers employees and others acting on the Companys The Notice of Meeting on pages 59 to 63 sets out the business of behalf, are expected to demonstrate high standards of behaviour the AGM and the special business resolutions are explained more when conducting business.
fully on page 24 of the Directors Report.
A separate resolution is proposed on each substantially separate issue including the The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the implementation Annual Report and Financial Statements.
The Notice of the AGM and oversight of the Companys procedures for preventing bribery, and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working and the governance framework for training, communication, days before the Meeting.
monitoring, reporting and escalation of compliance together with enforcing actions as appropriate.
The Board has adopted a zero Voting rights in the Companys shares tolerance policy in this regard.
Every person entitled to vote on a show of hands has one vote.
On a poll, every shareholder who is present in person or by proxy Criminal Finances Act 2017 or representative has one vote for every ordinary share held.
At The Board has considered the recent changes made by the general meetings all proxy votes are counted and, except where Criminal Finances Act 2017 which introduced a new corporate a poll is called, proxy voting is reported for each resolution after it criminal offence of failing to take reasonable steps to prevent has been dealt with on a show of hands.
The proxy voting results the facilitation of tax evasion.
The Company maintains a zero are disclosed on the Companys pages of the Managers website tolerance policy towards the provision of illegal services, including at www.
the facilitation of tax evasion.
Articles of Association Responsibility as Institutional Shareholder Any changes to the Companys Articles of Association must be The Board has adopted the Managers Principles of Ownership in made by special resolution.
These Principles include the pursuit of an active investment policy through portfolio management decisions, On behalf of the Board voting on resolutions at general meetings and maintaining a continuing dialogue with the management of investee companies.
Fidelity is a signatory to the UK Stewardship Code setting out the responsibilities of institutional shareholders and agents.
Further details of the Managers Principles of Ownership and voting may be found at www.
Vivian Bazalgette Relations with Shareholders Chairman Communication with shareholders is given a high priority by 14 March 2018 the Board and it liaises with the Manager and the Companys broker who are in regular contact with the Companys major institutional investors to canvass shareholder opinion and to communicate its views to shareholders.
All Directors are made aware of shareholders concerns and the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and, where appropriate, other Directors are available to meet with shareholders to discuss strategy and governance.
The Board regularly monitors the shareholder profile of the Company and receives regular reports from the Manager on meetings attended with shareholders and any concerns raised in such meetings.
The Board aims to provide the maximum opportunity for dialogue between the Company and shareholders.
If any shareholder wishes to contact a member of the Board directly, they should either email the Company Secretary at investmenttrusts@fil.
com or write to the address provided on page 66.
The Company Secretary will attend to enquiries promptly and ensure that they are directed to the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director or the Board as a whole, as appropriate.
28 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2017
