Leadership continued Group Executive Board Jeremy Helsby Simon Shaw Group Chief Executive Group Chief Financial Officer See Board of Directors on pages 44 and 45 for photograph and full biography.
See Board of Directors on pages 44 and 45 for photograph and full biography.
Chris Lee Mark Ridley Raymond Lee Simon Hope Group Legal Director & Chief Executive Savills UK and Europe Chief Executive Hong Kong, Macau Global Head of Capital Markets Company Secretary and Greater China Appointment to the Group Appointment to the Group Appointment to the Group Appointment to the Group Executive Board Executive Board Executive Board Executive Board Chris joined Savills in June 2008 and was Mark was appointed to the Group Raymond was appointed to the Group Simon was appointed to the Group appointed to the Group Executive Board Executive Board when it was formed in Executive Board in January 2011.
Executive Board when it was formed in in August 2008.
February 2008. responsibility for legal, regulatory and Background and compliance issues globally.
Background and relevant experience Background and relevant experience relevant experience He joined Savills in 1989.
In 2003, Background and Raymond became the Managing Director He became Chief Executive of Savills UK He joined Savills in September 1986 and relevant experience in Hong Kong and Macau and in 2010 was and Europe in October 2014, previously he is Head of our Global Capital Markets appointed CEO of Greater China.
He is also a member of the He held equivalent roles with Alfred holding the position of Chief Executive is a Fellow member of the Hong Kong Board of the Charities Property Fund, McAlpine plc, Courts plc and Scholl plc for Savills UK following the merger of the Institute of Directors and holds an honorary Chairman of Tilstone LLP and co-founder between 1997 and 2008, prior to which Commercial and L&P businesses in fellowship at the Quangxi Academy of and non-executive of the Warehouse REIT.
he was Deputy Group Secretary of Delta January 2013.
He previously served as Social Science.
Raymond is also an plc from 1990 to 1997.
Chairman and Chief Executive of Savills Honorary Doctor of Management at Commercial Limited from January 2008 Lincoln University and holds a Fellowship at and prior to this was Head of the the Asian College of Knowledge Manchester office which he opened for Management ACKM.
He became a fellow Savills from the time he joined in July member of the Royal Institute of Chartered 1996.
Justin OConnor Mitch Steir Michael Colacino Christian Mancini Chief Executive Officer Savills alternate member with Michael Colacino alternate member with Mitch Steir Chief Executive Officer Asia Pacific Investment Management Chairman & CEO Savills Studley President Savills Studley ex Greater China Appointment to the Group Appointment to the Group Appointment to the Group Appointment to the Group Executive Board Executive Board Executive Board Executive Board Justin was appointed to the Group Mitch was appointed to the Group Michael was appointed to the Group Christian was appointed to the Group Executive Board in September 2010.
Executive Board when Studley, Inc. Executive Board when Studley, Inc. Executive Board on 1 July 2016. joined Savills in May 2014. joined Savills in May 2014.
Background and Background and Background and Background and relevant experience relevant experience relevant experience relevant experience He joined Savills Investment Management Christian was made CEO of Savills Japan in January 2004 as Head of Business He joined Studley, Inc. in 1988 after He joined Studley, Inc. in October 1991 in 2007 and appointed CEO of Savills Development.
He was subsequently beginning his commercial real estate and became president in 2002.
Northeast Asia in 2012. appointed Chief Executive in January career at Huberth & Peters in New York.
Justin previously held a number Other appointments Other appointments of senior positions at Henderson Other appointments Global Investors, Lend Lease and the Michael serves on the Real Estate Board Christian also serves as non-executive AMP Society.
Mitch serves on the Boards of The of New Yorks Board of Governors and the director in Savills Asset Advisory, the Museum of the City of New York, the Film Advisory Board of the Zell-Lurie Real wholly-owned asset management Society of Lincoln Center, The Realty Estate Center at Wharton and is on the subsidiary of Savills Japan Co, Ltd Foundation of New York, The Avenue of Harvard Alumni Real Estate Board.
created in May 2012 Americas Association, The Mount Sinai Hospital Surgery advisory board and the Citizens Budget Commission.
Savills plc 46 Report and Accounts 2017
