Governance Report Board of Directors Nicholas Anderson Kevin Boyd BSc Engineering, MBA BEng, CEng, FIET, FCA Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director N RK RK Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board March 2012.
Appointed Chief Operating Officer May 2016 in August 2013 and Group Chief Executive in Areas of experience January 2014 Finance and accounting Areas of experience Engineering International Pensions Operational International Industrial Background Sales and marketing Before joining the Group in 2016, Kevin Boyd was Engineering Group Finance Director for Oxford Instruments plc.
Prior to that he was Group Finance Director of Background Radstone Technology plc and previously held senior Before joining the Group in 2011 as Director EMEA, finance positions within Siroyan Ltd and the TI Group Nicholas Anderson was Vice-President of John Bill Whiteley now Smiths Group plc.
Kevin is a Chartered Engineer, Crane Asia Pacific part of Smiths Group plc, based BSc, FCMA a Chartered Accountant and a Fellow of the Institute in Singapore, and President of John Crane Latin Chairman of Chartered Accountants and the Institution of America, based in the USA.
Previously, Nicholas held Engineering and Technology.
senior positions with Alcoa Aluminio in Argentina and N the Foseco Minsep Group plc in Brazil.
External appointments Appointed to the Board Non-Executive Director of EMIS Group plc.
Appointed Chairman in June 2009 Areas of experience Senior management Engineering Finance International Background Until his retirement in 2008, Bill Whiteley was Chief Executive of Rotork plc, where he had been a Director since 1984.
Bill has been awarded an honorary Doctorate of Engineering by the University of Bath.
Jamie Pike Jane Kingston MBA, MA, MIMechE BA Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director A N R A N R Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board September 2016 May 2014 Areas of experience Areas of experience Human Resources Senior management Remuneration Engineering International International Engineering Background Background Jamie Pike joined Burmah Castrol in 1991 and From 2006 until her retirement in December 2015, was Chief Executive of Burmah Castrol Chemicals Jane Kingston served as Group Human Resources before leading the Foseco buy-out in 2001 and its Director for Compass Group PLC.
Prior to this, she At year end subsequent flotation in 2005.
Prior to joining Burmah, served as Group Human Resources Director for A he was a partner at Bain & Company.
Jamie was Audit Committee BPB plc.
Jane has worked in a variety of sectors, educated at Oxford, holds an MBA from INSEAD and including roles with Blue Circle Industries plc, N Nomination Committee is a Member of the Institute of Mechanical Engineers.
Enodis plc and Coats Viyella plc and has significant R international experience.
Remuneration Committee External appointments Chairman of Ibstock plc and RPC Group.
RK Risk Management Committee External appointments Stepping down as Chairman and Director in May 2018.
Non-Executive Director of National Express Group plc.
Denotes Committee Chairman Flag denotes country of citizenship 66 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017 Governance Report Neil Daws Jay Whalen Andy Robson CEng, FIMechE BA, MBA LLB Law, Barrister Executive Director, EMEA Executive Director, WMFTG General Counsel and Company Secretary RK RK RK Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed as General Counsel June 2003 March 2012 and Company Secretary June 2012 Areas of experience Areas of experience Manufacturing Sales and marketing Areas of experience Engineering Engineering International law Product development Product development Corporate governance Sales and marketing Operational International business development including mergers and acquisitions Broad operational experience International business development Business restructuring Background Background Information technology, public private partnership Neil Daws joined the Group in 1978 and held positions Jay Whalen joined the Group in 1991 as President of and private finance initiative projects in production and design engineering prior to being Watson-Marlow Inc. in the USA.
He was named Sales named as UK Supply Director.
Following this Neil has and Marketing Director of the global Watson-Marlow Contract negotiation held responsibility for Asia Pacific, Latin America and business in 2002 and in 2010 was appointed to his Background the Groups Supply operations, including the Groups current Group position of President, Watson-Marlow Before joining the Group in 2012, Andy Robson was health, safety and environmental matters.
Prior to joining General Counsel and Company Secretary of RM Plc, Watson-Marlow, Jay was Vice-President Operations a role he held for 14 years.
Prior to this Andy was for Harvard Bioscience, Inc. European General Counsel with Cendant Corporation headquartered in Baltimore, USA.
Trudy Schoolenberg Clive Watson PhD B Comm Acc, ACA, CTA Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director A N R A N R Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board July 2009 August 2012 Areas of experience Areas of experience Finance Engineering Tax and treasury Product development Engineering Oil and petrochemical Background Background Clive Watson held several tax and finance roles Prior to her most recent position at AkzoNobel, before joining Black & Decker in 1988 as Director of Trudy Schoolenberg served as Vice-President of Tax and Treasury Europe.
He was later appointed Global Research & Development at Wrtsil Oy.
Vice-President of Business Planning and Analysis in Trudy previously held senior management positions the USA.
Clive then joined Thorn Lighting as Group with Royal Dutch Shell plc and was Head of Strategy Finance Director before working for Borealis as Chief for Shell Chemicals.
Until October 2016, Trudy served Financial Officer and Executive Vice-President of as Director of Integrated Supply Chain and Research, As previously announced: Business Support.
He is a member of the Institute Development and Innovation, Decorative Paints Bill Whiteley to retire at the AGM in May 2018: of Chartered Accountants and Chartered Institute Division of AkzoNobel.
Jamie Pike to be appointed Chairman: of Taxation.
Clive Watson to be appointed Senior Independent Director: External appointments External appointments and Non-Executive Director of COVA and Low & Bonar PLC.
Executive Director and Group Finance Director of Peter France was appointed as an independent Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director with effect from 6th March 2018.
Director of Accsys Technologies plc from April 2018.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017 67 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report
