AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Upholding integrity, transparency and accountability In preparation for the proposed demerger, Giorgi Alpaidze was appointed as Group Chief Finance Officer.
He was previously the Head of the Groups Finance, Funding and Investor Relations and has extensive international experience in banking, accounting and finance.
Following nine years as Head of Internal Audit, David Davitashvili moved into an operational role and a new Head of Internal Audit, Nino Gordeladze, was appointed from 3 January 2018.
Further details are in the following report.
David Morrison Chairman of the Audit Committee 7 March 2018 COMPOSITION AND OPERATIONS OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The composition of the Committee complies with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, which provides that the Committee DAVID MORRISON should comprise at least three Independent Non-Executive Directors.
CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The Committee members are David Morrison Chairman, Kim Bradley, Hanna Loikkanen, Tamaz Georgadze and Jonathan Muir, all of whom are independent.
The Board is satisfied at least one member of the Audit Dear Shareholders, Committee has recent and relevant financial experience and that the Audit Committee as a whole has competence relevant to the sector in This report provides insight into the functioning of the Audit Committee which the Company operates.
the Committee and its activities during the reporting period including an overview of the key areas of activity and principal topics covered at Jonathan Muir was appointed as a member of the Committee on each meeting of the Committee.
1 January 2017, and was appointed to the Board on 20 June 2017 whereupon his role as an advisor to the Board was terminated.
Mr Muir For the financial year 2017 these activities included a review of the is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and performance and effectiveness of the Companys external auditor, the Wales and has both accounting and auditing experience.
Companys internal controls, including internal audit, risk management and combined assurance systems, and a review of the effectiveness The Audit Committee works to a planned programme of activities focused of the Committee.
The Committee also continued to exercise its on key events in the annual financial reporting cycle and standing items responsibilities for ensuring the integrity of the Companys published that it considers regularly under its Terms of Reference reviewed and financial information and reviewing the judgments made by management updated on 11 December 2017.
It also reacts to business developments and the assumptions and estimates on which they arebased.
KEY ACTIVITIES Attendance at meetings by Committee members can be found on page INTERNATIONAL REPORTING STANDARDS 86 of the Corporate Governance Framework.
The Company Secretary is The Committee has considered at a number of its meetings the action Secretary to the Committee and attends all meetings.
The meetings are being taken to prepare for the implementation of the new international also attended by: reporting standards, in particular IFRS 9, but also IFRS 16, and the exercise of appropriate financial judgements that will be required, together Regular Attends as with the implementation of new systems to support thechanges.
Attendee attendee required CFO of the Group The Committee also oversaw the early-adoption of IFRS 15 effective CFO of the Bank from 1 January 2017 and received regular updates from management on effective implementation.
Chief Risk Officer of the Bank CEO of the Bank ACCOUNTING STANDARDS APPLICATION The Committee has reviewed with management and the external CEO of the Group auditors considerations and decisions relating to the proper application Head of Internal Audit of accounting standards to the treatment of the Investment Business in the Companys accounts, the valuation of investment property and Head of Compliance similar issues.
General Counsel PROPOSED DEMERGER External auditor The financial impact and accounting implications of the proposed separation of the Companys Banking and Investment Businesses has The Committee also holds separate meetings, which are not attended by been an important subject considered by the Board and the Committee management, to allow us to discuss any issues of concern in more detail has devoted significant attention to the topic at each of its meetings in and directly with the external auditor and Head of Internal Audit.
From the latter part of the year.
time to time, other members of management are invited to attend these meetings in order to provide a deeper level of insight into key issues and COMMITTEE AND MANAGEMENT CHANGES developments.
During the year there were some changes to the Committee and senior management team.
Mr Morrison attends the AGM to respond to any shareholder questions Jonathan Muir was officially appointed to the Board on 20 June 2017 that may be raised on the Audit Committees activities.
as an Independent Non-Executive Director.
Jonathan had served as an advisor to the Board since January 2017 and during that time had KEY PURPOSE AND RESPONSIBILITIES already served as a member of the Audit Committee proposed Board On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee safeguards high standards members of our Company typically serve as an advisor for an interim of integrity and oversees conduct in financial reporting, internal control period during which they advise the Board, the Board assesses and risk management together with the Risk Committee and internal suitability and both sides assess fit.
It also supervises the work of our external auditor.
Annual Report 2017 BGEO Group PLC 91 Additional Financial Governance Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Information Statements Performance Strategy Overview AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Matter considered Action taken The Audit Committee reports to the Board on how it discharges its responsibilities and makes recommendations to the Board, all of which Early adoption of IFRS 15 Received regular updates from have been accepted during the year.
The Committees Terms of Reference, management about the early which outline its primary roles and responsibilities, are available in the adoption and implementation of governance section of the Companys website at http bgeo.
com IFRS 15 across all Group entities.
Considered reports from the external auditors on the application of IFRS BUSINESS DEVELOPMENTS 15 across the Group and noted their The Committee considered the financial implications of a number of conclusion that the standard had business developments during the course of the year, including the been applied appropriately.
proposed demerger and related retrospective changes in segment reporting, the introduction of a new deposit insurance scheme in Investment property Considered and, after discussion Georgia, the introduction of a new Tier 1 model by the National Bank, under construction with the external auditor, agreed developments in relation to a large loan exposure and its provisioning, a change in estimate to measure and various acquisitions and disposals.
certain investment property under construction at fair value at an earlier FINANCIAL REPORTING stage of development as a result of A principal responsibility of the Audit Committee is to consider the more reliable valuable information significant areas of complexity, management judgement and estimation being available that have been applied in the preparation of the financial statements.
We spent significant time reviewing the action being taken to prepare for the INTERNAL AUDIT implementation of the new international reporting standards, in particular The Audit Committee is responsible, on behalf of the Board, for overseeing IFRS 9, but also IFRS 16, and the exercise of appropriate financial the Internal Audit function, which serves as the Groups independent judgements that will be required, together with the implementation assurance over the adequacy and effectiveness of the systems and of new systems to support the changes.
processes of risk management and control across theGroup.
The Committee received detailed reporting from the external auditor in The Audit Committee monitors the scope, extent and effectiveness of respect of key areas of audit focus during the year.
The Committee and the Groups Internal Audit function.
We review and approve the Internal the external auditor, without management present, discussed the key Audit Policy and oversee the Internal Audit Plan, which is designed using areas of audit focus, the suitability of the accounting policies which have a risk-based approach aligned with the overall strategy of theGroup.
been adopted and whether managements key reporting estimates and judgements were appropriate.
Taking into account the external auditors In 2017, the Internal Audit assignments focused on financial reporting, assessment of risk, but also using our own independent knowledge of operational controls, information technology, information security the Group, we reviewed and challenged where necessary, the actions, systems and risk management processes.
Each review was discussed estimates and judgements of management in relation to the preparation and presented to the Committee.
In addition, the Group engaged of the financialstatements.
 LLP to audit the Groups internal controls associated with the information technology and security systems which Other than the introduction of the new reporting standards, the significant also helped identify areas forimprovement.
accounting matters and financial judgements considered by the Audit Committee in relation to the financial statements are addressed below.
Throughout the year, we received regular reports from Internal Audit Matter considered Action taken on its audit activities and significant findings as well as the corrective Allowance for loan losses Reviewed reports from management: measures recommended to management.
We also reviewed and monitored managements responsiveness to the corrective measures liaised with Risk Committee on through follow-up reports provided by Internal Audit.
provision levels and impairments: discussed provisioning models and The Head of Internal Audit has direct access to the Audit Committee levels with external auditors, and and the opportunity to discuss matters with the Audit Committee without considered impairment provisioning other members of management present.
We also monitor the staffing of levels of several large loan exposures the Internal Audit department as well as the relevant qualifications and and related accounting matters for experience of the team.
As mentioned earlier, a new Head of Internal one such exposure.
Audit was appointed on 3 January 2018.
Valuation of investment Considered the reports of properties management, prepared based We reviewed the effectiveness of the Internal Audit department by on the third-party valuation and considering the progress of internal audit against the agreed plan, taking the view of the external auditors.
into account the need to respond to changes in the Groups business and the external environment.
We also considered the quality of the reporting Accounting for the Reviewed with management and by Internal Audit to the Audit Committee and the ability of Internal Audit proposed demerger our external auditor the financial to address unsatisfactory results.
On this basis, we concluded that the reporting implications following the Internal Audit function is effective and respected by management, and announcement of our plans to pursue that it conforms to the standards set by the Institute of Internal Auditors.
a demerger and our plan to reduce our stake in GHG to below 50% in 2018.
Change in accounting policy Reviewed managements paper for measurement of office setting out the rationale for and buildings and service centres impact of the proposed change in accounting policy from the revaluation to cost model and considered the external auditors views.
The Committee approved the policy on the basis that it provides more relevant information to users of the financial statements 92 Annual Report 2017 BGEO Group PLC EXTERNAL AUDIT The Audit Committee has formally assessed the independence of EY, With respect to our responsibilities for the external audit process on which included review of: i a report from EY describing their arrangements behalf of the Board, we: to identify, report and manage any conflicts of interest, and their policies approved the annual audit plan, which included setting the areas and procedures for maintaining independence and monitoring compliance of responsibility, scope of the audit and key risks identified: with relevant requirements: and ii the value of non-audit services provided oversaw the audit engagement, including the degree to which by EY.
EY has also confirmed its independence throughout the year, within the external auditor was able to assess key accounting and the meaning of the regulations on this matter and in accordance with their auditjudgement: professional standards.
As indicated in Note 28 of the audited IFRS reviewed the findings of the external audit with the external auditor, financial statements for 2017 the total fees paid to EY for the year ended including the level of errors identified during the audit: 31 December 2017 were GEL 4.61 million of which GEL 603,000 related monitored managements responsiveness to the external auditors to work other than the audit or review of the interim accounts.
findings and recommendations: reviewed the qualifications, expertise and resources of the Both EY and the Audit Committee do not consider that this work externalauditor: compromises the independence of the external auditor.
monitored the external auditors independence, objectivity and compliance with ethical, professional and regulatory requirement: EFFECTIVENESS reviewed audit fees: We have an established framework for assessing the effectiveness monitored the rotation of key partners in accordance with of the external audit process.
This includes: : and a review of the audit plan, including the materiality level set by the recommended the appointment, re-appointment or removal, auditor and the process they have adopted to identify financial as applicable, of the external auditor.
statement risks and key areas of audit focus: regular communications between the external auditor and both the AUDIT TENDER AND LEAD AUDIT PARTNER ROTATION Committee and management, including discussion of regular papers EY was appointed by the Board as our Group statutory auditor in 2012, prepared by management and EY: following a competitive tender process and subsequently re-appointed regular discussions with EY without management present and by shareholders at our 2013 AGM.
The Group will be required to put management without EY present in order to discuss the external the external audit contract out to tender no later than 2022.
We believe audit process: retaining EY as our auditor subject to shareholder approval is in the a review of the final audit report, noting key areas of auditor best interests of shareholders given EYs continued independence, judgement and the reasoning behind the conclusions reached: objectivity and performance on the audits they have completed, a review of EYs 2017 Transparency Report and the annual FRC Audit following assessment of their effectiveness by the Committee.
Quality Inspection Report of EY: and a formal questionnaire issued to all Committee members and also to The Company complied with the mandatory audit processes and the the executive management of the Group leading the audit which covers Committee complied with the responsibility provisions set out in terms among other items the quality of the audit and audit team, the audit of the Competition and Markets Authority Statutory Audit Services Order planning approach and execution, the presence and capabilities of the 2014 CMA Order relating to a putting the audit services engagement lead audit partner, the audit teams communication with the Committee on tender every ten years: and b strengthening the accountability of and management and the auditors independence andobjectivity the external auditors to the Committee, including requiring that only the Committee is permitted to agree to the external auditors fees and scope Following our assessment of the external auditor, we formed our own of services: influence the appointment of the audit engagement partner: judgement which was consistent with managements view and reported make recommendations regarding the appointment of auditors: and to the Board that: authorise the auditors to carry out non-audit services.
the audit team was sound and reliable, providing high-quality execution and service: We continue to review the auditor appointment and consider the the quality of the audit work was of a high standard: opportune time to tender the audit.
At this time the Committee intends EYs independence and objectivity were affirmed: to put the Audit to tender in 2022, although they may revisit this in light EY was in a position to challenge management on its approach to of the proposed demerger or otherwise and will continue to evaluate key judgements: and their options including a tender in 2018 for the financial year 2019 and appropriate discussions were held with the Audit Committee during further the Bank of Georgia Group PLC and Georgia Capital PLC expect the audit planning process.
separately to consider whether they will tender for audit services for the financial year 2019.
The Committee confirms compliance with the EY was reappointed by shareholders at the 2017 AGM and the Board provisions of the CMA Order for the year ended 31 December 2017. was authorised to set the remuneration of the auditor by 100% and EY appointed John Headley as our lead audit partner in 2016.
The 99.7% votes in favour respectively.
external auditor is required to rotate the audit partner responsible for the Group at least every five years.
The Committee has recommended to the Board that EY be reappointed under the current external audit contract and EY has expressed its AUDITOR INDEPENDENCE willingness to continue as auditor of the Group.
Separate resolutions The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, implementation proposing EYs re-appointment and determination of EYs remuneration and monitoring of the policies and procedures on the use of the external by the Committee will be proposed at the 2018 AGM.
auditor for non-audit services, which help to ensure that the external auditor maintains the necessary degree of independence and objectivity.
WHISTLEBLOWING, CONFLICTS OF INTEREST, ANTIBRIBERY Further to its work on this in 2016, the Committee continues to take AND ANTICORRUPTION AND DATA PROTECTION POLICIES account of the European Union Audit Directive and Regulation in AND PROCEDURES conjunction with the FRCs Ethical Standard for Auditors, effective for the The Audit Committee ensures that there are effective procedures relating Company from 1 January 2017, in respect of prohibitions, as well as the to whistleblowing.
In particular, we have developed a Whistleblowing Policy provisions set out in the 2016 version of the Code in relation to non-audit which allows staff to confidentially raise any concerns about business services, and updates the Groups non-audit services policy accordingly.
We keep this policy under review and receive regular updates Any non-trivial work other than for audit or interim statements to be from management as to any issues raised by employees.
The Group undertaken by the external auditor now requires authorisation by the implementation of Whistle B, an advanced independent whistleblowing Audit Committee except in very narrow circumstances.
The Groups reporting channel and case management tool to replace its existing Policy on Non-Audit Services was revised and approved in December whistleblowing platform, was completed in 2017.
2017 and can be found on our website at http: bgeo.
Annual Report 2017 BGEO Group PLC 93 Additional Financial Governance Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Information Statements Performance Strategy Overview AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED We have developed a Conflicts Authorisation Policy through which we The Audit Committee has also considered and confirmed to the Board assess actual and potential conflicts of interest and assist the Board in that its work is performed in accordance with the provisions in the Code its review of the permissibility of such conflicts.
and the Financial Reporting Councils FRC associated Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business The Audit Committee keeps under review the Groups Anti-Bribery Reporting.
Based on the above, we are satisfied that our overall internal and Anti-Corruption Policy and procedures and receives reports from control framework is effective.
management on a regular basis in relation to any actual or potential wrong-doing.
There were no significant findings in 2017 but both policies CONTINUING EDUCATION AND TRAINING were updated and implemented during the year.
The Audit Committee Throughout the year, the Audit Committee received presentations and considered the applicability and implications for the Group of the new training from the Company Secretary in respect of the guidance from the General Data Protection Regulation effective from May 2018.
An action Financial Reporting Council which included the letter to Audit Committee plan is being put in place.
Chairs, the Non-Financial Reporting Directive and the Audit Directive and Regulation in conjunction with the FRCs Ethical Standard for Auditors.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROLS The whole Board also received training on the current and proposed Although the Board assumes the ultimate responsibility for the Groups changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code affecting the Audit risk management and internal control framework, its work is supported Committee and other areas.
by both our Committee and the Risk Committee.
VIABILITY STATEMENT Since the Bank is the Groups largest business and operates in the In accordance with the Code, the Directors are required to assess complex financial services sector, its risk management framework the viability of the Group.
In collaboration with the Risk Committee, and and internal control processes are key to that of the Group.
also considering the recommendations of the FRC guidance, we spent time considering the timeframe over which the viability statement should In relation to risk management and internal financial control, the Audit be made as well as an assessment underlying the period of coverage, Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its responsibility to review the which we agreed should be three years.
In addition to aligning with the adequacy and effectiveness of the controls over financial reporting and period covered by the Groups strategy and financial forecasts, this certain types of operational risk: IT and information security including three-year period seems particularly appropriate for a Company whose cyber-security, corporate security and similar areas of operational risk business model continues to evolve in a rapidly developing frontier and internal and external fraud or misconduct.
The Committee also market like Georgias.
In particular, we looked closely at: the Groups monitors the Groups compliance with the corporate governance policies principal risks and uncertainties, including those that will threaten its and procedures related to anti-bribery and anti-corruption, conflicts of business model, future performance and solvency or liquidity: the current interest and whistleblowing.
financial position of the Group, including future cash flows, allocated capital expenditure and funding requirements: future prospects: and The Audit Committee is supported by a number of sources of internal downside stress testing.
We discussed our analysis with the Risk assurance within the Group in order to discharge its responsibilities.
Committee, management and full Board.
This includes reports from and regular discussions with the Group executives with whom it regularly meets.
We receive Internal Audits FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE REPORTING reports on the control environment and, as mentioned earlier in this The Committee reviewed the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts to report, we approve the Internal Audit Plan which is risk-based and consider whether it is fair, balanced and understandable and provides aligned with the Groupsstrategy.
the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
For 2017, the Internal Audit Plan included a thorough risk management and internal control assessment, including compliance with corporate We did this by satisfying ourselves that there was a robust process governance policies and procedures.
During 2017 and up to the date of of review and challenge at different levels within the Group to ensure this Annual Report and Accounts, Internal Audit did not find any significant balance and consistency.
We reviewed several drafts of the 2017 Annual weaknesses in risk management or internal controls.
We challenged the Report and Accounts and directly reviewed the overall messages and reports by management and Internal Audit and requested data regarding tone of the Annual Report with the CEOs and CFO.
We also considered compliance with key policies and procedures related to operational risk.
other information regarding the Groups performance and business presented to the Board during the period, both from management and With respect to external assurance, the Audit Committee reviews the the external auditor.
After consideration of all of this information, we are external auditors reports to the Audit Committee, which include the satisfied that, when taken as a whole, the Annual Report and Accounts external auditors observations on risk management and internal financial is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information controls identified as part of its audit.
Without management present, the necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business Committee and EY discussed the key areas of audit focus, the suitability model and strategy.
of the accounting policies which have been adopted and whether managements key reporting estimates and judgements wereappropriate.
COMMITTEE EFFECTIVENESS REVIEW As part of their evaluation of the Board and Committees, Lintstock In 2017, our risk management and internal control processes continued assisted the Board in reviewing the Committees performance over the to evolve in line with the strategy of the Group.
Set out below are a few financial year.
This external review found that the Committees performance examples of changes made in 2017. was rated highly by respondents and highlighted particular areas that had helped improve the Committees discussion such as the formation of an FINANCE IFRS desk by the Finance department and a new format for reviewing The Finance department continued to build on the progress they made audit issues.
in 2016 in creating uniform accounting policies across the Group, completed a project to standardise the Groups ledgers and improved Our priorities for 2018 include, among others, continued focus on: Group covenant management while also leading the finance workstream the implementation of legal and governance structures and financial of the proposed demerger.
reporting of the proposed demerger of the Group: risks around the proposed demerger of the Group: INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AND INFORMATION the successful implementation of IFRS 9, and preparation for IFRS 16 SECURITY SYSTEMS implementation in 2019: and Following the information technology and information security systems implementing the improvements in IT audit internal controls.
audit undertaken by Price Waterhouse Coopers LLP improvements have been made to policies and procedures.
94 Annual Report 2017 BGEO Group PLC
