RISK COMMITTEE REPORT Safeguarding shareholder value KEY PURPOSE AND RESPONSIBILITIES The purpose of the Risk Committee is to assist the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities in relation to the oversight of risk and to provide advice in relation to current and potential future risk exposures.
This includes reviewing the Groups risk appetite and risk profile, the desired culture and how it has been embedded, assessing the effectiveness of the risk management framework and systems of internal control, and the Companys capability to identify and manage new types of risk.
The key responsibilities of the Risk Committee are to: support the Board to ensure that risk appetite and exposure are addressed as part of strategy: oversee the risk management infrastructure, process and effectiveness: support the Board in monitoring risk exposure and the implementation of our strategy to address risk: oversee, support and evaluate the risk management roles of our executive management risk team: KIM BRADLEY encourage and ensure open and broad discussion on perceived risk CHAIRMAN OF THE RISK COMMITTEE concerns and responsive efforts to mitigate when necessary: assess the adequacy and quality of the risk management function in conjunction with the Audit Committee and the effectiveness of risk Dear Shareholders, reporting within the Group: and in collaboration with the Audit Committee, review the principal risks In 2017 the Risk Committee built on the progress made last year in and uncertainties disclosures in the Half-Year and Annual Reports.
strengthening our risk management framework and internal controls.
The Committee has assisted the Board in providing oversight of the The principal risk categories overseen by the Risk Committee include Groups overall risk appetite in a dynamic risk environment and has currency and macro-economic, regional instability, regulatory, cyberhelped ensure that we achieve our strategic objectives through effective security, information systems and financial crime, Investment Business risk management.
strategy, demerger and future performance risk and certain operational risks other than those overseen by the Audit Committee within the Group.
As reported last year, part of our strategy to achieve a 20% Return on Equity in the Banking Business included enhancing an already prudent risk We reviewed the Committees Terms of Reference and updated them in management process.
This has led to a decrease in our Banking Business September 2017 to reflect current best practice.
The Committee also reviewed the NPL and asset management groups policies, procedures and organisations The Risk Committees full Terms of Reference are available on our and managements suggested improvements designed to both accelerate website at http: bgeo.
com uploads pages  maximise the recovery on NPLs and asset liquidation, as well as of-reference-98.
enhanced analytic tools reflecting the opportunity cost of equity associated with recovery timeframes.
COMPOSITION OF THE RISK COMMITTEE AND MEETINGS Our Risk Committee is comprised solely of Independent Non-Executive The Committee was particularly pleased to oversee the Groups successful Directors.
The Committee members are Kim Bradley Chairman, Al efforts in reducing borrower concentration.
This included discussions and Breach, Tamaz Georgadze and Hanna Loikkanen.
review of strategies and actions by management covering lending and NPL, to improve asset quality through structure renegotiations, principal Each members attendance is shown in the Board and Committee reductions and other qualitative measurements.
The Committee also continues to monitor the fide-dollarisation programme During 2017, the Chief Risk Officer, BGEO Group CFO, Bank CEO, Bank which has particular relevance to borrowers of Dollars who earn revenues CFO and Jonathan Muir regularly attended our meetings.
From time to in Georgian Lari, and the mitigation of the impact of any depreciation of time, other members of management are invited to attend meetings in the Lari.
order to provide a deeper level of insight into key issues and developments.
In addition, non-Committee Board members are also invited to attend.
We followed through with each of the priorities we set for 2017.
As above, we continued to focus heavily on our loan portfolio and strategy At each meeting, the Risk Committee receives detailed reporting to mitigate risks associated with the dollarisation of our loan book, the which provides an analysis of: the Groups overall risk profile using both depreciation of the Lari and the concentration of borrowers.
Furthermore, quantitative models and risk analytics, loan portfolio dynamics, key risk other main areas of risk mitigation on which the Committee focused in exposures and management actions, performance against risk appetite, the year were: the emerging and potential risks the Group may face, the drivers of risk 1. expansion of the business continuity programme by developing throughout the Group as well as analysis of down side stress testing proactive plans for business units this covered the entities that scenarios.
The underlying assumptions, methodology applied and results were part of the Banking Business: of such stress testing are challenged by the Risk Committee.
2. review of the risk mitigation tools and control functions that are used to assess the effectiveness of existing controls: Meetings of the Risk Committee take place prior to the Board meeting 3. in credit underwriting, extension of the use of data analytics and in order for the Risk Committee to report its activities and matters of implemented model validation process: particular relevance to the Board.
4. use of quantitative assessment of credit for corporate borrowers: 5. devised counterparty limit monitoring and management based on our existing credit scoring model: and 6. aggregating the Groups foreign currency exposure management.
I invite you to read more about our work in the following report.
Kim Bradley Chairman of the Risk Committee 7 March 2018 Annual Report 2017 BGEO Group PLC 95 Additional Financial Governance Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Information Statements Performance Strategy Overview RISK COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED RISK COMMITTEE FOCUS DURING 2017 We continued to work closely with the Audit Committee to ensure that We continued to focus on our remit as set out above.
As mentioned in our risk management framework and systems of internal control operate last years Annual Report, our 2017 priorities were to continue focusing effectively and in compliance with the Code and FRC guidance.
We also on the reduction of our overall corporate credit exposure and Dollarworked through the processes supporting the assessment of the Groups denominated loan book, and insuring that our risk teams within the longer-term solvency and liquidity which underlie the viability statement.
Bank as well as our Investment Business executed on their objectives.
During the year, management reviewed the risk mitigation tools and On the macro economic front, we focused on various interest rate control functions and reported to the Committee and to the Audit and currency scenarios given the strengthened Dollar and interest rate Committee on their assessment of the effectiveness of these controls.
increases by the Federal Reserve.
We also monitored potential policy Key changes during 2017 to our control framework included the shifts towards the region following the 2016 US elections.
management and monitoring of counterparty limits, based on our previously implemented credit scoring model, the aggregation of the Further focus of the Risk Committee in 2017 is set out in the Chairmans Groups foreign currency exposure management and the extension Statement above.
of artificial intelligence and machine learning algorithms in our model validation process for credit underwriting.
OUR LOAN BOOK Macroeconomic conditions in Georgia during the year were affected by In 2017, we discussed how we could improve the approach to low economic growth within the region, commodity price fluctuations incorporating the cost of risk into the pricing of corporate credits.
and the depreciation of the Lari, particularly against the Dollar.
The Group The management team developed a new model which allowed this saw an increase in NPLs and changes in debt-service coverage ratios to be estimated over a 12-month period and adjusted if necessary with respect to Dollar-denominated loans covered by Lari income as a throughout the period and revised the limits for single borrower result of these conditions, which in turn increased our cost of credit risk.
We also considered how our stress testing could be augmented to factor in extended periods of stress and expanded We monitored this very closely and conducted credit-specific reviews the business continuity programme by developing proactive business on the top 20 corporate exposures, both in formal Committee meetings continuity plans to cover other Banking Business companies.
and on informal interim calls with management.
We worked closely with management throughout the year to formulate strategies to mitigate risk During the year, we also monitored the implementation of the Bank which included the continued drive to increase local currency loans and Compliance Policy, the development of our Data Protection Policy and analysis of retail borrowers debt bearing capacity amongst other topics.
reviewed managements anti-money laundering assessments in respect Retail Banking successfully increased its local currency loans by nearly of correspondent banks.
We also carried out a robust review of the principal risks and uncertainties Despite approximately 83.1% of our corporate investment loan book disclosure and other relevant risk management disclosures and reported being denominated in Dollars, more than 43% of corporate investment to the Board with our recommendation on their inclusion in this Annual customers with Dollar loans have income in Dollars.
The vast majority of Report and the Half-Year Report.
our corporate customers were able to continue servicing their loans.
The Committee regularly monitors the corporate loan book.
In 2017, we have We continued to assist formulating the Group viability statement in achieved a significant improvement in the fide-dollarisation of our Banking conjunction with the Audit Committee and management.
The viability Business loan portfolio, with the share of local currency loans increasing by statement can be found on page 33.
The Georgian governments fide-dollarisaton initiatives and our ability to attract local currency funding COMMITTEE EFFECTIVENESS REVIEW have been primary drivers of this.
We do not expect the fide-dollarisation Lintstock, an external evaluator, performed the review of the Committee, to continue at the same rate, but we do expect local currency loans to focusing on its overall performance and with all Board members identifying increase at a faster rate than foreign currency denominated loans, as and discussing their views on what they would consider as the most other government initiatives e. g. pension reform come into force and significant risks to the Company.
The effectiveness evaluation concluded we continue to attract local currency funding from institutional investors.
that the Committee continues to operate and performeffectively.
Throughout the year, we reviewed managements quantitative Our main priorities for 2018 are to formalise the Banks risk appetite in assessments of credit for corporate borrowers and monitored the meeting our strategic objectives to confirm the Banks tolerance levels implementation by management of the corporate loan book risk for all risk types.
During the year, the processes whereby the Banks risk deconcentration strategy.
We were pleased that management continued function provides services to Group companies was identified and we to deliver on this strategy by reducing the concentration of our top ten will continue to redesign these processes to accommodate the new Corporate and Investment Business clients to 10.7% at the end of 2017, structure of the Group following the demerger.
On the overall balance sheet level, the risk fide-concentration strategy involves a focus on retail versus An overview of our risk management framework is set out corporate credit growth as well as our previously communicated steps to on pages 32 to 33. increase overall NPL coverage ratio.
At corporate level, specifically, our fide-concentration measures include reducing our corporate guarantee A description of these principal risks and uncertainties, in addition exposure to certain sectors and focus on further developing our corporate to recent trends and outlook, as well as mitigation efforts can be credit syndication activities.
This strategy takes time and corporate credit found on pages 34 to 37. risk reduction will remain one of our risk priorities in2018.
An overview of the Bank risk management framework is set out We closely monitored NPL levels and management actions to assure on pages 38 to 43. adequate coverage of our loan loss exposure.
Our NPL coverage ratio was successfully increased from 86.7% at 31 December 2016 to 92.7% at 31 December 2017.
RISK MANAGEMENT In 2017, we continued to assist the Board in setting the Groups risk appetite and exposure in line with the Groups strategic objectives and in making any necessary modifications as strategy evolves and when the risk environment changes.
We also monitored the Groups risk exposure and actions to address risk, which included oversight and support of our executive management risk team.
96 Annual Report 2017 BGEO Group PLC
