CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK OUR GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE BOARD AUDIT COMMITTEE NOMINATION COMMITTEE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE KEY RESPONSIBILITIES: KEY RESPONSIBILITIES: KEY RESPONSIBILITIES: Reviews and monitors the integrity Ensures the Board has the right Makes recommendations to the Board of the Groups financial and reporting balance of skills, experience, on the Directors Remuneration Policy.
independence and Group Determines the remuneration package Responsible for the governance of knowledge.
of the Chief Executive Officer and both the internal audit function and Responsible for both Director and executive management.
Assesses the performance of Works with the Risk Committee in executive management against KPIs.
assessing the effectiveness of the Responsible for design and oversight risk management and internal of the Group employee share control framework.
See pages 91 to 94 for the See pages 89 to 90 for the See pages 98 to 113 for the Audit Committee Report.
RISK COMMITTEE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER KEY RESPONSIBILITIES: Assists the Board in relation to risk oversight.
Reviews Group risk appetite in line with strategy.
Identifies and monitors risk exposure and the risk EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT management infrastructure.
Assesses the strength and effectiveness of the risk management and internal control framework.
See pages 95 to 96 for the Risk Committee Report.
BGEO GROUP PLC BOARD OF DIRECTORS CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER CEO The Board is responsible collectively for the long-term success of the The Group CEO, Irakli Gilauri, leads the management team, manages Group and for the creation and delivery to shareholders of sustainable the business of the Group, develops and oversees the implementation value through the management of the Groups businesses.
The Board of all Board approved actions, the strategic direction of the Group and establishes the Groups core values and leads by example: sets and its commercial objectives.
The CEO also supports the Chairman to oversees the execution of the Groups strategy within a framework ensure that appropriate governance standards are spread throughout of strong and effective risk management and internal controls: and the Group.
The CEO oversees the executive management team, which encourages a culture of corporate governance in line with best practice, assists him in managing the business.
Further details on the executive amongst its many other responsibilities.
management team can be found on page 80.
The Board is composed of eight Directors, seven of whom are SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR SID Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Each of the Chairman, CEO and The Senior Independent Director, David Morrison, provides a sounding Non-Executive Directors have clearly defined roles within our Board board for the Chairman, acts as an intermediary for the other Directors structure.
A description of these roles can be found on our website, at when necessary and is available to shareholders if they have concerns http: bgeo.
that have not been addressed through the normal channels.
CHAIRMAN Directors are expected to provide rigorous and constructive challenge on The principal role of the Chairman, Neil Janin, is to lead the Board matters that, owing to their strategic, financial or reputational implications effectively and provide direction and focus to its discussions.
The or consequences, are considered significant to the Group.
Chairman is the guardian of the Boards decision-making processes and also promotes high standards of integrity, probity and corporate SEPARATION OF THE CHAIRMAN AND CEO ROLES governance throughout the Group and at Board level.
He facilitates There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman effective contributions by the Non-Executive Directors, promotes a and the CEO.
The separation of authority is set out in writing and culture of openness and debate, and encourages constructive relations agreed by the Board.
This enhances independent oversight of executive between Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman works management by the Board and helps to ensure that no one individual closely with the CEO, to ensure that the actions and strategies proposed on the Board has unfettered power, influence or authority.
The division and agreed by the Board are implemented effectively.
The Chairmans of responsibilities can be found on the Companys website at other significant commitments are indicated in his biography on page 77. http: bgeo.
84 Annual Report 2017 BGEO Group PLC GROUP COMPANY SECRETARY NOMINATION COMMITTEE The Company Secretary is responsible for providing guidance to The Nomination Committee ensures that the Board continues to the Board collectively and to the Directors individually with regard have the right balance of skills, experience, independence and Group to their duties, responsibilities and powers, and for ensuring the proper knowledge necessary for the Board to set and monitor the strategic administration of the proceedings and matters relating to the Board, direction of the Group and discharge its responsibilities in accordance the Company and the shareholders of the Company in accordance with with the highest standards of governance and the diversity aspirations applicable legislation, regulation and procedures.
It is responsible for both Director and management succession planning.
The Board has access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who advises the Board and the Board Committees on relevant Read the Nomination Committee Report on pages 89 to 90. matters, including compliance with the Groups policies and procedures, the Listing Rules, legislation and regulations relevant to the Company and the UK Corporate Governance Code and other governance standards.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Remuneration Committee reviews and recommends to the BOARD COMMITTEES Board the Directors Remuneration Policy to ensure that remuneration The Board has delegated authority to the Board Committees to carry out packages are designed to promote the long-term success of BGEO certain tasks on its behalf, in order to operate efficiently and give the right and to see that management is appropriately rewarded for its level of attention and consideration to relevant matters, and to ensure contribution to the Groups performance in the context of wider market there is independent oversight of financial, audit, internal control and risk conditions and shareholder views.
The Committee determines the issues, review of remuneration as well as oversight and review of Board remuneration packages of the Executive Directors, the Chairman and and executive succession planning, while reserving the authority to executive management along with their terms of employment and approve certain key matters, as documented in the Companys matters assesses the performance of executive management against KPIs.
reserved for the Board, which is reviewed annually by the Board.
The key responsibilities of the Board Committees are summarised in the individual It is also responsible for designing and overseeing the administration Committee Reports.
of Group employee share schemes.
In 2017 the Board had four Committees comprised solely of Independent Non-Executive Directors with the exception of the Audit Committee, on Read the Remuneration Committee Report on pages 98 to 113. which Jonathan Muir served as a member prior to his appointment as an Independent Non-Executive Director on 20 June 2017 : TERMS OF REFERENCE AND REPORTING TO THE BOARD the Nomination Committee Each Committee has agreed Terms of Reference, which are reviewed the Audit Committee annually by each Committee and any changes are approved by the the Risk Committee and Board.
the Remuneration Committee Each Committees Terms of Reference can be found on the Companys Later in this section, there are reports from the Chairman of each website at http: bgeo.
Committee which describe the Committees activities in 2017 and priorities for 2018.
All Non-Executive Directors have a standing invitation to attend Committee meetings rather than just limiting attendance to Committee AUDIT COMMITTEE members.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in relation to the oversight of the Groups financial and reporting processes.
It monitors the integrity of the THE ROLE OF THE BOARD financial statements and is responsible for governance around both the The Boards principal duty is to promote the long-term success of internal audit function and external auditor, reporting back to the Board.
the Group by directing management towards creating and delivering It reviews the effectiveness of the policies, procedures and systems in sustainable shareholder value.
We do this by setting the Groups strategy place related to, among other operational risks, compliance, IT and and overseeing its implementation by management.
The Board is information security including cyber-security and works closely with accountable to shareholders for the financial performance of the Group.
the Risk Committee in connection with assessing the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control framework.
The Audit Committee We believe that the success of the implementation of the Companys oversees and challenges management on its internal control and risk strategy requires the alignment of strategy with the Groups internal management systems in relation to the financial reporting process.
We view a strong system of risk management and internal controls as essential to governance in allowing us to pursue Full details of the internal control and risk management systems are set out our strategy in a way that risk appetite can be set and risks identified, within the Audit Committee Report on pages 91 to 94. assessed, managed and reported effectively.
You can read more about our risk management on pages 32 to 43.
RISK COMMITTEE By setting the tone at the top, establishing the core values of the Group The main role of the Risk Committee is in relation to the oversight of risk.
and demonstrating our leadership, management is able to implement key It reviews the Groups risk appetite in line with strategy, identifies and policies and procedures we have created in a manner that clearly sets an monitors risk exposure and the risk management infrastructure, oversees expectation that every employee acts ethically and transparently in all of the implementation of strategy to address risk, and in conjunction with his or her dealings.
the Audit Committee, assesses the strength and effectiveness of the risk management and internal control framework.
We also monitor managements execution of strategy and financial performance.
While our ultimate focus is long-term growth, the Group also needs to deliver on short-term objectives and we seek to ensure Read the Risk Committee Report on pages 95 to 96. that management strikes the right balance between the two.
Annual Report 2017 BGEO Group PLC 85 Additional Financial Governance Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Information Statements Performance Strategy Overview CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK CONTINUED We are mindful of our wider obligations and consider the impact our A typical quarterly in-person meeting will include discussion on the decisions will have on the Groups various stakeholders, such as our following topics: employees, our shareholders, our customers and clients, the environment Updates from Committee Chairmen on matters discussed at the and our community as a whole.
You can read more about our sustainability respective Committee meeting held the day before initiatives on pages 44 to 51.
The macroeconomic environment Financial performance In order to ensure that we meet our responsibilities, specific key Business segment performance and developments decisions have been reserved for approval by the Board.
A full formal A deeper dive into strategy and performance at one or more business schedule of matters specifically reserved for the Board can be found on units our website, at http: bgeo.
com page id 67  strategic initiatives and progress against strategy .
Regulatory, legislative and other corporate governance updates Developments in relation to principal risks and risk management OPERATION OF THE BOARD We schedule Board meetings for at least four times a year in Georgia, Board and management succession planning and talent management are for a period of two days each time.
We also hold meetings at our London typically discussed at least twice a year.
A comprehensive assessment offices, with Directors either attending in person or via teleconference.
of the risk management framework and system of internal controls is Matters which require decisions outside the scheduled meetings are performed at least twice a year through the Risk and Audit Committees dealt with through additional ad hoc meetings and conference calls.
In addition, in 2017, majority of the Board attended our annual investor day.
In total, we met formally as a Board ten times during the year.
The Board meetings are, however, flexible to ensure that pressing matters, Board also passed written resolutions on three separate occasions.
when they arise, are addressed as quickly as possible.
In the most recent year, the separation of the Bank and Investment Business has A number of the Non-Executive Directors also carry out site visits been on the agenda at every meeting since March 2017. several times a year.
Examples in 2017 include visits to bank branches, Solo lounges, real estate sites under construction, a wind turbine test, The Chairman and CEO seek input from the Non-Executive Directors water pumping and service facilities, hospitals, pharmacies and clinics.
ahead of each Board meeting.
The Senior Independent Director helps to ensure that any particular matters raised by Non-Executive Directors At each scheduled meeting, we receive reports from the Chairman, are included on the agenda for discussion by the Board.
In addition, the BGEO CEO, CFO, and the Bank CEO and Bank CFO on the performance Chairman meets with the CEO after each meeting to agree the follow-up and results of the Group.
The CEOs of our principal subsidiaries and actions and to discuss how effective the meetingwas.
the Deputy CEOs of the Bank regularly update the Board on the performance, strategic developments and initiatives in their respective The Senior Independent Director also serves as a sounding board to the segment throughout the year.
The Banks Chief Risk Officer, Group Chairman and the CEO.
General Counsel and Group Head of Investor Relations regularly present to the full Board.
The Board receives updates from Group operating The Chairman and CEO maintain frequent contact in person or otherwise functions on internal control and risk management, compliance, internal with each other and the other Board members throughout the year outside audit, human resources and corporate .
Similarly, the Chairman, with support from the Company Secretary, ensures that time is available during and outside of Board meetings to hold sessions with the Non-Executive Directors without Executives present.
There is an annual schedule of rolling agenda items to ensure that all matters are given due consideration and are reviewed at the appropriate point in the financial and regulatory cycle.
These include the budget, quarterly, half-year and full year results, the Annual Report and Accounts, approval of the final dividend and the Notice of AGM.
BOARD MEETING ATTENDANCE Details of Board and Committee meeting attendance in 2017 are as follows: Board Audit Committee Risk Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Maximum Maximum Maximum Maximum Maximum Members Attended possible Attended possible Attended possible Attended possible Attended possible Neil Janin 9 10 3 3 2 2 David Morrison 10 10 10 10 3 3 2 2 Kim Bradley 10 10 10 10 4 4 2 2 Al Breach 10 10 4 4 3 3 2 2 Tamaz Georgadze 10 10 10 10 4 4 2 2 Irakli Gilauri 10 10 Hanna Loikkanen 10 10 10 10 4 4 2 2 1 Jonathan Muir 5 5 9 10 2 2 1.
Jonathan Muir was appointed to the Board on 20 June 2017.
Individual Directors and their biographies are set out on pages 77 to 79.
86 Annual Report 2017 BGEO Group PLC BOARD SIZE, COMPOSITION AND DIVERSITY The outcomes of the evaluation were discussed in detail in a meeting of We consider that a diversity of skills, backgrounds, knowledge, experience, the Board and the Board set its priorities for the following year.
The 2017 outlook and approach, geographic location, nationalities and gender is evaluation confirmed that the Board and its Committees continue to important to effectively govern the business.
The Board and its Nomination Committee work to ensure that the Board Overall, the Board is considered strong, bringing a good balance continues to have the right balance of skills, experience, independence and mix of expertise and experience and offering real diversity of and Group knowledge necessary to discharge its responsibilities.
As noted later in this Report, the Board believes that its size and Progress was felt to have been made against the objectives we set for composition are appropriate.
In particular, the Board has determined 2017.
In particular: that each of the Non-Executive Directors is independent in character We dedicated significant time to evaluating progress across all of and judgement.
Each of our Non-Executive Directors occupies, and or our Investment Businesses and we are pleased with the progress has previously occupied, senior positions in a broad range of relevant being made in driving improvements to our financial performance associated industries, bringing valuable external perspective to the and implementing our strategy across the Group.
Boards deliberations through their experience and insight enabling them We continue to dedicate time to discuss risk management and to contribute significantly to decision-making.
No individual or group of internal control and we were satisfied with how these systems individuals is able to dominate the decision-making process and no wereimproved.
undue reliance is placed on any individual.
Based on the results of the evaluations and continued discussions, TENURE AND INDEPENDENCE the Board has set the following objectives for 2018: The average tenure of our Non-Executive Directors is approximately 4.5 Overseeing the proposed demerger years.
We value diversity in all forms.
Currently six different nationalities Overseeing that the proposed demerger and activities surrounding are represented on our Board of eight Directors.
More information on it cause minimum disruption to the running of the separate surviving our approach to diversity can be found on page 89. groups and their business units Strategic focus of the Bank We have assessed the independence of each of the seven Non-Executive Investigating potential new acquisitions in the Investment Business Directors and are of the opinion that each acts in an independent and IT strategy objective manner and therefore, under the Code, is independent and free from any relationship that could affect their judgement.
Each NONEXECUTIVE DIRECTORS TERMS OF APPOINTMENT Non-Executive Director has an ongoing obligation to inform the Board On appointment, our Non-Executive Directors are given a Letter of of any circumstances which could impair his or herindependence.
Appointment that sets out the terms and conditions of their directorship, including the fees payable and the expected time commitment.
Each The Board is mindful of developing diversity and is aware of various Non-Executive Director is expected to commit approximately 25-35 days diversity reports and initiatives in the UK, such as the Hampton Alexander per year to the role.
An additional time commitment is required to fulfil Review FTSE Women Leaders Improving Gender Balance in FTSE their roles as Board Committee members and or Board Committee Leadership: 2017 Review published in November 2017 and has noted Chairmen, as applicable.
We are satisfied that all Non-Executive Directors the recommendations on women on Boards that a target of 33% female dedicate the amount of time necessary to contribute to the effectiveness Board representation is achieved by FTSE 350 companies by 2021.
The Letters of Appointment for our Non-Executive Directors Board has stated its aim to increase the number of women on the Board are available for inspection at our registered office during normal business to two by mid-2018 and further increase this number thereafter.
hours and also at the Companys Annual General Meeting for 15 minutes prior to and during that Meeting.
SUCCESSION PLANNING AND BOARD APPOINTMENTS We believe that effective succession planning mitigates the risks NONEXECUTIVE DIRECTORS EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS associated with the departure or absence of well qualified and experienced Any external appointment or other significant commitment of the individuals.
We recognise this, and our aim is to ensure that the Board and Non-Executive Directors requires the prior approval of the Board.
Our management are always well resourced with the right people in terms of Non-Executive Directors hold external directorships or other external skills and experience, in order to effectively and successfully deliver our positions but the Board believes they still have sufficient time to devote strategy.
We also recognise that continued tenure brings a depth of to their duties as a Director of the Company and that the other external Group-specific knowledge that is important to retain.
Our succession directorships positions held provide us with valuable expertise.
planning model occasionally involves the recruitment of independent external advisors to our Board and Committees.
In this way, we receive BOARD INDUCTION, ONGOING TRAINING objective insight into our decision making and can judge whether AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT an individual advisor has the requisite skills and knowledge and On appointment, each Director takes part in an induction programme, understanding of the Group to be appointed as an Independent during which he or she meets members of executive management, Non-Executive Director.
receives information about the role of the Board and individual Directors, each Board Committee and the powers delegated to these Committees.
During the year, Jonathan Muir, who had been appointed as an advisor on The new Director is also advised of the legal and other duties and 1 January 2017 to the Board and as a member of the Audit Committee, obligations of a Director of a premium listed company.
was appointed as Non-Executive Director on 20 June 2017.
Upon his appointment to the Board his advisory agreement was terminated.
We are committed to the continuing development of our Directors in order that they may build on their expertise and develop an everAs mentioned earlier in this Report, the Board Nomination Committee more detailed understanding of the business, markets and regulatory is responsible for both Director and executive management succession environment in which Group companies operate and of our evolving planning.
There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the corporate governance framework.
appointment of new Directors to the Board.
All of our Directors participated in ongoing training and professional EVALUATION OF BOARD PERFORMANCE development throughout 2017, which included briefings, site visits, The Board continually strives to improve its effectiveness and recognises development sessions and presentations by our Group Company that its annual evaluation process is an important tool in reaching that Secretary, members of management, external speakers and our goal.
Our external evaluator Lintstock was engaged in 2017 to carry out professional advisors.
During the year our Group Company Secretary a comprehensive evaluation of our Board, Committees and Directors.
provided updates on legislative changes including the Non-Financial Lintstock has no other connection to the Company although it also Reporting Directive, Diversity initiatives including the Hampton-Alexander performs the separate external Board and Committee evaluation of Review which the Company participated in, and refresher training on our subsidiary Georgia Healthcare Group PLC.
Directors duties and conflicts of interest section 172 and 175 duties under the Companies Act respectively.
Annual Report 2017 BGEO Group PLC 87 Additional Financial Governance Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Information Statements Performance Strategy Overview CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK CONTINUED In addition, amendments to the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules and the FRCs guidance on reporting were presented.
The Group Company Secretary also briefed the Board on proposed changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Board also received detailed training on and revised our policies and procedures to further address the guidance on the EU Market Abuse Regulation, and guidance on the EU Audit Reform, which have led to a revision of our Non-Audit Services Policy.
INDEPENDENT PROFESSIONAL ADVICE We also ensure that all of our Directors have access to the advice of the Group Company Secretary as well as independent professional advice, at the Companys expense, on any matter relating to their responsibilities.
REELECTION OF DIRECTORS In line with the Codes recommendations, Jonathan Muir will stand for election at the AGM in 2018, being the first AGM following his appointment to the Board.
All of our Directors seek re-election every year and therefore all other Directors will stand for re-election at the Companys AGM.
The Board has set out in the Notice of the AGM the qualifications of each Director and support for re-election.
GROUP COMPANY SECRETARY The Board appointed Rebecca Wooldridge as the new Group Company Secretary in September 2017.
She was previously Deputy Company Secretary, and is an experienced corporate governance lawyer who previously worked at a FTSE 100 top 20 company and before that as corporate lawyer at a leading London City law firm.
ACCOUNTABILITY INTERNAL CONTROLS AND RISK MANAGEMENT The Group has a comprehensive system of internal controls in place, designed to ensure that risks are mitigated and that the Groups objectives are attained.
The Board recognises its responsibility to present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
It is accountable for reviewing and approving the effectiveness of internal controls operated by the Group, including financial, operational and compliance controls, and risk management.
The Board recognises its responsibility in respect of the Groups risk management process and system of internal control, and, oversees the activities of the Groups external auditors and the Groups risk management function which have been delegated to the Audit and RiskCommittees.
A review of the Groups risk management approach is further discussed in the Strategic Report on pages 18 to 29.
For detail on the management and mitigation of each principal risk see pages 41 to 43.
The Groups viability statement is detailed on pages 33.
Please refer to pages 91 to 96 for further detail in relation to the Audit and Risk Committees roles.
The Groups governance structure of risk management is illustrated on pages 32 to 43.
88 Annual Report 2017 BGEO Group PLC
