BOARD OF DIRECTORS Diverse and balanced team who govern with experience NEIL JANIN IRAKLI GILAURI DAVID MORRISON NONEXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN CEO SENIOR INDEPENDENT NONEXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Neil Janin was appointed Non-Executive Irakli Gilauri was appointed as an Executive Chairman on 24 October 2011 and has been Director of BGEO on 24 October 2011 and David Morrison was appointed as the Senior re-elected by shareholders at each AGM has been re-elected by shareholders at each Independent Non-Executive Director of BGEO since.
Mr Janin serves as Chairman of BGEOs AGM since.
Mr Gilauri has served as CEO on 24 October 2011 and has been re-elected by Nomination Committee and as a member of of BGEO since his appointment in 2011, shareholders at each AGM since.
Mr Morrison BGEOs Remuneration Committee.
Mr Janin and was appointed Chairman of the Bank in assumed the role of Chairman of BGEOs Audit also serves as a member of the Supervisory September 2015, having previously served as Committee in December 2013, prior to which Board of the Bank, having stepped down CEO of the Bank since May 2006.
Mr Gilauri he had served as a member of the Committee.
as Chairman in July 2015, a position he had also serves as CEO of JSC BGEO Group, Mr Morrison is also a member of BGEOs held since 2010.
Mr Janin continues to serve JSC BGEO Investment Group and JSC BG Remuneration and Nomination Committees, as a member of the Banks Remuneration Financial Group.
He is currently Chairman and serves on the Banks Supervisory Board Committee, a position he has held since 2010. of the Board of Georgia Healthcare Group and as a member of the Banks Audit and PLC and Chairman of the Supervisory Board Remuneration Committees, positions he has Mr Janin also serves as a Non-Executive for the following subsidiaries: JSC Georgia held since 2010.
Mr Morrison is also a Non- 2 Director of Georgia Healthcare Group PLC Healthcare Group, m Real Estate, Georgian Executive Director of Georgia Healthcare and is a member of the Supervisory Board Renewable Power Company and Teliani Valley.
Group PLC and a member of the Supervisory of JSC Georgia Healthcare Group.
He is also a member of the Supervisory Board Board of JSC Georgia HealthcareGroup.
of Georgia Global Utilities and Agron Group.
Ahead of the proposed demerger, Ahead of the proposed demerger, Mr Janin has also been appointed as Ahead of the proposed demerger, Mr Morrison has also been appointed Chairman of Bank of Georgia Group plc.
Mr Gilauri has also been appointed as to the Board of Georgia Capital plc.
CEO and Chairman of Georgia Capital plc.
Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Mr Janin serves as counsel to CEOs of both Skills and experience: Mr Morrison is a member of the New York bar for-profit and non-profit organisations and Before his employment with the Bank, Mr Gilauri and worked for 28 years at Sullivan & Cromwell continues to provide consulting services to was a banker at the EBRDs Tbilisi and London LLP until he withdrew from the firm in 2007 to McKinsey & Company.
Prior to joining the Bank offices for five years, where he worked on pursue his other interests.
At Sullivan & Cromwell, in 2010, Mr Janin was a Director of McKinsey & transactions involving debt and private equity he served as Managing Partner of the firms Company, based in its Paris office, for over 27 investments in Georgiancompanies.
His practice focused years, from 1982 until his retirement.
At McKinsey on advising public companies in a transactional & Company, he conducted engagements in Education: context, from capital raisings and IPOs to mergers the retail, asset management and corporate Mr Gilauri received his undergraduate degree and acquisitions.
Key clients included investment banking sectors, and was actively involved in Business Studies, Economics and Finance banks and a wide range of commercial and in every aspect of organisational practice, from the University of Limerick, Ireland, in industrial companies.
He advised on a number including design, leadership, governance, 1998.
He was later awarded the Chevening of the largest privatisations in Europe, and performance enhancement and transformation.
Scholarship, granted by the British Council, was advisor to Germanys development bank, In 2009, while serving as a member of the to study at CASS Business School of City Kreditanstalt fr Wiederaufbau KfW, for over French Institute of Directors, Mr Janin authored University, London, where he obtained his 20 years serving on the Board of Directors of a position paper on the responsibilities of the MSc in Banking and International Finance.
Mr Morrison is the Board of Directors with regard to the design and author of several publications on securities lawimplementation of a companys strategy.
Before related topics, and has been recognised as a joining McKinsey & Company, Mr Janin worked leading lawyer in Germany and France.
In 2008, for Chase Manhattan Bank now JP Morgan Mr Morrison turned his attention to financing Chase in New York and Paris, and Procter & for nature protection.
He became the Founding Gamble in Toronto.
Mr Janin has practised in CEO of the Caucasus Nature Fund CNF, Europe, Asia and North America.
Mr Janin is a charitable trust fund dedicated to nature also a Director of Neil Janin Limited, a company conservation in Georgia, Armenia and Azerbaijan.
through which he provides consulting services.
He resigned as CEO in March of 2016 and now serves as Chair of its Board of Directors as well Education: as on the Boards of two new conservation trust Mr Janin holds an MBA from York University, funds he helped to create in 2015 and 2016.
Toronto, and a joint honours degree in Economics and Accounting from McGill University, Montreal.
Education: Mr Morrison received his undergraduate degree from Yale College, received his law degree from the University of California, Los Angeles, and was a Fulbright scholar at the University of Frankfurt.
Annual Report 2017 BGEO Group PLC 77 Additional Financial Governance Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Information Statements Performance Strategy Overview BOARD OF DIRECTORS CONTINUED Diverse and balanced team who govern with experience continued ALASDAIR AL BREACH KIM BRADLEY TAMAZ GEORGADZE INDEPENDENT NONEXECUTIVE INDEPENDENT NONEXECUTIVE INDEPENDENT NONEXECUTIVE DIRECTOR DIRECTOR DIRECTOR Al Breach was appointed as an Independent Kim Bradley was appointed as an Independent Tamaz Georgadze was appointed as an Non-Executive Director of BGEO on 24 October Non-Executive Director of BGEO on 19 December Independent Non-Executive Director of BGEO 2011 and has been re-elected by shareholders 2013 and has been re-elected by shareholders at Group on 19 December 2013 and has been at each AGM since.
Mr Breach serves as each AGM since.
Mr Bradley serves as Chairman re-elected by shareholders at each AGM since.
Chairman of BGEOs Remuneration Committee of the BGEO Risk Committee and as a member Mr Georgadze serves as a member of BGEO and serves as a member of BGEOs Risk and of BGEOs Audit and Nomination Committees.
Groups Risk and Nomination Committees.
Mr Breach also serves Mr Bradley was also appointed to the Banks as a member of the Banks Supervisory Board Supervisory Board in December 2013 and serves Mr Georgadze was also appointed to the and as Chairman of the Banks Remuneration as Chairman of the Banks Risk Committee and Banks Supervisory Board in December Committee, positions he has held since 2010, as a member of the Banks AuditCommittee.
He serves as a member of the Banks and has also been a member of the Banks newly established Risk Committee.
Ahead of the proposed demerger, Mr Bradley has also been appointed to Ahead of the proposed demerger, Ahead of the proposed demerger, the Board of Georgia Capital plc.
Mr Georgadze has also been appointed to Mr Breach has also been appointed to the the Board of Bank of Georgia Group plc.
Board of Bank of Georgia Group plc.
Skills and experience: Mr Bradley retired from Goldman Sachs in early Skills and experience: Skills and experience: 2013, following 15 years as a professional in the In 2013, Mr Georgadze founded Raisin GmbH In 2013, Mr Breach co-founded Gemsstock Real Estate Principal Investments and Realty formerly SavingsGlobal GmbH a company Limited, a UK FCA-regulated fund manager, Management divisions, where he focused on which launched the first global deposit where he also serves as an Executive Director.
investment in both European real estate and intermediation in Europe and he continues In 2010, Mr Breach founded Furka Advisors AG, distressed debt.
In addition to his investment to serve as its Executive Director.
Prior to a Swiss-based asset management firm, and activities, Mr Bradley led Goldmans asset founding this company, Mr Georgadze had served as an Executive Director until founding management affiliates in France, Italy and a ten-year career at McKinsey & Company Gemsstock Limited, which manages the Germany, where he was involved in financial and in Berlin, where he served as a Partner from Gemsstock Fund, which was previously called tax audits as well as management of internal audit 2009 to 2013.
At McKinsey & Company, he the Gemsstock Growth Fund and managed by activities.
He has also served as President of conducted engagements with banks in Germany, Mr Breach at Furka Advisors AG.
His previous Societa Gestione Crediti, a member of the Board Switzerland, Russia, Georgia and Vietnam, career was in research in investment banks, of Directors of Capitalia Service Joint Venture in focusing on strategy, risk identification and principally in Russia.
In January 2003, Mr Breach Italy and Chairman of the Shareholders Board at management, deposit and investment products, joined Brunswick UBS later UBS Russia as Archon Capital Bank Deutschland in Germany.
Prior to joining McKinsey Chief Economist, and later was appointed Prior to Goldman Sachs, he served as a Senior & Company, Mr Georgadze worked as an Head of Research and Managing Director until Executive at GE Capital for seven years in both aide to the President of Georgia in the Foreign October 2007.
From 1998 to 2002, Mr Breach the United States and Europe, where his activities Relations Department from 1994 to 1995.
Save was a Russia and Former Soviet Union FSU included real estate workouts and restructuring, for his role at Raisin GmbH, Mr Georgadze economist at Goldman Sachs, based in as well as acquisitions.
Prior to GE Capital, does not hold any otherdirectorships.
Mr Breach is also the co-founder Mr Bradley held senior executive positions at of The Browser.
com, a web-based curator Manufacturers Hanover Trust now part of JP Education: of current affairs writing established in 2008.
Morgan and Dollar Dry Dock Bank.
He has also Mr Georgadze holds two PhDs, one in Economics Mr Breach serves as a Director of Gemsstock served as a Peace Corps volunteer and as a from Tbilisi State University and the other in Limited, the Gemsstock Fund, The Browser consultant with the US Agency for International Agricultural Economics from Justus-Liebig and Furka Holdings AG, all of which are private Development in Cameroon.
Mr Bradley serves University Gieen, Germany.
He is also an advisor to East Capital.
as a Director of a mental healthcharity.
also studied Law at Justus-Liebig Universitt Gieen and graduated withhonours.
Education: Education: Mr Breach obtained an MSc in Economics Mr Bradley holds an MA in International from the London School of Economics and Affairs from the Columbia University School of an undergraduate degree in Mathematics International Affairs and an undergraduate degree and Philosophy from Edinburgh University.
in English Literature from the University ofArizona.
78 Annual Report 2017 BGEO Group PLC Diverse and balanced team who govern with experience continued HANNA LOIKKANEN JONATHAN MUIR REBECCA WOOLDRIDGE INDEPENDENT NONEXECUTIVE DIRECTOR INDEPENDENT NONEXECUTIVE GROUP COMPANY SECRETARY DIRECTOR Hanna Loikkanen was appointed as an Independent Rebecca Wooldridge was appointed Company Non-Executive Director of BGEO by the Board in Secretary of BGEO Group PLC in September Jonathan Muir was appointed as an advisor June 2015 and was elected by shareholders at the 2017 having previously acted as the Deputy to the Board and as a member of the Audit 2016 AGM.
Ms Loikkanen is a member of BGEOs Committee in January 2017 and subsequently Group Company Secretary, since 2016.
She Nomination Committee and the Risk Committee, is additionally the Company Secretary for appointed as an Independent Non-Executive and was appointed to BGEOs Audit Committee Director on 20 June 2017, remaining a Georgia Healthcare Group PLC.
Ms Loikkanen was also appointed as the secretary to the Audit, Nomination, member of the Audit Committee and joining to the Banks Supervisory Board in August 2015.
Mr Muir is also a member of the Banks Supervisory Board Ms Loikkanen previously served as a NonAhead of the proposed demerger, Ms Wooldridge and Audit and Nomination Committees.
Executive Director of BGEO from 2011 was appointed as Company Secretary of Bank to 2013 and as a member of the Banks of Georgia Group plc and Georgia Capital plc.
Ahead of the proposed demerger, Supervisory Board from 2010 to 2013.
Mr Muir has also been appointed to the Board of Bank of Georgia Group plc.
Skills and experience: Ahead of the proposed demerger, Ms Wooldridge is a lawyer specialising in Ms Loikkanen has also been appointed to Skills and experience: corporate governance.
She was previously the Board of Bank of Georgia Group plc.
Principal Counsel for a FTSE 100 top 20 Mr Muir has over 30 years experience working as a professional in accounting and finance.
company, BG Group PLC, where she held Skills and experience: a progression of legal roles 2008-2016, He is an Executive Director CEO of LetterOne Ms Loikkanen has over 20 years of experience including serving on the Reserves Committee.
Holdings SA and is CEO of LetterOne Investment working with financial institutions in Russia and Holdings.
LetterOne is an international investment Before joining BG Group, Ms Wooldridge Eastern Europe.
She currently serves as an advisor was a corporate lawyer for leading City business consisting of two groups which to East Capital Private Equity AB.
Prior to this, she target investments in the healthcare, energy, firm Allen & Overy LLP 2003-2008. served from 2007 to 2012 first as an advisor and telecoms and technology, and retail sectors.
then as the Chief Representative and Head of the Prior to joining LetterOne, Mr Muir was CFO Education: Private Equity team at East Capital, a Swedish asset 2008-2013 and Vice President of Finance Ms Wooldridge is a qualified solicitor in England management company in Moscow.
Prior to joining and Wales.
She holds a Post Graduate Diploma in and Control 2003-2008 of TNK-BP, which East Capital, Ms Loikkanen held the position of he joined after serving as CFO of SIDANCO, Law and a Legal Practice Course qualification from Country Manager and Chief Executive Officer at FIM Nottingham Law School.
She also holds a Masters one of TNK-BPs heritage companies.
Prior to Group in Russia, a Finnish investment bank, where this, he was a partner at the global audit and degree in English from CambridgeUniversity.
she was responsible for setting up and running FIM consulting company Ernst & Young 1985-2000.
Groups brokerage and corporate finance operations in Russia.
During her tenure at FIM Group, the Education: company advised several large foreign companies Mr Muir graduated with first class honours in their M&A activities in Russia.
Earlier in her career, from St. Andrews University.
He is a Ms Loikkanen worked for Nordea Finance in British qualified Chartered Accountant and various management positions in Poland, the Baltic a member of the Institute of Chartered States and Scandinavia with a focus on business Accountants of England andWales.
development, strategy and business integration: for SEB in Moscow where she was responsible for the restructuring of SEBs debt capital market operations in Russia: and for MeritaNordbanken in St Petersburg where she focused on trade finance and correspondent banking.
In addition to her directorships at BGEO Group and the Bank, Ms Loikkanen serves as a Non-Executive Director and a member of the Audit and Risk Committees of Locko Bank, an SME-focused Russian bank, as a Non-Executive Director of AKI Bank in Tatarstan and as a Non-Executive Director of Locko Invest, Locko Banks investment banking subsidiary.
Since 2014, she has acted as Non-Executive Chairman of the Board of T&B Capital, an independent regulated wealth management company based in Helsinki.
In 2017 she was also appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director of PJSC Rosbank, a universal bank listed on the Moscow Stock Exchange and part of the Socite Gnrale Group.
Education: Ms Loikkanen holds a Masters degree in Economics and Business Administration from the Helsinki School of Economics, and was a Helsinki School of Economics scholar Annual Report 2017 BGEO Group PLC 79 at the University of New South Wales.
Additional Financial Governance Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Information Statements Performance Strategy Overview
