NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Planning for our future in the best interests of our shareholders Members of the Nomination Committee interviewed potential candidates and this process is ongoing.
The Committee sees the demerger as an opportunity to strengthen the demerged Boards and continues to be mindful of its current diversity targets.
We would also like to draw your attention to the changes in senior management, considered by the Committee, which we are pleased in many cases to have developed from within the Group.
I invite you to read more about our work in the following report.
Neil Janin Chairman of the Nomination Committee 7 March 2018 THE ROLE OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE The role of the Nomination Committee is to assist in ensuring that NEIL JANIN the Board comprises individuals who are best able to discharge the CHAIRMAN OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE responsibilities of Directors, having regard to the highest standards of governance, the strategic direction of the Group and diversity aspirations of the Board.
We also help to ensure that the Group appoints excellent Dear Shareholders, executive managers capable of successfully executing the Groups strategic objectives.
In 2017, we maintained our focus on succession planning and talent development programmes.
We believe that the skills, experience, In summary, the Nomination Committee is responsible for: knowledge and attributes of the members of our Board and executive Reviewing the composition of the Board and Board Committees management are the fundamental drivers for successful delivery of our to ensure they are appropriately constituted and balanced in terms strategic and financial objectives.
of size, skills, experience, independence and knowledge.
Identifying suitable candidates for appointment to the Board based on In December 2016, the Company appointed Jonathan Muir as an criteria which takes into account the skills, experience and diversity advisor to the Board and member of the Audit Committee, such advisory required by the Board, and the attributes required of Directors.
role being for an interim period during which both sides assess suitability Developing succession plans for the Chairman, CEO, Non-Executive for Board membership without voting rights on Board matters.
The Directors and key executive managerial roles.
Committee reviewed his performance, fit and suitability over the first Evaluating the suitability of Directors standing for election and six months of the year and were very pleased to see the value of his re-election at the AGM.
contribution to the Board and the Audit Committee.
The Committee Evaluating the independence of the Non-Executive Directors and time therefore recommended that the Board appoint him as an Independent required from Non-Executive Directors.
Non-Executive Director and a member of the Nomination Committee.
Organising the process for the annual Board and Committee Consequently, Mr Muir was appointed to the Board and Nomination effectiveness reviews and implementing any plan required to address Committee on 20 June 2017 and continues to sit on the issues identified.
The Nomination Committee undertook its annual review of its Terms of During the year the Committee also reviewed the time commitment Reference in September, and the full Terms of Reference are available and length of service of the Non-Executive Directors and facilitated the on our website, http: bgeo.
com uploads pages  of the Board and Committees.
the Board that it considered the overall size and composition of the Board to continue to be appropriate for the Company.
Taking into account the COMPOSITION AND MEMBERS MEETING ATTENDANCE Companys strategic direction and considering the required skills and The composition of the Nomination Committee and the members competencies required of the Board, the Committee recommends that meeting attendance for the year 2017 are set out in the Board and each Non-Executive Director and the Executive Director be re-appointed Committee Meeting Attendance table on page 86. at the 2018 AGM.
In order to get the right balance of skills and knowledge on our Board, We also reviewed our Board Diversity Policy and decided that the the Nomination Committee keeps Board composition under review principles should be applied at all levels of the Group with appropriate throughout the year.
Each year, we ask our Board members to provide adjustments.
Accordingly, an all employee Diversity Policy was updated feedback on the skills, expertise and performance of the other Board and approved.
members as well as re-evaluate their own skills.
For each Non-Executive Director, the Nomination Committee reviews the time commitment Following an annual external evaluation, the results confirmed that the required by him or her, taking into account any external directorships, Board and Committees operate effectively and we took the feedback length of service as well as independence of character and integrity.
It from these evaluations into account for our succession planning then recommends to the Board whether each Non-Executive Director exercise.
In addition, in light of the Groups demerger, the Committee undertook a DIVERSITY POLICY significant amount of work to separate some of the Investment Businesss Our Board embraces diversity in all its forms.
Diversity of skills, and Banking Businesss functions and to reposition the management background, experience, knowledge, outlook, approach, gender, team.
nationality and ethnicity, amongst other factors, will be taken into consideration when seeking to appoint a new Director to the Board.
Prior to recruiting new members, members of the Committee performed Similarly, we are clear that diversity of outlook and approach, while a skills matrix exercise, which included skills, competencies, cognitive inevitably being difficult to measure, may be equally as important.
and personality diversity, gender and nationality diversity, to better Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Board appointment will always understand the present composition of the Board, identify gaps and be made based on merit.
help with succession planning and recruiting.
Annual Report 2017 BGEO Group PLC 89 Additional Financial Governance Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Information Statements Performance Strategy Overview NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED We continue to be mindful of developing best practice in diversity.
The agreement with Mr Muir under which he had previously acted as an We have noted the voluntary target in the Hampton-Alexander Review advisor to the Board was terminated upon his appointment as a Director that FTSE 350 companies should aim for a minimum of 33% womens of the Company.
The fee payable to him under that agreement was representation on their Boards by 2020.
The Board has stated its aim equivalent to the fee he receives as a Non-Executive Director.
to increase the number of women on the Board to two by mid-2018 and further increase this number thereafter and hence will continue to The Nomination Committee is always mindful of its Diversity Policy when prioritise this aim.
Please also see Succession Planning below and recruiting.
We had considered female candidates for the role early in the also the Chairmans Statement on this matter on page 7. process, but ultimately determined that Mr Muir was the best candidate for the role based on merit.
We have made considerable progress in 2017 in embedding the importance of diversity at all levels of the Company, including the SENIOR MANAGEMENT APPOINTMENTS development of an all-employee Diversity Policy.
This is an important As mentioned in the letter to shareholders above, we separated the step, not just in terms of making sure that our recruitment and retention Investment Businesss and Banking Businesss Chief Financial Officer procedures are fit-for-purpose but also in articulating our conviction functions and repositioned some of the Groups management team that further improving diversity is good for the long-term strength of ahead of the demerger.
It is proposed that those with Group titles ourCompany.
The Diversity Policy was implemented by providing it will take on the equivalent role in the demerged Investment Business.
to the HR team and incorporation into our HR policies.
The HR team Accordingly, regulatory approval was received and the Group made the also e-launched the Learning Management System which enables following appointments: all employees to easily access corporate learning opportunities.
This has led to encouraging results during the year: we have seen 54% of Giorgi Alpaidze was appointed Group CFO and will become the CFO promotions awarded to female employees and 60% of those employees of Georgia Capital plc following completion of the Groups proposed who enrolled on our Leadership Programmes have been female.
We demerger have also increased our maternity leave benefits and now provide a David Tsiklauri was appointed Chief Financial Officer of the Bank and one-off bonus for newborn or adopted children.
will become the CFO of the Banking Business following completion of the Groups demerger Other initiatives have focussed on the inclusion aspect of diversity, Levan Kulijanishvili was appointed Deputy CEO, Operations of the with 40 employees currently learning sign language to ensure smooth Bank dialogue with deaf and hard of hearing individuals.
In June 2017 we Vasil Khodeli was appointed Deputy CEO, Corporate Investment held a childrens event, the Day of Protection of the Rights of Persons Banking of the Bank with Disabilities in Georgia, which was hosted by Bank employees who assisted and provided care to the events beneficiaries.
Further diversity The Committee oversaw these appointments and notes the high quality focussed programmes are intended to take place in 2018 and will be of senior management that the current Group, and each business included in next years Annual Report.
emerging from the demerger will have which will give our businesses a distinctiveadvantage.
The Committee also notes that the fact that all The Company participated in the Hampton-Alexander Review regarding these important appointments were internal shows the strength of our executives and those reporting to them, and were pleased to receive a talent pipeline and evidences our commitment to personal development.
high performing rating in the report released in November 2017.
TALENT DEVELOPMENT SUCCESSION PLANNING We are committed to talent development programmes and initiatives within The Chairmans letter above sets out the succession planning and the Group.
We increase the skills of our existing executive managers and ongoing recruitment efforts in respect of the demerger and new Boards develop a pipeline of new executive, senior and middle managers through of each of the two demerged businesses.
The skills matrix exercise coaching, mentoring and leadership programmes.
We continue to expand performed in 2017 helped us to review the skills, competencies, cognitive our programme year on year to include management at lower levels.
and personality diversity, gender and nationality diversity of the present Career progression is tangible if our managers have the right mindset and Board and to identify gaps and areas for improvement, including from a work ethic.
The Board also met with members of middle management diversity perspective, and help with succession planning and recruiting.
We did not engage a search consultancy since we were provided with Our talent development programmes continue to be characterised a broad range of candidates from our extended network and also from by transparency, viewing oneself as part of a team of leaders, helping targeting advertising on websites which produced candidates with others to succeed and honest feedback.
They are also focused on the particular identified skills.
promotion of teamwork and development of teams, aiming to teach managers to: In 2017 the Nomination Committee recommended, and the Board appointed, Jonathan Muir as member of the Board.
Candidates who Have the courage to give and seek feedback: are shortlisted for appointment to the Board are generally seen first by a Realise that a stronger me plus a stronger you makes a stronger us: combination of the Chairman, the BGEO CEO and Senior Independent Value meritocracy over favouritism: Non-Executive Director although other members of the Nomination Encourage dissent and dialogue instead of authoritative decisionCommittee may also be involved at this stage.
If the selection process making: and progresses further, each potential candidate is invited to meet other Favour cooperation over individualistic or heroic behaviour.
members of the Nomination Committee as well as members of management.
We then decide whether to recommend the candidate EXTERNAL EVALUATION for appointment as an advisor to the Board.
It is our usual practice to Lintstock performed the effectiveness review of the Committee.
The appoint a Board candidate as an advisor prior to offering an appointment evaluation concluded that the Committee continues to operate and to the Board as an extended trial of the candidate, who is only paid the perform effectively.
Lintstock also performed a case study on the equivalent to a Directors fee and whose remit is restricted to Board and demerger which included how Board members thought Boards and Committee matters.
An advisor to the Board may be recommended for Committees should be composed in the future, which allowed the Board a Committee appointment.
Following this trial period, the Nomination to discuss this matter freely and assisted the Nomination Committee in Committee will agree whether to recommend the advisor for helping to shape the new Boards.
The Board will ultimately resolve whether to make the recommended appointment.
Our priorities for 2018 are: the composition of the Board and Committees of the proposed As noted in the letter above, Jonathan Muir underwent this process and demerged entities: and the Nomination Committee recommended him for appointment to the the senior management of the proposed demerged entities.
Board and Nomination Committee alongside his continuing membership of the Audit Committee, and the Board approved such appointments.
90 Annual Report 2017 BGEO Group PLC
