Directors Report Management Board Jerome Abelman Jack Bowles Alan Davy Giovanni Giordano Director, Legal & External Affairs Chief Operating Officer 54 Director, Operations 54 Director, Group Human Resources 52 and General Counsel 54 Nationality: American Nationality: French Nationality: British Nationality: Italian American Jerry was appointed Director, Legal Jack became Chief Operating Officer Alan was appointed to the Giovanni joined the Management & External Affairs and General for the International Business in Management Board as Group Board of British American Tobacco Counsel in May 2015, having joined October 2017.
Joining the Group in Operations Director in March 2013. in June 2011.
He is an international the Management Board as Group 2004, he was Chairman of British Hejoined the Group in 1988 and has human resources executive with wide Corporate & Regulatory Affairs American Tobacco France in 2005, held various roles in manufacturing, experience from senior roles at Procter Director in January 2015.
Jerry was before becoming Managing Director supply chain and general management.
& Gamble and Ferrero, where he was Regional General Counsel, Asia-Pacific of British American Tobacco Malaysia Alan previously held the position of Chief Corporate Officer.
He joined the Management Group Head of Supply Chain.
Assistant General Counsel Corporate Board as Regional Director for Western & Commercial.
He was a member of Europe in October 2009 and then the Board of RAI from February 2016 Regional Director for the Americas until the RAI acquisition in July 2017. in October 2011.
He was Regional Director for Asia-Pacific from January 2013 to the end of 2017.
Tadeu Marroco Ricardo Oberlander Andrew Gray Dr David OReilly Regional Director, Europe President and CEO, Chief Marketing Officer 53 and North Africa 51 Group Scientific and R&D Director 51 Reynolds American Inc. 54 Nationality: Brazilian British Nationality: Brazilian Nationality: British Nationality: Brazilian Andrew was appointed Chief Tadeu was appointed Regional David was appointed Group Scientific Ricardo was appointed President Marketing Officer in October 2017.
Director, Europe and North Africa Director in January 2012.
He has been andCEO of Reynolds American Inc.
He joined the Management Board as in January 2018.
He joined the with British American Tobacco for over inJanuary 2018.
Appointed to the Regional Director for Africa and the Management Board as Director, 20 years and has held various positions Management Board as Regional Middle East in January 2008 before Business Development in September in Group Research and Development.
Director for the Americas in 2013, being appointed Regional Director 2014 and was appointed Regional He has led the Groups R&D efforts previous roles include Marketing for Eastern Europe, Middle East and Director, Western Europe in December to develop reduced toxicant Director of the Malaysian business, Africa EEMEA in January 2011 and 2016.
Tadeu joined British American products and has also been Head of Regional Marketing Manager for the Marketing Director in September Tobacco in Brazil over 20 years ago.
International Public Health & Scientific Americas, General Manager in France 2014.
Joining Souza Cruz in 1986, he He has held various senior finance Affairs, responsible for engagement and Global Consumer Director.
He was held a number of senior management positions, including Regional Finance with the scientific, medical and public an RAI Board member from 2014 until positions in South America and the Controller, EEMEA, and Group health communities.
the acquisition and is a member of Caribbean including President of FinanceController.
theChief Marketing Officer Council Souza Cruz and also in Malaysia.
Johan Vandermeulen Kingsley Wheaton Naresh Sethi Regional Director, AsiaRegional Director, Americas Director, Business Development 51 Pacific and Middle East 50 and Sub-Saharan Africa 45 Nationality: Australian Indian Nationality: Belgian Nationality: British Naresh was appointed Director, Johan was appointed Regional Kingsley was appointed Regional Business Development in December Director, Asia-Pacific and Middle Director, Americas and Sub Saharan 2016.
He has over 20 years of East in January 2018.
He joined the Africa in January 2018.
He was experience in the tobacco industry, Management Board as Regional Marketing Director in Nigeria and holding various marketing roles in India, Director for Eastern Europe, Middle Russia, prior to being General Manager Indonesia, West Africa and Australasia.
East and Africa in September 2014. in Russia and then the Global Brand Hewas Marketing Director in Japan and Hehas been with British American Director for the Kent and Vogue brands.
then the Groups General Manager.
He Tobacco for more than 25 years and He joined the Management Board in became Group Head of Strategy and was previously General Manager in January 2012 as Deputy Corporate and Planning, and was appointed to the Russia, General Manager in Turkey Regulatory Affairs Director and Management Board as Director, Group and in the marketing function he appointed Director, Corporate and Business Development in 2012 before was Global Brand Director for the Regulatory Affairs in June 2012.
In 2015 being appointed Regional Director for Kentbrand.
he was appointed Managing Director, Western Europe in January 2013.
58 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017
