Directors Report Board effectiveness Balance of Non-Executive Directors With effect from 1 March 2018, the diversity Balance and diversity and Executive Directors principles applied in relation to our Board Our Non-Executive Directors come from and Management Board are now confirmed broad industry and professional backgrounds, in our Board Diversity Policy, which sets with varied experience and expertise out the Boards commitment to the aligned to the needs of our business.
following objectives: Short biographies of the Directors are set out in this section on pages 56 and 57.
In 2017, considering all aspects of diversity when as at 31 December, 31% of our Board reviewing the composition of, and Chairman 1 was female.
succession planning for, the Board and Executive Directors 2 Management Board: The Parker Review Committee published its Independent NonExecutive Directors 10 final report on ethnic diversity in UK boards considering a wide pool of candidates of on 12 October 2017 the Parker Report.
both genders for appointment to the Board: The Parker Report recommends that there Length of tenure of maintaining at least 30% representation of be at least one Director from a Black, Asian  females on our Board, with the ambition of and Minority Ethnic BAME background on progressing towards further gender balance: each FTSE 100 board by 2021, and more generally that UK companies increase ethnic giving preference, where appropriate, to diversity on boards, develop BAME employees engagement of executive search firms that to ensure a pipeline of capable candidates, are accredited under the Standard and and enhance transparency and disclosure Enhanced Codes of Conduct for Executive regarding diversity.
As at 31 December Search Firms, which include gender 2017, applying the assessment guidance set diversity: and 03 years 7 out in the Parker Report, 15% of our Board 46 years 2 supporting the oversight of the development twodirectors are from a BAME background.
7 years 2 of internal senior managers to create a The Board appreciates the benefit of diversity diverse pipeline of high-performing potential in all its forms, within its own membership Executive Directors and Management Board and at all levels of the Group.
Our Strategic members, supported by the activities of the Gender split of Directors Report contains details of our Group diversity Nominations Committee.
initiatives, including the proportion of Please refer to pages 71 and 72 for further women in our total workforce and in senior discussion of the Nomination Committees management, on pages 25 and 26. activities in support of these objectives.
Board Diversity Policy We believe that great talent and an engaging culture are key to our success, and diversity is a critical component of both.
Male 9 Female 4 Strength from Diversity is one of our Groups long-standing four Guiding Principles.
This principle is applicable to all Group employees, as reflected in our Ethnicity split of Directors Group Employment Principles discussed further on pages 30 and 31, and applies Training and development: to the composition of our Board and Management Board.
NGPs The Board attended a training session We think of diversity in its widest sense, as on the NGP business and long-term those attributes that make each of us unique.
These include our race, ethnicity, cultural background, geographical origin, gender, US governance requirements age, any disability, sexual orientation, religion, White 11 The Directors completed a comprehensive skills, experience, education and professional BAME 2 training programme, facilitated by external background, perspectives and thinking styles.
advisers, to ensure that they understood applying the Parker Report guidance.
The Nominations Committee is responsible the significant changes to the Groups for regularly reviewing the composition of procedures and policies as well as their own Nationality of Directors the Board and Management Board to ensure individual obligations resulting from the both boards have an appropriate balance of acquisition of RAI.
skills, expertise, and knowledge, and ensuring RAI business and strategy that all appointments are made on merit US 2 At its Board meeting held in Washington, against objective criteria and with due regard Brazilian 2 D. C. following the acquisition of RAI, the for the benefits of diversity.
These principles British 4 Board received detailed briefings from were rigorously applied by the Nominations Canadian 2 senior RAI management on the US business, Committee in identifying and recommending German 1 its strategy and future challenges and Luc Jobin, Holly Keller Koeppel and Lionel Greek 1 participated in a market visit.
Nowell, III for appointment to the Board.
Irish 1 62 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Introduction Audit Nominations Remuneration Responsibility & Board Committee Committee Committee of Directors The Board does not consider the change in Every two years, combined investor meetings Independence and the Chairmans commitments to have any are held over two days with the Management conflictsofinterest impact on his responsibilities to the Company.
This years investor Independence event took place in London and members Information and The Board considers all Non-Executive of the Management Board gave detailed Directors to be independent, as they are free  presentations that included our NGP from any business or other relationships that objectives and strategy, our new US subsidiary Board induction could interfere materially with, or appear to RAI, regulation, marketing and an update On joining the Board, all Directors receive affect, their judgement.
on the performance of our International a full induction.
In 2017, as part of the annual The Board has also considered the also receive a full programme of briefings investors relations programme, meetings independence requirements outlined on all areas of the Companys business from were held with institutional shareholders in the NYSEs listing standards and has the Executive Directors, members of the in 24 countries, engaging with the owners determined that these are met by all of Management Board, the Company Secretary of the majority of the Groups shares.
Regular investor presentations were also Conflicts of interest Luc Jobin, Holly Keller Koeppel and Lionel given and these together with the results Nowell, III attended our Director induction presentations are published on www.
The Board has formal procedures for managing programme in 2017, which included briefings All results presentations are also available to conflicts of interest.
Directors are required to covering the Groups Strategy, its functions shareholders by webcast.
give advance notice of any conflict issues to including Marketing and NGPs, the statutory the Company Secretary.
These are considered In addition, there is a microsite on reporting cycle, Group Treasury, IT strategy, either at the next Board meeting or, if the www.
com for debt investors, with and legal and regulatory issues.
They, along timing requires it, at a meeting of the Boards comprehensive bondholder information on with the rest of the Board, also had the Conflicts Committee.
Each year, the Board credit ratings, debt facilities, outstanding opportunity to conduct a market visit at the also considers afresh all previously authorised bonds and maturity profiles.
off-site Board meeting held in Washington, situational conflicts.
Directors are excluded D. C. in October to review the Groups Board reporting on shareholder views from the quorum and vote in respect of any strategy following the acquisition of RAI and matters in which they have an interest.
In 2017, the Head of Investor Relations engage with RAI senior management.
updated the Board on key issues raised by During 2017, the Board convened a Conflicts institutional shareholders as well as providing Non-Executive Directors are encouraged Committee at which the interests of Luc Jobin, a commentary on share price performance.
to attend meetings of the Groups regional Holly Keller Koeppel and Lionel Nowell, III The Chairman also regularly reports on any Audit and Corporate and Social Responsibility were noted.
In relation to Mr Jobin and Ms meetings he has had with shareholders in Committees to gain a better understanding of Koeppels interests, no reasonable likelihood between Board meetings and the Board issues in the Groups regions.
The same applied discusses the key points investors may to Mr Nowell, other than in relation to The Chairman meets with each Non-Executive have raised.
his Non-Executive Directorship of, and Director individually, in the latter part of each shareholding interest in, Bank of America year, to discuss their individual training and Board evaluation Corporation.
In this case a situational conflict development plans.
Evaluation outcomes was authorised by the Conflicts Committee.
Shareholder engagement The results of the annual Board evaluation Mr Nowell will be regarded as having an show that the Board and each of its interest in any transactional agreement The Chairman and the Executive Directors are Committees continues to function efficiently between the Company and Bank of America committed to open and transparent dialogue and the Directors work well together and Corporation without any requirement to give with shareholders.
contribute effectively to the Board and their further disclosure.
The Senior Independent Director and other designated Committees.
The Board also convened a Conflicts Non-Executive Directors are also available to The Board scored highly in the areas of Committee to consider the appointment meet with major shareholders on request.
leadership and oversight of the Groups of Mr Panayotopoulos as a member of the The AGM is an opportunity for further activities, particularly with regard to the work Advisory Board of JBS USA Food Company and shareholder engagement and for the Chairman of the Board on the RAI acquisition.
Chairman and interim CEO of Coveris Holdings to explain the Companys progress and, along SA.
The appointment of MrPanayotopoulos The Boards regular opportunities for with other members of the Board, to answer as a member of the Advisory Board of JBS USA interaction with senior management and any questions.
All Directors attend, unless Food Company was deemed to be a situational opportunities to further understand the illness or pressing commitments prevent them.
conflict, as its parent company JBSSA is a business are highly valued by the NonAll Directors, except for DrGerry Murphy, supplier to the Groups businesses in Brazil and Executive Directors, with examples cited attended the AGM in 2017.
In this case, a situational conflict was including regular management briefings on authorised by the Conflicts Committee.
It was An additional shareholder meeting was held on strategy matters such as the RAI acquisition agreed, in relation to Coveris Holdings SA, that 19 July 2017, to consider the acquisition of RAI.
and the NGP business: the market visit to the there was no reasonable likelihood of a conflict US: and the opportunity to participate in the Details of our 2018 AGM are set out in the arising in relation to this interest.
The Board, in Audit Committee framework.
accordance with the Companys procedures The Board continues to have a good mix confirmed the Conflicts Committees decisions Annual investor relations programme of broad and diverse skills, gender balance, in these matters.
A full programme of engagement with nationalities, experience and talent, which shareholders, potential investors and The Board also noted the appointmentof is used effectively and promotes debate.
analysts, in the UK and overseas, is MrBurrows as Chairman of the Remuneration These have been further enhanced with the undertakeneach year by the Head of Committee and as the new Senior appointment of the three new Non-Executive InvestorRelations, often accompanied Independent Director of Rentokil Initial Directors from the RAI board.
by one or both Executive Directors.
PLC with effect from 21 September 2017.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 63 Directors Report Board effectiveness continued The Executive Directors are highly regarded Evaluation process Collective Board effectiveness and add significant value and insight to The performance and effectiveness of the Collective decision-making the Board.
Board, its Committees, the Executive and The Chairman seeks a consensus at Board Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman The Chairman ensures that sufficient time is meetings but, if necessary, decisions are taken were evaluated internally during 2017, allocated to Board meetings, as evidenced by majority.
If any Director has concerns following an externally facilitated evaluation by the additional Board meetings convened on any issues that cannot be resolved, such in 2016. during 2017 to ensure that matters such as concerns are noted in the Board minutes.
the acquisition of RAI could be fully discussed.
No such concerns arose in 2017.
The Chairman is responsible for the overall evaluation process and each Committee As a result of the conclusions of the When required, the Non-Executive Directors, Chair is responsible for Committee Board evaluation, there are a number of led by the Chairman, meet prior to Board effectiveness evaluation.
areas of focus for the Board during 2018. meetings and regular meetings are scheduled These include continuing to provide in the Board calendar without the Executive The evaluation was carried out by the opportunities for the Board to engage Directors present.
The Executive and the Company Secretarial team using detailed with senior management and understand Non-Executive Directors also meet annually, bespoke, objective, written questionnaires.
the business, particularly following the led by the Senior Independent Director and All Non-Executive Directors and Executive restructuring of the Groups regional without the Chairman present, to discuss the Directors participated in the evaluation operating structure: overseeing a review of Chairmans performance.
They were requested to rank the the Groups remuneration policies and their Board, its Committees and each other alignment to Group strategy in consultation For disclosures required by paragraph 7.2.
They also had of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency with shareholders: ensuring that sufficient Rulesand the Companies Act2006 see the the opportunity to elaborate their replies by time is allocated to risk monitoring and Other Information section.
oversight of compliance issues: and reviewing Board size and composition to ensure that the Anonymised reports were prepared by Board continues to operate effectively.
the Company Secretary for the Board and each Board Committee on the results of the evaluation.
In addition, the Chairman received reports on the performance of each of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
A report on the Chairmans own performance was prepared for the Senior Independent Director.
Individual feedback was given by the Chairman to all Board members, and by the Senior Independent Director to the Chairman.
Compliance statement Throughout the year ended 31 December 2017 and to the date of this document, we applied the Main Principles of the April 2016 version of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code as it applies to the year ended 31 December 2017.
The Company was compliant with all provisions.
The Board considers that this Annual Report, and notably this section, provides the information shareholders need to evaluate how we have complied with our current obligations under the Code.
For ease of reference, we prepare a separate voluntary annual compliance report by reference to each provision of the Code.
This report is available at www.
We comply with the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules requirements for corporate governance statements by virtue of the information included in this section, together with the information contained in the Other information section.
As a result of the listing of the Companys American Depositary Shares ADSs on the NYSE, the Company is required to meet certain NYSE requirements relating to corporate governance matters.
Certain exceptions to these requirements apply to the Company as a foreign private issuer.
For a discussion of the significant differences between the NYSE requirements and the Companys practices, please see page 236.
64 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017
