DIRECTORS REPORT | NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | WWW.
COM NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Nomination Committee size and composition of the Board Developed, in conjunction with external Committee Chairman: Paul Lester for any changes that it considers to be consultation, the key requirements for appropriate.
The Nomination Committee the new appointments to the Board, Membership and attendance leads the process for board, appointments and assessed the capabilities during the year and makes recommendations to the of potential candidates Board.
In selecting and recommending Made recommendations to the candidates for appointment, the Meetings during the year Board for the appointment of Nomination Committee evaluates the Ralf K. Wunderlich and Mary Reilly Paul Lester balance of skills, experience, independence Non-Executive Chairman 4 4 as new Non-Executive Directors knowledge and diversity on the Board, Terry Twigger taking into account the future challenges Agreed the appointment of Tommy Senior Independent Director 4 4 and opportunities facing the Company.
Breen as the Senior Independent Tommy Breen Director, following the retirement Non-Executive Director 4 4 During the year, the Nomination Committee of Terry Twigger at the 2018 AGM Mary Reilly met four times to discuss general succession Non-Executive Director 1 1 Agreed the appointment of Mary planning for the Board and the appointment Lorraine Trainer Reilly as the Chairman of the Audit of the new Non-Executive Directors.
Non-Executive Director 4 4 Committee following the retirement Peter Hill of Terry Twigger at the 2018 AGM Non-Executive Director 1 1 The Nomination Committee, and the Board as a whole, supports the spirit of Reviewed and agreed revised the recommendations set out in the Lord Terms of Reference for the Figures in brackets denote the maximum Davies Report Women on Boards.
Nomination Committee number of meetings that could have Securing the right combination of skills, been attended.
Agreed the appointment of Paul experience and expertise allows the Board Forman as a member of the to effectively lead the sustainable growth The Company Secretary & General Nomination Committee and success of the Company for the benefit Counsel acts as Secretary to the of all stakeholders.
The Nomination Committee was satisfied objective must be to ensure that the best that the appointment of Ralf K. Wunderlich people are appointed to do the best job for Following a review of the Nomination and Mary Reilly will provide the Board and Essentra, taking into consideration other Committees terms of reference, the the Group with the necessary skills and factors, such as market and international membership requirements were revised.
current experience relevant to the experience, and diversity of thought and Membership of the Nomination Committee activities of the Company and its future background.
Appointing people on merit, can now comprise a majority of independent development.
The biographies of Ralf and without any form of discrimination, is a key Non-Executive Directors.
The Chief Executive, Mary are available on page 63. component of Essentra policies across its Paul Forman, was appointed as a member international operations at all levels.
Korn Ferry and Ridgeway Partners were engaged to assist the Nomination Nomination Committee 2017 Terry Twigger will be retiring as a Director Committee in the potential recruitment key activities after the 2018 AGM along with his of additional Non-Executive Directors as Reviewed the composition and membership of the Nomination Committee, part of the succession planning activities.
structure of the Companys Board and Ralf K. Wunderlich has been appointed and the Committees to the Nomination Committee with effect There is no related party connection with from 1 March 2018.
Reviewed the succession planning Korn Ferry or Ridgeway Partners, and the for the Board and senior executives, assignments were undertaken on an arms Other attendees and in doing so considered diversity, length basis.
During 2017, the Chief Executive and the experience, knowledge and skills Group Human Resources Director Reviewed the capabilities of external attended by invitation as appropriate.
consultants to assist the Committee in the search for, and evaluation and The Nomination Committee is responsible appointment of, new individuals to for regularly reviewing the structure, the Board and its Committees 73
