COM DIRECTORS REPORT | REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Audit Committee Other attendees During early 2017, the Company engaged Committee Chairman: Terry Twigger The External Auditor, Chairman of the Lintstock Ltd to facilitate an interviewBoard, Group Finance Director, Group driven review of the performance of the Membership and attendance Financial Controller, Group Head of Audit Committee, in conjunction with during the year Assurance and members of the GMC a full review of the Board and the other attended meetings by invitation, as Board Committees.
During the year, the Audit for the Committees was to ensure that the Meetings during the year Committee met the External Auditor, meeting mandates were fully addressed.
Terry Twigger KPMG LLP up to April 2017 and Recommendations concerning the Chairman 4 4  PwC performance of the meetings were made Mary Reilly appointed after the 2017 AGM, and and an action plan put in place to address Non-Executive Director 2 2 the Group Head of Assurance without these points.
Tommy Breen the Executive Directors being present.
Non-Executive Director 4 4 There is an annual cycle of items Lorraine Trainer During the course of the year, the Audit considered by the Audit Committee.
Non-Executive Director 4 4 Committee also received presentations These items are scheduled in accordance Peter Hill from Ernst & Young, KPMG LLP, the with the requirements of the external Non-Executive Director 1 1 Group Head of Tax and the Group audit cycle and any other requirements Chief Information Officer.
of the Audit Committees responsibilities, Figures in brackets denote the maximum as detailed in its terms of reference.
number of meetings that could have Governance The annual agenda was reviewed during been attended.
All the Audit Committee members are the year as part of the ongoing Governance independent Non-Executive Directors, Improvement Programme and as part of The Company Secretary & General Counsel and have financial and or related the transition to a new Audit Committee acts as Secretary to the Audit Committee.
business experience gained in senior Chairman to ensure that it remains positions in other large diverse organisations.
Terry Twigger has been the Chairman of the Audit Committee since 2009, and the The current terms of reference for Board is satisfied that Terry has recent the Audit Committee are available at and relevant financial experience.
A substantive review of the terms of reference is to be carried out Terry Twigger is retiring from the Board after the conclusion of the FRC review of and as Chairman of the Audit Committee the UK Corporate Governance Code, to after the 2018 AGM.
Mary Reilly will be ensure alignment with best practice in replacing Terry as the Chairman and is the context of Essentra.
currently working with him to ensure a smooth transition of the role.
Further The terms of reference provide a details of Marys qualifications can framework for the Audit Committees be found on page 63. work during the year, to review and oversee the quality, integrity, appropriateness and As a whole the Audit Committee believe effectiveness of the Group including: that its members are competent in the business sectors within which the Financial statements and external Essentra Group operates.
financial reporting Significant financial judgements The Audit Committee supports the Board and reports to it on a regular basis, Tax activities and no less frequently than at every Board Compliance programme meeting following a meeting of the Audit Committee.
Cyber security response Relationship with, and performance of the external auditor System of internal control 76 DIRECTORS REPORT | REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | WWW.
COM Internal audit function The Group operates in a number of tax Revenue recognition continued to be a jurisdictions, and recognises tax based on key area of audit focus, and the external Risk management processes interpretation of local laws and regulations auditor addressed the potential issue with and practices which are sometimes uncertain.
Where the Audit Committee during the planning the amount of tax payable is uncertain, and scoping of the external audit process.
Financial Statements and the Directors are required to exercise External Financial Reporting significant judgment in determining the Goodwill and intangible assets As part of recommending for approval appropriate amount to provide in respect As required by IAS 36, the Company the 31 December 2017 Annual Report and of potential tax exposures and uncertain undertakes an assessment of the carrying Accounts and the 30 June 2017 Half Year tax positions.
The Audit Committee value of intangible assets on an annual Report, the Audit Committee reviewed, challenged the nature and extent of the basis, or more frequently if there is an examined and challenged the Group tax provisioning of the Company and indication of impairment.
The details Finance Director and External Auditor saught assurance that the Company was of the work carried out and the results on their respective assessments including, working diligently to resolve outstanding are in note 8 of the Notes to the in particular: going concern basis of liabilities in an appropriate fashion.
preparation: accounting policies and disclosures, any financial reporting issues: Uncertain tax positions continue to be In the prior year, an impairment loss significant financial judgements made a focus of the full year work.
There is a of 123.9m was recognised against see below and levels of disclosure to focus on the uncertainty over the Groups the Packaging division formerly Health ensure that the reports are fair, balanced transfer pricing position and deductibility & Personal Care Packaging H&PCP and understandable.
of interest as a result of US debt financing division, and further potential impairment and tax positions in respect of the Porous risk was assessed in the H&PCP division Additionally the Audit Committee Technologies disposal.
based on the underlying trading reviewed the contents and suitability performance of particular components of the Long-Term Viability Statement The Audit Committee reviewed the tax and the closure of the Newport folding was reviewed in-depth and the Audit liabilities which existed at the start of cartons site in the UK.
The assumptions Committee challenged the risk scenarios the year, and those created during the for 2018 and beyond such as the annual and potential impacts outlined by year and the effective tax rate together growth rate and the terminal growth rate the Company prior to confirming its with their corresponding assumptions.
are based on the 2018 annual plan and support and approval of the statement.
The Audit Committee questioned and managements best estimates of the challenged the Group Finance Director performance in subsequent years.
The Audit Committee was presented with and Group Head of Tax as to the The impairment reviews performed by information and advice regarding new IFRS Companys risk attitude in this area.
management contain a number of pronouncements that would be applicable significant judgements and estimates to Essentra for the 2017 financial period Upon consideration of the Companys including revenue growth, profit margins and reviewed plans for the implementation, explanations and the External Auditors and discount rates.
A change in these in future years, of IFRS 15 Revenue from conclusions, the Audit Committee was assumptions can result in a material Contracts with Customers, IFRS16 Leases satisfied that the tax liabilities were change in the valuation of the assets and IFRS9 Financial Instruments: appropriate, and that the Groups tax and a further impairment charge.
disclosures were adequate given the nature of the Groups activities.
The Audit Committee evaluated and Significant financial judgements challenged the methodology of the Tax liabilities Revenue recognition impairment review and the assumptions The Group is, from time to time, subject There are a large number of sales on which it was based, including the to tax assessments that may represent transactions that are incurred across the financial plans approved by the Board.
potential future tax exposures, which arise Group.
Given the risk that revenue may Taking into account the external auditors in the ordinary course of business from tax be recognised in the incorrect period over review, the Audit Committee is satisfied authorities in a number of the jurisdictions reporting dates, the Group needs to ensure that the impairment assessment is in which the Group operates.
The Group that there are effective controls regarding appropriately carried out.
assesses all such exposures in the context the recording of sales transactions.
of the tax laws of the countries in which it operates and, where applicable, makes provisions for any settlements which it considers appropriate.
COM DIRECTORS REPORT | REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Exceptional items Tax activities Cyber security The Financial Statements include certain The Group Head of Tax presented to the Cyber security risk remains an important items which are disclosed as exceptional.
Audit Committee a report detailing the matter for constant monitoring.
During the The nature of these exceptional items is Companys tax strategy, governance, course of the year, the Audit Committee explained within the Group accounting planning and attitude to tax risk.
The further assessed the Companys policy, and includes transaction costs presentation set out the key activities that programme to respond to potential and gains or losses relating to acquisitions the tax department was engaged upon threats to the integrity of its IT systems and disposals of businesses, acquisition regarding the management of these through a presentation provided by the integration and restructuring costs, tax-related matters, and the nature and Chief Information Officer.
and other items such as impairment losses.
extent of the tax provisions maintained by the Company.
The Audit Committee External Auditor Following an extensive review, the Audit considered these activities in conjunction During the year the Audit Committee: Committee is satisfied that the Groups with advice from the Group Finance definition of exceptional items remains Director, and was satisfied with the Reviewed and agreed the scope clear and that appropriate level of approach being taken by the Company.
and strategic nature of the audit disclosure is included.
work to be undertaken Compliance programme Agreed the terms of engagement The definition remains consistent with The Audit Committee continued its regular and fees to be paid to the the prior year, and in the current year the review of the Groups compliance activities External Auditor Audit Committee has been involved in and received regular presentations from assessing the appropriateness of items the Company Secretary & General Reviewed the qualifications, expertise, presented within exceptional items Counsel, including the recommendation, resources and independence of including impairment and restructuring for approval by the Board, a revised Ethics the External Auditor and assessed activities on the basis that they are Code and Right to Speak policy.
At each its performance one-off material items which are meeting, reports are presented detailing Reviewed proposals for the presented separately to allow a better any claims made under the Companys engagement of the External understanding of the Groups ongoing independent Right to Speak process.
Auditor for non-audit services and activities.
Further details can be found confirmed that their independence in note 2.
The Audit Committee noted the continued was safeguarded investment being made by the Company in systems designed to better facilitate Reviewed the level of non-audit work compliance policy management and being carried out by the External training across the Group, and to deliver Auditor and other external audit due diligence processes to assist in the assignment providers management of third-party risk while monitoring any developments in the regulatory environment and assessing any impact to the Company.
The Audit Committee has overseen the Companys proposals for the future delivery of further improved compliance practices, with a new Group Risk & Compliance Manager assuming responsibility for the strategic development of the compliance programme into 2018 and beyond, and additional support to better enable the delivery of the programme in response to key compliance risks.
78 DIRECTORS REPORT | REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | WWW.
COM Assessment of the External Auditor Engagement of the External Auditor Non-audit services policy The Audit Committee is provided with The External Auditor is engaged to express The Audit Committee believes that it is reports, reviews, information and advice an audit opinion on the truth and fairness important to maintain the objectivity and throughout the year, as set out in the of the Financial Statements.
The audit independence of the External Auditor by terms of the External Auditors includes the review and testing of the minimising its involvement in projects of engagement.
Performance is formally system of internal financial controls and a non-audit nature.
It is, however, also assessed by the Audit Committee in the data contained in the Financial acknowledged that, due to its detailed conjunction with the GMC and the Audit Statements to the extent necessary.
understanding of the Companys business, Committee remains satisfied that the it may sometimes be necessary to involve External Auditor is effective and provided As reported last year, and in line with the External Auditor in non-audit related appropriate independent challenge to the the changes made to the UK Corporate work, principally comprising further Companys management.
In making this Governance Code in 2012 which assurance services relating to due assessment, the Audit Committee had recommended that the external audit diligence and other duties carried out due regard to their expertise, resourcing is put out to tender at least every ten in respect of acquisitions, disposals, and independence.
years, PwC were selected as the tax services outside the EU and other Companys External Auditor for the services.
The Audit Committee reviewed Independence of the External Auditor year ending 31 December 2017 and and agreed a new policy reflecting best In order to fulfil its responsibility, the were duly appointed at the 2017 AGM.
practice in relation to the engagement of Audit Committee reviewed a report from the External Auditor to supply non-audit the External Auditor describing the In order to protect independence and services with defined parameters and arrangements to identify, report and objectivity and provide fresh challenge approval requirements in relation to any manage any conflicts of interest, and to the business, the External Auditor such appointments.
reviewed and considered the extent of periodically changes the audit partners non-audit services provided by the at a Group, divisional and country level, The Audit Committee Chairman is External Auditor.
in accordance with professional and authorised by the Company to engage the regulatory standards.
Such changes are External Auditor on non-audit related work Effectiveness of the External Auditor carefully planned to ensure that the where the fees per project are not The Audit Committee reviewed the Group benefits from staff continuity considered to be significant, provided that External Auditors fulfilment of the agreed without incurring undue risk of inefficiency.
the annual aggregate of non-audit related audit plan and variations therefrom: fees shall not to exceed 70% of the reports highlighting the major issues that The External Auditor is required to rotate average of the fees paid in the last three arose during the course of the audit: and the lead partner every five years, and such consecutive financial years, without the feedback from the businesses, evaluating changes will be carefully planned to ensure approval of the Committee.
The External the performance of each audit team.
business continuity without undue risk or Auditor may not be engaged to provide inefficiency.
The current audit partner is a non-audit service when the objectives Nicholas Stevenson.
of the service would be regarded by a reasonable and informed third party The Audit Committee has been kept as conflicting with the objectives of the up-to-date with the development of new external audit.
EU-wide regulations concerning audit tenure and the longevity of audit firm Details of the fees paid to KPMG to relationships with companies they audit.
April 2017, and afterwards PwC up until The Company will continue to consider 31 December 2017, can be found in note on a regular basis any potential benefits 2 to the Financial Statements on pages from tendering the audit process having 132 to 134, which includes fees paid to the regard, in particular, to the importance of External Auditor and its network firms for audit quality or the continued independence audit services, audit-related services and of the External Auditor.
There are no non-audit services.
contractual obligations in place that restrict the Companys choice of statutory auditor.
COM DIRECTORS REPORT | REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Internal control and internal audit The impact of these findings means Risk management processes The Audit Committee reviewed the that there are some additional risks and practices effectiveness of the Groups internal the business faces.
The findings across In addition to the work on internal controls and disclosures made in the applications supports the current IT audit, the Audit Committee reviewed Annual Report and Financial Statements, strategy already instigated to improve the effectiveness of the Companys risk and takes responsibility for reviewing the the IT control environment.
management activities as assessed Groups internal controls through its by expert external consultant.
engagement with the Group Assurance Having regard to the findings of the function.
The Group Head of Assurance internal control audits presented during The Audit Committees discussions and is responsible for providing assurances the year, the report of the external considerations on risk extended beyond as to the adequacy of internal controls specialist resource and the report of the enterprise risk into business continuity throughout the Company and attends External Auditor, the Audit Committee management, as the Company assessed each Audit Committee meeting, presenting was satisfied that the Company maintains the quality of its existing practices.
regular reports which included the an appropriate and effective control system.
A new policy and framework for the consideration of any issues relating to the effective management of business status of internal controls and potential As reported in last years Report of the continuity management risk was endorsed risks, and assessed the progress of actions Audit Committee, while Essentra has a by the Audit Committee, and it is anticipated in response to any identified concerns.
well-established internal audit function, that during the course of 2018 it will assess potential opportunities for improvements the outputs from the testing of newlyThe Audit Committee agreed the to deliver additional value to the respective developed business continuity plans.
annual internal audit plan, which is drawn businesses and to support change Further details on the risk management up by the Group Head of Assurance on management were identified.
Specialist initiatives reviewed by the Audit Committee a risk-based approach across a broad external resource was engaged to conduct can be found on pages 40 to 49 in the section of the Companys activities.
The a comprehensive review of the internal Management of Principal Risks Report.
Audit Committee reviewed any significant audit function, in order to benchmark findings from internal control audits Essentra against best practice and to undertaken during the year, to ensure they are recommend potential improvements to appropriately investigated, and necessary deliver a capability aligned with FTSE 250 actions have been taken to address and upper quartile best practice.
The Audit Committee prioritised the In preparation for their audit activities, development of a structured programme the new External Auditor carried out a to drive the implementation of the effective review of the Companys existing IT systems recommendations and improvements and concluded that, in keeping with the identified by specialist external resource.
practice adopted by the previous External As detailed in the Audit Committee Auditor, the external audit approach Chairmans Letter on pages 74 to 75, the would continue to be a fully substantive best practice objective endorsed by the one, with a greater focus on detailed Audit Committee during 2017 envisages sample testing rather than full reliance the development of the existing internal on automated processes and controls.
audit function into an integrated risk assurance capability by 2020.
