Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Introduction Audit Nominations Remuneration Responsibility & Board Committee Committee Committee of Directors Audit Committee Role The Audit Committee monitors and reviews the: integrity of the Groups financial statements and any formal announcements relating to the Companys performance, considering any significant issues and judgements reflected in them, before their submission to the Board: consistency of the Groups accounting policies: effectiveness of, and makes recommendations to the Board on, the Groups accounting, internal accounting controls, auditing matters and business risk systems: effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function: and Kieran Poynter Chairman of the performance, independence and objectivity of the Companys Audit Committee external auditors, making recommendations as to their reappointment or for a tender of audit services where appropriate, and approving their terms of engagement and the level of audit fees.
Audit Committee current members Audit Committee Terms of Reference Revised Audit Committee Terms of Reference were adopted by Kieran Poynter Chairman the Board with effect from 25 July 2017, to incorporate provisions Dr Marion Helmes required by US securities laws and the NYSE listing standards.
Holly Keller Koeppel These revisions include: Dr Pedro Malan enhancements to the specific criteria that Committee members Lionel Nowell, III must meet to be considered independent under US securities laws, which must be assessed and confirmed by the Board: Attendance at meetings in 2017 details of the procedures established for receipt, retention and treatment of complaints relating to the Groups accounting, internal Attended Eligible to attend accounting controls or auditing matters, on a confidential and Name Member since Scheduled Ad hoc anonymous basis: Dr Marion Helmes 2016 5 5 2 2 confirmation of the Committees authorisation to incur ordinary and 3 b Holly Keller Koeppel 2017 2 2 0 0 administrative expenses, at the Companys expense, as necessary Dr Pedro Malan 2016 5 5 2 2 for the Committee to carry out its duties: 3 c Dr Gerry Murphy 20152017 2 2 1 1 reference to the new requirement in the Group Auditor 1,2 b, 3 d Lionel Nowell, III 2017 1 2 0 0 Independence Policy discussed below for the concurring external 1 Kieran Poynter 2012 5 5 2 2 audit partner to rotate off the Group audit engagement at least every five years, and not to recommence provision of audit or Notes: 1.
Kieran Poynter, Marion Helmes and Lionel Nowell, III have recent and relevant financial audit-related services to the Group for a further five years: and experience, and Lionel Nowell, III has been designated as the audit committee financial expert, in accordance with applicable US federal securities laws and NYSE listing standards.
the requirement for the Board to consider designating one or The members of the Committee as a whole have competence relevant to the sectors in which moreCommittee members as an audit committee financial expert, the Group operates.
in accordance with US securities laws.
Number of meetings in 2017: a The Committee held seven meetings in 2017, two of which were convened at short notice in connection with the acquisition of RAI: and b Lionel Nowell, III did not attend the meeting held in December due to commitments already in place prior to Key activities in 2017 his appointment to the Committee.
Membership: a all members of the Committee are independent Non-Executive Directors in the application of accounting standards, the Groups 2016 results, accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Provision C. 3.1. applicable US federal securities laws and NYSE listing standards: b Holly Keller Koeppel became a member of 2017 half-year results and the external auditors reports where results the Committee on 2 October 2017 following her appointment as a Non-Executive Director: are audited: c Dr Gerry Murphy ceased to be a member of the Committee upon his retirement as a Non-Executive Director on 26 April 2017: and d Lionel Nowell, III became a member of the the Basis of Preparation and Accounting Judgements: Committee on 2 October 2017 following his appointment as a Non-Executive Director.
the internal processes that have been followed for the preparation 4.
The Finance Director attends all meetings of the Committee but is not a member.
Other Directors may attend by invitation.
The Director, Legal & External Affairs, the Group of the 2017 Annual Report and Form 20-F, and confirming that Head of Audit, and the external auditors also attend meetings on a regular basis.
the processes appropriately facilitated the preparation of an Annual 5.
The Committee meets alone with the external auditors and, separately, with the Group Head Report and Form 20-F that is fair, balanced and understandable: ofAudit, at the end of every meeting.
the review on the year-end audit from the Groups external auditors, For the Committees terms of reference see including the key audit risks, the Groups control environment and www.
com governance the final materiality assessment, and confirming the independence of the external Group auditors: the Groups liquidity position, current facilities and financing needs through 2017: the steps taken to validate the Groups going concern assessment at half-year and year-end and agreeing the process steps taken to determine the Groups viability statement at year-end: BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 65 Directors Report Audit Committee continued the 2018 Internal Audit Plan: Risk topics considered by the Committee included: the impact of FDA tobacco regulation on the US business, and risks the Groups sustainability performance, including the Groups associated with non-compliance with tobacco and related legislation corporate social investment in empowerment, sustainable agriculture applicable to the Groups business: and environment initiatives in countries and communities in which the Group operates: risks associated with increased exposure to interest rate changes on net finance costs, arising from existing and future refinanced debt: periodic reports from the Groups Regional Audit and CSR Committees and Corporate Audit Committee: an update on risks to the Group posed by cyber-attacks and on the Groups priorities for ensuring continuing protection: the Groups Risk Register, including the categorisation of, and mitigating factors in respect of, Group risks: an update on the risks associated with the UKs decision to exit the EU Brexit, including potential risks relating to supply chain regular reports from the Group Head of Audit on international and continuity, taxation, changes in customs duty, foreign exchange global process audits and the management responses and action rateexposures and talent acquisition: plans being put in place to address any concerns raised: revisions to the Groups risk appetite framework as it relates to the the annual assessment of goodwill impairment: Groups strategic objectives: and the annual report from the Group Head of Security on security risks, the report on the effectiveness of the Companys risk losses and fraud arising during the preceding year: management system.
quarterly and annual reports on compliance with the Groups SoBC Please refer to pages 48 to 54 for information about the principal and biannual reports on political contributions: and Group risk factors.
the Committees effectiveness following the Board evaluation process, Significant accounting judgements considered by the discussed further on pages 63 and 64.
Committee in relation to the 2017 accounts: Further specific matters considered by the Committee: the Groups significant corporate tax exposures: the Committee Acquisition of RAI was updated periodically on corporate tax matters and considered a key focus of the Committee during 2017 was the oversight reports from the Group Head of Tax on the current status of of financial, accounting and compliance matters associated the FII GLO matter and the status of issues in various markets.
with the acquisition of RAI together with the Board, including These included significant tax disputes in Brazil, South Africa and review of documentation to be submitted to the SEC and UKLA TheNetherlands, and Bangladesh in respect of VAT.
The Committee in connection with the acquisition, the Companys obligations agreed with managements positions and extended disclosures in as a foreign private issuer under US securities laws and the NYSE respect of them see note 28 in the Notes on the Accounts : listing standards, progress of implementation of the associated contingent liabilities, provisions and deposits in connection compliance programme, and steps required to establish, maintain with ongoing litigation: the Committee reassessed the provision and demonstrate the effectiveness of internal controls over financial in respect of the Fox River clean-up costs and related legal expenses reporting: and subsequent to a funding agreement in relation to the sharing of amendments to the Audit Committee Terms of Reference and the the costs.
As a result, the provision was retained at the prior year Groups Global Policy on Auditor Independence to incorporate level see note 3 in the Notes on the Accounts.
However, inherent provisions required by US securities laws and the NYSE listing uncertainties remain see note 28 in the Notes on the Accounts.
standards, and recommending them for adoption by the Board with The Committee agreed that no provision should be recognised at this effect from 25 July 2017. point in respect of the Kalamazoo River claim.
The Committee also agreed that the quarterly deposits in relation to security for costs in Other specific matters relation to the Quebec Class Action, made by the Groups subsidiary application of IFRS 9 relating to financial instruments and IFRS 15 Imperial Tobacco Canada, would continue to be treated as an asset relating to revenue recognition, and the Groups approach to the to be recovered upon a successful appeal of the original judgment implementation of these standards, discussed further on page 116: see note 14 in the Notes on the Accounts : progress on the implementation of the Groups Delivery with foreign exchange: as the Group has operations in certain territories Integrity compliance programme discussed further on page 28, with severe currency restrictions, where foreign currency is not readily reviewing appropriate materiality thresholds for reporting, and available, the Committee satisfied itself that the methodologies approving an enhanced format for the future reporting of instances used to determine relevant exchange rates for accounting purposes of suspected and established non-compliance with the SoBC, remained appropriate: and drawing on more detailed reporting capabilities enabled by the changes in the Group: the Committee reviewed and approved analytical functionality of the new online SoBC portal: the accounting treatment in relation to the acquisitions undertaken following successful implementation of the core TaO programme in the year, including the acquisition of the remaining shares in over the past five years, latest status on the progress of RAI not already owned.
This included the recognition of a gain implementation of the template in additional markets: and of 23,288 million related to the deemed disposal of the Groups investment in RAI as an associate.
The Committee also reviewed enhancements to the Groups approach to assessing and the purchase price allocation of all the acquisitions in the year and monitoring key countries of concern to the Group from a human the related assessment of the carrying value of the intangibles, rights perspective, to take into account changes to the United including goodwill.
Nations Guiding Principles on business and human rights, and the introduction of the UK Modern Slavery Act.
66 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Introduction Audit Nominations Remuneration Responsibility & Board Committee Committee Committee of Directors authority for the Committee to oversee any allegations of improper External auditors influence, coercion, manipulation or purposeful misleading in KPMG LLP KPMG were appointed as the Companys auditors on connection with any external audit, and to review any issues arising 27 March 2015, following a formal tender process carried out in 2015. in the course of engagement with the external auditors.
The Committee considers the relationship with the auditors to be working well and is satisfied with their effectiveness.
The Committee also reviews a schedule identifying the total fees for all audit-related services, tax services and other non-audit services Group Auditor Independence Policy AIP expected to be undertaken by the external auditors in the following The Group has an established AIP to safeguard the independence and year.
Tax services and other non-audit services in excess of the tender objectivity of the Groups external auditors, and to specify the approval thresholds referred to above must be itemised.
Updated schedules are processes for the engagement of the Groups external auditors to also submitted to the Committee at the mid-year and year-end, so that provide audit and non-audit services.
it has full visibility of the Group spend on non-audit services.
The key principle of the AIP is that the Groups external auditors may A breakdown of audit, audit-related, tax and non-audit fees paid to be engaged to provide services only in cases where those services KPMG firms and associates in 2017 is provided in Note 3 c on the do not impair their independence and objectivity.
The Committee Accounts and is summarised as follows: recognises that using the external auditors to provide such services is often of benefit where they have detailed knowledge of our business, Services provided by KPMG firms and associates 2017 although the external auditors may not be engaged to provide services 2017 2016 if the provision of such services would result in the external auditors: m m having a mutual or conflicting interest with any Group company: Audit services 17.6 9.2 being placed in the position of auditing their own work: Audit-related assurance services 8.0 0.2 Total audit and audit-related services 25.6 9.4 acting as a manager or employee of any Group company: or Other assurance services 4.1 0.1 being placed in the position of being an advocate for any Tax advisory services 0.2 Group company.
Tax compliance 0.2 0.3 Audit services are approved in advance by the Committee on the basis Other non-audit services 1.4 of the annual engagement letter and the scope of audit services is Total non-audit services 4.3 2.0 agreed by the Committee with the external auditors.
Notes: Subject to the above requirements, the external auditors may also In 2017, non-audit fees paid to KPMG amounted to 16.8% of the audit and audit-related assurance provide certain non-audit services with the prior approval of the fees paid to them 2016: 21.3%.
The requirement for the Committees pre-approval of All audit and non-audit services provided by the external auditors in 2017 were pre-approved by non-audit services may be waived only if the aggregate amount of theCommittee, except for 3,500 of tax fees 2% of tax fees approved subsequently.
all non-audit services provided is less than five per cent.
of the total Annual assessment amount paid to the external auditors during the reporting year, where The Committee carries out an annual assessment of the Groups those services were not recognised to be non-audit services at the time external auditors, covering qualification, expertise and resources, and of engagement, and provided those services are promptly brought to objectivity and independence, as well as the effectiveness of the audit the attention of the Committee and their provision is approved prior to process.
This assessment is informed by an external audit satisfaction completion of the audit in the relevant reporting year.
survey completed by members of senior management.
No material The provision of permitted non-audit services must be put to tender issues were identified during 2017.
The Committee is satisfied with the if expected spend exceeds limits specified in the AIP, unless a waiver qualification, expertise and resources of its external auditors and that of this requirement is agreed by the Finance Director and notified to the objectivity and independence of its external auditors is not in any the Committee.
way impaired by the non-audit services which they provide.
The Groups AIP was revised with effect from 25 July 2017 to support The Finance Director, Director, Legal & External Affairs, Group Head of compliance with US and EU securities laws, and includes: Audit, Company Secretary and the Committee Chairman all meet with the external auditors throughout the year to discuss relevant issues as enhanced limitations on the provision of non-audit services, such as well as the progress of the audit.
Any significant issues are included on express prohibitions on the provision of services with contingent fee the Committees agenda.
arrangements, expert services unrelated to audit and other services prohibited by US securities laws: clarifications in respect of requirements for the Committee to preCompetition and Markets Authority Audit Order approve all audit and non-audit services, except in respect of nonThe Company has complied with the Statutory Audit Services Order audit services falling within the exceptions described above: issued by the Competition and Markets Authority for the financial year ended 31 December 2017. additional requirements in respect of audit partner rotation, including for the concurring external audit partner to rotate off the Group audit engagement at least every five years, and not to recommence provision of audit or audit-related services to the Group for a further five years: express prohibition on the Chief Executive, Finance Director, Group Financial Controller and Group Chief Accountant having been employed by the external auditors in any capacity in connection with the Group audit for two years before initiation of an audit: and BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 67 Directors Report Audit Committee continued Risk management Risk management and internal control Risk registers, based on a standardised methodology, are used at Overview Group, regional, area and individual market level to identify, assess and The Company maintains its system of risk management and internal monitor the principal risks both financial and non-financial faced by control with a view to safeguarding shareholders investment and the business at each level.
Information on prevailing trends, for example the Companys assets.
It is designed to identify, evaluate and manage whether a risk is considered to be increasing or decreasing over time, risks that may impede the Companys objectives.
It cannot, and is not is provided in relation to each risk and all identified risks are assessed designed to, eliminate them entirely.
The system therefore provides at three levels high medium low by reference to their impact and a reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement likelihood.
Mitigation plans are required to be in place to manage the or loss.
A description of the principal risk factors that may affect the risks identified and their progress is also monitored.
The risk registers and Groups business is provided in our Strategic Report on pages 48 to 54. mitigation plans are reviewed on a regular basis.
Regional and aboveThe main features of the risk management processes and system of market risk registers are reviewed regularly by the relevant regional Audit internal control operated within the Group are described below, and and CSR Committee or the Corporate Audit Committee, as appropriate.
have been in place throughout the year under review and remain in At Group level, specific responsibility for managing each identified risk place to date.
They do not cover associates of the Group.
is allocated to a member of the Management Board.
The Group Risk Board oversight Register is reviewed regularly by a committee of senior managers, chaired by the Finance Director.
In addition, it is reviewed annually by the Board During the year, the Board considered the nature and extent of and twice yearly by the Committee.
The Board and the Committee the principal risks that the Group is willing to take to achieve its review changes in the status of identified risks, assessing the changes in strategic objectives its risk appetite and for maintaining sound risk impact and likelihood.
The Committee also conducts deep dives into management and internal control systems.
It keeps its risk appetite selected risks, meeting senior managers responsible for managing and under review to ensure that it is appropriate and consistent with mitigating them, so that it can consider those risks in detail.
The Board noted that the Groups risk profile remained stable With the support of the Committee, the Board conducts a review during 2017. of the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control systems annually.
This review covers all material controls The Board also considered the Group Viability Statement including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk @ see page 48 of the Strategic Report.
Audit and CSR Committee framework For more information on risk factors see the Principal Group risk factorssection inour Strategic Report on pages 48 to 54.
The Groups Regional Audit and CSR Committee framework underpins the Boards Audit Committee.
It provides a flexible channel for the Internal control structured flow of information through the Group, with committees Group companies and other business units are annually required to covering locally listed Group entities or complex markets where complete a checklist, called Control Navigator, of the key controls considered appropriate in certain markets, and each of the Groups that they are expected to have in place.
Its purpose is to enable regions.
In the EEMEA region, given the size of the region and the them to self-assess their internal control environment, assist them in number of countries it includes, the regional Audit and CSR Committee identifying any controls that may need strengthening and support is supported by an area Audit and CSR Committee.
Local Audit and them in implementing and monitoring action plans to address control CSR Committees also operate in several markets in EEMEA.
The Control Navigator checklist is reviewed annually to Following the acquisition of RAI, the RAI Regional Audit and CSR ensure that it remains relevant to the business and covers all applicable Committee was appointed by the Committee to extend the Groups key controls.
In addition, at each year-end, Group companies and Regional Audit and CSR Committee framework to cover the US business.
other business units are required to: The Groups Regional Audit and CSR Committees are all chaired by review their system of internal control, confirm whether it remains a member of the Management Board and attended by one or more effective and report on any material weaknesses and the action being Non-Executive Directors.
The Corporate Audit Committee focuses on taken to address them: and the Groups risks and control environment that fall outside the regional review and confirm policies and procedures to promote compliance committees remit, for example head office central functions, global with the SoBC are fully embedded within the Group company or programmes and projects.
It comprises members of the Management business unit and identify any material instances of non-compliance.
Board, is chaired by a Regional Director and is also attended by one or more ofthe Non-Executive Directors.
The results of these reviews are reported to the relevant Regional Audit and CSR Committees or to the Corporate Audit Committee and, where External and internal auditors attend meetings of these committees appropriate, to the Committee to ensure that appropriate remedial and regularly have private audiences with members of the committees action has been, or will be, taken where necessary.
Additionally, central, regional and individual market management, along with internal audit, support the Board in its role SOx compliance oversight ofensuring a sound control environment.
Following the registration of Company securities under the US This framework ensures that significant financial, social, environmental Securities Act of 1933, as amended the Securities Act, the Company and reputational risks faced by the Group are appropriately managed is subject to certain rules and regulations of US securities laws, and that any failings or weaknesses are identified so that remedial including the Exchange Act and SOx.
The Committee reviewed action may be taken.
existing internal control processes to ensure compliance with the requirements of US securities laws which were immediately applicable The Groups Regional Audit and CSR Committee framework structure upon completion of the acquisition of RAI.
Outcomes following this will be revised in 2018 to reflect the Groups new international business review included amendments to the Audit Committee Terms of model, and to establish a Regional Audit and CSR Committee for each Reference and the Group AIP as detailed on page 67. of the three Group regions, in addition to the RAI Regional Audit and CSR Committee.
@ denotes phrase, paragraph or similar that does not form part of BATs Annual Report onForm20-F as filed with the SEC.
68 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Introduction Audit Nominations Remuneration Responsibility & Board Committee Committee Committee of Directors The Committee also has oversight of processes which are being put Understandable: Clarity and structure of the Annual Report and Form in place to ensure ongoing compliance with applicable US securities 20-F and financial statements, appropriate emphasis of key messages, laws.
SOx places specific responsibility on the Chief Executive and the and use of succinct and focused narrative with strong linkage Finance Director to certify or disclose information applicable to the throughout the report, to provide shareholders with the information financial statements, disclosure controls and procedures DCP and needed to assess the Groups business, performance, strategy and theinternal control over financial reporting ICFR.
Two committees have been established during 2017 to provide The Group Manual of Accounting Policies and Procedures sets out assurance with regard to applicable SOx certifications.
A Disclosure the Group accounting policies, its treatment of transactions and its Committee has been established for the purposes of reviewing internal reporting requirements.
The internal reporting of financial the Companys financial statements for appropriate disclosure and information to prepare the Groups half-yearly and year-end financial designing and maintaining DCP.
A sub-committee of the Disclosure statements is signed off by the heads of finance responsible for the Committee, the SOx Steering Committee, has also been established Groups markets and business units.
The heads of finance responsible to provide assurance that ICFR has been designed, and is being for the Groups markets and all senior managers must also confirm implemented, evaluated and disclosed appropriately in accordance annually that all information relevant to the Group audit has been with applicable requirements.
The activities of this sub-committee are provided to the Directors and that reasonable steps have been taken directly reported to the Disclosure Committee.
The output from the toensure full disclosure in response to requests for information from Disclosure Committee and SOx Steering Committee are presented the external auditors.
toand reviewed by the Committee.
The Chairman of the Committee participated in several internal Annual Code of Ethics for the Chief Executive and Senior Financial Officers Report and Form 20-F drafting and review meetings, and engaged In addition to the SoBC described further below, which applies to separately with the Finance Director during the drafting process.
all staff of the Group, including senior management and the Board, The effectiveness of the Groups financial reporting controls are the Company has adopted a Code of Ethics applicable to the Chief assessed as part of the Control Navigator exercise described on Executive, the Finance Director, and other senior financial officers page 68 and evaluated by internal audit in the context of the annual performing similar functions, with effect from 25 July 2017, as required audit plan.
The Code of Ethics includes obligations for those senior financial officers to act with honesty and integrity in the Group Standards of Business Conduct SoBC performance of their duties and to promote full, fair, accurate, timely The Committee is responsible for monitoring compliance with the and understandable disclosures in all reports and other documents SoBC, which underpins the Groups commitment to good corporate submitted to the US Securities and Exchange Commission, the UK behaviour.
The SoBC requires all staff to act with a high degree of Financial Conduct Authority, and any other regulatory agency.
business integrity, comply with applicable laws and regulations, and ensure that standards are never compromised for the sake of No waivers or exceptions to the Code of Ethics were granted in 2017. results.
Every Group company and all staff worldwide, including Internal audit function senior management and the Board, are expected to live up to the The Groups internal audit function provides advice and guidance SoBC.
Guidance on the SoBC is provided across the Group, including to the Groups businesses on best practices in risk management and through training and awareness programmes, described further on control systems.
It is also responsible for carrying out audit checks on pages 28 and 32.
Group companies, other business units, and in relation to key global Information on compliance with the SoBC is gathered at a regional and processes and does so against an audit plan presented annually to the global level and reported to the Regional Audit and CSRCommittees, Committee, which focuses on higher risk areas or processes in relation Corporate Audit Committee, and to the Committee.
Following the acquisition of RAI, the internal audit function of RAI was integrated into the Groups internal audit All Group companies have adopted the SoBC or local equivalent, with function and its existing ways of working with effect from 1 January the exception of RAI Companies until 31 December 2017.
The RAI 2018, reporting directly into the Group Head of Audit.
Code of Conduct, adopted prior to acquisition and substantially in alignment with the SoBC, applied to RAI Companies for the full Financial reporting controls year 2017.
The Group has in place a series of policies, practices and controls in In the year to 31 December 2017, 183 instances of suspected relation to the financial reporting and consolidation process, which are improper conduct contrary to the SoBC were reported to the designed to address key financial reporting risks, including risks arising Committee 2016: 174 excluding RAI Companies.
from changes in the business or accounting standards and to provide assurance of the completeness and accuracy of the content of the Of the instances reported excluding RAI Companies, 78 were Annual Report and Form 20-F. established as breaches and appropriate action taken 2016: 77.
In 75 cases, an investigation found no wrongdoing 2016: 65.
A key area of focus is to assess whether the Annual Report and Form In 30 cases, the investigation continued at the year-end 2016: 32, 20-F and financial statements are fair, balanced and understandable including investigation, through external legal advisers, of allegations inaccordance with regulatory requirements, with particular regard to: of misconduct.
Fair: Consistency of reporting between the financial statements and The SoBC and information on the total number of incidents reported narrative reporting of Group performance and coverage of an overall under it in 2017 including established breaches, isavailable at picture of the Groups performance: www.
Balanced: Consistency of narrative reporting of significant accounting In respect of RAI Companies, in the year to 31 December 2017, 123 judgements and key matters considered by the Committee with instances of suspected improper conduct contrary to the RAI Code of disclosures of material judgements and uncertainties noted in the Conduct were reported 2016: 157.
Of the instances reported, 65 financial statements: appropriate prominence and explanation of were established as breaches and appropriate action taken 2016: 73. primary and adjusted measures: and In 57 cases, an investigation found no wrongdoing 2016: 84.
In one case, the investigation continued at the year-end 2016: none.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 69 Directors Report Audit Committee continued Political contributions SoBC RAI Code of Conduct The Group does not make contributions to European Union EU BAT Group excl.
RAI Companies RAI Companies Year to 31 December 2017 Year to 31 December 2017 political organisations or incur EU political expenditure.
The total amount of political contributions made to non-EU political parties in 2017 was 4,832,321 2016: 20,208 as follows: RAI Companies reported political contributions totalling 4,826,416 US$6,221,250 for the full year 2017 to US political organisations, non-federal-level political party committees and to campaign committees of various non-federal candidates, in accordance with their contributions programme established prior to the acquisition of RAI by the Group.
No corporate contributions were made to federal candidates or political party committees and all contributions were made in accordance with applicable laws.
All political contributions made by RAI Companies are assessed and Established breach of SoBC 78 Established breach of Code of Conduct 65 approved in accordance with RAIs policies and procedures to ensure No breach of SoBC 75 No breach of Code of Conduct 57 appropriate oversight and compliance with applicable laws.
Ongoing investigation 30 Ongoing 1 Total 183 Total 123 In accordance with the US Federal Election Campaign Act, RAI Companies continue to support an employee-operated Political The RAI Code of Conduct applicable to RAI Companies until Action Committee PAC, a non-partisan committee registered with 31 December 2017, and information on the total number of incidents the US Federal Election Commission that facilitates voluntary political reported under it in 2017 including established breaches, isavailable donations by eligible employees of RAI Companies.
According to US at http: www.
com transforming-tobacco ethicsfederal finance laws, the PAC is a separate segregated fund and is .
controlled by a governing board of individual employee-members of the PAC.
In 2017, RAI Companies incurred expenses, as authorised by RAI Companies adopted their localised version of the SoBC with US law, in providing administrative support to the PAC.
effect from 1 January 2018, and any instances of suspected improper conduct contrary to their localised SoBC, and established breaches, will Carreras Limited reported a contribution to the Jamaica Labour Party be reported on an aggregated Group basis from 2018 onwards.
Whistleblowing No other political contributions were reported.
The SoBC also sets out the Groups whistleblowing policy, enabling Annual review staff, in confidence and anonymously where they wish, to raise The Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on Risk Management concerns without fear of reprisal, including concerns regarding and Internal Control and Related Business Reporting reflects accounting or auditing matters.
The Groups whistleblowing policy is the requirements of the Code regarding the applicability of, and supplemented by local procedures throughout the Group including compliance with, the Codes provisions with regard to issues of RAI Companies and at the Groups London headquarters, providing risk and internal control management and related financial and staff with further guidance on reporting matters and raising concerns, business reporting.
and the channels through which they can do so.
The processes described above, and the reports that they give rise to, Following establishment of the Business Conduct & Compliance enable the Board and the Committee to monitor the issue of risk and Department discussed further at page 28, an extensive review of the internal control management on a continuing basis throughout the Groups whistleblowing procedures was conducted and a new global year and to review its effectiveness at the year-end.
The Board, with whistleblowing hotline was deployed across the Group from January advice from the Committee, has completed its annual review of the 2018, to offer staff additional channels through which any concerns effectiveness of that system for 2017. can be raised or matters reported, in a language with which they are comfortable and anonymously where they wish.
No significant failings or weaknesses were identified and the Board is satisfied that, where areas for improvement were identified, processes Of the total number of business conduct incidents reported in are in place to ensure that remedial action is taken and progress is 2017 set out above excluding RAI Companies, 131 were brought monitored.
The Board is satisfied that the system of risk and internal to managements attention through whistleblowing reports from control management accords with the Code.
employees, ex-employees, third parties or unknown individuals reporting anonymously 2016: 115.
In respect of RAI Companies, of the total number of incidents reported under the RAI Code of Conduct in 2017 set out above, six were brought to the RAI boards attention under the RAI whistleblowing policy from employees, ex-employees, third parties orunknown individuals reporting anonymously 2016: 5.
The Committee is satisfied that the Groups policy and procedures enable proportionate and independent investigation of matters raised, and ensure that appropriate follow-up action is taken.
70 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017
