CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Nomination Committee report where external recruitment is Chairmans overview required, to evaluate the balance The principal purpose of the Nomination ofskills, experience, independence Committee is to ensure that the Company andknowledge on the Board and, in light has the right leadership, both on the Board of this evaluation, prepare a description and in the ranks of senior management.
of the role and capabilities required for a This is a combination of continual review particular appointment.
The Nomination and monitoring of, and also responding to, Committee would then oversee the specific situations as needed.
selection process with the aim of ensuring The Company Secretary attends that this results in an appointment made CHAIR meetingsin his capacity as Secretary on merit, against objective criteria and Stephen Hemsley oftheNomination Committee and the with due regard for the benefits of diversity Chief Executive Officer is expected to on the Board, including gender: and attend whenever necessary.
to undertake formal performance MEMBERS The majority of members of the evaluation of nonexecutive Directors Nomination Committee are independent who are standing for reelection and nonexecutive Directors.
While the Chairman toascertain whether the individuals of the Board chairs the Nomination Committee performance continues to be effective in normal circumstances, he would abstain and they demonstrate sufficient in matters relating to the appointment of a commitment to the role.
The terms of reference of the Nomination The number of meetings held in the year Committee were updated in February 2017 Ebbe Jacobsen and attendance at those meetings is shown and reviewed by the Committee during the on page 39. year.
These terms of reference are available on the Companys investor relations website.
Activities in 2017 During the year the Committee met to Policy on diversity consider the following key matters: The Board recognises the importance ofhaving Directors with the appropriate the review of the performance of all balance of skills, experience, independence thenonexecutive Directors seeking and knowledge of the Company to enable reelection at the 2017 AGM: Helen Keays them to discharge their respective duties to consider and make recommendations and responsibilities effectively.
They play to the Board with regards to extending akey governance role in protecting the appointments of Ebbe Jacobsen, shareholders interests by ensuring that Helen Keays and Kevin Higgins for theBoard and management are challenged, further terms of three years each: constructively and effectively, and it is important that they do so from a range to consider and make a recommendation ofperspectives.
to the Board on a diversity policy applicable to Boardlevel appointments: and An important factor in achieving this effectiveness is drawing members from receiving reports from management arange of backgrounds, which has been ontalent management and shown to help avoid group think.
proud of the diversity in our business and we recruit and develop people regardless Purpose of their gender, race or any other The Nomination Committee has four characteristic.
We are of the view that it is principal duties: in the interests of the Company to recruit and develop the very best people, drawn to ensure that plans are in place for from the widest pool of talent.
The policy orderly succession for appointments of the Board on recruitment is always to tothe Board and to senior management, seek to appoint the best candidate to each soas to maintain an appropriate balance role.
25% of our Board positions are held by ofskills and experience within the Company women and we aim to maintain at least this and on the Board and to ensure progressive level of female participation on the Board.
refreshing of the Board: Details of the Groupwide diversity data are shown on page 32. to lead the process for Board and Committee appointments and make Stephen Hemsley recommendations to the Board: Chairman of the Nomination Committee 7 March 2018 42 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017
