DIRECTORS REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | WWW.
COM CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Board membership and meeting The Essentra Board is accountable to The roles of the Chairman and the Chief attendance all the Companys stakeholders for the Executive are separately held and are so As at the date of this report, the standards of governance which are defined as to ensure a clear separation Board has eight members, comprising maintained across Essentras diverse of responsibilities.
a Non-Executive Chairman, two Executive range of global businesses.
Directors and five Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman leads the Board and ensures The names of the Directors serving during During the year, Essentra was and its effectiveness, and the Chief Executive is the year and at the date of this report are continues to be subject to the UK responsible for the executive management set out below.
Corporate Governance Code the Code and performance of Essentras operations.
2016 published by the Financial Reporting Together with the primary responsibilities Council FRC, a copy of which can be of the Senior Independent Director SID, Meetings during the year found on its website www.
the other Non-Executive Directors and the Paul Lester 8 8 clear definition of reserved matters and Non-Executive Chairman The Board has reviewed its operations and delegated authorities, there is a system Paul Forman 8 8 governance framework and confirms that, which exists of checks and balances Chief Executive as at the date of this report, the Company in which no individual has unfettered appointed 1 January 2017 has complied with the provisions set out decision-making power.
Terry Twigger 8 8 Senior Independent Director in the Code.
Chairman Stefan Schellinger 8 8 Group Finance Director The Company applies the Codes principles Leads the Board of openness, integrity and accountability Tommy Breen 7 8 Ensures effective communication Non-Executive Director through its own behaviour, corporate with shareholders Mary Reilly 4 4 governance best practice and by adopting, Non-Executive Director as appropriate and proportionate for Ensures effective communication appointed 1 July 2017 a company of the size and nature of flows between Directors and Lorraine Trainer 8 8 Essentra, recommendations of relevant executive management Non-Executive Director professional bodies.
Facilitates the effective communication Ralf K. Wunderlich 4 4 Non-Executive Director of all Directors The Board is collectively responsible for appointed 1 July 2017 the long-term success of the Company, Responsible for effective Colin Day 0 2 and its role is to provide entrepreneurial corporate governance Executive Director retired 20 April 2017 leadership within a framework of prudent Peter Hill 2 2 and effective controls, which enables risk Chief Executive Non-Executive Director to be assessed and managed in the pursuit Implements the strategy which has retired 20 April 2017 of the Companys strategic objectives.
been set by the Board Develops manageable goals Figures in brackets denote the maximum The Board believes that it and its and priorities number of meetings that could have Committees have the appropriate been attended.
composition to discharge their respective Leads and motivates the duties effectively with the appropriate level management teams Tommy Breen was unable to attend one of challenge and level of independence, Develops proposals to present to of the meetings due to a long-standing and that the members of the Board in the Board on all areas reserved for prior commitment.
conjunction with the senior executive its judgement teams are well equipped to drive, and Colin Day remained as a Director of the are capable of delivering, the Companys Company until after the AGM in April 2017, strategic objectives.
The Board is of the although he retired as Chief Executive on view that it has a highly competent 1 January 2017.
Colin was available to Chairman who, together with each of support the Board during this period, the other Non-Executive Directors, has but he did not attend the Board meetings considerable international experience given the appointment of Paul Forman at a senior level in the management of as the new Chief Executive.
activities broadly similar to those carried out by Essentra and the material issues likely to arise for the Group.
COM DIRECTORS REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Senior Independent Director SID the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors commitments to the Company, in line Provides a sounding board for are independent of management, and with expectations outlined in his Letter the Chairman free from business and other relationships of Appointment.
which could interfere with the exercise Serves as an intermediary for the of independent judgement now and in Regarding the time commitments of other Directors when necessary the future.
The Board believes that any Tommy Breen, it is noted that he retired Acts as an alternative point of contact shareholdings of the Chairman and as the Chief Executive of DCC plc and for shareholders where contact through Non-Executive Directors serve to align therefore will have sufficient time for the the normal channels of Chairman, their interests with those of shareholders.
Senior Independent Director role which or other Executive Directors has failed he will be undertaking with effect from to resolve any concerns, or for which The Board considers that the Non-Executive the 2018 AGM.
such contact is inappropriate Directors provide an independent view in Board discussions and in the development The Board is content that the NonLeads the annual assessment of of the Companys strategy.
Non-Executive Executive Directors devote sufficient the effectiveness of the Chairman Directors also ensure a sound basis for good time to the business of Essentra.
corporate governance for the Company, Non-Executive Directors challenging managements performance Executive Directors may accept outside Provide constructive challenge and, in conjunction with the Executive appointments, provided that such to executive management Directors, ensuring that rigorous financial appointments do not in any way prejudice Bring experience and objectivity controls and systems of risk management the ability to perform their duties on to the Boards discussions and are maintained as appropriate to the needs behalf of Essentra.
decision-making of the businesses within Essentra.
Paul Forman, Chief Executive, currently Monitor the delivery of the Groups The Board is aware of current external holds one external non-executive position, strategy against the governance, commitments for all of the Non-Executive and the Board is of the view that this is not risk and control framework established Directors, who are also required to discuss detrimental to the performance of his duties by the Board any additional external appointments with given the time requirements involved.
Are responsible for evaluating the the Chairman prior to their acceptance, performance of the Chairman, in addition, the time commitments of the Colin Day was an Executive Director until led by the SID Chairman are the subject of review by April 2017, during which time he held three the SID, in conjunction with the other external non-executive positions.
Maintains a record of attendance at The letters of appointment for NonBoard meetings and Committee meeting While there were no material changes to Executive Directors are available for review the time commitment of the Chairman at the Companys registered office and Is responsible for ensuring good during the year, the Board took note of prior to the AGM.
information flows to the Board Paul Lesters appointment as Chairman and its Committees, and between of McCarthy & Stone plc at its AGM on The Companys Articles of Association senior management and the 24 January 2018.
The Board has considered require that all new Directors seek election Non-Executive Directors Paul Lesters commitment of time to the to the Board at the AGM following their Advises the Board on all regulatory Company in light of this and other external appointment.
In compliance with the and corporate governance matters positions, and concluded that he would Code, all eligible Directors will put continue to be able to fully satisfy his themselves forward for re-election on an Assists the Chairman in ensuring that obligations to Essentra.
In considering the annual basis.
The Board is satisfied that the Directors have suitably tailored and Chairmans continued time commitments each of the Directors being put forward detailed induction and ongoing training to the Company, the Non-Executive for re-election continues to be effective and professional development Directors also viewed positively his and that their ongoing commitment to programmes exemplary attendance record at Essentra, the role is undiminished.
ensuring that he was able to attend 100% The Board maintains that, for the year of Board and Committee meetings ended 31 December 2017, the Non-Executive throughout the year.
The Board expects Directors were each considered to be this attendance record to continue going independent.
In making this assessment forward, and Paul Lester has given of independence, the Board considers that assurances to this end of his continued 68 DIRECTORS REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | WWW.
COM The conduct of Board matters At each meeting the Board considers maintained with the Chief Executive.
In managing the affairs of the Company, reports from the Chief Executive and the Further to the formal Board meetings the Boards agenda is set by the Group Finance Director covering operational, there is an enhanced programme of Chairman, in conjunction with the financial performance and other significant meetings, both formal and informal, Company Secretary & General Counsel, business matters together with regular in line with recommendations of the Board and deals with an adopted schedule of updates on any material issues which evaluation action plan, with members of reserved matters which are to be reviewed may impact the Group.
Board meetings the senior executive management.
annually including: are structured to allow open discussion.
During the year, as part of the Companys Strategy and resources Other noteworthy matters considered Governance Improvement Programme by the Board in 2017 include: and in conjunction with the externally Annual planning facilitated Board evaluation conducted Treasury policies Review of the Governance by Lintstock, the Board undertook a review Improvement Programme of its meeting processes.
This included Major capital and operating the provision of meeting papers, annual expenditure proposals Agreement to the disposal of the schedule of agenda items and the future Porous Technologies businesses Major acquisitions and disposals calendar of meetings, and should enable Agreement to the disposal of the the Board to improve its ability to operate Debt facilities packaging business based in Bristol more effectively.
In 2017 the Board held Key Group policies one of its meetings at a UK facility and it Revised strategy and resourcing is intended that further locations will host Appointments to the Board for Health & Safety meetings during 2018, so that the Board Systems of internal control Agreement to the closure of the has the opportunity to engage with local Newport cartons facility management and derive a better Dividend payments understanding of the Companys Review of the new Group organisation Categories of public announcements operations and business model.
structure Risk appetite Revision of Human Resources strategy, Operational matters and the responsibility Health and safety including engagement, succession for the day-to-day management of the and diversity businesses are delegated to the Chief The detailed implementation of all these, Executive, supported by members of senior Consideration of Brexit implications and general operational matters, are executive management as appropriate, the responsibility of executive senior Approval of the Companys trading within delegated authority limits and in management and regular formal reports statements, full year and half accordance with clearly defined systems are provided to the Board.
year results and quarterly trading of internal control.
statements During the year, there were eight scheduled In support of the operational reports Refinancing of the Companys Board meetings.
In addition to these provided during the year, the Board debt facilities scheduled formal meetings, the Board met received detailed presentations from on a number of other occasions as required, Approval of a revised Code of Ethics senior management across a range and, in particular, the Directors met to and Right to Speak policy of businesses within the Company, review and agree the strategy on two and considered reports from enabling separate occasions.
With the recent changes to the Board, functional management about matters and particularly the appointment of the of material importance to the Company In conjunction with the continuous review Chairman, there has been improved which arose from time to time.
of the strategy and monitoring the progress communication between the Chairman in stabilising the Company, the Board and the Non-Executive Directors, including The Board was supported during the year evaluated the appropriate deployment meetings between the Chairman and the by the GMC, which ensures a strong link of capital in the business, including the Non-Executive Directors without the between Essentras overall corporate development of the dividend policy along Executive Directors present.
Led by the strategy and its implementation within with a clear and increased emphasis on Senior Independent Director, the Nonan effective internal control environment.
cash generation and returns necessary to Executive Directors also met without the ensure the long-term growth and success Chairman present to appraise his of the Company.
Regular contact is also 69 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | WWW.
COM DIRECTORS REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The GMC, provides general executive Applying Essentras Corporate Conflict of interests management of the Company within Responsibility principles Directors have a statutory duty to avoid agreed delegated authority limits The Chief Executive is the Director actual or potential conflicts of interest.
The GMC with primary responsibility for the The Companys Articles of Association consists of the Chief Executive, Group implementation and integration of permit the Board to consider and, if it sees Finance Director, Divisional Managing Essentras Corporate Responsibility fit, to authorise situations where a Director Directors or Presidents and the respective principles across the Company.
During has an interest that conflicts, or may heads of the enabling Group functions.
2017, the Group Human Resources possibly conflict, with the interests of the Full details of the membership of the Director, supported by the Company Company.
During the year, the Conflict GMC can be found on pages 60 to 61.
Secretary & General Counsel, was of Interests policy, which governs the responsible for co-ordinating the operation responsibilities of Directors in such As part of the Governance Improvement of detailed policies on health and safety, situations, was reviewed.
The decision to Programme Essentra has established that, ethics and the environment which support authorise a conflict of interest can only in order to continue to implement effective Essentras commitment to its Corporate be made by non-conflicted Directors corporate governance within the Group, Responsibility principles.
Further details ie, those who have no interest in the the GMC needs to drive new working of these policies can be viewed in the matter being considered and, in making practices and behaviours through the Corporate Responsibility statement on such a decision, the Directors must act establishment of clearly defined annual pages 50 to 57 and on the Companys honestly and in good faith when giving agendas for reporting, reviewing and website www.
authorisation where they think this is decision making.
appropriate, and will be most likely to Diversity promote the Companys success.
The The Board Committees are a valuable part Essentra is focused on providing a safe, Company Secretary & General Counsel of the Companys corporate governance respectful and diverse working environment.
maintains a register of Directors interests, structure, and the Board looks to the Audit so that any potential concerns are Committee in particular to undertake the The Companys new six principles, addressed before any material issues majority of the work involved in monitoring which were communicated during may arise.
The Conflict of Interests register and seeking assurance as to compliance 2017 details of which can be found at and the schedule of Directors Interests is with the controls within this structure.
com, include specific reviewed at each Board meeting.
During However, the Board as a whole maintains reference to the importance of diversity the course of the year, there were no oversight of such important matters and, in supporting the Companys stability, material conflicts of interest impacting after each Committee meeting, the strategy and growth objectives.
Essentra on the conduct of the Boards activities.
Chairman of the Audit Committee reports has begun a Diversity & Inclusion on the matters which have been reviewed.
programme, with some externally Information and professional facilitated support, to ensure behaviours development Other specific responsibilities are delegated fully reflect the principles of diversity and The Chairman, supported by the Company to the Nomination and Remuneration inclusion across the Company, and it is Secretary & General Counsel, takes Committees.
These Committees report intended to develop a specific policy as responsibility for ensuring that the as appropriate to the Board.
Indeed, one of Directors receive accurate, timely and the key findings from the 2017 employee clear information.
engagement survey was the importance of ensuring that diverse perspectives are On appointment, an induction valued within the Company, and Essentra programme tailored to their individual is committed to establishing an inclusive needs is available to Directors, and culture where diversity is embraced by is designed to assist them in their everyone and makes Essentra a rewarding understanding of Essentra and its and successful place to work.
Throughout a Directors tenure, they are encouraged to develop their knowledge of the Group through meetings with senior management and site visits.
Directors are also provided with updates, as appropriate, on matters such as fiduciary duties, Companies Act requirements, share dealing restrictions and corporate governance matters.
70 DIRECTORS REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | WWW.
COM During the year, two new Non-Executive lodged on each resolution is made Financial reporting Directors were appointed.
A comprehensive available, both at the meeting and The Directors have acknowledged, in induction programme was embarked upon subsequently on the Companys website.
the Statement of Directors Responsibilities which has involved them visiting a number Each substantially separate issue is set out on page 112, their responsibility for of sites, both in the UK and overseas.
There presented as a separate resolution, preparing the Financial Statements of the have also been a number of meetings held and the Chairmen of the Audit, Company and the Group.
The Directors with the senior management team, in order Nomination and Remuneration are responsible for preparing the Annual to gain a better understanding, of the Committees are available to answer Report and Accounts, and they consider Group and the key challenges surrounding questions from shareholders.
that the Annual Report and Accounts its future strategic objectives.
One of the taken as a whole are fair, balanced and new Non-Executive Directors, Ralf K. The Company also communicates understandable.
The External Auditor has Wunderlich, undertook additional training regularly with its major institutional included a statement about their reporting to reinforce the key considerations that a shareholders and ensures that all the responsibilities in the Independent Auditors Non-Executive Director should be aware Directors, including the Non-Executive Report, set out on pages 182 to 190. of in relation to the role and responsibilities Directors, understand the views and for a UK public limited company.
concerns of major shareholders, and The Directors are also responsible for the can explain business developments publication of half year results, as required All Directors have access to the advice and financial results as appropriate.
by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and services of the Company Secretary The Chief Executive, Group Finance of the Financial Conduct Authority.
This & General Counsel, and for the year under Director and Investor Relations Director provides a general description of the review, his advice was sought in relation to have primary responsibility for investor financial position and performance share dealings.
In the furtherance of their relations.
Presentations for analysts and of the Company and the Group during duties, there are agreed procedures for the shareholders were held during the year, the relevant period.
Directors to take independent professional and meetings were also undertaken advice, if necessary, at the Companys with key institutional investors to discuss Directors and Officers insurance expense.
No Director took independent strategy, financial performance and In accordance with the Companys professional advice during the year.
Slide presentations Articles of Association, and to the extent are made immediately available after permitted by the laws of England and Shareholder communications the full and half year results, and are Wales, the Directors are granted an The Board recognises the importance also available on the Companys website indemnity from the Company in respect of effective communication, and seeks to view and download.
The Company of those liabilities incurred as a result to maintain open and transparent ensures that any price-sensitive information of their office.
During the year, the Deed relationships with its shareholders and is released to all shareholders at the of Indemnity was reviewed and updated other stakeholders, including providers same time, in accordance with regulatory to take into consideration current best of finance, customers and suppliers.
practice and changes to the applicable is achieved by regular updates through legislation since the Deed was originally public announcements, the corporate Board roles drafted.
In respect of those matters for website and other published material.
The SID, currently Terry Twigger, can be which the Directors may not be indemnified, contacted via the Companys registered the Company maintained a Directors and All shareholders can meet any of the office.
In that role, he is available to Officers Liability Insurance policy throughout Directors of the Company should they so shareholders to discuss and develop the year.
It is anticipated this policy will wish.
In particular, the SID is available to an understanding of their issues and be renewed.
Neither the Companys shareholders should they have concerns any concerns which cannot be resolved indemnity, nor the insurance provides cover, or wish to share their views.
Feedback from by discussions with the Chairman, the to the extent that a Director is proven to meetings with shareholders is provided to Chief Executive or Group Finance Director, have acted dishonestly or fraudulently.
the Board so they are aware of any issues or where such contact is inappropriate.
or concerns, and ensures that the Board has a balanced view from the major Terry will retire as a Director following the investors.
Additionally, the Board uses 2018 AGM.
Tommy Breen will be appointed the AGM as an occasion to communicate as the SID from that date subject to his with all shareholders, including private re-election as a Director at the 2018 AGM.
investors, who are provided with the opportunity to question the Directors.
At the AGM, the level of proxy votes 71 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | WWW.
COM DIRECTORS REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Internal controls The Audit Committee is committed to a Policies and procedure which are subject In accordance with the Code, the Board prioritised and structured programme to to ongoing review and updated as required acknowledges its overall responsibility to drive improvements in the effectiveness in response to strategic, operational, shareholders to ensure that an adequate of the internal audit function through business, legal or regulatory developments, system of risk management and internal better engagement with the businesses with the approval of the Board or its control is in place.
This is essential for and further reduce the risk of error, fraud respective Committees as appropriate reliable financial reporting and also for or poor practice.
Template agendas for are communicated across the Group.
the effective management of the Group.
Divisional Boards have been implemented The improvement initiatives for Essentras which ensures that a structured and internal controls are designed to ensure Overseeing the effectiveness of the system detailed approach is adopted in reviewing significant risks, investment decisions has been delegated to the Audit governance, strategy and performance and management issues are identified, Committee, which assesses the quality of reviews.
It is anticipated that this should considered and escalated as necessary the control environment when monitoring deliver greater visibility on potential at the earliest opportunity.
Divisional and reviewing the integrity of the Groups internal control concerns or process Managing Directors and Presidents Financial Statements, and any significant gaps and drive appropriate executive are responsible for ensuring the judgements that were made in their and management responses on a communication of, and compliance preparation.
Essentras internal controls risk-based approach.
with, Essentras internal controls across are designed to safeguard the Companys their respective businesses.
assets, and to ensure the integrity and The following enables the Board to reliability of information used both review the effectiveness of the system Control of significant risks within the businesses and for public of internal control: The Boards responsibility for risk and risk announcements.
The Board has overall management in Essentra encompasses: responsibility for the Companys system The Audit Committee meets regularly of internal control and risk management, and reports to the Board, no less Determining the Companys approach and for reviewing the effectiveness of frequently than at every Board meeting to risk this system.
Such a system can only be following an Audit Committee meeting Setting and instilling the appropriate designed to mitigate, rather than The terms of reference provide a culture throughout the Company eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve framework for the Audit Committee to business objectives, and can therefore Identifying the risks inherent in the review and oversee the quality, integrity, only provide reasonable, and not absolute, Companys business model and appropriateness and effectiveness of assurance against material misstatement strategy, including risks from the Groups internal control framework or loss.
external factors The Board has the opportunity to review Monitoring the Companys exposure In order to strengthen the Companys the internal control environment at local to risk and the key risks that could internal control systems, and in sites when Board meetings are held undermine its strategy, reputation accordance with the implementation of away from the Companys head office or long-term viability the Governance Improvement Programme Every month, each division submits a number of actions have been put in Providing an effective oversight of detailed operating and financial reports place which should serve to ensure a clear the risk management processes in covering all aspects of performance.
focus by the executive management team the Company These are reviewed within the Groups on the key requirements for effective central Finance function, and summary Ensuring the Company has effective internal control and appropriate reporting reports are communicated to the GMC crisis management systems and monitoring.
and the Board There is a Group risk framework in place The Audit Committee takes responsibility Certificates are required from the to support the Board in fulfilling these for reviewing the Essentra internal controls businesses to confirm compliance with responsibilities and to ensure that risk review through its engagement with the Group the Groups policies including financial processes are embedded within the business.
While Essentra has a and procedures at both the half year Further details of the Companys risk well-established internal audit function, and year end management framework and activities potential opportunities for improvements during 2017 are provided on pages in its effectiveness to drive a high quality 40 to 49. internal control system, to deliver value to the respective businesses and to support change management were identified.
