Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Introduction Audit Nominations Remuneration Responsibility & Board Committee Committee Committee of Directors Nominations Committee Role The Nominations Committee is responsible for: reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board and Management Board to ensure both have an appropriate balance ofskills, expertise, knowledge and for the Board independence: reviewing the succession plans for appointments to the Board and the Management Board, to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience: ensuring that the procedure for appointing Directors is rigorous, transparent, objective and merit-based, and has regard for diversity: Richard Burrows making recommendations to the Board on suitable candidates Chairman of forappointments to the Board and Management Board: and theNominations Committee assessing the time needed to fulfil the roles of Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Non-Executive Director, and ensuring Non-Executive Directors have sufficient time to fulfil their duties.
Key activities in 2017 reviewing: Nominations Committee current members Executive Directors 2017 performance assessment: Richard Burrows Chairman Savio Kwan Non-Executive Director appointments of LucJobin, Holly Keller Sue Farr Dr Pedro Malan Koeppel and Lionel Nowell, III, discussed further below: Ann Godbehere Lionel Nowell, III Board Committee appointments, including recommending to the Dr Marion Helmes Dimitri Panayotopoulos Board the appointment of Holly Keller Koeppel and Lionel Nowell, Luc Jobin Kieran Poynter III to the Audit Committee, the appointment of Luc Jobin to the Holly Keller Koeppel Remuneration Committee, and the appointment of each of them to the Nominations Committee, with effect from 2 October 2017 following their appointment as Non-Executive Directors: Attendance at meetings in 2017 Directors annual appointment and re-election at the AGM, Attended Eligible to attend discussed below: Name Member since Scheduled Ad hoc organisational changes to deliver the Groups strategic agenda, and Richard Burrows 2009 2 2 5 5 making recommendations to the Board to: 1 b Sue Farr 2015 2 2 4 5 appoint a new Chief Operating Officer for the Groups international Ann Godbehere 2011 2 2 5 5 business excluding the United States, a new Chief Marketing Dr Marion Helmes 2016 2 2 5 5 Officer, and to make the other Management Board appointments 2 b Luc Jobin 2017 0 0 2 2 discussed on page 59: and 2 b Holly Keller Koeppel 2017 0 0 2 2 reduce the number of Group Regions from four to three, and Savio Kwan 2014 2 2 5 5 1 c for each new Regional Director for the Groups international Dr Pedro Malan 2015 2 2 3 5 business to report to the Chief Operating Officer, with effect from 2 c Dr Gerry Murphy 20092017 1 1 2 2 1 January 2018: 2 b Lionel Nowell, III 2017 0 0 2 2 Dimitri Panayotopoulos 2015 2 2 5 5 the Nominations Committee effectiveness following the Board Kieran Poynter 2010 2 2 5 5 evaluation process, discussed further on pages 63 and 64: the Group Talent Strategy, talent development priorities and the key Notes: 1.
Number of meetings in 2017: a the Committee held seven meetings, five of which were programmes underpinning the Groups commitment to investment convened at short notice: b Sue Farr did not attend the November ad hoc meeting, convened in engaging, developing and retaining talent, including graduate at short notice, due to other commitments: and c Dr Pedro Malan did not attend the ad hoc recruitment initiatives: meetings in July and November, convened at short notice, due to other commitments.
Membership: a all members of the Committee are independent in accordance with Code diversity initiatives to further develop a diverse and gender-balanced Provision B.
2.1. : b Luc Jobin, Holly Keller Koeppel and Lionel Nowell, III became members of workplace, progress made in engaging, developing and retaining the Committee on 2 October 2017 following their appointment as Non-Executive Directors: a diverse talent pool, and consideration of the findings and and c Dr Gerry Murphy ceased to be a member of the Committee upon his retirement as recommendations of the Parker Review Committees Report into aNon-Executive Director on 26 April 2017.
Ethnic Diversity of UK Boards: 3.
Other attendees: the Chief Executive, Group Human Resources Director and Group Head of Talent & Organisation Effectiveness regularly attend meetings by invitation but are the results of the 2017 global Your Voice survey of employee not members.
opinion across the Group: For the Committees terms of reference see succession planning for the Board and for the Management Board, www.
com governance including to take account of the integration of RAI Companies and the Groups commitment to investing in the NGP portfolio: and the progress of bespoke development plans for candidates for Executive Director and Management Board roles covering the key experience required for further progression, mentoring and education opportunities.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 71 Directors Report Nominations Committee continued Board appointments Annual General Meeting 2018 The Committee is responsible for identifying candidates for positions Ann Godbehere and Dr Pedro Malan will be retiring from the Board at on the Board.
This process includes an evaluation of the skills and the conclusion of this years AGM on 25 April 2018.
Ms Godbehere has experience to be looked for in candidates to ensure continuing Board served as a Non-Executive Director since October 2011, and Dr Malan balance and relevant experience.
The selection process generally has served as a Non-Executive Director since February 2015. involves interviews with several candidates, using the services of The Company will be submitting all other eligible Directors for reindependent, specialist external search firms to identify and shortlist election and, in the case of LucJobin, Holly Keller Koeppel and Lionel appropriate candidates.
The Committee is also responsible for Nowell, III, election for the first time.
implementing the Board Diversity Policy and monitoring progress towards achievement of its objectives, discussed further on page 62.
Prior to making recommendations to the Board in respect of Directors submission for election or re-election as applicable, the Committee Following the acquisition of RAI, and pursuant to the Agreement carried out an assessment of each Non-Executive Director, including and Plan of Merger with RAI, the Board appointed three new their continued independence.
Non-Executive Directors, selected from a pool of Directors on the Board of RAI prior to acquisition.
In respect of the reappointment of Kieran Poynter, who will have served as a Non-Executive Director for just over seven years at the time The Committee identified LucJobin, Holly Keller Koeppel and Lionel of the 2018 AGM, the Committee conducted a particularly rigorous Nowell, III for appointment as Non-Executive Directors following review, taking into account his performance as the Senior Independent a rigorous assessment of the potential candidates skills, expertise, Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee, his annual experience, independence and consumer focus.
The Committee also performance review, and his record of full attendance at meetings of considered the candidates diversity of ethnicity, nationality, gender the Board and Committees to which he is appointed.
The performance and thinking styles, taking into account the principles now reflected in review conducted as part of the Board evaluation process is discussed the Board Diversity Policy, and undertook an assessment of the Boards on page 64. composition against peer company boards to identify areas for specific focus.
The Committee considered each of the candidates in detail, and The Committee concluded that Mr Poynter contributed strongly the Committee then proposed the recommended appointments to to Board and Board Committee debate, offered valuable insight the Board.
and constructive challenge, and continued to demonstrate his independence of thought and approach.
Accordingly, the Committee This selection process was supported by Egon Zehnder, an considered it appropriate to recommend Mr Poynters submission for independent executive search firm accredited under the Enhanced re-election to the Board.
Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms, including on gender diversity.
The Chairmans letter accompanying the AGM Notice confirms that all Directors being proposed for election or re-election as applicable are Board retirements in 2017 effective and that they continue to demonstrate commitment to their Dr Gerry Murphy retired as a Non-Executive Director of the Company roles as Non-Executive Directors.
with effect from the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 26 April 2017.
Terms of appointment to the Board Details of the Directors terms of appointment to the Board are contained in the Directors Remuneration Policy, which is set out in full in the Remuneration Report 2015, contained in the Annual Report for the year ended 2015 available at www.
The Executive Directors have rolling contracts of one year.
The NonExecutive Directors do not have service contracts with the Company but instead have letters of appointment for one year.
Their expected time commitment is 2530 days per year.
The Board considers the need for it to refresh its membership progressively over time.
Non-Executive Directors are normally expected to serve for up to six years, and any additional service beyond six years would be subject to rigorous review.
Further details of Director appointments and the Companys policy on payments for loss of office are outlined in the Summary of our Directors Remuneration Policy in the Remuneration Report.
72 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017
