DIRECTORS REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | WWW.
COM CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK Our Governance Improvement Board effectiveness The Boards understanding of the Programme is designed to ensure A high performing Board is a fundamental component parts of the business, as that there is an effective corporate component of any effective corporate well as the Boards oversight of strategy, governance framework, supported by governance framework, with continuous major projects and the main risks facing robust processes, procedures and improvement in the contribution of the the business controls, which by 2020, is aligned with Board being driven by a programme The delegation of authority from FTSE 250 upper quartile best practice.
of actions arising from a thorough, the Board to senior management, independent Board evaluation process alongside the Boards oversight of each year.
the performance of management In 2017, the Company engaged Lintstock The identification of the priorities for Ltd to facilitate an interview-driven review the new Chief Executive, as well as of the performance of the Board and each the priorities for improving the Boards of its Committees.
performance over the coming year The performance of each of the Board The first stage of the review involved Committees in fulfilling their mandates Lintstock engaging with the Chairman and the Company Secretary to set the Further to the completion of the context for the evaluation, and to tailor questionnaires, an action plan was survey content to the Companys specific drawn up which was and continues circumstances.
Board members were then to be regularly reviewed for progress at requested to complete an online questionnaire scheduled Board meetings.
The priority addressing the performance of the Board, items to address were identified as: its Committees and the Chairman, as well as their own individual contribution to Board dynamics increasing the the Board.
Boards engagement, support and ability to challenge the senior Lintstock subsequently conducted interviews management team with the Board members, enabling them to expand on their responses to the Board oversight ensuring clear questionnaire.
The anonymity of all agendas and annual cycle of reviews respondents was ensured throughout the to facilitate appropriate steering and process, in order to promote the open and supervising focus on key issues frank exchange of views.
Board support improving quality, content and timeliness of materials Lintstock presented their report during submitted to Board a meeting of the Board, addressing the following areas: Essentra has engaged Lintstock to conduct a follow-up review in early 2018, The current composition of the Board, in order to review the progress made since and any particular considerations this initial exercise.
The findings of the relevant to any potential new Director detailed review will be presented to the appointments Board by Lintstock.
The management of Board and Committee meetings, including the quality of the Board and Committee meeting packs The Boards relationships with, and exposure to, management both inside and outside the boardroom 65 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | WWW.
COM DIRECTORS REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK The Board The Audit Committee supports the The Group Management Committee Board and is responsible for: monitoring GMC provides general executive The Boards role is to provide leadership the integrity of the Companys Financial management of Essentra within agreed to the Company and to be responsible Statements: reviewing, challenging and delegated authority limits determined to the shareholders for the long-term approving its accounting policies: and by the Board of Directors.
Specifically, the success of the Company.
scrutinising the effectiveness of the GMC will support the Chief Executive in internal and external auditors and reinforcing Essentras six principles.
In fulfilling its role, the Board: the Companys internal control and risk management systems.
The Group Risk Committee GRC Sets, continually reviews and tests is responsible for monitoring principal the Companys strategic aims The Remuneration Committee is and key group risks, and ensuring the established by the Board and is responsible effectiveness of divisional and functional Determines the nature and extent for setting a remuneration policy risk management.
Further details of the of acceptable risks in achieving the for Directors and senior executives, Companys risk management framework Companys strategic objectives which should be designed to promote can be found on page 40.
Oversees the establishment of formal the long-term success of the Company, and transparent arrangements for taking into consideration shareholders Divisional Boards operate within the application of corporate reporting, and other stakeholders.
The Remuneration a mandated agenda, which includes, risk management and internal control Committee should determine an health and safety, governance, strategy requirements and principles appropriate balance between fixed and and performance.
performance-related and immediate and Ensures that the necessary financial deferred remuneration.
The Remuneration and human resources are in place for Committee is also responsible for setting the Company to meet its objectives the fees of the Chairman.
Sets the Companys values and standards The Nomination Committee is Reviews the performance of the responsible for regularly reviewing the Companys executive management structure, size and composition of the Presents a fair, balanced and Board for any changes that it considers understandable assessment of the to be appropriate.
The Nomination Companys position and prospects Committee will lead the process to its shareholders for board appointments and make recommendations to the Board.
In Some matters are reserved exclusively selecting and recommending candidates for decision by the Board, while others for appointment, the Nomination are delegated to the Board Committees Committee should evaluate the balance as follows: of skills, experience, independence knowledge and diversity on the Board and the future challenges and opportunities facing the Company.
The terms of reference for each of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committee can be found on the Companys website www.
com or on request from the Company Secretary & General Counsel.
