Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Introduction Audit Nominations Remuneration Responsibility & Board Committee Committee Committee of Directors Leadership and effectiveness Governance framework The Board The Board is collectively responsible to shareholders of the Company for its performance and for the Groups strategic direction, its values and its governance.
It provides the leadership necessary for the Group to meet its performance objectives within a robust framework of internal controls.
Board responsibilities: Board programme Group strategy.
The Board has a comprehensive annual programme of meetings to monitor and review the Groups strategy across all the elements Significant corporate activities.
Risk management and of the Groups business model.
The key activities of the Board in internal control.
2017, grouped under the Groups four strategy pillars of Growth, Annual Report approval.
Productivity, Sustainability and Winning Organisation, are detailed Periodic financial reporting.
The Boards strategic priorities for 2017 are Dividend policy.
identified within the key performance indicators set out in our Strategic Report on pages 10 and 11.
Board Committees The Board has three principal Board Committees to which it has The Board devotes considerable attention to Group Corporate delegated certain responsibilities.
The roles, memberships and Governance, including internal control and compliance issues.
activities of these Committees are described in their individual reports It receives verbal updates from the Chairmen of all Committees in this section.
Each Committee has its own terms of reference, following each Committee meeting.
Copies of the minutes of available at www.
com governance, which are reviewed and allCommittees are circulated to all members of the Board.
updated regularly, most recently with effect from July 2017 to reflect US governance requirements following the acquisition of RAI, which Audit Nominations Remuneration resulted in a number of changes to the terms of reference of the Committee Committee Committee Audit Committee.
page 65 page 71 page 73 Leadership roles and responsibilities Management Board Leadership The Management Board, chaired by the Chief Executive, Chairman Chief Executive isresponsible for overseeing the implementation of the Groups Leadership of the Board.
Overall responsibility for strategy and policies set by the Board, and for creating the framework Groupperformance.
for the day-to-day operation of the Groups operating subsidiaries.
Its other members comprise the Finance Director and 11senior Enables planning and execution Interfaces with shareholders.
Group executives whose names and roles are described onpage 58. ofobjectives and strategies.
Ensures effective shareholder An organisational restructuring, from four to three regions, has Stewardship of Group assets.
resulted in the following changes to the Management Board: Jack Bowles, Regional Director, ASPAC, was appointed to the newly Oversight created role of Chief Operating Officer for the International Business Non-Executive Directors NEDs Senior Independent Director SID excluding the United States with effect from 1 October 2017.
Leads review of Chairmans performance.
Andrew Gray, Director, Marketing, was appointed to the Presides at Board in Chairmans Monitor Group performance.
newly created role of Chief Marketing Officer with effect from absence.
Bring an external perspective and Intermediary for other Directors.
effective challenge to the Board.
Ricardo Oberlander, Regional Director, Americas, was appointed to Available to meet with major the role of President and CEO, RAI, with effect from 1 January 2018, shareholders.
following the departure of Debra Crew, the previous incumbent.
Management Board All of the above roles report directly to the Chief Executive.
Develops Group strategy for Tobacco Ensures Group, regional and Regional Director responsibilities were reorganised as follows, with Products and NGPs for approval by functional strategies and resources effect from 1 January 2018: the Board.
Monitors Group operating Manages the central functions.
Kingsley Wheaton, Managing Director, Next Generation Products, performance.
Oversees the management and was appointed Regional Director, Americas and Sub-Saharan Africa.
Tadeu Marroco, Regional Director, Western Europe, was appointed Regional Director, Europe and North Africa.
Johan Vandermeulen, Regional Director, EEMEA, was appointed Regional Director, Asia-Pacific and Middle East.
All of the above roles report directly to the Chief Operating Officer.
The new structure enables more integrated resource allocation anddecision making across geographies and categories.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 59
