CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance reviewing and approving business plans Compliance with the UK and budgets: Corporate Governance Code Dominos Pizza Group plc the Company reviewing and approving major is incorporated and has a premium listing in businessdecisions: theUK.
As a result, it is required to report on reviewing major risks and the its compliance with the Code or explain implementation of mitigation strategies: why ithas chosen not to comply.
For the reviewing the functioning of the internal year ended 31 December 2017, it was subject control environment: to the edition of the Code published by the Financial Reporting Council in April 2016, monitoring operational and trading results CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION which is available from www.
against previously approved plans: I am pleased to introduce the review The Company complied with Code in full reviewing and approving significant ofcorporate governance for 2017. throughout the year.
contractual and other commitments, Effective corporate governance including capital expenditure: The Code contains 18 main principles, which arrangements are critical in ensuring are expanded on in supporting principles reviewing corporate thatthe Board is able to: and detailed provisions.
Together, these set : out the key components of effective Board direct and control the Group: reviewing succession plans for the practice, and we explain in this report how provide strategic leadership and BoardandExecutive Directors: and we have applied these during the year.
effective oversight: and exercising its control by an annual Where appropriate, some explanations are maintain a framework within which reviewof matters reserved for the contained in the Nomination Committee the Executive leadership team can Boards decision.
report, the Audit Committee report, the conduct its daytoday operational Directors remuneration report and the As noted above, the Board is responsible management of the business.
fordetermining the nature and extent of We are committed to maintaining theprincipal risks it is willing to take Within the delegation framework described agovernance framework that is inachieving its strategic objectives.
above, the Board retains certain key appropriate to the business and Italsoretains oversight of the risk decisionmaking responsibilities: supports effective decision making management and internal control systems setting and approving overall coupled with robust oversight of with the aim that these are sound and Groupstrategy: risksand internal controls.
setting a risk appetite, within which The Board works with Executive management is required to operate: management to define and refine theGroups values and to promote behaviours which contribute to a culture focused on the longterm success of the business.
Our aim is to maintain a sustainable The Board is supported in its work by threeCommittees: business model which creates value for shareholders and benefits the Groups wider stakeholders.
The Board receives regular updates on THE BOARD emerging trends in corporate governance best practice and welcomes the FRCs current review of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
During 2018 we will be reviewing our existing governance framework in lightof the revisions to the Code once it ispublished.
NOMINATION REMUNERATION AUDIT COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE The following report sets out the how the Board has applied the principles ofgood governance during the year.
Audit Committee report Nomination Committee report Directors remuneration report page 43 page 42 page 46 Stephen Hemsley Non-executive Chairman Terms of reference for these Committees, which are regularly reviewed by the Board, are 7 March 2018 available on the Companys investor relations website http: investors.
co. uk asis the formal schedule of matters reserved for the Boards decision.
36 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Audit Committee Independence Leadership our The Audit Committee assists the The Board reviews the independence of its governanceframework Boardindischarging its responsibilities nonexecutive Directors annually.
In assessing The Company is led by the Board, whose forthe integrity of the financial statements, the independence of each Director, the members are collectively responsible for reviewing the internal control environment Board considers whether each is independent the longterm success of the Company.
and risk management systems, managing the in character and judgement and whether Daytoday management of the business is relationship with the external auditor and there are relationships or circumstances delegated to management, led by the Chief monitoring the effectiveness and objectivity which are likely to affect, or could appear Executive Officer.
The role of the Board can of the external and internal auditors.
to affect, the Directors judgement.
be summarised as follows: Nomination Committee Board roles and responsibilities Decide on the longer-term aims The Nomination Committee oversees There is a clear separation between theroles Agree the Companys business model.
therecruitment of the Directors and of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Agree an appetite for risk.
advises on mattersrelating to the Boards Officer, which is recorded in adocument membership and Committee appointments, approved by the Board in September 2015 Set values and standards for the Company.
Inessence, the Provide entrepreneurial leadership.
TheNomination Committee also regularly Chairman manages the Board and the Appoint the Executive Directors.
reviews and monitors the overall skills ChiefExecutive Officer manages the andexperience of the Board.
Importantly, no one individual Decide on the short-term goals has unfettered powers of decision.
Review and approve strategy, providing Remuneration Committee constructive challenge as necessary.
The Remuneration Committee determines The Chairman meets with the Chief the terms and conditions of employment, Executive Officer at least once a month, Ensure the necessary financial and remuneration and rewards of the Executive including visits to pizza stores, and they human resources are in place.
Directors, the Chairman and the leadership arein contact between these occasions as Agree business plans and budgets.
The Remuneration Committee aims required.
The Chairman also has separate Review the risk management process to offer an appropriate balance of fixed and discussions with the nonexecutive Directors.
performancerelated, immediate and deferred Chairman remuneration, but without overpaying or Monitor and manage performance The role of the Chairman is: creating the risk of rewards for failure.
Monitor managements performance providing leadership to and ensuring indelivering the strategy, and challenge Board composition theeffectiveness of the Board: or support as necessary.
The Boards preferred structure is to be ensuring that agendas emphasise ledby a nonexecutive Chairman, to have Approve major expenditure strategic, rather than routine, issues high calibre Executive Directors to drive andothercommitments.
andthat the Directors receive accurate the performance of the business under the Monitor the risk environment in which and clear information well ahead of the leadership of a Chief Executive Officer, and theCompany operates and review time when a decision is required: to have a number of nonexecutive Directors internalcontrols.
drawn from a range of backgrounds, whose promoting a culture of openness and role is to provide constructive challenge.
Determine the remuneration of Executive constructive debate, and facilitating Our aim is that the independent nonexecutive Directors and senior management.
aneffective contribution by the Directors always constitute at least half of nonexecutive Directors: Oversee the governance of the Company the Board.
This structure and the integrity and Group to ensure shareholders interests arranging informal meetings of the of the individual Directors should ensure are protected.
Directors, including meetings of the that no single individual or group dominates nonexecutive Directors: the decisionmaking process.
There is a Report to, and engage with, shareholders ensuring effective communication common purpose of promoting the overall Monitor the integrity of financial bytheGroup with its shareholders: success of the Group with a unified vision information and the reporting of of the definition of success, the core strategic performance generally.
arranging for the Chairs of the Committees principles, and the understanding, alignment to be available to answer questions at the Report to shareholders on and mitigation of risk.
AGM and for all Directors to attend: and businessperformance.
taking the lead in providing a properly Nonexecutive Directors are appointed Ensure other external obligations constructed, full, formal and tailored forthreeyear terms subject to annual aremet, including reporting to induction programme and ongoing reelection by shareholders and the offer otherstakeholders.
of any further term of appointment after Understand shareholders views year six would be weighed carefully by the andactas necessary.
Nomination Committee, which keeps the need for progressive refreshing of the Board particularly to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience and orderly succession to key appointments under continual review.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Dominos Pizza Group plc 37 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance continued Leadership our governance Board composition framework continued The eight continuing members of the Boardon 31 December 2017 were drawn from a Board roles and responsibilities continued range of backgrounds and gained their experience in a range of relevant industry sectors: Chief Executive Officer The role of the Chief Executive Officer is: PROFESSIONAL SKILLS PRIMARY EXPERIENCE GENDER BALANCE leading the development of the Groups strategic direction and objectives: identifying and executing acquisitions and disposals and leading geographic diversification initiatives: reviewing the Groups organisational ACCOUNTING 3 CONSUMER RETAIL 4 MALE 6 structure and recommending changes RETAIL MANAGEMENT 4 FOOD RETAIL 3 FEMALE 2 asappropriate: MARKETING 1 PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 1 identifying and executing new : overseeing risk management protecting shareholder The current nonexecutive Directors andinternalcontrol: : tenure reflects our approach of progressively refreshing the Board.
managing the Groups risk profile, constructively challenging the including the health and safety ExecutiveDirectors and monitoring CURRENT YEAR OF NON-EXECUTIVE performance of the Group: Executive performance: TENURE, AT31 DECEMBER 2017 implementing the decisions of the Board supporting the Executive team in and its Committees: shapingand delivering the strategic 2 Colin Halpern goalsof the business: building and maintaining an effective 10 Group leadership team: and optimising shareholder return and 1 Stephen Hemsley protection of shareholder assets: and ensuring the Chairman and the Board 8 arealerted to forthcoming complex, ensuring the Board is able to work contentious or sensitive issues Helen Keays together effectively and make affectingthe Group.
6 Senior Independent Director SID Ebbe Jacobsen Diversity The SID focuses on: The Boards policy on diversity is explained 4 in the Nomination Committee report on meeting regularly with the independent Kevin Higgins page 42. nonexecutive Directors: 4 providing a sounding board for the Leadership in action Steve Barber Chairman and acting as an intermediary This section of the corporate governance 3 forotherDirectors: report explains how the Board has fulfilled being available to shareholders if they its duties and obligations during the year have concerns which contact through under review.
1 Stephen Hemsley was appointed as nonexecutive the normal channels of Chairman or Chairman in March 2010.
However, he was first Chief Executive Officer has failed to Board membership appointed to an Executive Director role in 1998 address or would be inappropriate: and and as a Director of the Company on incorporation The Board currently comprises the in 1999.
Full details of Stephens history with nonexecutive Chairman, the Chief holding annual meetings with the Company can be found in the Directors Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, nonexecutive Directors without biographies on page 34. a nonexecutive ViceChairman and four theChairman present.
2 Colin Halpern acquired the Dominos Pizza Master independent nonexecutive Directors, one of Franchise for the UK and Ireland in 1993 and whom acts as the SeniorIndependent Director.
Non-executive Director has held a variety of senior Executive roles The names and biographical details of the The role of a nonexecutive Director is: within the Group.
He became a nonexecutive serving Directors, and the offices held by providing creative contribution to the Director in December 2007.
Full details of Colins them, can be found on pages 34 and 35. history with the Company can be found in the Board by way of constructive criticism: Directors biographies on page 34.
We believe that the Board is of sufficient bringing independence, impartiality, size that the requirements of the business experience, specialist knowledge and and good governance can be met and adifferent perspective to the Board: normal succession challenges managed, providing guidance on matters but is not so large as to be unwieldy.
ofconcern and strategy: overseeing risk management andinternalcontrol: 38 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independence Board Committees The Board has considered the independence Membership of the three Board Committees during the year ended 31 December 2017 of the current nonexecutive Directors, was as follows: other than the Chairman.
It does not believe that Colin Halpern is independent in view of Audit Nomination Remuneration Committee Committee Committee his long service with the Company including his former Executive responsibilities.
Stephen Hemsley Chairman Colin Halpern Board balance David Wild The Board composition creates a majority Rachel Osborne ofindependent nonexecutive Directors Steve Barber Chairman Member excluding the Chairman, with the current position being: Kevin Higgins Member Chairman Ebbe Jacobsen Member Helen Keays Member Member Member BOARD BALANCE Attendance at Board and Committee meetings The Board is scheduled to meet seven times in each year.
Additional meetings are arranged as necessary which do not necessarily require the full participation of all Directors.
Committees meet as necessary to discharge their duties.
Attendance of NON-INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS 3 Colin Halpern individual Directors at meetings of the Board including additional meetings and its David Wild Committees during the year ended 31 December 2017 was as follows: Rachel Osborne Audit Nomination Remuneration CHAIRMAN 1 Board Committee Committee Committee Stephen Hemsley Stephen Hemsley 10 of 10 3 of 3 INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 4 Colin Halpern 10 of 10 Steve Barber David Wild 10 of 10 Kevin Higgins Rachel Osborne 10 of 10 Ebbe Jacobsen Helen Keays 1 Steve Barber 9 of 10 4 of 4 3 of 3 Kevin Higgins 10 of 10 4 of 4 3 of 3 Senior Independent Director Ebbe Jacobsen 10 of 10 3 of 3 Helen Keays was appointed the Senior 1,2 Helen Keays 8 of 10 4 of 4 3 of 3 2 of 3 Independent Director on 20 April 2016.
1 All Directors attended the scheduled Board meetings apart from Helen Keays who was unable Board effectiveness to attend one scheduled meeting due to a prior commitment.
There were three unscheduled We believe that there are five key steps Board meetings held during the year and some of the Directors were not available for all of increating an effective Board: these unscheduled meetings due to other diary commitments.
2 Helen Keays did not attend one Remuneration Committee meeting due to a prior commitment.
Recruit the right people We have a formal, rigorous and transparent Each nonexecutive Director has committed to the Company that they are able to allocate procedure for the appointment of new sufficient time to the Company to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
Any Directors to the Board, overseen by additional appointments they are contemplating taking on are discussed withthe theNomination Committee.
For each Chairman in advance, including the likely time commitment and whether these could appointment, we develop an objective in any way constitute a conflict of interest.
These matters are formally reviewed by the briefsummarising the role and the skills Board on an annual basis.
and experience required and use an appropriate headhunting firm with proven Meetings of Non-Executive Directors expertise in the relevant field.
As noted The nonexecutive Directors, led by the Chairman, meet without the Executive Directors above, we take care to ensure that we being present.
In addition, the independent nonexecutive Directors, led by the SID, recruit on merit, from the widest possible meet during the year as needed, including to review the performance of theChairman.
range of backgrounds, recognising the benefits of diversity, and the search firms we use are signatories to the Code of Conduct for executive search firms.
Before confirming an appointment, we check whether the preferred individual can commit to the timeexpected including, in the case of an appointment to the chairmanship, the need to be available in the event of a crisis.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Dominos Pizza Group plc 39 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance continued Board effectiveness continued Progress against the areas of focus reported in the 2016 Corporate Governance report 2.
Make sure Directors have the right tools are shown below: All Directors go through a tailored, formal induction process on joining the Board, 2016 areas of focus Progress made in 2017 including the opportunity to meet major Making changes to the strategic Improvements to the strategic shareholders.
The aim of this is to ensure development process.
development framework have been that they understand the Company and its made during the year.
business model, our strategy, the drivers Improving the content of Board packs and A Board Portal has been implemented ofvalue in the business and the key risks the dissemination of information to the Board.
during the year together with we face, and that they understand the legal improvements in the structure of and regulatory environment in which we Boardpapers and Board packs.
operate and their own personal obligations.
Directors are expected to update and refresh Arranging greater interaction of the The Board calendar includes sessions their skills and knowledge on an ongoing nonexecutive Directors with the for nonexecutive Directors to meet with basis, and to continue to build their familiarity widermanagement team and senior management and nonexecutive with the Company and its business employeecommunity.
Directors are encouraged to meet with throughout their tenure.
The Company management outside of formal willprovide the necessary resources for Boardmeetings.
developing and updating its Directors Increasing focus on Executive succession The Nomination Committee is now knowledge and capabilities, including access planning and talent management.
receiving updates on talent to our operations, staff and franchisees.
All Directors have access to the services of Ensuring that management continues to Improvements have been to risk the Company Secretary, and the opportunity embed the risk framework throughout management systems within to seek independent professional advice at theorganisation.
the Companys expense where they judge Increasing oversight of the internal Reporting on the Groups internal it necessary to discharge their responsibilities controlframework.
control framework has been enhanced.
as Directors or as members of Board Committees.
If Directors have concerns Making changes to the Boards meeting Enhancements have been made to the which cannot be resolved about the running calendar to make the most effective use of Boards annual calendar.
of the Company or a proposed action, they Board time during both formal and informal can require that their concerns are recorded Board meetings and nonexecutive in the Board minutes, or provide a written Directors meetings.
statement to the Chairman, for circulation to the Board.
Executive Directors are permitted, and Individual evaluation aims to determine The Board is supplied with information in a where felt appropriate even encouraged, whether each Director continues to form and of a quality appropriate to enable tohold nonexecutive directorships outside contribute effectively and to demonstrate it to discharge its duties effectively.
However, the Board would not commitment to the role including provided in good time ahead of all meetings agree to a fulltime Executive Director commitment of time for Board and and decisions, and nonexecutive Directors taking on more than one nonexecutive Committee meetings and any other duties.
are encouraged to seek clarification from directorship in, nor thechairmanship of, In 2017 the Board evaluation process was management whenever they feel appropriate.
undertaken inhouse and facilitated by the 3.
Identify and manage any conflicts 4.
Formally check on effectiveness Company Secretary in conjunction with the ofinterest The Board undertakes a formal and Chairman.
Following discussions with the Directors have a statutory duty to avoid rigorous annual evaluation of its own Board, a structured evaluation analysis of actual or potential conflicts of interest.
It also reviews performance during the year was compiled However, the Companys Articles of the performance of the Board Committees and presented to the Board for formal Association allow the Board to authorise and the Nomination Committee reviews discussion.
The evaluation methodology conflicts, where felt appropriate.
Any the performance of individual Directors.
isthematic focusing on: Director who becomes aware that he or Board and Committee evaluation considers board composition, succession and she is in a situation which does or could the balance of skills, experience including talent management: create a conflict of interest, or has an familiarity with the Company and its board dynamics and development: interest in an existing or proposed transaction business and independence of the Group in which the Company also has an interest, taken as a whole, and also the diversity, meeting management and board agenda: is required to notify the Board in writing including gender, of the Directors.
The strategic development: and assoon as possible.
The interests of process also examines how the Directors internal control and risk.
newDirectors are reviewed during the work together as a unit, and explores other recruitment process and authorised if factors relevant to effectiveness.
The The 2017 evaluation process focused on the appropriate by the Board at the time of Chairman acts on the results of the progress made during the year against the their appointment.
performance evaluations as necessary findings of the previous years externally including, where appropriate, proposing facilitated Board evaluation and identified new members be appointed to the Board or areas of continued focus for the forthcoming seeking the resignation of Directors.
year as part of the Boards ongoing process of enhancing governance.
40 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Chairman reviewed the performance In addition to our results presentations Relations with shareholders of the individual Directors, and the Senior for the full year and interim results, we We maintain an active dialogue with our Independent Director undertook a review also hosted conference calls for our Q3 shareholders and potential investors, of the Chairmans performance, providing trading update in October 2017 and the whichwe intend to be based on a mutual feedback to him.
acquisition of an increased stake in understanding of objectives.
The CEO Dominos Iceland in December 2017. andCFO routinely engage with analysts, The agreed principal areas of activity for institutional and retail shareholders and 2018 include: One of the outcomes of this increased potential investors, through results activity is that we have seen a significant further progress on the Groups presentations, roadshows and oneoff change in our shareholder base.
At the end succession planning systems for meetings.
The Chairman and Senior of 2017, around 56% of our shares were theBoard andmanagement: Independent Director are available for owned by investors based in North America meetings with shareholders on request.
increased focus on the corporate up from around 43% at the startof the year.
culture: and In years in which there is a significant Key discussion topics in 2017 ensuring that recent progress in improving change to the Executive remuneration policy The key topics discussed with shareholders risk management and internal controls or there is a binding vote on remuneration during 2017 included: ismaintained.
at the AGM, the Chairman, the Chair of the Remuneration Committee and the Company the competitive environment in the 5.
Ask shareholders to confirmappointments Secretary meet with major shareholders to United Kingdom, particularly with respect Ultimately, the Directors main responsibility discuss remuneration and any other to the rising popularity of online aggregators: is to promote the longterm success of the governance issues.
franchisee profitability and the outlook Company, acting in shareholders best for new store openings: interests.
All of our Directors submit Our aim is to ensure we build and themselves for reelection at each AGM maintainstrong relationships, and that the broader UK consumer environment and we provide shareholders with sufficient wecommunicate our strategy and and the value perception of Dominos pizza: information in the meeting papers for them performance against it in a clear and our investments in our own stores to decide whether their commitment and consistent way.
In turn, we seek to andinsupply chain capacity: performance warrant a further year in office.
understand the views of our investors international growth prospects: and At the 2017 AGM, each serving Director through regular dialogue, and feedback was reelected, with votes in favour isprovided to the Board as a whole to our target leverage ratio and the exceeding 97% of those cast in all cases.
givean additional context for strategic potential for returns of excess capital decision making and capital allocation.
Accountability to shareholders The regular CFO report to the Board The AGM The Board has established formal and includes a detailed update on all investor The AGM is treated as an opportunity to transparent arrangements for considering relations matters, including movements communicate with all of our shareholders, how they apply the principles of sound inthe share register, recent meetings with and their participation is encouraged.
corporate reporting, risk management and investors, summaries of analysts reports TheChairs of all Board Committees attend internal control and how the Company and and key discussion topics.
In addition, the AGM and are available to answer Board maintain an appropriate relationship ourbrokers are invited to provide an questions.
An explanatory circular containing with the Companys auditor.
These independent view on matters of strategic the notice of meeting is sent to shareholders responsibilities are overseen by the Audit importance such as potential acquisitions at least 20 working days beforehand, with Committee and are explained in its report and share buybacks.
separate votes being offered on each from page 43 onwards.
All proxy votes received 2017 IR activity are counted with the balance for and against The Board considers that the 2017 Annual Over the last 18 months we have increased and any votes withheld announced at the Report & Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, our commitment to our investor relations meeting and published on the Companys balanced and understandable and provides programme in a number of ways: investor relations website after the meeting.
the information necessary for shareholders This website, http: investors.
co. uk, to assess the Companys position and In November 2016 we hosted a Capital also contains a host of uptodate performance, business model and strategy.
In addition to presentations information on the Group.
Details of how we do this are also explained from the CEO and CFO, investors and in the Audit Committees report.
analysts had the opportunity to hear other members of the leadership team present in detail about growth opportunities, Remuneration property, technology and other key topics.
There are formal and transparent procedures for developing policy on Early in 2017 we appointed a dedicated Executive remuneration and for fixing Head of IR for the first time, whose theremuneration packages of individual responsibility is to develop a broad Directors, which are overseen by the shareholder communications strategy Remuneration Committee and are explained while ensuring a responsive, fair and in its report from page 46 onwards.
This transparent service to all investors report explains how Executive Directors andanalysts.
remuneration is designed to promote the We spent more time on results roadshows longterm success of the Company and and at investor conferences than in shows how the performancerelated previous years, including over 20 days elements are transparent, stretching seeing investors in the UK, ten days in andrigorously applied.
the US and four days at conferences.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Dominos Pizza Group plc 41
