STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Audit Committee report Steve Barber is a chartered accountant with the accounting for and valuation of considerable experience and the Board theput options granted to third party hasdetermined he has recent and relevant shareholders in the Groups investments financial experience which qualifies him in Iceland, Norway, Sweden and London tochair the Audit Committee.
Both Kevin corporate stores the Group has recognised Higgins and Helen Keays have considerable liabilities of 40.3m in respect of these business experience which enables them options, representing the estimated present tomake a positive contribution to the Audit value of the expected cash consideration Committee.
The Board is satisfied that, as to be paid upon exercise.
The Committee awhole, the Committee has competence reviewed the assumptions underlying the CHAIR relevant to the sector in which it operates.
calculations and consider the provisions Steve Barber to be appropriate.
Meetings of the Audit Committee have been attended by the Chairman of the the valuation of the Market Access Fee Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the receivable from the majority owner of MEMBERS Chief Financial Officer, the external auditor, the groups German associate together the Company Secretary asSecretary to with the accounting treatment for the Audit Committee andother Directors conversion costs by the German and members of management by invitation.
associate in 2016 the Committee The number of meetings held in the year received a thirdparty valuation of the and attendance at those meetings is shown market access fee and managements on page 39. assessment of the quantum and treatment of the conversion costs: see note 29 for The Audit Committee has direct access more details.
The Committee received Kevin Higgins tomembers of management and the an updated assessment of the fair value external auditor.
It is able to seek further of the Market Access Fee and the professional advice at the Companys treatment of residual conversion costs costif deemed necessary.
from management as at the period end, The Committee continues to consider Significant accounting issues the underlying assumptions in both the The Audit Committees reviews of the half valuation and the treatment of conversion and full year financial statements focused costs to be reasonable, supported by the on the following areas of significance: performance of the German business.
Helen Keays the recognition and amount of a the acquisition of controlling interests potential liability in respect of in Iceland, Norway and Sweden employee share schemes as explained theaccounting for these business in last years report, no provision had combinations achieved in stages was previously been made in respect of any complex and required consideration of potential liability in respect of certain when control was secured by the Group share based compensation arrangements.
and the valuation ofthe consideration This was based upon advice received paid and assets andliabilities acquired.
from the groups tax advisors.
As more The Committee received reports from fully explained in note 2 to the financial management outlining the key statements, the board received updated accounting assumptions which were legal advice during the year which has reviewed and approved.
guided the board to make a provision of the carrying value of goodwill and 11.0m in respect of these share schemes.
other intangible assets with a net The committee and management met book value of 114.2m, following the with the legal advisors and the external significant increase in the year arising auditors and were satisfied that the from acquisitions, goodwill and intangible provision represents the current best assets now make up the mostsignificant estimate and considered the related proportion of the Groups assets.
No benefit has Committee reviewed projections for the been assumed in respect of the indemnities relevant businesses and was satisfied that from the beneficiaries of these schemes no impairments were considered necessary.
in view of the uncertainty of recovery and the potentially protracted period over the classification of non-underlying which any claims may be settled.
items totalling 15.0m net before tax, these represent significant nontrading items and have been shown as nonunderlying.
The Committee reviewed these costs and agreed the appropriateness of their classification inorder to present a comparable and continuing basis of measurement of underlying earnings.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Dominos Pizza Group plc 43 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Audit Committee report continued not expected to have a significant impact project was initiated in the year to Significant accounting issues on the Groups revenues.
The majority of improve the Groups operational risk continued the Groups statutory revenues are derived management processes.
Work continues the impact of post year-end events on from sales to and fees from franchisees and to embed further controls and risk the groups balance sheet two the new standard is not expected to impact management processes into the Groups significant transactions with a combined the recording of these.
The Group has operations and this will be a major focus cash outflow of 37.6m were completed determined that the new standard does not during 2018: in January 2018 and an irrevocable share impact the treatment of the National buyback of up to 20.0m was entered enterprise resource planning system Advertising Fund.
into prior to the yearend but only completed a new ERP system went live in in February 2018.
The impact of these IFRS 9, the new financial instruments September 2016 and has been built upon transactions, which have increased the standard will be effective for the year during 2017.
The new system is designed groups net debt to over 150m since ending in December 2018.
Initial to assist in delivering operational theyear end, are described in the estimatesare that the overall impact efficiency gains, improve controls and PostBalance Sheet Events note to the isnotexpected to be material.
accommodate the continued growth of financial statements and in the report the business.
Throughout the year, the ofthe Chief Financial Officer.
The Committee has received updates on Presentations from management committee reviewed the Viability progress with the implementation of and professional advisers Statement in conjunction with these thesystem.
Management continue to The Audit Committee received a number events and was satisfied that the evaluate the operation of the new system ofpresentations from management and Groupsconclusion as to its viability and modify the processes and controls professional advisers, including: were appropriate.
based on experience gained from operating the systems.
IT and cyber security the Groups These issues were discussed with the system sales are highly dependent on its external auditor at both the planning and taxation the Committee received a ecommerce IT systems, particularly execution stages of the external audit and report from FTI, the Groups tax advisors, apps for mobile devices.
There can be there were no significant differences providing a summary of the Groups tax noguarantee as to the resilience of the between managements and the external strategy and tax attributes, and approved, Groups systems to outside attack and auditors conclusions.
the Groups tax strategy statement.
A copy the Committee commissioned a report of this can be found on the Groups website.
on cyber security from Deloitte which New accounting standards identified a number of areas requiring As mentioned last year, the impact on the Brexit attention.
These are being addressed financial statements of the new accounting As we reported last year, the impact of and the Committee receives regular standard for leasing IFRS 16, which theUKs vote to leave the European Union updates from management on progress.
willbeeffective for the year ending in is difficult to quantify.
Raw materials purchased December 2020, will have no net cash risks and controls in view of the by the Group are affected by changes in flowimpact but could significantly change Groups rapid growth over the past few commodity prices and exchange rate the composition of the consolidated balance years, it does not have a formalised fluctuations.
We have experienced some sheet and phasing of the relevant charges internal audit function.
The Groups increases in raw material prices as a result in the Income Statement.
However, the internal control environment has until of the weakening in the value of sterling fullimpact assessment has yet to be recently been informal and often against the Euro since the UKs Brexit vote completed.
In view of the intermediary undocumented.
The implementation of but it is not possible to estimate the impact nature of the majority of the Groups store the Groups new Enterprise Resource this mayhave on consumer demand.
leases from landlords and then sublease Planning system ERP during the past to franchisees, the Audit Committee is two years has required a wholesale Internal audit advised that the impact may not be as change in processes and controls.
As noted above, the Group does not have great as initially anticipated.
The Group TheGroup continues to develop and aformal internal audit department.
The hasyet to determine whether to adopt formalise its internal control environment Committee has previously concluded that thenew standard on a full retrospective which is expected to be consistent with the most appropriate model for internal audit  basis and the the COSO Internal Controls Framework.
would be to engage a thirdparty provider AuditCommittee will report next year The Committee received presentations and it was agreed that such a review would onthe expected method of adoption regarding improvements to controls and be deferred until the conclusion of the tender together with the anticipated impact of whistleblowing as well as approving a of the external audit: our aim is to appoint thestandard on the financial statements.
revision of the Groups treasury an outsourced internal audit provider in management policy.
The Groups operational auditors The impact of the new accounting standard processes to support the Boards continue to regularly audit franchisees to for revenue recognition IFRS 15, effective assessment of principal risks have been support compliance with franchise for the year ending in December 2018, is in place throughout the year and a agreements and brand standards.
44 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Audit Committee believes that the At the 2018 AGM, shareholders will be External auditor nonaudit fees were appropriate in the requested to approve the reappointment of The Audit Committee has reviewed circumstances, particularly as EY has EY as the external auditor in respect of the theindependence, objectivity and considerable knowledge of the 2018 financial year.
A resolution to appoint effectiveness of the external auditor, Groupsbusiness.
PwC as external auditor will be presented Ernst& Young LLP EY, and considers to shareholders at the 2019 AGM.
that EY continues to possess the skills andexperience required to fulfil its duties Audit Tender effectively and efficiently.
The Audit In the 2016 annual report, the Committee Going concern and Committees review of the effectiveness reported that it intended to conduct a viabilitystatement ofEY as the external auditor is based on competitive tender of the Groups On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee discussions with the senior finance team, externalaudit.
reviewed the Groups projected cash flows, the robustness of the audit, the quality of facilities and covenants as well as reviewing The tender process was undertaken in the reporting to the Audit Committee and the assumptions underlying the viability second half of 2017.
The Committee had reports published by the FRC.
statement and concluded that it could overall oversight and control of the tender recommend to the Board that it should EY has confirmed that in its professional process, with daytoday management of beable to make the relevant statements.
judgement it is independent within the the tender delegated to the Company meaning of regulatory and professional Secretary.
Five firms, including EY, were Fair, balanced, understandable requirements and the objectivity of the invited to submit tender proposals based and comprehensive reporting audit engagement partner and audit staff on the Groups audit requirements and The Audit Committee has provided advice isnot impaired.
assessment criteria, which were set out to the Board on whether the Annual Report inaformal tender request proposal.
The Audit Committee has held meetings with and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, Introductory meetings were held between the external auditor without management balanced and understandable and provides the bid teams from each of the firms and there is regular dialoguewith the the information necessary for shareholders andthe Groups senior management and auditpartner.
to assess the Groups financial position and function heads as well as the chairman performance, business model and strategy.
Following the The Audit Committee agrees the fees for Each Director was also asked to provide introductory meetings and submission of the external auditor and has strict policies this confirmation.
When doing so, both the written tender documents, a decision was regarding the provision of nonaudit Committee and the individual Directors made to identify three firms that would be services by the external auditor which were provided by management with a formal invited to make formal presentations to an canbe found on the Companys website.
assessment of the key messages included Audit Tender Committee comprising the These include specific preapprovals for in the annual report.
The assessment was Audit Committee, the Chief Financial proposed work and fees, a prohibition on designed to test the quality of reporting Officer, Company Secretary and Group certain services and a restriction on total and to enable the Directors to satisfy Financial Controller as well as the group nonaudit fees as a percentage of the total themselves that the levels of disclosure Chairman and Chief Executive by invitation.
audit and auditrelated services, except in wereappropriate.
The Audit Tender Committee undertook a exceptional circumstances.
formal and structured evaluation of the presentations and tender submissions of each Terms of reference During the year, the level of nonaudit fees of the candidate firms based on objective The terms of reference for the Audit payable to EY for 2017 are as set out below: evaluation criteria.
Based on this evaluation, Committee were revised in February 2017 000 the Audit Committee recommended two and further reviewed by the Committee Total audit and auditrelated fees 520 potential external audit firms to the Board during the year.
The Committees terms of with a preference for the appointment of reference are available on the Companys Nonaudit fees:  LLP PwC, investor relations website.
Market survey 119 with effect from the financial year ending Other services 20 on 29 December 2019 in order to facilitate Steve Barber Total nonaudit services 139 an orderly handover from EY and to coincide Chairman of the Audit Committee with the rotation of the EY audit partner.
7 March 2018 The market survey was performed by The Board considered the Audit Committees anaffiliate of EY which was best placed recommendation and subsequently toperform that work as it had provided announced its intention to appoint PwC similar services in prior years and was able asthe Groups auditor with effect from to undertake the assignment cost effectively the2019 financial year.
by building on work undertaken during the previous assignments.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Dominos Pizza Group plc 45
