Directors Report Corporate Governance Report Chairmans Introduction Governance is an important contributor to the success of the Group and we take pride in what we do and in the way we conduct our business and deliver our strategic objectives.
The Board fully supports the BBA Aviation values and the Board is committed to ensuring that high standards of ethical behaviour and governance are maintained throughout the Group.
The Corporate Governance section of the report follows the same format that was introduced last year and includes an at-a-glance section, a section setting out our compliance with obligations under the UK Corporate Governance Code and a report on each of the Committees introduced by the Committee Chair.
David Crook, who was the Group Financial Controller, succeeded Mike Powell as Group Finance Director.
David became Group Finance Director and joined the Board on 1 June 2017.
I would like to formally record my thanks to Mike Powell for his contribution to the Company.
At the end of June, Simon Pryce, Group Chief Executive, stepped down as Group Chief Executive and retired from the Board earlier than I am pleased to introduce anticipated.
Wayne Edmunds was appointed as Interim Group Chief Executive.
On 2 January 2018 we announced Mark Johnstone as Group the Corporate Governance Chief Executive from 1 April 2018.
Wayne will remain on the Board as a non-executive director, but will not be regarded as independent.
The Board will not be a member of the Audit and Risk Committee, the Nomination is responsible for ensuring Committee or the Remuneration Committee but will be invited to attend these Committee meetings as appropriate.
the long-term success of BBA Aviation and the delivery of long-term, sustainable value for all of our stakeholders.
Sir Nigel Rudd, Chairman 42 Directors Report Corporate Governance Report The Board considers that its own continuing effectiveness is vital The Corporate Governance Statement that follows provides more to the Group delivering its strategic objectives.
My role as Chairman details about our governance policies and procedures, about the has been to provide leadership to ensure that it is possible to make structure of our Board Committees and the areas our meetings high-quality decisions.
I am responsible for leading the Board and focus on.
ensuring ongoing improvement in the Boards effectiveness.
I am We note the proposed changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code supported by all the directors, but particularly by Susan Kilsby, as the that are the subject of consultation through the first part of 2018.
Susan meets independently with the Board will review the changes once finalised and decide what changes other directors and is available, if required, to meet with shareholders.
need to be made to the governance processes before the changes take As a Board, and as individual directors, we strive to continuously effect from 1 January 2019. improve the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees in support of the Groups objective of delivering exceptional long-term Board members appreciate their interactions with shareholders and sustainable value for all our stakeholders.
listen carefully to any comments.
I welcome your comments on this Corporate Governance Statement and on the 2017 Annual Report The Board spent a significant proportion of its time in 2017, through the more generally.
Nomination Committee, on the search for a new Group Chief Executive and a new non-executive director, which resulted in the announcement of a new Group Chief Executive in Mark Johnstone and two new non-executive directors in Amee Chande and Emma Gilthorpe.
We conducted a Board effectiveness exercise towards the end of 2017.
As a result of the exercise the timings of Board Committee meetings are being changed, wherever possible, to provide more time between the Committee and Board meetings and there remains a continued focus on succession at all levels of the Group.
Having used Clare Chalmers of Independent Audit as an external facilitator in 2015 and used her to support the process in 2016, the effectiveness review in 2017 was conducted by the Company Secretary with support from Oliver Ziehn of Lintstock, a corporate governance advisory firm.
During 2017, Susan Kilsby has consulted extensively with shareholders on the remuneration policy that will be put to the AGM for consideration in May.
The Annual Statement starting on page 56 of the Remuneration Report sets out in detail the Committees thinking behind the changes.
The Board unanimously supports the proposed policy, that seeks to align the interests of executive directors and shareholders and is structured to promote the long-term success of the Company.
We keep Group policies and procedures under regular review, bearing in mind the ever-evolving business and governance environment that we operate in, as well as drawing on the range of experience offered by Board members.
