Herald Investment Trust plc Annual report & financial statements 2017 37 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE The committee examines in detail the scope of the audit, An audit committee has been established consisting of all ensuring that the auditors objectives have met the the independent non-executive directors, chaired by James committees expectations, along with key audit and Will.
The committee considers that at least one of its accounting matters considered that year.
The principal members has recent and relevant financial experience and findings of the audit are discussed and challenged, that the committee as a whole has competence relevant to particularly in areas where management judgement has the sector in which the Company operates.
Its authority and been required.
The committee will give the auditor an duties are defined within its written terms of reference which opportunity to comment privately on the quality and are available on request from the Company and on the standard of the managers and administrators performance managers website: www.
generally and during the audit.
Similarly, the committee will seek the views of the manager and administrator on the ROLE AND DUTIES effectiveness and performance of the audit team.
The committees responsibilities, which were discharged during the year, include: NON-AUDIT SERVICES There is not often a need for non-audit services to be provided by the auditor.
The committees policy is that monitoring and reviewing the integrity of the half-yearly non-audit work should be limited to those matters where and annual financial statements and any formal theexternal auditor is most appropriately placed to carry out announcements relating to the Companys financial the work, unless there is a conflict of interest.
No non-audit performance: services were provided by the auditor during the period reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of internal under review.
control and risk management systems: making recommendations to the board within the AUDIT TENDERING context of the EU Audit Regulation and Directive in Ernst & Young LLP has been the Companys auditor since relation to the appointment of the external auditor and before 16 June 1994.
Having considered the experience and approving the remuneration and terms of their tenure of the audit partner and staff and level of service engagement: provided, the committee remains satisfied with the auditors effectiveness and accordingly has recommended that Ernst overseeing and managing the audit tender and selection & Young LLP be reappointed at the forthcoming AGM.
The processes: audit partner responsible for the audit must be rotated at developing and implementing policy on the engagement least every five years and was rotated in 2017.
The financial of the external auditor to supply non-audit services: statements for the year ending 31 December 2017 are the reviewing and monitoring the independence, objectivity first to be signed off by the new partner.
There are no and effectiveness of the external auditor: contractual obligations restricting the Companys choice of reviewing the arrangements in place within HIML external auditor.
The committee will put the audit to tender when the current auditor becomes subject to mandatory whereby their staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial rotation after the 2020 year end under the terms of the EU Audit Regulation and Directive.
This is subject to continuing reporting or other matters insofar as they may affect the Company: satisfactory performance in the meantime.
reviewing the terms of the investment management SIGNIFICANT FINANCIAL ISSUES RELATING TO THE 2017 agreement: and FINANCIAL STATEMENTS considering annually whether there is a need for the The Code requires us to describe any significant issues Company to have its own internal audit function.
considered in relation to the financial statements and how those issues were addressed.
While there were no significant RISK MANAGEMENT, INTERNAL CONTROL AND issues, two matters of risk of particular focus at the balance INTERNAL AUDIT sheet date were the risks that investments might not have The extensive array of internal controls adopted by the been correctly valued or beneficially owned.
No issues were Company are set out in the corporate governance report.
The board as a whole is responsible for the effectiveness of internal control mechanisms but it is informed by more SUMMARY specific work carried out by the audit committee.
Following a detailed review of the financial statements and discussions with the manager, administrator, company EXTERNAL AUDITORS ASSESSING EFFECTIVENESS secretary and auditor, the committee has concluded that the The committee monitors the independence and objectivity financial statements themselves, and the annual report as a of the auditors, their performance and effectiveness by whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide meeting at least annually with the audit partner to discuss the information necessary for shareholders to assess the that years audit.
Part of that process requires the auditor to Companys position and performance, business model and give the committee an assessment of how the audit team strategy.
That conclusion has been reported to and identifies and manages the threats to its independence.
The confirmed by the board.
committee receives confirmation from the auditor that it has complied with the relevant UK professional and regulatory James Will requirements on independence.
It will also take into account Chairman, audit committee any findings in the most recent FRC audit quality inspection 20 February 2018 report on Ernst & Young.
The committee does not believe that there has been any impairment to the auditors independence.
