Directors Report Corporate Governance Chairmans letter Dear fellow shareholder Survey, conducted in 2017 and designed in-house specifically to examine our The Board remains committed to the culture and ensure that it is consistent highest standards of corporate governance with our values across the Business.
Our governance framework, More information about the survey can which underpins our ability to deliver our be found on page 02. strategy and create long term value for our shareholders, cascades from the Board Leadership across the Group.
This framework stresses The Directors continue to provide strong the importance of compliance with rules leadership, with an exceptional mix of skills and guidance, but equally, it sets the tone and experience from across the business for the rest of the organisation.
Having served nine years on the of our culture, the Board has a vital role Board, Nigel Turner will retire at this years to play in defining our behaviours and the Annual General meeting AGM.
I would ways in which we do business.
The like to thank Nigel for his dedication and Company has complied with the UK outstanding contribution to Croda.
Upon 1 Corporate Governance Code April 2016 Nigels retirement Alan Ferguson will be As guardian of our culture, the for the period under review.
appointed as the Senior Independent Board has a vital role to play in The Board is accountable to Crodas Director.
Alan has been on the Board since defining our behaviours and the shareholders for good governance and 2011 and acts as Chairman of the Audit this report, together with the Directors ways in which we do business.
Alan brings a wealth of Remuneration Report set out on pages relevant experience, having served as Anita Frew 61 to 77, describe how the Codes main Senior Independent Director within other Chairman principles of governance have been listed companies.
I am pleased to report that Helena Leadership................................................. 40 This report includes practical insights into Ganczakowski, Alan Ferguson and Steve Effectiveness.............................................. 44 how our governance framework underpins Williams had their respective appointments Board Evaluation............................................... 46 and supports our Business and the as Non-Executive Directors extended Accountability............................................ 48 decisions we make every day.
during the period and all Directors were Relations with Shareholders...................... 49 reappointed by our shareholders at last Audit Committee........................................ 51 Culture and values years AGM.
This, combined with Professor Nomination Committee............................. 58 The Board spends a considerable amount Keith Laydens appointment as a NonOther Committees..................................... 60 of time meeting with employees and visiting Executive Director following his retirement Remuneration Report................................ 61 our offices and manufacturing sites around from the Company last year, means we Other Disclosures...................................... 78 the world.
This ensures that our Noncontinue to have effective and insightful Executive Directors develop and maintain leadership at a Board level.
greater insight and understanding of the We have assessed the skills and Business, which enhance the quality of experiences of the Board to ensure that we decision making and debate.
That diversity have the right balance and composition: of thought allows the Board to consider the the results are summarised on page 37. broader long term impact of its decisions The assessment has also enabled us to on our employees, suppliers and customers identify areas of opportunity, to bring fresh and the communities in which we operate.
and alternative insights to the Board and On page 43 we set out more details of the enhance diversity in its broadest sense.
Boards programme of activities outside This is especially relevant at this time as the boardroom.
we think about the recruitment of a We recognise the value of culture, and new Non-Executive Director to replace these visits also create opportunities for Nigel Turner.
a cultural tone to be cascaded from the We have focused on succession planning boardroom.
Directors are able to promote to ensure that we have a healthy talent the values-based conduct and behaviours pipeline for future Executive Committee expected from every part of the Company.
We have overlaid the The Board has spent time working on the Board skills assessment onto the development of our Culture Plan, linking development plans of those members of our culture to our Business strategy in the Executive Committee and other key order to deliver business results.
Central management employees who were to this plan is the Global Employee Culture 1 The Code can be accessed at www.
Croda International Plc 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Report identified as having Board potential when improvements to the Boards operation with Accountability we considered the Companys succession a view to creating even further opportunity The Board spent a considerable amount planning arrangements, thus allowing us to focus on those areas that the Board of time discussing the areas of risk to tailor each individuals plan to further believes will make the greatest difference assessment, risk management and internal strengthen the bench.
to the Companys continuing success.
control systems including a review of control failings, and assessing the long The Board and Committee review for 2017 Effectiveness term prospects of the Company.
More was conducted by EgonZehnder, an As Chairman, I am responsible for leading information can be found on pages 30 to external Board review specialist.
The last and ensuring that we have an effective and 35 and 48. such external evaluation was carried out functioning Board.
I actively encourage a culture progress has been made against the Relations with shareholders and environment in the boardroom that actions agreed following the 2016 Board As Chairman, I am responsible for effective facilitates candid debate and encourages effectiveness review and the priorities the communication with shareholders and for our Non-Executive Directors to provide Board set for itself for 2017.
This progress is ensuring that the Board understands the constructive challenge to management: summarised on page 43.
The rebalancing views of major shareholders.
During the I am pleased that this was borne out in of the Boards agendas and streamlining of year, I have met with several shareholders the results of the Board review, which the Board papers and presentations has as have other Non-Executive Directors as was overall very positive once again.
freed greater time for the Board to spend well as speaking with many shareholders The review has also helped us to identify considering major strategic issues, growth, at our AGM.
Our shareholders support our some opportunities for the Board, which merger and acquisition opportunities, strategy and are very comfortable with our could further improve our decision making market dynamics and organisational issues, approach to corporate governance.
by focusing on increased diversity for new such as succession planning, Board Board appointments.
Working with the Chief Executive and More details on the review process and its Company Secretary, I will continue to seek outcomes are set out on pages 46 and 47.
Anita Frew Chairman Looking ahead to 2018 Case study As well as those focus areas identified during the latest Board evalution p47, Governance in action the Board will: The Boards agendas have been rebalanced to create further opportunity to concentrate Perform longer term strategic on those areas that the Board believes will reviews make the greatest difference to the Oversee the recruitment of a Companys continuing success, following new Non-Executive Director and feedback from the 2016 Board effectiveness consider Non-Executive Director review.
Board meetings now focus on four succession specific areas: reporting: approvals: governance and strategy.
Papers for the Focus on international operations Board have been significantly shortened, and manufacturing strategy concentrating on performance through the use of KPI dashboards, and distinguishing Refine risk appetite for key information reporting from decisions sought.
Company risks These interventions are designed to free Consider the Companys more Board time for high level strategic digitalisation strategy decisions.
This revised format is working well, as has been borne out in the recent Review regular updates on safety, Board evaluation, which welcomed the health and the environment: risk improved meeting discipline.
and ethical supply chain Review and implement the relevant requirements of the Financial Reporting Councils revised UK Corporate Governance Code, which is anticipated following the FRCs announcement of its plans and subsequent public consultation in 2017.
Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 39 Directors Report | Corporate Governance | Leadership A strong framework At the date of this report, the Board experience, gender or ethnicity.
Directors comprises eight Directors: the Chairman: biographical notes appear on pages 36 Leadership the Group Chief Executive: the Group and 37 and at www.
com Finance Director: four independent With support from the Company Non-Executive Directors and one nonSecretary, the Chairman sets the annual Role and operation independent Non-Executive Director, who Board agenda programme and Board of the Board was the Companys Chief Technology meeting agendas and determines the Officer until his retirement in 2017.
The The Board has ultimate responsibility number of meetings to be held during small size of our Board allows time for for the overall leadership of the the year.
She ensures enough time is full discussion and debate of items and Group.
In this role, it oversees the devoted, during meetings and throughout enables all Directors views to be heard.
development of a clear Group strategy, the year, to discuss all material matters, The Non-Executive Directors have a monitors operational and financial including strategic, financial, operational, broad range of business, financial and performance against agreed goals business, risk, human resources and international skills and experience, which and objectives and ensures that governance issues.
provide appropriate balance and diversity appropriate controls and systems The Board has taken action to strike a within the Board.
A key consideration for exist to manage risk.
balance between reporting, approvals and any new Board appointment will be the governance matters, whilst ensuring more Specific Board matters additional breadth a new Director could time is devoted to major strategic issues.
bring, in terms of skills, knowledge, The matters reserved for the Board fall into four broad areas: 1.
Matters required by law to be Board roles reserved for the Boards decision, such as approving the Annual Chairman Independent Non-Executive Directors Report and Accounts, appointing The Chairman leads the Board and is The role of independent Non-Executive Director new Directors and declaring responsible for promoting open and effective is central to an effective and accountable dividends communication between the Executive and Board structure.
They constructively challenge Non-Executive Directors and for creating an the Executive Directors and scrutinise the 2.
The requirements of the UK Listing, environment at Board meetings in which all performance of management in meeting agreed Prospectus and Disclosure and Directors contribute to discussions and feel goals and objectives.
They help develop and Transparency Rules, such as comfortable in engaging in healthy debate monitor the delivery of the strategy within approving circulars to shareholders and constructive challenge.
the risk and control framework set by the and other significant Board.
They determine appropriate levels of The Chairman leads the annual Board communications remuneration for Executive Directors and have effectiveness review process and ensures that a prime role in succession planning and the all new Directors have an appropriately tailored UK Corporate Governance Code appointment and, where necessary, the removal induction process.
recommendations, such as of Executive Directors.
ensuring the Company has a Group Chief Executive Non-independent Non-Executive sound system of internal control The Group Chief Executive has day-to-day Directors and risk management, and responsibility for the effective management Having served Croda for 33 years, the latter approving the Board and of the Groups Business and for ensuring that five of which were as a member of the Board, Board decisions are implemented.
He plays Committees terms of reference Keith Layden is not considered independent.
a key role in devising and reviewing Group 3.
Other matters, such as approval of However, because of that experience, Keith strategies for discussion and approval by the contributes strongly to the Boards culture and the Groups strategy and budget, Board.
The Group Chief Executive is tasked with personality, and adds unique and valuable material corporate transactions providing regular reports to the Board on all insight and constructive challenge.
matters of significance relating to the Groups appropriate management of conflicts, Keith can Business, or reputation, to ensure that the constructively challenge the Executive Directors The full schedule of matters reserved Board has accurate, timely and clear information and scrutinise the performance of management on all matters.
for the Board can be found at in meeting agreed goals and objectives in a way www.
com Senior Independent Director largely unavailable to the Independent NonThe Senior Independent Director provides a Executive Directors.
sounding board for the Chairman and acts Group General Counsel and as an intermediary for the Non-Executive Company Secretary Directors, where necessary.
He is available The Group General Counsel and Company to shareholders where communication through Secretary is secretary to the Board and its the Chairman or Executive Directors has not Committees.
He ensures that Board procedures been successful or where it may not seem are complied with and advises on regulatory appropriate.
The Senior Independent Director compliance and corporate governance.
In is responsible for leading the Non-Executive addition, he develops Board and Committee Directors in appraising the performance of the agendas and collates and distributes meeting Chairman and in their discussions of her term papers.
He facilitates induction programmes of appointment and fees.
for new Directors and provides briefings on governance, legal and regulatory matters.
Croda International Plc 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Report Governance structure The Board has three main Committees: The day-to-day operational management the Risk Management Committee: the Audit Committee: the Remuneration oftheBusiness is delegated by the Board theGroup Safety, Health, Environment Committee and the Nomination totheGroup Chief Executive, who uses and Quality SHEQ Steering Committee: Committee.
The terms of reference for severalCommittees to assist him in this theGroup Ethics Committee and the each Board Committee can be found at task: the Group Executive Committee: Routine Business Committee.
theGroup Finance Committee: information on each of these Committees see page 60.
Group Board Chaired by Anita Frew Principal Board Committees Group Chief Executive Audit Committee Group Executive Committee Chaired by Alan Ferguson Chaired by Steve Foots Monitors the integrity of the Groups financial statements and announcements, the effectiveness of internal controls and risk management aswell as managing the external auditor relationship.
For more Group Finance Committee information see pages 51 to 57.
Chaired by Steve Foots Remuneration Committee Chaired by Steve Williams Risk Management Committee Approves the Companys remuneration policy Chaired by Jez Maiden and framework and determines the remuneration packages for members of seniormanagement.
For more information see pages 61 to 77.
Group SHEQ Steering Committee Chaired by Stuart Arnott Nomination Committee Chaired by Anita Frew Reviews the structure, size and composition ofthe Group Ethics Committee Board and its Committees, identifies and nominates Chaired by Tom Brophy suitable candidates for appointment to the Board and has responsibility for Board and Executive Committee succession planning.
Formore information see pages 58 and 59.
Routine Business Committee Chaired by Steve Foots or Jez Maiden Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 41 Directors Report | Corporate Governance | Leadership The Boards 2017 activities and priorities Membership of the Board and attendance eligibility at Board meetings held during the year ended 31 December 2017 Anita Frew The Board has an agenda programme Executive Committee.
The strategy day Chairman 8 8 that ensures strategic, operational, in the first half of the year is followed Alan Ferguson 8 8 financial, human resources and corporate by the consideration of the three year Steve Foots 8 8 governance items are discussed at the plan in the autumn and then the approval Helena Ganczakowski 8 8 appropriate time at Board meetings.
The of the budget towards the end of the Keith Layden 8 8 Board agenda has strong links to the year.
Key highlights of the Boards 2017 Jez Maiden 8 8 strategic objectives for the Business.
The activities and priorities are set out below, Nigel Turner 8 8 Board has seven routine meetings during along with an estimate of the proportion of Steve Williams 8 8 the year and an additional strategy day, the time that the Board spent discussing which is attended by all members of the each area.
Board activity in 2017 Strategy Delivering Driving Sustainable growth p12 20% innovation p12 20% solutions p12 15% Croda Latin America, Incotec Latin Product innovation programmes Safety, health, environment America and Croda India business and technology platforms and quality reviews Technology led acquisitions and Sustainability strategy and targets Adjacent market opportunities entrepreneurial cells Review of Sustainability Report Product manufacturing strategies New and Protected Products pipeline Senior management succession Various acquisition opportunities Innovation and Research and Ethical supply chain compliance and pipeline Development metrics programme Open innovation People 15% Governance and reporting 10% Financial, risk and performance management 20% Talent review and succession Review of Annual Report and Accounts planning and other financial statements Capital expenditure approvals and performance reviews of historic Board diversity External Board and Committee capex effectiveness evaluation Executive development profiles for Capital allocation policy and capital the Executive Committee Defence strategy returns The Croda culture Investor relations review The Groups budget, forecasts Health and safety of our employees Tendering of external audit p55 and key performance targets and and contractors indicators Diversity and inclusion of our Dividend approvals workforce USA tax changes Women in leadership roles initiatives Change of Group insurance broker Change to Group remuneration Cyber security, anti-bribery and advisers major capital projects risk reviews Long term viability Croda International Plc 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Report Update on 2016 Board evaluation actions In 2016, the Board review was conducted using an online questionnaire tailored to our activities and concerns.
The key actions, and progress in meeting them, are summarised below: Key actions What we did Status Spend time looking at major Appointed a Chief Digital Officer to grow our digital strategy strategic issues including Performed a technology gap analysis as a blueprint for future organic and inorganic growth innovation, sustainability Reviewed our sustainability agenda and completed the installation phase of our industry and market dynamics leading bio-surfactant plant in North America Reviewed the market landscape and generated plans to remain ahead.
Regularly review our innovation Reviewed the technology acquisition pipeline pipeline Considered the open innovation pipeline Reviewed the importance of innovation as part of a strategy day session Regularly received updates on each Sectors performance against innovation KPIs.
Continue to monitor the culture Commissioned a group wide Global Employee Culture Survey and behaviours within the Considered Global Employee Culture Survey results and proposed action plans organisation, taking account of Focused on cultural fit when considering Non-Executive Director succession planning.
these when making decisions Focus on Board succession Undertook a Directors skills and experience analysis p37 planning and the optimum Prepared a talent succession development profile for each member of the Executive balance and composition Committee of the Board Undertook a Board and Committee effectiveness review pp46 and 47.
Completed Ongoing Outside the boardroom includes discussions on business strategy accompanied by Steve Williams.
Nigel and leadership chaired by a Director, Turner and Alan Ferguson visited Incotecs In addition to formal Board meetings, as well as interacting with employees headquarters and manufacturing the Directors attended offsite meetings on the programme in team building site at Enkhuizen, in the Netherlands.
to review the Groups strategy and were sessions or at dinners.
The Non-Executive Directors discussed present at the AGM.
They also met with a wide range of topics with the local the Companys financial and public The Board visited our manufacturing site management teams, including process relations advisers to discuss the feedback and sales office in Campinas, Brazil and safety, innovation, business ethics, plant from investors and analysts on the Groups Incotecs Brazilian operation at Holambra.
expansion plans and challenges and annual results.
The Chairman and NonMore details of this visit can be read on opportunities in each market.
Executive Directors met together without page 45. the Executive Directors present.
As in previous years, members of the During the year, all of the Non-Executive Executive Committee and other senior The Chairman spends a considerable Directors with the exception of Keith managers from across the Company amount of time meeting with Steve Foots Layden made additional overseas site attended Board dinners where the Board and the senior management team at the visits, outside of the normal Board site discussed topics relevant to the Business Companys head office.
Anita Frew visited the Croda India and its strategy.
In addition, during the that she is kept appraised of significant manufacturing site in Thane and the Boards visit to Brazil, the Directors met developments in the Business between Argentinian sales office, accompanied informally with many of the Groups Board meetings.
by Helena Ganczakowski on the latter employees.
Helena also visited the Mevisa All Directors are involved in the Groups the Boards understanding of the Business manufacturing site in southern Spain, Leadership Development Programme.
This and allow Directors to spend time with the involves attending various sessions, and Groups senior managers and potential future leaders.
Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 43 Directors Report | Corporate Governance | Effectiveness includes site visits, typically hosted by one Board support Effectiveness of our Executive Committee members.
This Each Director has access to the advice allows our new Directors to get to know the and services of the Company Secretary.
Board re-election regional and local leadership teams and to Where necessary, the Directors may take The Board has a broad range of discuss a wide range of topics, including independent professional advice at the skills and experience from different the local organisation structure, growth Companys expense.
industries, advisory roles and from plans, strategic priorities, risks and the international markets.
Training and briefings are available to all competitive landscape.
Directors also Directors taking into account their existing These skills support the strategic aims spend time at our laboratories with the experience, qualifications and skills.
Following individual research and development teams, where order to build and increase the Nonperformance assessments, the Board they gain insight into technology platforms Executive Directors familiarity with, and is satisfied that each Director continues and chemistries, as well as our product understanding of, the Groups people, to perform effectively, allocates sufficient development pipeline.
Visiting our businesses and markets, senior managers time for his her duties and remains fully manufacturing sites enables new Directors regularly make presentations at Board committed to his her role in the Company.
to explore our complex manufacturing meetings.
The Board also receives regular With the exception of Nigel Turner, all processes and approach to process safety face-to-face briefings from the Company Directors will stand for re-election and behavioural safety.
They are also able Secretary and, where appropriate, the at the 2018 AGM.
Full biographies for the to discuss our challenging sustainability Companys professional advisers.
As well Directors can be found on pages 36 and targets and find out about quality and as planned training on governance, legal 37, with more detail at www.
and regulatory matters, the programme is New Directors are given lots of sufficiently flexible to capture new and Directors induction opportunities to spend time engaging with, emerging regulation, development Upon joining Croda, Directors receive a and talking to, a wide variety of employees stemming from evaluation and specific tailored induction programme.
New across all functions and seniorities.
This training requests from Directors.
Each Directors need to quickly absorb a great includes time at dinners and social events.
Directors training programme includes the deal about the Business if they are to fulfil Through these interactions new Directors same online training on competition law their roles effectively from the start.
Our gain an insight into the Croda culture and and anti-bribery and corruption as taken by tailored inductions offer a swift and our values, which are a key differentiator managers and selected employees across thorough way to help new Directors between us and our competitors.
understand our Business, markets, culture and relationships and to establish a link Before each Board meeting, the Company Review with employees.
Secretary makes sure that the meeting The Company Secretary and the new papers and other information are delivered As part of the induction, new Directors gain Director have regular reviews, with input electronically, via a secure, iPada thorough understanding of our Business from the Chairman, to agree what extra accessible, web portal.
Following feedback through meetings with Croda employees insights the induction needs to deliver.
from the 2016 Board effectiveness review across all regions in which we operate.
This and leveraging experience gained from When planning an induction we take the following steps: 1 2 3 4 Bespoke Varied delivery Length Review We use diverse formats to Conscious of a Directors other The Company Secretary and programme communicate information.
commitments and not wanting the new Director have regular Our Company Secretary These include iPad reading to overload him her with too reviews, with input from the discusses how the materials, meetings with much information in too short a Chairman, to agree what extra programme should be employees and fellow Directors, time, we deliver the induction insights the induction needs tailored to meet a new briefings and training from over the full Board cycle of todeliver.
external advisers and site visits.
Croda International Plc 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Report other Boards, papers have been Conflicts of interest significantly shortened, concentrating Case study The Board has an established process on performance through the use of KPI for declaring and monitoring actual dashboards and distinguishing information and potential conflicts.
The Articles of Outside the boardroom reporting from decisions sought.
Meeting Association of the Company allow the In September 2017, the Board visited papers are made available one week in non-conflicted members of the Board the Companys operations in Brazil advance, which ensures that each Director to authorise a conflict or potential conflict where Directors officially opened has the time and resources to fulfil his her situation.
In addition to the potential a new laboratory facility, which then duties.
Directors have the opportunity to conflicts of Steve Williams noted above, hosted them for interactive demonstrations.
raise questions stemming from the papers Nigel Turner declared a potential conflict prior to the meeting, should they wish The Directors undertook tours of in relation to the possible sale of farm to do so.
A resource centre within the both the local Croda and Incotec produce oilseed rape through agents web portal provides access to useful manufacturing facilities, where they to Croda.
In the period, Helena information about the Group, including met with local management and members Ganczakowski held a Non-Executive corporate governance materials, finance of the operational teams to gain a Director role at customer, People Against and strategy information, Group policies fuller understanding of the sites key Dirty, prior to its dissolution on sale.
and procedures, and information on topics technologies.
The Directors also met Jez Maiden has a Non-Executive Director such as risk and insurance.
with many of the local employees, which role on the board of PZ Cussons plc, allowed them to interact in a less formal a customer of Croda.
Independence of Non-Executive setting, whilst spending time with senior Details of the professional commitments Directors managers and potential future leaders.
of the Chairman and the Non-Executive Croda complies with the Code in having Directors are included in their biographies experienced Non-Executive Directors on pages 36 and 37.
The Board is who represent a source of strong advice, satisfied that these do not interfere judgement and challenge to the Executive with the performance of their duties Directors.
At present there are five such for the Company.
Directors, including the Chairman and During 2017, no Independent Nonthe Senior Independent Director, each Executive Director had served on the of whom has significant commercial Board for more than nine years from the experience.
Their understanding of the date of their first election, with the range Groups operations is enhanced by regular between three years and eight and a half business presentations and site visits.
Keith Layden served just over five The independence of the Non-Executive years as an Executive Director, prior to his Directors is kept under review.
The appointment as a Non-Executive Director Chairman was independent upon her on 1 May 2017. appointment in 2015 but, as Chairman, is not classified as independent.
Steve The terms and conditions of appointment Williams has consultancy roles with of Non-Executive Directors can be viewed Eversheds LLP, which provides legal at www.
They can be inspected services to the Group of immaterial during normal business hours at the monetary value, and Spencer Stuart, a Companys registered office by contacting search consultancy firm that has previously the Company Secretary and will also be been used by Croda.
The Board does not available for inspection at the AGM.
consider that these roles would affect his Time commitment judgement in relation to Croda and its Business.
With the exception of Keith Each Director is aware of the need to Layden, the Board therefore considers allocate sufficient time to the Company that all Non-Executive Directors who to discharge his her responsibilities served during the year are independent in effectively.
In addition to time spent at character and judgement, with no Board and Committee meetings, the relationships or circumstances that are Directors participate in several Company likely to affect, or could appear to affect, related events: details are set out on their judgement.
Keith Layden is not page 43. considered independent, having served as External consultants the Companys Chief Technology Officer prior to retirement from the Company and In the period, Korn Ferry and Deloitte have appointment as a Non-Executive Director provided remuneration consultancy to the in May 2017.
Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 45 Directors Report | Corporate Governance | Effectiveness The Board undertakes a formal review of challenge to management that is actively 2017 Board evaluation its performance and that of its Committees promoted by the Chairman.
The 2017 review was conducted identified some opportunities for the Board performance by EgonZehnder, an external board Board, which have helped inform the The nature of Board service has review specialist.
At the time of the review, Boards priorities for 2018 and beyond.
significantly changed, requiring an ever EgonZehnder had no other connections The Boards resulting areas of focus are wider range of skills and greater time with the Company in line with the summarised on page 47.
The Board is not just a requirements of the Code.
The last such 2018 are set out on page 39. governing body: boards are being independent evaluation was carried out in leveraged as a competitive advantage to 2014 and we anticipate the next will take complement and support management place in 2020.
The results of the review and add value.
Demand for exceptional, were, once again, extremely positive.
highly qualified Directors is growing and They endorsed the boardroom culture and increasingly specialist skills are required Non-Executive Director participation and in the boardroom.
2017 External evaluation of the Board: the preparation The Board identified a number of EgonZehnder were briefed on the focus EgonZehnder held one-to-one discussions potential independent external Board areas for the review and developed and with each Director and the Company review specialists.
The Chairman, CEO distributed a tailored questionnaire to the Secretary, as well as the Group Human and Company Secretary interviewed members of the Board.
Resources Director and the Groups Vice three of those identified, selecting President of Risk and Assurance.
Phase Three Phase One Phase Two One-to-one Engagement Questionnaire discussions Phase Four Phase Six Phase Five Observations Summary Feedback with from the Board recommendations the Chairman and Committee to the Board meetings EgonZehnder reported back with a EgonZehnder held a one-to-one meeting EgonZehnder attended Board and Board presentation of findings and made with the Chairman, where feedback on Committee meetings to observe each recommendations on further performance the summary findings was presented meetings effectiveness and the contribution improvements for the Board, the Committees and discussed.
The report and findings were discussed by the Board at its December meeting and areas of focus to address certain recommendations agreed.
Croda International Plc 46 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Report 2017 External evaluation of the Board: the process We covered a broad range of areas Purpose Strategy and Risks Culture People Meetings Committees Effectiveness performance benchmarking We took a deeper dive on certain topics Strategy Risk Growth Future What we found The Board is appropriately Board Directors are clear on The Board is fully aligned on Board meetings are well involved with strategy formulation the type and level of risks that growth as a strategic priority led: agendas are balanced and is well equipped to help the Business needs to take to and the Directors demonstrate and Board papers have shape the strategic debate.
The deliver its growth plan and feel a sense of responsibility for the been streamlined.
Board Board is aligned on the strategic confident that the potential success of the Company.
members actively leverage priorities of the Business.
risks facing the Business their knowledge of other Board deliberations are are clearly defined and Board practices to improve The Boards agenda covers constructive and robust, with appropriately mitigated.
the right issues for the Company high levels of energy and pace.
and strikes the right balance The Directors have clarity on The CEO and Executives feel There is clear and appropriate between strategy and operations.
our values and how they are comfortable bringing opendivision of roles between shaping our culture.
ended questions to the Board.
the Chair and the CEO, who enjoy an open and trusting relationship.
Our areas of focus Perform longer term strategic reviews Refine risk appetite for key Company risks Define those elements of the culture that must be preserved and those that might flex as the Company grows and the markets around us develop Commission an external gap analysis for succession Development mechanisms for the evaluation of past Board decisions.
Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 47 April Directors Report | Corporate Governance | Accountability self-assessment of compliance with Reports from the external auditors Accountability these controls, which is assured during Presentations of key risks and controls planned internal audit visits The Audit Committee by the Executive owner and other Comprehensive monitoring and assurance providers The Audit Committees report, which quantification of business risks, under describes the membership of the Audit Half-yearly report on significant controls the direction of the Risk Management Committee, its responsibilities, main from the Vice President of Risk and Committee.
The Groups approach activities in 2017 and priorities for 2018, Assurance to risk management and the principal isset out on pages 51 to 57.
This system is designed to mitigate, risks facing the Group are discussed rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to Risk management and in more detail in the Strategic Report achieve business objectives and provides internal control on pages 30 to 34 reasonable, but not absolute, assurance The Board acknowledges its responsibility Capital investment with detailed against material misstatement or loss.
As for ensuring the maintenance of a sound appraisal, risk analysis, authorisation appropriate, the Board also ensures that system of internal controls and risk and post-investment review necessary actions have been, or are being management.
In accordance with the procedures.
taken, to remedy failings or weaknesses guidance set out in the Financial Reporting This process has been in place for the full identified from the review of internal Councils FRCs Guidance on Risk financial year and up to the date on which controls effectiveness and judges their Management, Internal Control and Related the financial statements were approved by level of significance.
Financial Business Reporting 2014, and in the Directors.
the Corporate Governance Code itself, Fair, balanced and understandable an ongoing process has been established The Board discharged its responsibility for The process of compiling the Annual for identifying, evaluating and managing monitoring the operational effectiveness of Report and Accounts starts early the principal risks faced by the Group the internal control and risk management enough to give the Board time to p30.
The Directors have established an systems throughout the financial year and assess whether it is fair, balanced and organisational structure with clear operating up to the date of approval of the Annual understandable, as required by the Code.
procedures, lines of responsibility and Report and Accounts.
It used a process The Board considered whether the Annual delegated authority.
which involved: Report and Accounts contained the In particular, there are clear procedures Written confirmations from relevant necessary information for shareholders to and defined authorities for the following: senior executives and divisional assess the Companys position and directors concerning the operation of performance, business model and Financial reporting, with clear policies those elements of the system for which strategy.
The tone was reviewed to ensure and procedures governing the financial they are responsible a balanced approach and the Board made reporting process and preparation sure the narrative at the front end of the of the financial statements.
There is Internal audit work carried out by Annual Report was consistent with the a clear and documented framework KPMG LLP, which reports through the financial statements.
Each reporting Vice President of Risk and Assurance location prepares an annual to the Audit Committee with its findings and any emerging themes Our annual internal audit January being reported to the Audit Committee.
The programme Committee places great importance on the Planning One element of our internal control self-assessments and is concerned when framework is the work carried out by there are differences positive or negative our internal auditors.
between the self-assessed scores and those Reporting Preparation The planning process for the years audit work assessed during the audit visits.
On-going is undertaken by the internal audit team, led The site-based audit fieldwork and IT audits communication with: by our Vice President Risk and Assurance.
Audit Committee, are undertaken between May and October, Themes from prior year audits, key risk senior management and followed by the risk-based reviews.
The external auditors areas and fundamental controls feed into Site and outcome of this work is reported to the Audit IT audits and IT self the selection of the audit programme, which risk reviews Committee and any failures of internal controls assessment is approved by the Audit Committee.
or weaknesses from non-financial and riskConsideration is given to the appropriate based reviews are followed up by the Audit Site-based mix of IT and manual controls to be tested.
audits Committee, with common themes feeding Self-assessments of controls are carried out into the planning process for the following July by local management and systems owners, years audit programme.
which are analysed by the internal audit team Croda International Plc 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 October Directors Report arises: no such meetings were requested Substantial shareholders Relations with shareholders by shareholders during the year.
As at the date of this Annual Report and Accounts the Company had Communication with shareholders The Board believes its practices in received notification of the following this area are consistent with both The Chairman, Executive Directors and material shareholdings pursuant to the the Codes provisions concerning other senior managers maintain regular Disclosure and Transparency Rules dialogue with shareholders and with contact with existing and potential of the UK Listing Authority: good governance.
shareholders to ensure that our strategy % of and trading trends are clearly understood.
During the year, numerous meetings Number issued of shares capital were held with investors in the UK, North Recognising the importance of BlackRock, Inc. 7,463,118 5.68% America, Europe and Asia, including communicating with our shareholders, face-to-face meetings, telephone and our Vice President, Investor Relations video conferences and hosted site visits manages the day-to-day contact with the in numerous regions.
investment community, including investors and analysts, as well as co-ordinating site The Board invites the Companys brokers Investor concentration visits and presentations at investor and financial public relations advisers to Percentage of issued capital conferences and roadshows.
attend at least one meeting each year, by type of holder at which the economic and investment The Board engages in active dialogue environment, Crodas performance with shareholders through the Group generally and in comparison with its Chief Executive, Group Finance Director sector peers and investor reactions are and the Chairman, who regularly meet discussed.
These presentations are with shareholders.
These meetings provide webcast live, so all shareholders have an appropriate means of capturing access to them, and are also available shareholders opinions and the Chairman to download.
We answer all investor ensures that the Board is regularly questions sent to our website.
appraised of shareholders views and key issues.
All Non-Executive Directors are Set out on page 50 are answers to the available to attend meetings if requested by most commonly asked shareholder shareholders and the Senior Independent questions and a calendar of our investor Institutional holders 93.19% Director is available to discuss matters events attended by senior management concerning the Chairman if the need Private holders 3.54% throughout the year.
Other holders 3.27% Geographical breakdown ofshareholder base Continental Europe 18.39% North America UK 31.69% 46.32% Asia 3.60% Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 49 Directors Report | Corporate Governance | Relations with shareholders Top 5 investor questions Our investor calendar 1 Set out below is a calendar of our investor events attended by senior management in 2017: How does the Company manage its allocation of February July capital?
Full year results announced Half year results announced The Company has good capital Roadshow in London discipline that is aligned with its clearly March defined Capital Allocation Policy p28 Roadshows in London, Frankfurt, September Montreal, Toronto and Boston and Conferences in Dublin and London Mid-Atlantic, USA Roadshow in Zurich 2 Conferences in New York, Investor field trips to France and Stockholm and London What are the growth targets the UK Investor field trip in the UK for the core business?
Low-to-mid single digit growth October April excluding raw material price Q3 Trading Update announced Q1 Trading Update published recovery p24 Roadshow in Helsinki Annual General Meeting in York Conference in East Yorkshire May 3 November Roadshows in Edinburgh, Conferences in Boston and Copenhagen, Oslo, London and What are the Companys London Mid-West, USA priorities in respect of merger and acquisition activity?
Roadshows in London, New York, June Chicago and Toronto The Company has three types of Roadshows in Geneva and the M&A targets: Investor field trip in the UK Netherlands Nacent technologies Conferences in Paris and London December Small to medium sized bolt-ons Investor field trip in the UK Investor field trip to Paris Transformational Annual General Meeting AGM Deadlines for exercising 4 votingrights The AGM provides an opportunity for private shareholders to raise questions Votes are exercisable at a General Meeting What is the target for New with Board members.
The Directors of the Company in respect of which the and Protected Products NPP are also available to answer questions business being voted upon is being heard.
afterwards, in an informal setting.
Votes may be exercised in person, by The aim is to grow NPP at twice the The Annual Report and Accounts, proxy or, in relation to corporate members, non-NPP sales growth rate p24 including the notice of AGM, are sent to by corporate representatives.
The shareholders at least 20 working days Companys Articles of Association provide before the meeting.
There is a separate a deadline for submission of proxy forms 5 investor relations section on www.
of not less than 48 hours before the time com that includes, amongst other items, appointed for the holding of a meeting or Can the Company expand presentations made to analysts.
will be held at the Pavilions of Harrogate, Our focus on value over volume on 25 April 2018 at 12 noon.
growth and increasing innovation should lead to margin expansion Croda International Plc 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Report Audit Committee Dear fellow shareholder twice each year to discuss the detail of the year end and half year results In my capacity as Chairman of the Audit Report of the before the relevant Committee meetings.
Committee, I am pleased to present the Audit Committee This helps me to better understand Audit Committee Report for the year for the year ended the key issues and to make sure ended 31 December 2017, which I hope enough time is devoted to them at the 31December 2017 you find informative.
It provides detail of the subsequent meeting.
activities carried out by the Committee in what was a busy year.
By its very nature Responsibilities this report covers a number of matters The Committee assists the Board in that were also covered last year.
Whilst ensuring that the Groups financial it is important that these are reported on, systems provide accurate and up-to-date I would draw your attention to the sections information on its financial position.
on external audit tendering, internal audit and risk management and those Key responsibilities: highlighting our key focus areas for 2017 To monitor the integrity of the and looking ahead to 2018. financial statements and results announcements of the Group and to Committee membership review significant financial reporting The Committee consists of four Nonissues and judgements Executive Directors.
The experience of To recommend external auditor each member of the Committee is appointment and removal, assess summarised on pages 36 and 37.
I have audit quality, negotiate and approve held a number of senior finance director the audit fee, assess independence, roles and am Chairman of the Audit monitor non-audit services and be Committees of two other FTSE 100 250 The Committee has responsible for audit tendering companies, as well as an AIM listed delivered on its key company.
The Board considers each To review the adequacy and member of the Committee is independent priorities during the year, effectiveness of the Groups internal within the definition of the Code and controls and risk management including the successful has relevant financial experience, as systems, and the adequacy, tenders of the external well as a broad and diverse spread effectiveness and output of the of commercial experience.
internal audit function consideration provides the Board with Alan Ferguson To review the adequacy of the Groups assurance that the Committee has the Chairman of the Audit Committee whistleblowing arrangements and appropriate skills and experience to ensure procedures for detecting fraud.
that it can be fully effective, and that it meets the Code requirement that at least In addition to its business as usual Members and attendance one member has significant, recent and activities, the Committee selects certain eligibility at meetings held relevant financial experience.
focus areas each year for detailed review.
during the year ended The Chairman of the Board, Professor Detailed responsibilities are set out in the 31December 2017 Layden a Non-Executive Director, the Committees terms of reference, which Alan Ferguson Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance can be found at www.
Chairman 6 6 Director, the Group Financial Controller, Helena Ganczakowski the Vice President of Risk and Assurance, Independent Non-Executive 6 6 who leads the internal audit function, Nigel Turner and representatives from the external Independent Non-Executive 6 6 and internal auditors attend the meetings Steve Williams by invitation.
Independent Non-Executive 6 6 The Committee periodically, and I more One of the meetings held during the regularly, meet separately with the Vice year was solely concerned with the President of Risk and Assurance and the outcome of the external and internal external auditors without the Executives audit tenders.
In addition there were being present.
While these meetings are two meetings held subsequent to the invaluable, I also meet with the external year end, with attendance full at both, auditors, the Group Finance Director and other than for Nigel Turner who the Group Financial Controller at least missed one meeting due to commitments overseas.
Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 51 Directors Report | Corporate Governance | Audit Committee Main business as usual activities of the Committee since the publication of the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts The Committee met four times in 2017 after publication of the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts and twice between the year end and the publication of this Annual Report.
The key issues covered at the Committee meetings were reported at the subsequent Boardmeeting.
The Committees main business as usual activities, excluding the focus areas, and an estimate of the proportion of time spent onthem, are detailed below: Committee activity in 2017 Undertook regular reviews of the Financial reporting 20% Internal audit and risk Groups material litigation and was management 20% The Committee: satisfied with the approach to Monitored the Groups financial The Committee: provisioning statements and results Received a report from the Vice President announcements, and reviewed In conjunction with the Board, Risk and Assurance at each meeting significant financial reporting and reviewed the financial modelling and and monitored compliance with the accounting issues including the stress testing based on plausible Group risk management programme.
going concern assessment and scenarios arising from selected key The Committee reviewed the reliance exceptional items risks, noting the effect they would placed by management on the risk have during the viability period.
mitigating controls of the Groups highest risks and analysed the types of assurance, both internal and external, Governance 20% External audit 15% that applied to these controls The Committee: The Committee: Agreed a revised approach to the Reviewed the effectiveness of the Discussed and approved the external coverage of internal audits programme Groups anti-bribery and fraud audit plan, including: the assessment of of work.
Further details on this approach procedures, including the whistlesignificant audit risks: the engagement are described on page 54 blowing procedure.
The Committee risk profile: the scope of the audit: the were satisfied that appropriate materiality level and the fide minimus Assessed the 2017 risk-based and procedures were in place for reporting threshold see pages 82 to 85 thematic assurance activity carried out proportionate and independent of the Audit Report : the approach to by internal audit with reference to the investigation of whistleblowing reports, working with internal audit: and the Groups principal risks, which included including follow up actions key members of the engagement team a review of: cyber security maturity: supported by specialist auditors UK payroll and UK pensions: ethics Met with internal audit and external where necessary.
The resulting audit and compliance programme: and audit without management being fee was approved Group Treasury present Reviewed compliance with the Considered the results of the 2017 Received presentations from the FRCs Ethical Standard for auditors internal audits and the IT audits, the Finance Director of Personal Care, the and the restrictions on auditors to self-assessment process, the adequacy Group Financial Controller and Finance provide non-audit services: in particular of managements response to matters Director of Life Sciences and the as regards to  raised and the time taken to resolve Finance Director of Asia PwC role in tax compliance services such matters Undertook an externally facilitated in the USA see page 56 for further Considered controls over the effectiveness review as part of the details implementation of capital projects as review of the Board and its Committees Discussed the FRCs 2016 2017 Audit part of the site internal audit reviews as described on page 46 Quality Inspection of PwC in support of Reviewed and approved the 2018 internal Reviewed its terms of reference and the Committees annual assessment of audit plan and the plans to transition the made changes to reflect the updated the quality of the external audit.
Further internal audit co-source provider from UK Corporate Governance Code details can be found on page 56 KPMG to PwC see page 54 and the FRC Guidance on Audit Considered and confirmed the Committees Conducted its annual review of the independence of PwC, as further Groups internal auditor see page 54.
As part of its annual review of described on page 56 the Groups tax strategy and Approved the plans for the transition of risks, approved the publication the external audit from PwC to KPMG of the tax strategy on our website see pages 55 and 56. www.
Croda International Plc 52 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Report Key focus areas for 2017 25% The Audit Committee has delivered on our business as usual work, as set out in our terms of reference, and from this perspective there is nothing to highlight for your attention.
Last year, we noted five focus areas for 2017, which absorbed the balance of the Committees time of around 25%, which is much higher this year due to the incremental work on the two audit tenders.
Key focus area Actions during the year Progress Plan and conduct the tenders of the We undertook a rigorous process for both tenders, including pre-meetings with the external and internal audit services tendering firms, the provision of a comprehensive data room and detailed selection criteria.
All Committee members attended and fully participated in the tender presentations, reaching a unanimous decision in respect of both appointments see page 55. Review the implementation of In support of the renewed programme, new and enhanced internal controls were our enhanced ethical compliance adopted and self-assessments against these controls were carried out by local programmes relating to anti-bribery management and control owners.
In addition, the internal audit team conducted testing and sales of products into sanctioned of these controls at sites visited during the year.
The Committee received a review of markets compliance against the renewed programme, follow up actions were approved and will be monitored.
This will remain a focus area for 2018 as the programme becomes embedded around the world.
Review the progress of the project to PwC were engaged to run their process analytics tools on the SAP purchase to pay increase the use of data analytics process to help ensure the investment in one version of SAP is fully maximised.
The both as an audit tool and as a tool to review was undertaken cross region and company, based on 12 months of SAP examine process flows within SAP transactional data.
The findings from the review were shared with the Audit Committee, with the Committee agreeing detailed recommendations to be followed up by management and internal audit.
The Committee will monitor the follow up of these recommendations during 2018.
A review of the inventory management process using the same tools is planned in Q1 2018.
The innovative use of SAP and data analytics was a key selection criterion for the external and internal audit tenders see page 55 and we expect to see a further step change integrated into the audit approaches from 2018 onwards.
Continue to focus on cyber security Our internal audit team undertook a cyber security maturity review to obtain a holistic risk and ensure the Committee view of Crodas information security assurance capability.
A report was presented to receives training in this area the Committee, which included a maturity assessment across several areas, including: leadership and governance: training and awareness: information risk management: business continuity: operations and technology: and legal and compliance.
The Committee discussed how we benchmarked against industry peers, identified opportunities to improve cyber maturity and agreed a detailed action plan with management.
Cyber security testing forms a core part of the IT controls testing by internal audit, as well as the ISO27001 standard adopted within the Group.
The Committee reviewed the IT activity relating to cyber security, including the output of penetration testing and breach detection tools.
In response to the output of the 2016 Committee effectiveness review, the Committee participated in a face to face training session conducted by cyber security specialists from PwC.
Completed Ongoing Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 53 Directors Report | Corporate Governance | Audit Committee Internal audit and risk management In February, the Committee conducted its annual review of the internal auditor, Significant financial statement In 2017 I met with the Vice President Risk including the approach to audit planning reporting issues and Assurance several times outside and risk assessment, communication of the formal meetings to discuss the With support from the external auditors, within the Business and with the performance and output of the internal the Committee considered a number of Committee and its relationship with the audit function and aspects of risk significant ongoing issues related to the external auditors.
Internal feedback is used financial statements for the year ended management.
The Vice President Risk in this process.
This did not highlight any 31 December 2017, as set out below.
and Assurance attended each Committee significant areas for development other meeting and presented an internal audit Pensions: The Committee monitored the than the desire for a more analytical based report that was fully reviewed and Groups pension arrangements, in particular audit approach to be considered.
the funding of the defined benefit plans in discussed, highlighting any major the UK, the US and the Netherlands, which deviations from the annual plan agreed As previously reported, the Committee are sensitive to assumptions made in with the Committee.
took the decision to tender the internal respect of discount rates, salary increases audit contract held by KPMG for the last At each meeting, the Committee and inflation.
The Committee reviewed the seven years.
This was because of the considered the results of the audits actuarial assumptions used, compared length of their tenure and the fact that if undertaken and the adequacy of them with those used by other companies, KPMG were successful in the external considered the views of the external managements response to matters raised, audit tender we would have to tender the auditors and found them to be reasonable.
including the time taken to resolve such internal audit contract in undue haste.
Particular focus was addressed Provisions: The Committee reviewed A description of the tender process is set to those areas where there was a major whether certain environmental, out on page 55.
As a result of the tender, divergence between the outcome of the reorganisation, litigation and other legal the Committee approved PwC as the provisions were sufficient to cover estimated internal audit and the scoring of the internal audit co-source provider from the costs of potential and actual claims and self-assessment questionnaire, completed decided that they were reasonable and financial year 2018.
This decision was annually by each business unit.
For larger areas of exposure, unanimous.
It was based on the belief that instances the Committee challenged the Committee was reassured by legal their analytical based approach would drive management as to what actions it was opinions and insurance coverage.
most benefit to the Business and that the taking to minimise the chances of Taxation: The global footprint of the Group team put forward by PwC had the right divergences arising in the future.
The necessitates an understanding of, and range of skills to address the changing Committee looked at recurring themes compliance with, complex tax regulations.
nature of the audit as well as having the where issues were identified across a The Committee reviewed the basis of best cultural fit.
PwCs appointment will number of locations: these will inform the calculation of the effective tax rate, including not commence before their resignation as scope of the work undertaken in the 2018 the impact of the recent USA legislative external auditor at the Companys AGM on audit plan.
changes, the status of the Groups tax 25 April 2018: however, familiarisation compliance, details of potentially significant The approach to the selection of locations meetings have taken place with PwC team challenges from tax authorities, the level for audit visits for the 2017 internal audit members and the 2018 audit approach, of accruals and the relevant disclosures.
plan evolved from that used the prior year.
including further use of extended data The Committee concurred with Using the three lines of defence model, managements views.
analytics in both internal audit and peer assurance obtained from multiple internal reviews, have been discussed.
Goodwill: The strategy of the Group and external assurance providers were includes acquiring new technologies and Details on how the Business implements mapped, with core levels of assurance businesses operating in adjacent markets.
its risk management and controls on a being provided by the annual controls Goodwill represents a significant asset value Group wide basis are set out on pages self-assessment process and embedded on the balance sheet 320.2m out of a total 30 and 31.
This was net assets of 829.9m at 31December supported by enhanced assurance at 2017.
The Committee completed its routine a selection of sites provided through an annual impairment review of the carrying value of goodwill, as prepared by internal audit visit in line with the refreshed management, including the sensitivity to a risk assessment process.
In addition a number of underlying assumptions.
After programme of Croda peer reviews was due challenge, the Committee was satisfied implemented within regions as part of the that the assumptions were reasonable and internal audit plan, under the direction of that no impairments were necessary.
the Vice President Risk and Assurance, In addition to the ongoing issues the reporting back to the Audit Committee.
Committee reviewed the capitalisation of This revised approach ensured that the interest this year as it was significantly internal audit resource added the greatest higher than normal due to the investment in value to the internal control environment the bio-surfactant plant in North America.
It by focusing in the right areas.
also reviewed and discussed the Alternative Performance Measures being used p29 and the associated disclosures.
Croda International Plc 54 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Report Case study External Audit Tender Set out below is the process we ran to select the best external auditor for the Business.
The Internal Audit tender essentially followed the same process, other than in September the Audit Committee Chairman, Group Finance Director and Vice President, Risk and Assurance reduced the internal audit candidate firms from five, including the incumbent KPMG, to four shortlisted firms and the Vice President Risk and Assurance was a member of the selection panel.
The Audit Committee Chairman and Group Finance Director met with potential successor firms PwC were October 2016 not asked to tender due to their tenure as external auditors, at the most senior level, and gave an outline of the tender process that we intended to run.
Most importantly the key attributes that we expected from the lead audit partner and senior members of the audit team as well as the likely structure of that team were set out.
This enabled the firms to select the most appropriate audit partners who could lead the tender.
In addition independence was discussed and processes put in place to avoid any such issues arising.
Following the introductory meetings three firms confirmed interest in tendering and put forward their November 2016 proposals for lead audit partner followed by other senior team members.
Time was taken to meet with January 2017 those individuals to ensure the ones selected were the best fit for Croda, in its broadest sense, as without that it was unlikely that Croda would receive the best possible tenders.
The Committee were then notified of the key individuals selected from each tendering firm.
The Committee finalised the detailed selection criteria for the tendering process.
These included: April 2017 Expertise, competency and cultural fit of the lead partner and team Knowledge and understanding of our business, industry and key geographies Audit approach including use of data analytics Technical expertise, including SAP, and audit quality, including the results of recent FRC Audit Quality Reviews and Inspections Conflicts of interest and independence Quality of reporting and communication, including the ability to challenge constructively The selection panels previous experience of the firms Value for money.
Formal tender request issued and data room opened.
July August 2017 Meetings, held over a number of days, allowing each of the tendering firms to meet with our key personnel September 2017 in order for them to get a better understanding of the culture, the business and the key requirements.
Feedback was gathered from our attendees following each meeting to provide input into the subsequent decision making process.
Written proposal documents were then received and reviewed.
Selection panel interviews conducted with oral presentations from the shortlisted firms.
October 2017 The panel comprised: All members of the Audit Committee Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director Group Financial Controller A formal decision was made by the Committee, taking account of the selection panels recommendations, and its recommendation to appoint KPMG as external auditor was made to the Croda Board.
Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 55 Directors Report | Corporate Governance | Audit Committee External auditors effectiveness discussed with the Committee during the Following the tender, the Committee presentation of the 2017 audit plan.
recommended two firms to the Board During the year, the Committee assessed as possible external auditors, with a the effectiveness of PwC as Group external Following the review, the Committee auditor.
To assist in the assessment, the unanimous recommendation to appoint concluded that the audit was effective.
Committee reviewed the output from a KPMG with Chris Hearld as the Lead questionnaire completed by senior External audit tendering Audit Partner.
This decision was based members of the finance team to obtain on the view that the team put forward by We are in compliance with the Statutory their views on PwCs effectiveness in Audit Services Order 2014.
Although PwC Chris was the strongest and best fit for carrying out the 2017 audit.
The could remain as auditor until 2020, as our Business and that the proposed questionnaire covered: previously reported, the Committee agreed audit approach would bring a fresh to coincide an audit tender with the expiry Quality of planning, delivery and perspective through greater use of of Ian Morrisons term as Lead Audit execution of the audit analytics being applied to Crodas Partner, when he would sign the 2017 single instance of SAP.
Quality and knowledge of the Annual Report and Accounts, or sooner if it audit team Once the decision was made thoughts were felt necessary by the Committee.
The turned to managing the transition.
Effectiveness of communications Committee formally committed to tender Plans to do this effectively and efficiently between management and the the audit during 2017, with the first year to were drawn up and then discussed audit team be audited by the newly appointed firm with the Committee.
being the year to 31 December 2018.
Robustness of the audit, including the audit teams ability to challenge For the reasons noted in the Internal audit External auditors independence management as well as demonstrate and risk management section p54 the The Committee and the Board place professional scepticism and Committee considered that it was most great emphasis on the objectivity of the independence.
effective and efficient to run the external Groups external auditors in reporting and internal audit tenders at the same time.
The Committee also considered the quality to shareholders.
of reports from PwC and the additional When the Committee decided to tender insights provided by the audit team, PwC were the Groups joint auditors it was made clear that audit quality was particularly at partner level.
It took account from 1970 to 1980 and have been the to be at forefront of mind when going of the views of the Group Finance Director through the process.
A timely, rigorous sole auditors since 1981.
To ensure and Group Financial Controller, who had and independent audit is fundamentally objectivity, the rotation of audit partners met local audit partners when visiting some important to the Business.
of the Groups businesses, to gauge the planning was key to making sure the right Our Group policy on the provision quality of the team and their knowledge senior teams were selected from the of non-audit services by external and understanding of the Business.
The tendering firms and that they were given auditors, which is on our website Committee considered how well the enough information and access to enable www.
com, sets out prohibited auditors assessed key accounting and them to prepare a compelling tender, the non-audit services and the controls over audit judgements and the way they applied objective being to have the best possible assignments awarded to the external constructive challenge and professional tenders from all the competing firms.
Part auditor to ensure that audit scepticism in dealing with management.
of the planning process included reviewing independence is not compromised.
In conjunction with We reviewed the FRCs 2016 2017 Audit the firms themselves, we ensured they Quality Inspection report on the PwCs During the year, the Committee were independent at the start of the UK arm.
The results were reassuring and undertook a detailed review of the process and then monitored the Groups given our focus on data analytics it was provision of non-audit services by PwC spend with those tendering to avoid any encouraging to see this was an area and compliance with the FRCs Revised independence issues arising in the run highlighted as an example of good Ethical Standard for auditors, in particular up to the tender.
The main areas identified by in regard to the work undertaken by PwC the FRC as requiring actions were More information on the tender process, in relation to providing tax compliance discussed by the Committee.
A review including a chronology and details of the and advice to our North American of effectiveness also forms part of PwCs selection criteria, are contained in the business.
The Committee decided that own system of quality control and this was case study on the previous page.
Croda International Plc 56 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Report a globally consistent approach should scoring well in the questionnaire and getting good feedback from the be taken and this work has been Looking ahead to 2018 observations.
The Committee was felt to moved away from PwC, with a new firm In addition to our routine business, be operating effectively, having a balanced appointed who were not involved in theCommittee has four focus areas agenda, receiving high quality papers and the external audit tender process.
We will: setting high standards.
The challenge, not Non-audit fees have fallen for the sixth Monitor and assist in the transition untypical in my experience, is making sure to the new firms providing external consecutive year.
In 2017, they were all members of the Committee feel able to and internal audit services with 0.1m, significantly less than the total challenge and contribute when the topic a focus on driving audit quality audit fees of 1.0m: the non-audit to audit has an element of technical content.
Something for me to continually work on.
Continue to review the implementation of our enhanced The Committee undertook its annual I will be available at the AGM to respond to ethical compliance programme as review of the Groups policies relating to any questions shareholders may raise on it becomes embedded across external audit, including the policy that the Committees activities in the year.
the world governs how and when employees and former employees of the Groups auditors Review the implementation of can be employed by the Company.
No effective policies and procedures changes were made.
The Committee also to comply with the General Data reviewed PwCs Independence letter.
Protection Regulation coming into Alan Ferguson force in May 2018 In conclusion the Committee agreed that Chairman of the Audit Committee PwC were independent.
Maintain our ongoing focus on cyber security risk External auditor reappointment As noted above, the Committee recommended to the Board that KPMG be offered for election at the forthcoming AGM, based on the audit tender process.
Committee Effectiveness Review This year the Committee undertook an externally facilitated effectiveness review as part of the review of the Board and its Committees as described on page 46.
The process involved completing a questionnaire, one to one discussions and EgonZehnder observing a meeting.
The output was positive with the Committee Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 57 Directors Report | Corporate Governance Nomination Committee Dear fellow shareholder, future.
Diversity is a central consideration for all new Board On behalf of your Board, and as Report of the appointments.
It is also vital that we Chairman of the Nomination Committee, Nomination Committee have diversity throughout the Company, I have pleasure in presenting the for the year ended as this leads directly to more balanced Nomination Committee report for the decision making and helps generate a 31December 2017 year ended 31 December 2017. diverse talent pipeline for the Executive Committee, and ultimately the Board.
Main activities and priorities Our Leadership Development in 2017 programmes comprise of employees During the year the Committee carried from different cultures, backgrounds out a review of the size, structure and and nationalities.
The global review of composition of the Board for its current talent undertaken by the Executive and future needs, to align with the Committee and the Board aims to Companys strategy.
Whilst considering ensure that we will have diverse and succession planning for Board roles, the global representation for the Groups Committee focused on the collective future leaders.
skills and experiences of the Directors.
A number of areas were identified from the One recommendation of the Hamptonlatest two Board evaluations, against Alexander Review, an independent, which the Committee assessed existing business led review supported by the Board expertise and experience.
The UK Government, is that all FTSE 350 results of this analysis helped identify Boards should target 33% female opportunities for the Board p37.
Currently, 25% of the opportunities informed the candidate existing members of the Board are The Committee considers brief for the recruitment of a new female and we have committed to reach Non-Executive Director to succeed Nigel the Hampton-Alexander target of 33% diversity on the Board and Turner, as he retires from the Board at in the medium term.
We have updated throughout the Company the AGM, having served his nine-year our Board diversity policy to capture to be a key factor in the tenure.
Looking ahead, an updated this commitment: the policy already version of this analysis will guide our contained a commitment to maintain Companys strategic and recruitment process as we begin to the existing 25% level of female financial success.
consider a replacement for Steve representation on the Board.
We Williams, who will retire in 2019, also ensure that the specification for any Anita Frew having served nine years on the Board.
new Director role is equally suited to Chairman of the Nomination Committee applicants of any gender and that no The Committee considered which unlawful discrimination occurs at any of the Independent Non-Executive stage in the selection process on any Members and attendance Directors should succeed Nigel Turner applicant characteristic.
We are eligibility at meetings held as Senior Independent Director, intensifying our efforts across the during the year ended concluding that Alan Ferguson had Company to increase the number 31December 2017 a suitable combination of skills and of women in leadership roles with a experience to perform that role.
Alan Anita Frew range of initiatives.
Examples include will become the Senior Independent Chairman 3 3 a mentoring programme for high Director upon Nigels retirement.
Alan Ferguson potential female employees on executive Independent Non-Executive 3 3 The Committee considers diversity on succession plans, unconscious bias Steve Foots the Board and throughout the Company training amongst management Group Chief Executive 2 2 to be a key factor in the Companys populations, greater internal promotion Helena Ganczakowski strategic and financial success.
We see of flexible working approaches and Independent Non-Executive 3 3 diversity of thought, skills, knowledge, female friendly job adverts and Keith Layden experience, gender and ethnicity as Non-Executive 2 2 gender balanced shortlists in our critical to the Companys sustainable Nigel Turner recruitment processes.
Independent Non-Executive 3 3 Steve Williams Independent Non-Executive 3 3 Stood down July 2017, responding to shareholder expectations J oined the Committee upon appointment as a Non-Executive Director Croda International Plc 58 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Report A copy of our Board diversity policy, Responsibilities which is regularly reviewed by the Board, Looking ahead to 2018 The Committee is responsible for is available at www.
com nominating candidates for appointment to In addition to our routine business, the Board for approval by the Board, and during the year the Committee will: The Committee considered a talent for succession planning.
It evaluates the succession development profile for each Oversee the recruitment of a new balance of skills, knowledge, experience member of the Executive Committee, Non-Executive Director upon and diversity on the Board.
ensuring that a healthy talent pipeline Nigel Turners retirement exists for future Board roles.
The Key responsibilities Monitor the outcome and Committee discussed each individuals consider the effectiveness of To regularly review the structure, size existing strengths, development interventions intended to increase and composition, including the skills, opportunities and future development diversity, in particular looking at knowledge, experience and diversity, of plan.
For those considered potential the number of women on the the Board and make recommendations Group Chief Executive CEO successors, Board and Executive Committee for any changes to the Board the development profiles were overlaid and in senior roles in the against the Board expertise analysis To give full consideration to succession Company described earlier.
This allows for the further planning for Directors and other senior focusing of the future development plan Executives, taking into account the Prepare for Steve Williams of each of those individuals to ensure that challenges and opportunities facing the retirement in 2019 as he they bring the right strengths, should they Company and, consequently, what concludes his nine year Board be appointed to the Board.
skills and expertise the Board will need tenure, focusing on the in the future opportunity to further diversify The Committee reviewed the time the Board commitment of the Non-Executive Where a Board vacancy is identified, to Directors and was satisfied that all of evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge, Review and implement the the Non-Executive Directors remain experience and diversity on the Board, relevant requirements of the able to commit the required time for the and prepare a description of the role Financial Reporting Councils proper performance of their duties.
The and capabilities required for the revised UK Corporate Governance Committee considered and concluded respective appointment Code, which is anticipated that, with the exception of Keith Layden, following the FRCs announcement To identify and nominate candidates to all Non-Executive Directors continue of its plans and subsequent public fill Board vacancies, for the approval of to fulfil the criteria of independence.
consultation in 2017. the Board, as and when openings arise As Keith was formerly an Executive To keep the organisations leadership Director of the Company, he is not needs, both Executive and Nonconsidered independent.
Executive, under review to ensure that The Committee also considered the Company continues to compete emergency CEO succession, should effectively in the marketplace the Board need to appoint a temporary To review annually the time required CEO due to unforeseen circumstances.
from a Non-Executive Director and the I will be available at the AGM to respond to Chairman any questions shareholders may raise on To make recommendations on the Committees activities.
succession planning for the Board.
Detailed responsibilities are set out in the Committees terms of reference, which can be found at www.
com Anita Frew Chairman of the Nomination Committee Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 59 Directors Report | Corporate Governance Other Committees The operational management of the Group Finance Committee Group Ethics Committee Business is delegated by the Board to the The Committee meets every month to This Committee was set up at the start of Group Chief Executive, who uses several review monthly operating results and 2017 and meets quarterly in support of our Committees to assist him in this task.
culture of integrity, honesty and openness, These Committees and their membership and to promote the importance of ethics at the date of the Annual Report and Risk Management Committee and compliance across the Group and Accounts is shown in the table below.
The Committee meets quarterly to evaluate amongst our supply chain partners.
and propose policies and monitor Group Executive Committee Routine Business Committee processes to control business, operational The Committee meets eight times and compliance risks faced by the Group, The Committee comprises the Group a year and is responsible for: developing and to assess emerging risks.
Chief Executive and Group Finance and implementing strategy, operational Director, with the Group General Counsel plans, policies, procedures and Group SHEQ Steering Committee and Company Secretary and Group budgets: monitoring operational and Financial Controller acting as alternates.
The Committee meets quarterly to monitor financial performance: assessing and The Committee attends to business of a progress against the Group safety, health, controlling risk and prioritising and routine nature and to the administration environment and quality objectives and allocating resources.
of certain matters, the principles of which targets, review safety performance and have been agreed by the Board or the audits, and determine the requirement for Group Executive Committee.
new or revised SHEQ policies, procedures and objectives.
Group Group Risk Group SHEQ Group Routine Committee membership Executive Finance Management Steering Ethics Business as at the date of this report Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Steve Foots Group Chief Executive Stuart Arnott President Global Operations Sandra Breene President Personal Care Tom Brophy Group General Counsel and Company Secretary Nick Challoner President Life Sciences Anthony Fitzpatrick President Corporate Development Maarten Heybroek President Performance Technologies & Industrial Chemicals Jez Maiden Group Finance Director Graham Myers Group Financial Controller Chairman Member Croda International Plc 60 Annual Report and Accounts 2017
