76 intu properties plc Annual report 2017 Nomination and Review Committee Dear shareholder Statement on diversity policy The Nomination and Review Committee, 2017 continued to be an important and the Board, have always recognised and busy year for the Nomination the importance of boardroom diversity, and Review Committee.
providing a wide range of perspectives, and the Committees policy is to seek to Having taken over the role of the ensure that a range of suitable candidates Chairman in early May, I am committed is taken into account when drawing up to maintaining the high standards of the longlists and shortlists.
The priority of the Nomination and Review Committee and Committee is to ensure that the Group ensuring that we continue to follow a continues to have the most effective Highlights of 2017 robust process and best governance Board possible and all appointments to Chairman succession-planning practice whenever key decisions are the Board are made on merit against Externally facilitated Board evaluation taken, in particular relating to new objective criteria.
A description of intus appointments and when considering the company-wide approach to diversity can Members in 2017 composition of the Board.
Chairman Responsibilities and how they were Board composition Patrick Burgess until 3 May 2017 discharged in 2017 The Committees discussions regarding Chairman of the Board The principal role of the Nomination and the composition of the Board continue to John Strachan from 3 May 2017 Review Committee is to evaluate the skills be framed by the Companys previously Chairman of the Board available on the Board and to determine stated goal of reducing the overall size of Members when appointments and retirements the Board.
Accordingly, two nonAndrew Huntley until 3 May 2017 are appropriate.
executive directors, Patrick Burgess and Independent Non-Executive Director Andrew Huntley, retired from the Board In addition to its key responsibilities set and were not replaced.
The Committee Adle Anderson from 3 May 2017 out above, the Committee is also is satisfied that the balance of skills, Independent Non-Executive Director responsible for carrying out the annual knowledge and experience on the Rakhi Goss-Custard from 3 May 2017 performance evaluation of the Board, its Board and its committees continues Independent Non-Executive Director committees and individual directors, as to be appropriate.
well as making recommendations on Andrew Strang from 3 May 2017 appointments to the Board, including the The Board is supportive of Lord Davies Independent Non-Executive Director induction programme for newly aspirational target of 33 per cent female Louise Patten appointed directors, and on succession Board representation by 2020 and is Independent Non-Executive Director planning.
Those non-executive directors pleased to confirm that the Boards Steven Underwood from 3 May 2017 who have served on the Board for six female representation now stands at Alternate Director for John Whittaker years or more have been subject to a 33 per cent.
Further information particularly rigorous review.
regarding our diversity policy is set Areas of focus in 2018 out above.
continue refreshing of Board The Committee carried out a formal composition in line with Board performance evaluation process, Succession-planning succession plans by way of a questionnaire.
The outcome A sub-committee was established, continuation of process to ensure of the review is summarised opposite.
chaired by Andrew Huntley, to carry out smooth succession of the Chairman the search for a new Chairman to succeed The Committee met twice in 2017 with its Patrick Burgess who retired from the main focus on the composition of the Board in May 2017.
Appropriate input was Board and succession-planning, in provided by independent executive search particular in relation to the succession of rm Korn Ferry Whitehead Mann.
Korn the Chairman, and in relation to the role Ferry Whitehead Mann had no other of Senior Independent Director.
connection with the Company other than providing input into the Boards succession-planning.
I was pleased to Governance Nomination and Review Committee 77 accept the appointment as Chairman of the Board with effect from 3 May 2017.
Performance evaluation Andrew Huntley also retired from the Every year, the Board conducts a performance evaluation of the performance of the Board Board on 3 May 2017.
The Committee and its committees.
In addition, the Chairman reviews the performance of each director and was pleased to appoint Adle Anderson the Senior Independent Director oversees the review of the Chairmans performance.
The as Senior Independent Director, areas identied for attention during 2017 were as shown in the table below: succeeding Andrew Huntley.
Areas identied for attention Action taken Board succession-planning As outlined on page 60 the Committee oversaw the process Talent, training and development for the succession of the Chairman and the Senior Talent development is a key focus of the Independent Director Committee and a comprehensive talent Nomination and Board succession remains a standard agenda item and leadership programme, including Review Committee succession-planning, has been Board Committees Board Committees terms of reference are reviewed annually implemented for senior management and all independent non-executive directors continue to have across the Group.
The Committee a standing invitation to attend any committee meeting if they receives regular update reports regarding so wish, irrespective of their formal membership progress and remains confident in the future potential of the Groups most 2017 performance evaluation promising executives and staff.
This involved an external independent facilitator, Lintstock, engaging with the Chairman and Company Secretary to set the context for the evaluation and tailor surveys for all directors to As Chairman, with the assistance of the the specic circumstances of intu.
Lintstock is a specialist corporate governance consultancy Nomination and Review Committee, and has no commercial dealings with the Group, other than for the provision of corporate I regularly consider the need for directors governance services to the Board.
The anonymity of all respondents was ensured throughout to update and expand their skills and the process in order to promote the open and frank exchange of views.
Training is provided for As a result of the analysis, among other things the Board agreed that it should continue to non-executive directors in the form devote attention to succession-planning, consider the balance between presentation and of presentations at Board meetings, discussion at meetings and continue to spend more time discussing strategic topics.
attendance at relevant seminars and courses.
Induction for new directors There is a comprehensive induction programme for new directors which is tailored by the The Board also recognises the need for Chairman, in consultation with the Chief Executive and Company Secretary, depending on the directors to keep up-to-date with relevant type of appointment.
The programme ordinarily includes meetings with Board members, legislative and regulatory developments senior management and external advisors, as well as a high-level review of all current as well as changes to corporate projects, Board strategy and an in-depth review of the Groups assets.
Additional elements governance best practice and investor are added to the programme as needed following discussion between the Chairman and the expectations.
The Company Secretary individual director.
reports to each Board meeting on these Where required, the Company Secretary provides guidance and facilitates the provision of matters, drawing attention to any issues training on directors duties under the Companies Act 2006 and on legal, regulatory and of particular relevance.
governance matters with which the Company, Board and individual directors must comply.
Re-election of directors All directors will submit themselves for re-election at the forthcoming annual general meeting in May 2018.
