50 DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT The Non-Executive Directors have As a result, Nigel Mills was appointed Leadership and effectiveness complementary skill sets bringing the Senior Independent Director and Board composition substantial and diverse experience to Marion Sears became Chairman The Board currently comprises seven the Board.
Marion Sears has extensive of the Remuneration Committee, Directors, our Senior Independent experience in banking and retail markets.
both with effect from 14 December Director and Acting Chairman, three Rachel Kentleton has strong experience 2017.
Nicholas Wrigley resigned on Executive Directors and three Nonin finance and retail markets in her current 26 February 2018 and Nigel Mills Executive Directors, women comprise role as Finance Director at PayPoint became Senior Independent Director and 29% of the Board.
The Executive Plc and in her previous role as Group Acting Chairman.
Directors have all worked for the Group Director, Strategy & Implementation at for over twenty years and have extensive Key actions of the Board easyJet.
Simon Litherland has extensive housebuilding experience in differing The Board met on seven occasions executive experience of consumer facing market conditions.
The Executive in 2017, including its annual strategy industries, having worked at Diageo Plc Directors are supported by independent meeting.
There was full attendance by for over 20 years and in his current role as Non-Executive Directors with wideall Directors at all Board and Committee Chief Executive Officer of Britvic Plc.
Nigel Mills, Senior meetings during 2017 except that Independent Director and Acting There is a clear, written division of Nicholas Wrigley and Jonathan Davie did Chairman will lead the process to appoint responsibilities between the Chairman not attend one Nomination Committee a new Chairman.
and the Chief Executive, which is meeting, see page 52. approved by the Board.
The experience, Nigel has been a Director of the Company The Board continued to review the diversity and personal characteristics of for just under two years.
He has extensive Companys current strategy and its the Directors create a balanced Board: experience of corporate governance, commitment to shareholders under the Non-Executive Directors have the financial markets and shareholder the Capital Return Plan.
Full details skills to support the Executive Directors views from his 30 year career advising of the strategy are set out in the in delivery of the Groups strategy and to quoted companies.
Strategic Report on pages 12 to 14. challenge when appropriate.
The implementation of the Boards Jeff Fairburn has been Chief Executive The Board has a formal schedule of strategy and policies are delegated for five years and has worked for the matters reserved for its consideration to Executive Directors and senior Group since 1989.
Jeff has strong and decision, which is reviewed annually management within the Group.
leadership skills which enable him by the Board.
The schedule includes to effectively direct and manage the The Board also considered the vesting the approval of the Groups strategy, delivery of the Groups strategy.
He has ofawards under the Companys 2012 major investments, annual and half year extensive housebuilding experience, Long Term Incentive Plan, further results and trading updates, review of having previously held a number of senior information can be found in theStrategic performance, dividend and cash return operational positions within the business Report on pages 4, 23 andinthe policy, monitoring risk and ensuring including as Chief Executive of the Remuneration Report.
adequate financial controls are available.
Groups then North Division and also as There was particular focus by the Board Group Managing Director.
Board and Committee changes during 2017 on maintaining a high Simon Litherland joined the Board Dave Jenkinson, Group Managing quality skilled workforce to support as a Non-Executive Director on Director has extensive housebuilding the growth of the business, The Board 3 April 2017.
He was appointed to the experience, particularly in the land also maintained its focus on health and Audit, Nomination and Remuneration market.
Dave has also held senior safety, the health and wellbeing of our Committees on the same date.
operational positions within the Group employees, subcontractors and visitors On 14 December 2017 Nicholas Wrigley prior to his appointment to the Board, to our sites is of paramount importance announced his intention to resign as including Managing Director of the and we continue to ensure all of our Chairman and Jonathan Davie resigned North East operating business and as sites continue to be safe environments.
from the Board recognising that the 2012 a Regional Chairman.
Mike Killoran Build quality and customer care remain LTIP could have included a cap.
has been the Groups Finance Director ahigh priority for the Board.
During 2017 for the last 19 years and he has very we continued to focus on the quality of strong finance and housebuilding our build particularly with the drive to operational experience.
increase production over the last few years.
Further information can be found on pages 28 and 35.
Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2017 12 Corp Governance v54.
indd 50 07 03 2018 11:30 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 51 The Board also undertook its annual The Board considers all of the NonPerformance evaluation and review of the Principal Risks, the Group Executive Directors to be independent.
professional development Risk Register and the Groups systems Nigel Mills is a Senior Advisor at Citigroup The Boards policy is to undertake an of internal financial control.
Citigroup, whilst one annual evaluation of its performance has carefully evaluated the risks faced of Persimmons two brokers, is not a and that of its committees and Directors by the Group, particularly after the UKs financial advisor to the Company and annually with an externally facilitated General Election result in June 2017 and has received no remuneration from the evaluation at least every three years.
the UKs ongoing negotiations to leave Company for more than nine years, and During 2017 the Board undertook an the EU.
Further information is set out in received share dealing commission only internal evaluation, with criteria linked our Principal Risks on pages 25 and 26 in the two years before that.
Nigel had not tothe Groups strategy performance inthe Audit Committee Report on pages worked on the Companys business over and governance.
An externally facilitated 54 to 58. the three years prior to his appointment evaluation will be conducted during 2018. in 2016, itself preceded by Citigroups Directors have an opportunity to be frank Board diversity and independence decision to put in place strict procedures about what they consider the Board and The Board recognises that a diverse which further ensure his independence.
its committees do well and where they workforce can bring benefits to the Group Accordingly the Board reiterates consider improvements can be made.
and by the same measure the Directors its belief in Nigels independence, recognise the value diversity, including which importantly has been clearly In addition to the Board and Committee diversity of gender, age, educational and demonstrated in debate in both Board evaluations, the Chairman undertakes professional background, can bring to and Remuneration Committee meetings an annual verbal performance evaluation the Board.
of the Executive Directors performance When considering the appointment and an evaluation of the Non-Executive The Company has procedures in place of new Directors, the Nomination Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors to ensure that Directors disclose any Committee determines the skills and annually discuss and evaluate the situation in which they may have an experience which would be of benefit to performance of the Chairman, interest, direct or indirect, which conflicts the composition of the Board and then taking into account the views of the or may possibly conflict with the interests evaluates candidates skills, knowledge Executive Directors.
No authority to authorise and experience to determine which a conflict of interest has been required The Chairman discusses requirements candidate would be most suitable.
during 2017. for professional development with All nominations by the Committee are all Directors and training is provided made on the basis of merit and overall Re-election of Directors where appropriate.
All Directors have suitability, taking into consideration the Each of the Directors will stand for access to the advice and services of diversity of the Board.
The Group has a re-election by shareholders at the the Company Secretary and may also Diversity Policy, its objective is to ensure forthcoming AGM.
seek independent professional advice that appointments are made on the The Board supports the re-election of and training at the Companys expense, basis of merit and sustainability taking all of the Directors.
It considers that the ifsorequired to carry out their duties.
into account diversity, including gender.
Executive Directors have the skills and There are no specific targets for levels of experience necessary to manage the diversity for the Board or for the Group as business and deliver the Groups strategy a whole.
and the Non-Executive Directors have the right breadth of skills and diversity to During 2017 the Group participated in the support and challenge where necessary Hampton Alexander Review survey and the Executives.
Each of the Nonas at 30 June 2017, 13.3% of executive Executives has individually shown a high committee members were female level of independence and commitment 2016: 6.6% and 12.7% of direct reports to their roles.
to the executive committee were female 2016: 12.3%.
indd 51 07 03 2018 11:30 52 DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT continued Simon Litherland received a Nomination Committee Audit Committee comprehensive induction about the The members of the Nomination Composition Company which included extensive Committee are Nigel Mills, Marion The Audit Committee members meetings and briefings from Executive Sears, Rachel Kentleton and Simon are Rachel Kentleton Chairman, Directors and Head Office functional Litherland.
Simon Litherland was Marion Sears and Simon Litherland.
directors, principally on strategy and appointed to the Committee on 3 April Simon was appointed to the Committee finance, but including legal issues, 2017, Jonathan Davie resigned from on 3 April 2017 when he joined the information technology and health and the Committee on 14 December 2017 Board.
Jonathan Davie was a member safety.
He has also attended site visits and Nicholas Wrigley resigned from of the Committee until he resigned and has met divisional and regional the Committee on 26 February 2018. from the Board on 14 December management teams.
Nigel Mills became Chairman of the 2017.
All members of the Committee Committee on 26 February 2018 when are considered to be independent.
The Committee The Board considers that the Audit The Remuneration Committee is met five times during 2017.
During their Committee as a whole has competence responsible for establishing and updating meetings they reviewed the composition relevant to the sector in which the Group the remuneration policy of the Chairman of the Board, considered both Board operates.
Rachel Kentleton is a qualified and Executive Directors.
The members and senior management succession accountant and has recent relevant of the Remuneration Committee are planning and agreed the process for financial experience as Finance Director Marion Sears Chairman, Nigel Mills and the appointment of a new Chairman.
of PayPoint Plc and formerly as Group Simon Litherland.
Simon Litherland was Nicholas Wrigley and Jonathan Davie Director, Strategy & Implementation at appointed to the Committee on 3 April didnot attend the Nomination Committee easyJet.
She has experience in consumer 2017.
Jonathan Davie resigned from meeting called to consider the changes facing, operational businesses with the Committee on 14 December 2017 required to the Board and its committees significant long term investment cycles.
and Nicholas Wrigley resigned from the upon notification of their decision to Marion Sears has extensive banking Committee on 26 February 2018. resign.
Otherwise, all members were and relevant financial and investment The Committee formally met four times inattendance at each meeting.
expertise and is a member of the Audit during 2017 and all members attended Committee at Fidelity European Values Following their earlier review of the meetings.
The principal activities of Plc and Aberdeen New Dawn Investment the composition of the Board, the the Remuneration Committee in 2017 Trust PLC.
Simon Litherland is a qualified Nomination Committee agreed that the were consideration of the vesting of accountant and has proven finance, balance of skills would be enhanced awards under the Companys 2012 leadership and business skills in his role by the appointment of a Non-Executive Long Term Incentive Plan, finalisation as Chief Executive Officer of Britvic plc.
Director with executive experience of the revised Remuneration Policy, He also has significant experience in at a listed company in a consumer which was approved by shareholders consumer facing industries.
facing industry and with extensive at the 2017 AGM and review of the financial experience.
The Committee The Committee met on five occasions performance conditions for the Executive appointed an executive search firm, the during 2017 and all members were Directors annual bonus scheme.
Zygos Partnership to prepare a list of in attendance at each meeting.
Further information is set out in the candidates for consideration.
Zygos has The Committee regularly meets the Remuneration Report on pages 62 to 79. no other connection with the Company.
external auditor without the presence of An extensive search was undertaken the Companys management and also and the Committee reviewed the list of meets the Group Risk Manager annually potential candidates.
A shortlist was without the Companys management agreed and each of the shortlisted being present.
Further information on the candidates was interviewed.
role and activities of the Audit Committee together with details of how the principles The Committee subsequently of the UK Corporate Governance recommended the appointment of Code regarding accountability have SimonLitherland to the Board and been applied can be found in the Audit hewas appointed on 3 April 2017.
Committee report on pages 54 to 58.
indd 52 07 03 2018 11:30 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 53 The Board is provided with reports Terms of reference produced by equity analysts and the Terms of reference for the results of consultations are reported to Board Committees are available the Board as a whole.
In addition, the on the Companys website Directors report on feedback received www.
com corporate following their presentations to or or from the Company Secretary at the meetings with shareholders and analysts.
All Directors attend the Companys Shareholder relations Annual General Meeting and are available The Board is committed to establishing to answer questions at the meeting and maintaining good relations with or privately.
the Companys shareholders as they provide good perspectives on corporate The Company issues regular trading governance matters and strategy.
statements to the London Stock Exchange, as well as the publication of Jeff Fairburn and Mike Killoran have annual and half yearly financial results.
responsibility for maintaining appropriate The Company provides shareholders with communications with institutional access to detailed presentations of results investors and analysts, advised by the at its analyst presentations.
The results Groups broker Merrill Lynch, together presentation is available to the market, a with the financial PR consultants, Citigate recording of which can be viewed on the Dewe Rogerson.
They hold scheduled Companys website.
meetings with major shareholders The UK Corporate Governance regularly.
Marion Sears has responsibility Code 2016 for consulting with shareholders and This Corporate Governance Statement, institutions on matters relating to together with the Audit Committee Report remuneration policy.
Nigel Mills and on pages 54 to 58 and the Directors Marion Sears consulted with major Remuneration Report on pages 62to79, shareholders regarding the vesting of provides a description of how the the 2012 LTIP.
The Committees previous main principles of the UK Corporate Chairman, Jonathan Davie consulted Governance Code 2016 have been with major shareholders regarding the applied within the Company during 2017.
Remuneration Policy put to shareholders and approved by them at last years The Company complied with the UK Annual General Meeting.
Corporate Governance Code 2016 The Company monitors the constituents throughout 2017 and continues to review of its share register to ensure that its its governance procedures to maintain investor relations communications proper control and accountability.
are appropriately coordinated with its The Governance Code is available shareholder base.
fromthe Financial Reporting Council, atwww.
uk Significant shareholdings As at 31 December 2017 and as at 26 February 2018, the Company had been notified under the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rule 5 of the following interests in the voting rights of the Company: As at 31 December 2017 As at 26 February 2018 % of % of Number of total voting Number of total voting 1 1 Name voting rights rights voting rights rights Nature of holding BlackRock Inc 16,718,253 5.43 16,718,253 5.43 Indirect 1 R epresents the number of voting rights last notified to the Company by the respective shareholder in accordance with D. T. R. 5.1.
