Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 67 ACCOUNTABILITY Activities in 2017 - Introduced Diversity, Equality and Internal control Review of Board composition Inclusion eLearning for all employees, The Board has overall responsibility for The Committee reviewed the to be repeated annually the Groups system of internal control.
Boards composition to ensure it has - Ensuring all customer-facing teams are However, such a system is designed to the correct balance of skills, experience, diverse and appropriately achieve business objectives and can only independence and knowledge.
representative of our local community provide reasonable and not absolute Recognising that the average tenure and our students assurance against material mis statement.
of the Non-Executive Directors was just - Actively supporting our high potential over 6 years and to help ensure orderly female employees The provisions of the Code in succession planning, the Committee - Ensuring all leadership roles have respect of internal controls require that believed it was timely to consider an diverse candidates on the short list Directors review and monitor all controls, additional Non-Executive Director.
The - Working with Stonewall, Business in the including operational, compliance and Committee felt that someone currently Community and the Business Disability risk management as well as financial serving as an Executive Director in a listed Forum to raise our awareness controls.
Through reports from the Boards business with strong financial expertise - Reviewing our HR policies and Committees, the Groups Risk Committee would be a useful addition to the Board.
procedures to be more inclusive with and the Groups Business Unit Board Based on this remit, the Committee led a related line-manager training the Management Board, the Board has recruitment process, which resulted in the reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups In 2018, we will focus on: appointment of Ross Paterson in system of internal controls for the period September 2017. covered by the annual report and - Development and growth of our accounts and has concluded that Diversity in Action Group Succession planning such controls were effective - Focus groups and Pulse Surveys across As per prior years, the Committee reviewed throughout such period.
the organisation to understand more the Boards succession planning, to ensure about our employee needs we have a deep talent pipeline for future Further information on the Companys - Launch of Womens Network followed Board appointments.
As an integral part of internal control framework is set out in by further networks as appropriate our executive succession planning, the the Audit Committee Report on pages - Use of specialist job boards to support Committee oversees the Senior Leadership 68 to 71.
The Board delegates certain of sourcing diverse candidates Development Programme part of a its duties, responsibilities and powers to - Further recruitment training for all broader Skills Development Programme to the Audit Committee, so that these can hiring managers ensure we are growing and nurturing our receive suitably focused attention, but in - Continue to work with Stonewall, talent and developing our high-potential, so doing the Audit Committee acts on Business in the Community and the high-performers.
behalf of the full Board, and the matters Business Disability Forum reviewed and managed by the Audit - Work Equality Index completed and Board diversity Committee remain the responsibility recommended actions taken The Board recognises that diversity, of the Directors taken as a whole.
equality and inclusivity at Board level We have set diversity targets for our People and throughout the Group is a critical Going Concern with 40% female in leadership roles by 2020. component of our long-term sustainability.
After making enquiries, the Directors We are currently at 37%.
We are proud of the diversity of the Group have a reasonable expectation that the as a whole, an organisation made up of Group and the Company have adequate Read more about employees, who like our customers, are Diversity and inclusion on p47 resources to continue in operational from many different backgrounds and existence for the foreseeable future.
As regards to the Board itself, the countries and have diverse experiences, For this reason, they continue to adopt Nomination Committee considered perspectives and skills.
the going concern basis in preparing during 2017 whether it wanted to set the accounts.
specific targets for female representation Beyond the boardroom and within on the Board.
The Committee believes Unite Students more generally, we have Risk management the current focus of diversity and inclusivity continued to review our approach to The Board, when setting the strategy, should be on the Group as a whole diversity, equality and inclusion during 2017. also determines the nature and extent with the development of a diverse and We recognise this as a key building block of the principal risks and its risk appetite inclusive talent pipeline incorporating the of our People strategy and that the UK in implementing this strategy.
Each year initiatives outlined above.
The Committee workforce and our students are increasingly the Board reviews the effectiveness of the is not currently considering setting diversity diverse.
To remain competitive, we need to Groups risk management systems and targets for the Board itself, believing this is develop a diverse, equal and inclusive how the Board did this during 2018 is set not necessarily in the best interests of the workplace which will in turn best represent out on pages 24 to 31.
However, and support our customers in creating a gender diversity, along with all other Home for Success.
Business model aspects of diversity and inclusivity, will be For a description of the Groups considered, along with its more general During 2017, our D&I initiatives have Business Model, see page 4 and 5 of the remit to consider the balance of skills, focused on: Strategic Report.
experience, independence and knowledge when reviewing - Launching our Diversity in Action appointments to the Board.
Group led by, and for, employees - Widening our recruitment channels to bring in increased diversity - Training all recruiting managers and the resourcing team on unconscious bias, to ensure that we are recruiting the best person for the job THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017
