58 Corporate governance statement BOARD STATEMENTS Under the Code, the Board is required to make a number of statements.
These statements are set out below: Requirement Board statement More information Compliance with The Board confirms that, in its view, the Company has Details on how the the Code applied the main principles and has complied with all of Company complies with The Unite Group plc is listed the provisions set out in the Code during 2017. the Code can be found on the London Stock Exchange throughout this Corporate and subject to the requirements Governance section of the of the 2016 UK Corporate Annual Report.
The Board is required to comply with the provisions of the Code and where it does not, explain the reasons for non-compliance.
Going Concern The Directors are satisfied that the Group has adequate More details on the Going The Board is required to confirm resources to continue to be operational as a going concern Concern statement can that the Group has adequate for the foreseeable future and therefore have adopted the be found on page 67. resources to continue in operation going concern basis in preparing the Groups 2017 financial for the foreseeable future.
Viability Statement The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the More details on the The Board is required to assess Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its Viability statement can be the viability of the Company liabilities as they fall due over the three year period to found on page 27. taking into account the current December 2020. position and the potential impact of the current position and the potential impact of the principal risks and uncertainties set out on pages 28 to 31.
Principal risks facing A robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Information around key the Group Company was undertaken during the year, including those risks and risk management The Board is required to that would threaten its business model, future performance, processes can be found confirm that a robust assessment solvency or liquidity.
The significant risks facing the Company, on pages 28 to 31, and on of the principal risks facing the and how these are mitigated, are set out on pages 28 to 31. page 70 of the Audit Company has been carried out Committee report.
and should describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
Risk management and The Board conducted a review of the effectiveness of the Details on the systems internal control systems of risk management and internal control during the of risk management and The Board is required to year, and considers that there is a sound system of internal internal control can be monitor the Companys risk control which accords with the Financial Reporting found on pages 24 to 31. management and internal Councils Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control control systems and, at least and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
annually, carry out a review of their effectiveness.
Fair, balanced and The Directors consider, to the best of each persons See the Audit Committee understandable knowledge and belief, that the annual report, taken as a report on pages 68 to 71 and The Board should confirm whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the Statement of Directors that it considers the annual the information necessary for shareholders to assess the responsibilities on page 99. report, taken as a whole, is fair, Companys position and performance, business model balanced and understandable and strategy.
and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017
