Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT ANDREW DUFF, CHAIRMAN, NOMINATION COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES IN 2017 The following is a description of the work of the Committee to show how it has discharged its responsibilities in 2017, which was reported to the Board: February Discussion and approval of the appointment of Dorothee Deuring as an additional Board member, review and agree new Board Committee compositions, consider and approve a new Board diversity policy, and review and approve the Nomination Committee report in the Annual report.
March Discussion of the Chairmans performance and re-appointment, and approve recommending to the Board the re-appointment of the Chairman for a further 3 year term, subject to performance The Chairman and members of the Nomination Committee and shareholder re-election.
the Committee are shown on pages 40 to 41, together with their biographical information.
During 2017, 5 meetings were July held and the attendance records of Committee members are Discussion of Board performance evaluation approach and shown below.
The CEO is invited to attend all of its meetings, form of questionnaire.
except when the discussion concerns him or when it is a meeting of Non-Executive Directors only, and other September Executive Directors are invited to attend where appropriate.
Discussion of the performance of Nick Salmon Senior Independent Director and Steve Good Remuneration The Committees terms of reference are available on Committee Chairman and their re-appointment, and approval the Companys website and the following is a summary to the Board the re-appointments of both to their existing roles of its responsibilities: for a further 3 year term, subject to performance and Reviewing the size and composition of the Board, together shareholder re-election.
with the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of its members and making recommendations for change December as necessary Discussion of the output of the Board evaluation and review Carrying out an annual performance evaluation of of the Chairmans performance which was considered to the Board, its committees and individual members be effective and satisfactory.
Succession planning for the Board and Executive Leadership team.
Committee members Scheduled meetings 6 5 Committee members Scheduled meetings Andrew Duff 5 5 1 Sandra Boss 5 5 2 Dorothee Deuring 4 4 Steve Good 5 5 Anne Hyland 5 5 Nick Salmon 5 5 3 Andrew Christie past Director 2 2 Chairman of Committee.
1 Appointed to the Board on 1 February 2017.
2 Appointed to the Board on 1 March 2017.
3 Retired from the Board on 25 April 2017.
49 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017 NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED 2017 BOARD EVALUATION Shareholders may find the biographical information provided The Board and Committee agreed that, with the changes to on pages 40 and 41 useful to help them understand how its composition in 2016 and 2017, the Board evaluation for the a Directors background or experience can enhance the year being reported on would be undertaken without external contribution he or she is making to the operation and assistance.
This would allow a period for the Board transition effectiveness of the Board.
This will also assist shareholders to come to an end, at which point it would be appropriate for a in assessing the skills and experience of the Board as a whole, more in-depth, externally facilitated evaluation to be carried out.
when determining how to vote on certain resolutions at the This is planned for 2018.
The information should also be read in conjunction with the Notice of Meeting accompanying this Annual report The 2017 review was undertaken by means of a qualitative proposing the re-election of all Directors at the 2018 AGM.
questionnaire survey produced in-house, covering all aspects of the Boards structure, composition and operation, Board ANDREW DUFF interactions internal and external, and business strategy, risks Chairman, Nomination Committee and priorities.
In addition, the survey included specific sections 27 February 2018 on the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees including how well they were chaired and organised, the quality of Committee papers as well as their effectiveness.
The outcome of the review highlighted that the Board and its Committees are effective and well run, that interactions between the Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors are strong and positive, and that all Directors contribute effectively and provide appropriate commitment to their role.
Notably, the quality of Board materials and discussion had improved greatly which enabled the Board to spend more of its time on strategic matters affecting the Company.
Areas to work on in 2018 included: increasing the Boards interactions with all members of the Executive Leadership team and key advisers, clarifying the Boards appetite for risk in relation to organic growth and acquisition criteria, ensuring that the Board continues to provide appropriate challenge and add value, and ensuring the Executive Directors get the support they need.
Following the evaluation review, the Board is satisfied that all Directors contribute effectively and demonstrate appropriate commitment to their role.
Shareholders are therefore asked to support their re-election at the AGM.
50 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017
