Governance Audit Committee 71 Audit Committee Dear shareholder Responsibilities The Audit Committees key As the Chairman of the Audit Committee responsibilities are to monitor it is my role to present to you the Audit and review: Committee report for 2017. the integrity of the financial The Audit Committee has this year statements, including a review of the continued to focus on risk management, significant financial reporting specically in relation to our judgements and accounting policies developments in the UK and our the effectiveness of the Groups expanding operations in Spain, as well as internal control and risk management Areas of focus in 2017 continued to receive twice-yearly reviews the effectiveness of the internal developments of cyber risks.
The Audit Committee also audit function, including the work international operations conducted a review of the Groups culture programme undertaken by the function culture and concluded the audit tender process.
the Groups policy on and approach completion of audit tender process to whistleblowing The Groups approach to risk management the Groups overall approach to Members in 2017 is described in detail on pages 38 and 39 monitoring areas of risk and the principal risks are detailed on the Companys relationship with Chairman pages 40 and 41. the external auditor, including Adle Anderson its independence Independent Non-Executive Director The EU Audit Regulation 537 2014 and Members Audit Directive 2014 56 EU became Main activities during the year Rakhi Goss-Custard applicable from 17 June 2016 and must The Audit Committee considered the Independent Non-Executive Director be implemented in the UK from that following key matters in 2017: Andrew Strang date.
These limit the length of tenure Independent Non-Executive Director an audit rm can serve, and put in place valuation of the Groups investment requirements for the audit tender process and development property, including For members other Board appointments, as detailed below.
the first external valuation of the land skills and experience see Board of Directors at intu Costa del Sol on pages 62 and 63  PwC has been the Groups culture Areas of focus in 2018 intus audit rm for more than 20 years the Groups cybersecurity plans financial information and risk and a tender process was commenced in accounting treatment of the most management in relation to potential 2016 and concluded in 2017.
Since the significant transactions including the conclusion of this process the proposed business combination acquisition and subsequent disposal combination with Hammerson has been developments of a 50 per cent interest in Madrid announced, and consequently it has been property valuations Xanad, the 50 per cent disposal decided to defer the appointment of a procurement of intu Chapeleld, completed new auditor until the outcome of this cybersecurity 31 January 2018, and the future approach is clear.
Under the applicable culture equity interest of Eurofund in the transitional rules PwC is able to act as intu Costa del Sol development intus auditor until 2020. the 2017 internal audit plan and audit charter Following our annual review of auditor the viability statement quality and independence see page 73 compliance with the Criminal Finances for more detail, we have recommended Act, including the Groups approach that PwC be reappointed for the to prevention of the facilitation 2018 audit.
of tax evasion 72 intu properties plc Annual report 2017 Audit Committee continued Key financial reporting and These issues were discussed by the significant judgements Audit Committee following nalisation During the year the Audit Committee of the audit.
discussed the planning, progress and final conclusions of the external audit process.
The Audit Committee takes into account The audit plan was reviewed and the views of the external auditor in approved at the July 2017 Audit understanding and assessing whether Committee meeting.
The significant risk suitable accounting policies have been areas identied were: investment and adopted, whether management has development property valuations: made appropriate estimates and significant transactions during the year: judgements and whether disclosures revenue recognition: and management are balanced and fair.
The main issues override of controls.
International discussed by the Audit Committee in Standards on Auditing UK identify the year are detailed in the table below.
these latter two risks as significant for all companies.
Issue Action taken Valuation of investment For the interim results at 30 June 2017 the Audit Committee carried out a review of the investment property and development property valuations.
The full Board carried out a review of the 31 December 2017 valuations included in this report.
Due to the overall importance of the valuations to the Groups results, the relevant Audit Committee meeting included a presentation from and discussion with Knight Frank as part of the valuation process and the relevant Board meeting included a presentation from Cushman & Wakeeld.
The Audit Committee review included discussion with management and the external auditor of the key assumptions and results of the valuation process undertaken by the independent third party valuers.
This review also included understanding which general factors had inuenced the valuers in concluding on appropriate yields to use in the valuations.
This involved factors affecting both the investment and occupier markets and recent comparable market transactions.
Particular emphasis was given to understanding the factors that had resulted in individual property valuations being either signicantly above or below the average movement in the Groups valuations.
The Audit Committee specically considered the appropriateness of the special assumption that the development land at intu Costa del Sol is valued as if all planning consents are in place at the balance sheet date, and the sensitivity of this valuation to projected income and cost assumptions.
Presentation of information Operating through joint ventures is a core part of intus strategy.
Management both review and monitor the business, including the Groups share of joint ventures, on an individual line basis not on a post-tax profit or net investment basis.
The gures and commentary presented in the strategic report have therefore been presented consistently with this management approach.
Reconciliations between the management and statutory bases are provided in the other information section on pages 165 to 168.
The Committee has reviewed the prominence given to both statutory information and information on a management basis, and concluded that the approach adopted provides the most useful analysis of the results for the year.
Going concern The Companys going concern review, which is based on 18-month cash ow projections with particular focus on the next 12 months, was discussed with management.
The projections cover the major trading cash ows, being rental income and interest expense, and capital expenditure plans in the context of the latest debt maturity prole.
Stress tests of the projections were considered, covering reductions in the value of the Groups properties, a fall in income as well as the inability to execute the capital recycling transactions, and what impact such changes may have on both the Groups liquidity and its ability to meet the financial covenants on its debt facilities.
The discussion and analysis also considered what actions were available to the Group to mitigate the impact of such reductions on the cash ow projections.
Viability statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board has assessed the prospects of the Company over a longer period than that required in adopting the going concern basis of accounting.
The viability statement is included on page 70 and sets out the conclusion of that assessment.
The same stress tests as outlined in the Going concern section above were conducted on the projections underpinning the viability assessment.
The Audit Committee assessed the viability position and reported its recommendations to the Board.
Governance Audit Committee 73 External auditor was conducted in line with the Fair, balanced and understandable The Audit Committee has assessed the requirements of EU Audit Regulation effectiveness of the external auditor, 537 2014 and Audit Directive 2014 56 PwC, in line with the approach set out in EU the regulations which became At the request of the Board, the Audit the Financial Reporting Councils Audit applicable to the Group on 1 January Committee considered whether the Quality Practice Aid.
Since the conclusion of this process 2017 annual report was fair, balanced evaluation the Audit Committee has held intu has become the offeree in a takeover and understandable and whether it discussions without the auditor, asked the approach, and consequently it has been provided the necessary information for auditor to explain the risks to audit quality decided to defer the appointment of a shareholders to assess intus performance, that they have identied and their new auditor until the outcome of this business model, position and strategy.
rm-wide controls relied upon, enquired approach is clear.
Under the applicable As part of its considerations the Audit about the findings from internal and transitional rules PwC is able to act as Committee took into account the external inspections of their audit, intus auditor until 2020. preparation process detailed below which, challenged the auditors strategy and together with opinions of key executives plan and discussed the outputs of the A resolution to reappoint PwC for the and the external auditor, has been audit with the auditor.
This included direct 2018 audit will be proposed at the 2018 designed to assist the Audit Committee meetings, review of reporting issued by annual general meeting.
The Audit in reaching its view: the external auditor and review of Committee will continue to review the independent reports: effectiveness and independence of the at an early stage, a matrix is produced external auditor each year.
identifying key themes and the senior finance staff reviewed the sections in which those themes detailed execution of the 2016 audit Non-audit services should be reected plan with the engagement team and On 1 January 2017 the Group individual sections of the annual report incorporated any findings into the implemented the FRCs Ethical Standard are drafted by appropriate senior 2017 plan for Auditors which imposes restrictions on management with regular review the Chair of the Audit Committee and certain non-audit services.
A number of meetings to ensure consistency across the Chief Financial Officer each met non-audit services are prohibited and the whole document privately with a senior partner of PwC others require approval by the Audit a verication process is undertaken to unrelated to the engagement to Committee.
There is an overall fee limit of ensure that information contained is review the performance of the rm 70 per cent of the average of audit fees appropriately supported and the Audit Committee reviewed the charged in the past three years, and factually accurate audit plan provided by PwC, including hence the fee limit comes into force for detailed reviews of drafts of the annual the risks identied and its approach the financial year to 31 December 2020. report are undertaken by members of to these the Executive Committee and other The Audit Committee has sole authority senior management The Company has complied with the to contract for non-audit services with the drafts are discussed with the Groups provisions of The Statutory Audit Services external auditor subject to observing legal advisors and brokers for Large Companies Market Investigation certain guidelines including: a final draft is reviewed by the Audit Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Committee and discussed with senior Processes and Audit Committee the Audit Committee must consider management prior to consideration Responsibilities Order 2014 and in doing whether the proposed arrangements by the Board so has applied the transitional provisions will maintain audit independence As a result of its considerations the Audit related to the audit tender process.
the external auditor must Committee is satisfied that, taken as satisfy the Company that it a whole, the annual report is fair, The tender process commenced during is acting independently balanced and understandable and has 2016 and concluded during the first half recommended it as such to the Board.
of 2017 with Deloitte being selected for The table below summarises the fees paid appointment for the year ending to the auditor over the last three years.
The tender process The three-year average ratio of non-audit fees to audit fees is 8 per cent.
2017 2016 2015 000 000 000 Audit fees 789 705 628 Non-audit fees 49 48 96 Total fees paid to auditor 838 753 724 Ratio of non-audit fees to audit fees 6% 7% 15% 74 intu properties plc Annual report 2017 Audit Committee continued Risk management and In the context of the Groups approach to internal control risk management the Audit Committee The Board has overall responsibility to commissioned a report on company oversee the Groups system of internal culture.
This consisted of consideration control and to keep its effectiveness of key trends from the employee survey under review, as well as to determine the conducted in the second half of 2016, nature and extent of the risks it is willing and a Group-wide review of culture, to take in achieving its strategic objectives including workshops and questionnaires based on the balance of potential risks with staff across all levels at head office and reward.
The Groups approach to risk and at the centres.
The results from this management is described in detail on review helped the Audit Committee pages 38 and 39 and the principal risks contextualise risks and risk management are detailed on pages 40 and 41. practices.
The actions arising have been put on hold until after the completion The Audit Committee oversees the of the potential business combination Boards annual review of the effectiveness with Hammerson.
of the risk management and internal control systems.
During this review the Internal audit Board has not identied nor been made The Group has a risk and internal audit aware of any failing or weakness which function which reports to the Audit it has determined to be significant.
The risk and internal audit function reviews internal controls and The key elements taken into account reports to the Audit Committee on in this review include: whether such controls are in place and are being operated effectively.
The the Groups internal audit functions function covers intu properties plc work during the year see right and its subsidiaries and joint ventures.
the Groups risk management process the Groups controls over its financial The risk and internal audit function has a reporting process including: the rolling programme of reviews ensuring comprehensive system for reporting that all centres, functions and areas of results to the Board for review and the business are reviewed regularly.
The consideration: the review process most significant areas covered in 2017 underlying the production of the included shopping centre health checks, consolidated financial statements: business continuity, insurance, and the experience and quality of procurement and supply chain and the team involved in the financial culture.
Additionally, annual assurance reporting processes activities were performed, including a review of the assurance map and executive expenses.
Governance Audit Committee 75 The Audit Committee regularly reviews There were 10 whistleblowing incidents Committee membership the effectiveness of the risk and internal relating to the intu Group during 2017. audit function and in particular ensures These included: that the function remains sufficiently The Audit Committee members have been independent of the wider business to reported breach of health and safety selected to provide the wide range of ensure it can carry out its work effectively.
procedures, following investigation of financial and commercial expertise An independent review of the risk and which one individual was dismissed and necessary to full the Committees duties internal audit function is carried out every the other subject to disciplinary action and responsibilities.
The Board is satisfied five years and was last performed at the reported security concerns within one that the Audit Committee has recent end of 2013.
An external review of the centre, following which a thorough and relevant financial experience for the Groups risk management process was review took place and remedial action purposes of the UK Corporate Governance carried out at the end of 2015 as was taken Code.
Additionally, in accordance with the discussed in the focus on risk section two connected claims of professional 2016 Corporate Governance Code the on pages 38 and 39.
The key misconduct, which resulted in Board has determined that the current recommendations have all disciplinary action composition of the Audit Committee as a been implemented.
one claim of professional misconduct whole has competence relevant to the which is still being investigated sector in which the Company operates.
For Whistleblowing policy concern over the roadworthiness of a full detail of the members experience and The Audit Committee is responsible for centre vehicle, which was proved to be skills please see Directors biographies on overseeing the Groups whistleblowing without foundation pages 62 and 63. policy and procedures, under which two grievances which were deemed employees can raise concerns about not to be whistleblowing incidents possible improprieties whether financial two further disclosures which, or otherwise within the Group on a upon investigation, could not condential basis.
be substantiated During the year the Audit Committee Audit Committee effectiveness reviewed and strengthened the policy As part of the Board evaluation process, and procedures and a whistleblowing the Audit Committee reviewed its own committee was established with effectiveness and this confirmed that set terms of reference, with key the Committee remained effective at representatives from HR, Operations meeting its objectives.
and Finance, which reports regularly to the Audit Committee.
All whistleblowing Adle Anderson incidents are reported to this Chairman of the Audit Committee whistleblowing committee which fully 22 February 2018 investigates each event and agrees any remedial action such as procedures being reviewed and improved where appropriate.
