Strategic Report Key Relationships Collaboration and partnership Our success is driven by a focus on collaboration, which we achieve by encouraging our people to think differently as they build intimate relationships throughout our Business, and work with our customers and peers.
Customers Smart partnerships Our collaboration Our business model, directly delivering Through collaborative partnerships thousands of products to thousands of with university start-ups and technology in 2017 included: customers without third party distribution, specialists, we identify opportunities requires an unrivalled level of customer to create next generation solutions.
By 33,986 engagement and intimacy on a global combining and investing in technologies scale.
Each of our market sectors has from external sources, together with our meetings with our customers a dedicated research, sales and in-house expertise, they identify solutions marketing team who are constantly which match our customers future needs in close collaboration with a number across all our market sectors.
In 2017 we of departments within customers acquired Enza Biotech in Sweden and 39 organisations.
These touch points include: IonPhaseE in Finland, and we invested in managers completing our annual 2020 research and development, marketing, Cutitronics, based in the UK, all of which Network development programme production, purchasing, quality, regulatory have novel patented technology.
This level of engagement Read more on pages 14 to 20 and intimacy creates true partnerships based on trust and reliability.
Supply chain partnerships 100 Read more on pages 10 to 20 Managing our global customer product projects working with 393 partners matrix requires strong partnerships Our people with suppliers and a high degree of Our extensive product portfolio is transparency, operating on a global, supplied to many diverse markets, regional and local level.
Raw material 3 creating a high degree of complexity, but quality and supply, together with assured smart partnership investments also competitive advantage and great supply chain integrity, are pre-requisites opportunities.
Our peoples intuitive ability to operating responsibly.
Connections in to manage this complexity comes from a supply chains are now stronger than ever culture that promotes continuous internal before, and product integrity relies on 2,000 communication and sharing of information upstream transparency in supply chains face-to-face meetings with and best practice across all disciplines.
to ensure that we source from suppliers raw material suppliers This internal communication is both with shared values and standards equal structured and informal, which creates to our own.
opportunities for cross fertilisation of ideas Read more on page 22 and innovation.
38 Read more on page 23 Investor base investor conferences and We communicate regularly with our existing roadshows attended Open innovation partnerships and potential shareholders to ensure that Innovation plays a critical role in the delivery our strategy and trading trends are clearly of our strategy.
Our global research and and consistently understood.
Recognising development teams across all our market the importance of direct communication, sectors build collaborative partnerships in 2017 we attended numerous investor with world leading academics and conferences and roadshows in the UK, universities to innovate and develop USA, Europe and Asia and regularly unique ingredients that add value to our co-ordinated investor site visits, capturing customers products and address their and discussing shareholders opinions consumers unmet needs.
Read more on page 49 Read more on page 13 Croda International Plc 08 Annual Report and Accounts 2017
