EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP TEAM In February 2018, we announced 4.
2. changes to our Executive VP GLOBAL PERSONAL Leadership team.
We appointed CARE global commercial leaders for Marci joined as VP Global each of our Coatings, Energy and Personal Care in February 2018.
Personal Care sectors, supported by functional leaders.
PAUL WATERMAN, Marci had a 35 year career CEO with BP in marketing and sales Full biography can be found leadership roles in both business on page 40. to business and business to 3.
RALPH HEWINS, most recent position was VP, CFO global accounts where she was Full biography can be found responsible for leading and on page 40. developing strategic cooperation with selected global partners.
WALKER ALLEN, Former positions include VP, GENERAL COUNSEL AND global industrial, marine and CHIEF COMPLIANCE energy 2014 to 2015 and OFFICER regional VP, North and Latin Walker joined Elementis as America 2010 to 2014, both General Counsel in 1999 and was 5.
appointed General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer in 2006.
Marci holds a BSc degree in Marketing from Seton Hall Skills, competence University and is a graduate and experience of the Sales and Marketing Prior to joining Elementis, Walker Executive Programme from the was associate general counsel Kellogg School of Business at with GE Americom a GE Capital Northwestern University.
company and before that senior business counsel with GE Plastics Nationality a division of General Electric American 7.
He began his legal career as a lawyer in private practice with two leading New 5.
DANIEL HUGHES, York City law firms, where he VP BUSINESS specialised in corporate law, DEVELOPMENT AND IT securities, and mergers and Daniel was appointed VP acquisitions.
Business Development and IT in July 2016, having previously been Walker is a member of the New Chief Information Officer from York Bar and is admitted as September 2013.
Daniel has held in-house counsel in New Jersey.
various senior leadership roles in 9.
Nationality American Skills, competence and experience Daniel has been engaged in our worldwide end-to-end business transactions.
He also served as integration manager for our SummitReheis, Deuchem, Yuhong, Fancor, Watercryl and Hi-Mar acquisitions.
12 to China in August 2008 as Vice President, Coatings Asia, integrating our 5 production and 8 sales sites there while developing our strategy, customer facing channels and organisational design.
Prior to joining Elementis, he held various senior procurement and supply chain positions at Engelhard Corporation and 13 Ford Motor Company.
Daniel holds a BA Honours degree in Business Studies from the University of East London.
Nationality American 42 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 6.
LUC VAN RAVENSTEIN, CHROMIUM VP GLOBAL SUPPLY CHAIN VP GLOBAL RESEARCH VP GLOBAL COATINGS In July 2018, Dennis Valentino, & MANUFACTURING AND DEVELOPMENT Luc joined Elementis in January President of Chromium will Rob joined as VP Global Supply Ken joined as VP Global 2012 as Global Business Director, retire from Elementis.
Eric Chain & Manufacturing in Research and Development Personal Care and became VP, Waldmann became VP June 2018. in October 2008.
In Chromium on 1 February February 2018, he was appointed 2018.
Dennis is in a Skills, competence Skills, competence VP of global Coatings.
transitionary role to ensure an and experience and experience effective and orderly transfer Rob has over 30 years of Prior to joining Elementis, Ken Skills, competence of duties.
Most worked at specialty chemical and experience recently, Rob was senior VP, company, Rohm and Haas.
Luc began his career at Croda 12.
DENNIS VALENTINO, manufacturing for Weber-Stephen There he served in a number of where he held various roles in PRESIDENT, CHROMIUM Products, LLC.
Prior to that, he technical and commercial roles their coatings business before Dennis has been President held several executive positions over a 22 year career.
Among his heading up their European of Elementis Chromium since in supply chain and roles was R&D director coatings personal care business.
Whilst at April 2009. manufacturing with Stepan additives global market manager Elementis, and leading the Chemical Company a global coatings additives and global Personal Care business, Luc was Skills, competence specialty chemical company technical manager architectural responsible for the SummitReheis and experience based in Illinois over a 12 year coatings.
Dennis began his career with tenure.
Rob also has held multiple Pfizer Pigments in 1975 and operations, quality and Ken has a PhD in Chemistry from Luc has an MSc degree in held various positions in the engineering roles with General the University of Bristol.
Chemistry and Chemical Pigments business including Electric in its plastics and Engineering and a Professional VP of its North America advanced materials businesses.
Nationality Doctorate in Engineering from coatings unit and VP of American Eindhoven University of manufacturing.
When Pfizer Rob holds a degree in Chemical Technology.
Pigments was sold to Engineering from Lafayette Elementis plc, Dennis College and an MBA in Finance 9.
PAUL RAO, Nationality continued his career as from Williams College of Business VP GLOBAL ENERGY Dutch French part of Elementis Pigments.
MARKETS Dennis became President of Paul joined Elementis as VP, Elementis Pigments until the Nationality Global Energy Markets in 11.
WENDI WEBER, unit was sold in August 2007.
VP GLOBAL MARKETING He later rejoined Elementis Wendi joined Elementis as VP as President of Chromium.
Skills, competence Global Marketing in January 2017.
CHRIS SHEPHERD, and experience Dennis holds a degree in CHIEF HUMAN RESOURCES Paul has over 25 years of global Skills, competence Chemical Engineering and an OFFICER oilfield experience in sales, and experience MBA from St. Louis University.
Chris joined Elementis as Chief marketing, business development Prior to joining Elementis, Wendi Human Resources Officer in and strategic planning.
Paul held executive positions at CB&I Nationality November 2017. joined Elementis from Qittutut and CDI Corporation where she American Consulting, a leading Houston held P&L responsibility including Skills, competence based consulting group in the business and engineering and experience oilfield service industry.
ERIC WALDMANN, Chris has almost 20 years experience includes 5 years with development, M&A, and strategy.
VP CHROMIUM of global human resources Champion Technologies and In addition, she brings several Eric was appointed VP experience having spent the 16 years with the Nalco Company.
years of general management Chromium on 1 February first 12 years of his career in experience in the refining, gas 2018. manufacturing and supply chain.
Paul holds a BA in Managerial processing, specialty chemicals Most recently Chris held the Studies from Rice University and petrochemical industries.
Skills, competence position of CHRO for BGL Group, and an MBA from Houston She has worked at BASF Catalyst and experience a UK Digital Insurance business.
and Rhodia Inc. in research and Eric has 26 years of He has held prior positions as development, global business and experience in the areas of CHRO at Kantar and Edwards Nationality manufacturing management roles.
finance, accounting, mergers Group and spent over 22 years American and acquisitions and at Mars Incorporated where Wendi holds a bachelors degree sourcing.
He has been with he was based in the UK, Italy, in Aerospace Engineering and Elementis Chromium since China and Singapore.
a masters and doctorate degree 2007 and his most recent in Chemical Engineering from the position was VP Finance Chris holds an MEng in University of Virginia, and an MBA and Sourcing.
Prior to joining Mechanical Engineering from from the University of Michigan.
Elementis, Eric held several the University of Liverpool.
positions at Honeywell and ICI Nationality in their finance and mergers Nationality American and acquisitions functions.
British Eric holds a bachelors Laura Higgins, degree in business Company Secretary administration from Bucknell Laura is a member of the ELT.
University, and an MBA from Her biography can be found Villanova University.
Eric is on page 47. also a CPA and a member of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants.
Nationality American 43 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017
