Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE ANNE HYLAND, CHAIRMAN, AUDIT COMMITTEE The Committees role is to ensure appropriate oversight and review of the presentation and integrity of the Groups financial reporting, internal controls and risk management, internal audit programmes, changes in regulatory requirements, and the independence and appointment of the external auditor.
The terms of reference for the Committee can be found on the corporate website: www.
To enable the Committee to discharge its responsibilities, discussions on a broad range of topics and reports were held with management, internal audit provider and the external auditors throughout the year.
This provided insight into the progress towards the Companys strategic goals, the challenges and risks the Company faces and how these are managed.
The activities of the Committee can be found overleaf.
The Committee has an open dialogue throughout the year so the external auditor and the internal auditor provider can On behalf of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to present raise challenges and questions in their audit work and findings, the Audit Committee report for the year ended 31 December and consider managements responses.
The purpose of this report is to describe how the Committee has carried out its responsibilities during RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE COMMITTEE the year.
The following is a summary of the Committees responsibilities: Monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial statements, MEETINGS AND COMPOSITION OF THE COMMITTEE financial reporting and related statements, as well as the The Board is satisfied that Anne Hyland has recent and clarity and completeness of disclosures including narrative relevant financial experience as required by the Code and, reports and governance statements and accompanying further, that the Committee as a whole has competence financial and related statements and informing the Board relevant to the sector in which the Company operates.
whether the Annual report and accounts taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the Following a review of its programme of work, the Committee information necessary for shareholders to assess the decided to restructure the frequency of meetings by having Companys performance, business model and strategy.
3 formal meetings each year instead of 4, supported by Ensuring the appropriateness of accounting policies, ad hoc meetings as appropriate.
Accordingly, 3 meetings any changes to these, and any significant estimates and were held last year and the attendance of Committee judgements made members is shown below.
Reviewing the effectiveness of internal control, compliance and risk management systems including whistleblowing The Chairman of the Board, both Executive Directors arrangements and representatives of both the external auditor, Overseeing all aspects of the relationship with the internal Deloitte LLP Deloitte and internal audit provider, and external auditors, such as: negotiating and approving  LLP PwC have a standing their terms of appointment, fees, the scope, manner and invitation to attend all Committee meetings, except when programme of work: monitoring resourcing, performance an agenda item concerns either the external or internal and effectiveness, independence and objectivity taking into auditor or is only for Committee members to meet with the account relevant UK professional and regulatory guidelines: external or internal auditor without management or anyone approving the policy on non-audit services: making else being present.
recommendations to the Board for their dismissal or changes: and supervising any tender process.
Committee members Scheduled meetings 4 3 Committee members Scheduled meetings Anne Hyland 3 3 1 Sandra Boss 3 3 2 Dorothee Deuring 2 2 3 Steve Good 1 1 Nick Salmon 3 3 4 Andrew Christie past Director 1 1 Chairman of Committee.
1 Appointed to the Board on 1 February 2017.
2 Appo inted to the Board on 1 March 2017.
3 Stepped down from the Audit Committee on 25 April 2017.
4 Retired from the Board on 25 April 2017.
51 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED December Met with PwC without management present to consider the Groups internal audit programme and control framework MAIN ACTIVITIES DURING 2017 Reviewed the effectiveness of the internal audit programme Committee meetings usually take place prior to a Board and PwCs performance, supported by the results of a survey meeting.
The Chairman of the Committee subsequently reports questionnaire completed by key members of finance staff on the activities of the Committee and matters of particular Reviewed the adequacy of resources made available to PwC relevance to the Board.
and the arrangements they have in place to ensure they can deliver an effective internal audit service The following is a description of the work of the Committee Received PwCs H2 internal audit programme report and to show how it has discharged its responsibilities in 2017. managements responses to the audit findings Approved the re-appointment of PwC as internal auditors February for 2018 and approved an interim plan for the 2018 internal Met with Deloitte without management present to review their audit programme audit findings Reviewed an update on the 2017 audit plan and progress Reviewed Deloittes audit report in combination with the 2016 from Deloitte Annual report and associated preliminary results statement, Noted the progress of tax reforms in the US and potential management representation letter to the auditors, internal impact to the Company control and going concern and viability statements, tax, Reviewed the output of the purchase price allocation exercise litigation and compliance reports including whistleblowing in respect of the SummitReheis acquisition arrangements and the effectiveness, independence and Considered a proposal from management on changes to objectivity of the auditors segmental reporting for the year ending 31 December 2018 Recommended to the Board the approval of the 2016 Reviewed the FRC Audit Quality Review teams final report Annual report and findings in respect of Deloittes audit of the Companys Recommended to the Board the re-appointment of Deloitte financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 as external auditor of the Company Considered non-audit services and fees undertaken KEY ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS by Deloitte during 2016 The primary areas of accounting judgement considered by the Committee in relation to the 2017 financial statements July are listed below.
Met with senior representatives of Deloitte to consider a lead Purchase price allocation for the SummitReheis partner rotation for the 2017 year end audit, met the proposed business new lead audit partner and made a recommendation to the Following the purchase of SummitReheis in March 2017, it Board for their appointment as lead partner was necessary to decide the allocation of the purchase price Discussed the output of the external auditor performance to goodwill, intangibles and other balance sheet items.
evaluation undertaken in Q2 which involved a detailed questionnaire and responses from key members of the Key areas of judgement surrounded the evaluation of the US finance function customers list, where 2 significant assumptions were made Reviewed PwCs H1 internal audit programme report around the average life of 24 years and attrition rate of 0% and managements responses to the audit findings of the top 20 US customers for SummitReheis.
Assessed in combination with Deloittes H1 review report, the 2017 interim results announcement incorporating a The Committee reviewed progress made on the analysis that was management report and condensed financial statements and conducted by a third party provider and led by management.
notes, management representation letter to the auditors and Management updated the Committee regularly on their the H1 litigation, compliance and tax reports, as well as the proposals and the external auditors provided assurance to H1 going concern statement including material uncertainties the Committee that their subject matter experts were in support and principal risks of the allocation of purchase price.
Approved Deloittes letter of engagement and proposed fee for H1 and year-end audit Further information is detailed in note 1.
Reviewed and confirmed the Companys compliance programme Environmental provisions Considered various technical briefings on the UK Corporate A process consistent with 2016 for the evaluation of Governance Code, the 2016 Guidance for Audit Committees, environmental provisions was followed by management, the Tax Transparency Regulations, IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, key area of judgement being the discount rate used for future IFRS 15 Revenue Recognition and IFRS 16 Leases liabilities.
In 2016, this discount rate was reduced from 4.5% to 2.5%.
The Committee considered this discount rate and were satisfied that a rate of 2.5% remained appropriate for 2017.
Further information is detailed in note 1.
52 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information AUDIT EFFECTIVENESS The carrying values of advance corporation tax ACT The Chairman of the Committee meets with the audit partner A tax report was provided to the Committee at each of its frequently, including for both audit planning and review meetings.
The Committee challenged both the justification for, The Committee meets the audit partner and usually the senior and carrying values of, ACT recoverable and deferred tax assets.
manager at all of its formal meetings but it is the CFO and During the year, the Board approved the Groups tax strategy.
finance teams who have most exposure to the audit team.
A copy is available on the corporate website: www.
com During the year, the FRCs Audit Quality Review team selected to review the audit of the Companys financial statements for the Further information is detailed in note 1. year ended 31 December 2016.
The focus of the review and their reporting is on identifying areas where improvements are Assumptions underpinning the calculation of the required rather than highlighting areas performing to or above Groups defined benefit pension obligations the expected level.
The Chairman of the Committee received Pension scheme liabilities are assessed for the Group by a full copy of the findings of the Audit Quality Review team and independent actuaries.
Additionally, management reviews and discussed these with Deloitte.
The Committee confirms that challenges the underlying assumptions with other third party there were no significant areas for improvement identified within advisers to ensure that the actuaries own assumptions are the report, or any material issues in relation to the financial appropriate for the Group.
The Committee also discusses the statements.
The Committee is satisfied that there is nothing within appropriateness of the assumptions, in particular the discount the report that might have a bearing on the audit appointment.
rate applied on the defined benefit future obligation and the right to recognise the surplus on the UK defined benefit pension To help the Committee carry out a formal review of Deloittes scheme as an asset.
performance, a questionnaire based evaluation is undertaken towards the end of each year end audit cycle by members of Further information is detailed in note 1. the finance team globally.
The Committee also monitors audit Use of adjusting items in the financial results effectiveness by reviewing the Audit Quality Inspection reports The Committee considers separate disclosure of adjusting published by the FRC.
The Committee considers the auditors items in light of the FRC recommendations of a balanced and performance to be satisfactory and that the audit is effective consistent approach.
The Committee is mindful of the need to as measured against their letter of engagement and the scope understand the underlying trends of each segment within the of services agreed.
business with the impact of large and unusual items separated out as necessary to avoid distortions from adjusting items.
AUDIT OBJECTIVITY AND INDEPENDENCE The Committee considers the auditors objectivity and Further information is detailed in note 1. independence at least twice a year.
It receives reports from Deloitte on its internal quality controls and independence rules, Revenue recognition and keeps under review the level of non-audit services Deloitte In 2016, the Committee considered the detailed criteria for the provides.
The Committee is of the view that Deloitte were recognition or revenue from the sale of goods set out in IAS 18 objective and independent throughout the 2017 audit process Revenue and changed the accounting policy to more accurately notwithstanding the level of non-audit services provided.
Based reflect the commercial substance of transactions.
In 2017, this on the Committees recommendation, the Board is proposing revised policy was applied consistently to all existing sectors that Deloitte be re-appointed to office at the AGM in April 2018. of the Company.
Following the acquisition of SummitReheis the Committee considered the application of the Company policy NON-AUDIT SERVICES to the acquired operations at the year end and adopted the In 2017, audit services fees for the Company and its policy accordingly.
subsidiaries were $0.9m and non-audit services fees were $0.6m 2016: audit services for the Company and Further information is detailed in note 1. its subsidiaries: $0.7m and non-audit services: $0.3m.
These non-audit fees were approved by the Committee.
AUDITOR ROTATION AND TENDERING AND These services consisted mainly of corporate finance advisory COMPETITION & MARKETS AUTHORITY ORDER services for the Taiwan entity and due diligence support in STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE relation to the acquisition of SummitReheis.
Deloittes knowledge As reported this time last year, the Committee carried out an of the business meant that it could provide these services cost audit tender process in 2015 that resulted in the appointment effectively and the safeguards described above ensured that of Deloitte as external auditor in April 2016.
Deloittes the Committee did not consider the provision of these services re-appointment as external auditors in 2017 was approved to affect the auditors independence and objectivity.
by shareholders at the Companys AGM in April 2017.
The Companys policy on non-audit services contains guidance The Committee therefore confirms that the Company is compliant on the types of non-audit work that the external auditors may be with the order on mandatory tendering of audit contracts.
This guidance is in addition to other factors that must be taken into consideration, such as the expertise and resources of the firm, whether the services could risk jeopardising audit independence and the fee relative to the audit fee.
Examples of services that the external auditors may and may not be allowed to perform under the policy can be found on the Companys corporate website.
Under the policy, the CFO may approve individual engagements where the fee is up to 15% of the Groups audit fee for the year, provided that the total non-audit fees in the year do not exceed 50% of that Group audit fee.
Decisions above these thresholds must be referred to the Committee for determination.
53 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED INTERNAL CONTROLS AND RISK INTERNAL AUDIT PROGRAMME MANAGEMENT SYSTEM An internal audit programme is proposed by PwC in The Committees formal remit includes reviewing the consultation with the CFO and approved by the Committee effectiveness of the internal control, compliance and risk each year, setting out a programme of audits over the course management systems which it carries out in support of the of the next 12 months.
The programme covers the monitoring Boards formal review of significant risks and material controls, of the effectiveness of internal controls and the design of as summarised in the Risk management report.
The focus of processes to test the effectiveness of controls.
As well as the Committee when it reviews internal audit reports is mainly on conducting audits of operating facilities, sales offices and financial, operational and compliance risks.
PwC, who provide tolling sites on a 2 to 3 year rotational basis, the internal audit an outsourced internal audit function, play a significant role in programme includes reviews of Group functions and the Groups internal control process, which is designed for the processes.
Examples of some of the internal audits conducted purposes of preventing material financial loss and fraud, during 2017 include: US and EU shared service centres, safeguarding the value of assets including reputation and forecast and budgeting processes, tax governance, Specialty ensuring compliance with laws, regulations and Group policies.
Products sites in China, US and Brazil, Chromiums Castle Hayne site and the SummitReheis sites in the US and Germany.
The Groups internal control and risk management system is only designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of CONTROLS ASSURANCE failure to achieve business objectives and therefore the Board The controls assurance framework at Elementis is threefold: can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance Board leadership supported by an open and transparent against material mis-statement or loss.
The Board is of the culture of no surprises, good governance and compliance.
view that an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and This means knowing and understanding the businesses, managing significant risks faced by the Group was in place quality interactions between the Board and the Executive throughout the financial year under review and up to the date Leadership team including a regular programme of that this Annual report was approved.
No significant internal presentations and reports to the Board, as well as control failings or weaknesses were reported last year.
operational site visits Internal and external audit programme, regular litigation Set out below is a summary of the key features of the Groups and compliance reviews with the General Counsel and a internal controls and risk management system.
programme of compliance audits, regulatory inspections, environmental reviews and property surveys by external Control environment specialists The Group has policies and procedures that set out the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, which was refreshed responsibilities of business and site management, including during 2017, on which all employees are given training and authority levels, reporting disciplines and responsibility for are required to self certify compliance with, supplemented risk management and internal control.
In addition, annual by an online compliance training programme, an anti-bribery compliance statements on internal controls are certified and corruption policy, which contractors are also required by each operating segment.
to sign up to, whistleblowing arrangements and an anti-retaliation policy Risk identification and review A formal risk review process exists at Board and Executive FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE Leadership team levels for the identification, evaluation, The Board and Committee understand the governance mitigation and ongoing monitoring of risks.
Further details requirements for the Annual report, taken as a whole, to be can be found on pages 32 to 36. fair, balanced and understandable, and that fair should mean reasonable and impartial, balanced should mean even handed Financial reporting in terms of being positive and negative and understandable The Group operates a comprehensive financial reporting should mean simple, clear and free from jargon or system including forecasts, consolidation and monthly reporting.
Board reports include full management accounts, comprising monthly and year to date profit and loss statements, cash flow The Board and Committee consider the Annual report for 2017, statements and balance sheet, with segmental and individual taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable, and business performance analyses, as well as relevant performance provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess indicators.
Actual monthly results are monitored against budget, the Companys position and performance, business model and forecasts and the previous years results.
In coming to this view, the Board and Committee took variances are investigated and acted upon as appropriate.
the following into consideration: i meetings between the As well as monthly management accounts, each operating Audit chairman and the audit partner, as well as between the division prepares an annual and a 3 year operating plan which external auditor and the Committee without management being is approved by the Board.
Thereafter a formal re-forecasting present, ii discussions at the audit clearance meeting: iii exercise is undertaken at least twice a year.
discussions with management on the progress of the audit at different stages of the audit process: and iv feedback obtained Investment appraisal from members of the Executive Directors and finance teams, There are clearly defined investment guidelines for capital as well as from the Companys brokers and other advisers.
All investment expenditure is subject to formal authorisation procedures, with major proposals being For and on behalf of the Audit Committee.
Below Board level, an Investment Commitment Meeting is held on a monthly basis to review ANNE HYLAND projects at stage gates and the capital expenditure pipeline.
Chairman, Audit Committee These meetings are attended by the CEO and CFO.
54 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017
