Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 65 EFFECTIVENESS Induction throughout the organisation to help them The Chairman and the Non-Executive On appointment to the Board, each form their own independent views on the Directors constructively challenge and Director takes part in a comprehensive Group, its performance and the sector we help develop proposals on strategy, and and personalised induction programme.
In addition, they are given the bring strong, independent judgement, This induction is also supplemented with opportunity to meet with representatives of knowledge and experience to the Boards ongoing training throughout the year to the Companys key advisors.
Non-Executive Directors ensure the Board is kept up to date with are expected to commit approximately key legal, regulatory and industry updates.
Performance evaluation 20 days per annum to the business of Ross Paterson, who joined the Board in Each year the Board, its Committees the Group.
September 2017, underwent an induction and Directors are evaluated considering programme following this framework: among other things the balance of The terms and conditions of skills, experience, independence and appointment of the Non-Executive - The business and operations of the knowledge on the Board, its diversity Directors are available for inspection Group and the Higher Education sector: including gender, how it works together at the Companys registered office and the role of the Board and matters as a unit and other factors relevant to its at the Annual General Meeting.
reserved for its decisions: the terms of effectiveness.
During 2017, we conducted reference and membership of Board an externally facilitated evaluation.
The Training Committees: and powers delegated framework and output from this years The Board considered it important to those Committees external evaluation is summarised below.
that the Committee Chairs continue to - The Groups corporate governance receive sector and relevant functional practices and procedures and the latest Chairman and Non-Executive Directors training such as on accounting, corporate financial information about the Group The Board considers each of its four Nongovernance and executive remuneration - The legal and regulatory responsibilities Executive Directors to be independent.
reporting developments and accordingly as a Director and, specifically, as a Accordingly, the Company meets the the Committee Chairs attend relevant Director of a listed company.
requirement of the Code in relation to external seminars.
The Board as a members of the FTSE 350 that at least half whole receives ongoing training on As part of the induction programme, of the Board excluding the Chairman, is corporate governance and other each Director also visits key locations to made-up of independent Non-Executive relevant developments.
see our business operations and properties Directors.
In addition, Phil White Chairman first-hand and the Higher Education of the Board was considered independent institutions with which we partner.
Also, they on his appointment to that role.
meet with key senior executives, so from the outset they have access to managers External Board Evaluation Conducted by Aretai LLP during Q4, 2017 Approach and Outputs Review Framework - Based on Corporate Governance What the Board does well The future Code: Leadership, Effectiveness, - Respect and value the diverse skills and - Important to be bold and take Accountability, Remuneration and perspectives of each other.
Strong necessary action to maintain Relations with Shareholders belief that the whole is greater than the market leadership - A 360 degree perspective: interview sum of the parts - Be purposefully challenging and feedback from all Board members and - Good debates and reaches consensus actively guard against complacency.
external advisers: Board and on the business issues facing the Group.
- Develop plan for future succession to Committee meeting observation: Confidence that the quality of ensure resilience and sustain the documentation review discussion results in the Group following Boards positive culture and leadership.
- Core areas of Board business the best course of action - Continued refinement of and focus: strategy and business - Clear engagement with strategy, performance metrics transparency, performance, people and talent, risk values and people and commitment to alignment and rigour both financial management, core governance and continuous improvement in operating and non-financial compliance, strategic investments as a Board.
- Evolving landscape for remuneration divestments and corporate culture - Relationships and communication: - Nurture the overall health of the quality of discussion and decision Board: look after what it values - the making processes, raising and handling balance of the Board and its positive, of difficult issues, Board Executive Team collaborative culture.
THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017
