Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT COMPLIANCE WITH THE CODE Board operation As identified on pages 40 and 41, during 2017, the Board The Board has a formal programme of activities that are comprised 2 Executive Directors CEO and CFO and 6 undertaken at scheduled meetings throughout the year and this Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman and Senior is supplemented by ad hoc meetings, conference calls or other Independent Director.
In 2017, the number of non-executives Board events, as and when appropriate.
There were 8 formal increased to 6 following the appointments of Sandra Boss and meetings in 2017 and the attendance record of each Director Dorothee Deuring.
At the conclusion of the 2017 AGM, Andrew is shown in the table overleaf.
Christie duly retired from the Board after nearly 9 years as a Non-Executive Director.
The Board is supported in its activities by Board committees that have been delegated specific responsibilities, as set out Role of the Chairman in their terms of reference.
They have also been supported The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, whilst by a formal schedule of matters which allows certain decisions the CEO is responsible for running the Groups businesses.
to be retained by the Board and others to be delegated to the The roles of Chairman and CEO are separate, clearly defined Executive Directors within certain parameters.
and no individual has unfettered powers of decision making.
The Chairman is supported by the Senior Independent Director The schedule of matters reserved for the Board includes who is available to shareholders if the normal channels for the following: raising any concern prove to be ineffective or inappropriate.
Approval of strategic and annual operating plans Approval of financial statements, major acquisitions and It is the Chairmans responsibility to set the style and tone in disposals which the Board operates and ensure there is a proper forum Approval of risk management and compliance programmes, and framework for constructive discussion and challenge.
The as well as Group insurance arrangements Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the Board as a whole, Approval of major projects and capital expenditures and each of its individual Directors, are able to contribute Approval of major legal settlements and litigation effectively in the performance of their roles.
This framework includes: access to relevant and quality information, internal and The Board reviews the business, financial, operational, external advice, leadership and business teams: support and governance, compliance and HSE performance of the Group at development opportunities: understanding the views of market each of its formal meetings, including major business initiatives, analysts and major shareholders, and maintaining constructive threats and opportunities, as well as progress on product relationships between executive and non-executive members innovation and new customers.
Board and Committee dates are scheduled at least a year in Board appointments advance, as are overseas site visits.
A 12 month forward Non-Executive Directors are appointed for 3 year terms that can planner helps to ensure that the Board spends an appropriate be renewed by mutual agreement, subject to annual re-election amount of its time focused on the strategic issues affecting the by shareholders, satisfactory performance and meeting Groups businesses.
To assist the Board in carrying out its independence requirements.
Details of the Executive Directors duties, information of an appropriate quality is issued in a timely service contracts and the Non-Executive Directors letters of manner ahead of Board and Committee meetings.
If there are appointment including remuneration and fee levels are set out any Board conflicts or unresolved matters concerning Board in the Directors remuneration report.
decisions there were none in 2017 these would be recorded in the minutes of meetings.
Board composition Board activities 12% Chairman 14.5% Governance 25% Executive Directors 23% Business performance 63% Non-Executive Directors 14% Finance 36.5% Strategy Independent on appointment 12% Investor relations Average age of the Board 55 years Related material Board of Directors page 40 Principal risks and uncertainties page 32 45 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Risk management Board evaluation The Board has overall responsibility for risk management in the As part of its annual programme of events, the Board carried Company and sets the Groups policies, culture and appetite on out an internal evaluation of its performance during the year.
risk, as well as providing support and oversight to management.
Having considered the outcomes of the evaluation, the Board The CEO, supported by the Executive Leadership team, is considers that its composition contains the appropriate balance responsible for implementing Group policies, overseeing risk of diversity of views, qualifications, skills, experience and management performance, identifying principal risks and personal attributes necessary to carry out its duties and ensuring resources are allocated for effective risk management responsibilities and to provide appropriate depth and resilience.
The Audit Committee plays an important role Further details of the evaluation are set out in the Nomination in supporting the work of the Board and is responsible for Committee report on page 50.
The last externally facilitated monitoring financial reporting, as well as the internal and evaluation of the Board took place in 2015.
An externally external audit programmes, which provides assurance facilitated review is expected to take place during the latter on financial, operational and compliance controls.
Examples of the specific types of risk that the Board keeps Board diversity under regular review include the following: The Boards policy is that appointments should be made on the Commercial and supply chain risks e. g. major customers, basis of qualification and merit.
The Board agrees that diversity key supply contracts which should be construed in its broadest sense and incorporate Strategic risks e. g. acquisitions, disposals and major gender diversity, is an important factor in Board effectiveness capital expenditures and supports the Codes principles and provisions on gender Major litigation and compliance risk e. g. anti-corruption, diversity.
The Board is mindful of the Hampton-Alexander review cyber security, people, intellectual property which sets a target for the percentage of women on boards to Operational and HSE risk e. g. people, process safety, reach one third by 2020 and the appointments of Sandra Boss natural events such as a hurricane and Dorothee Deuring in 2017 meant that Elementis achieved Financial risks e. g. market and treasury risks.
38% female representation at the end of the year.
Specific agenda items on risk are scheduled throughout the With regards to the Parker review and its recommendation year, for example: legal and compliance risk, operations and of Beyond One by 2021 for FTSE 100 companies and the HSE, insurance and the Boards formal risk review in December.
same aspiration for FTSE 250 companies by 2024, the Board is supportive of these aims, which seek to increase ethnic Director attendance in 2017 diversity within UK boardrooms, to better reflect the ethnic diversity of our broader workforce.
The Board will take this Audit Nomination Remuneration into account as part of its recruitment practices.
Board Committee Committee Committee Andrew Duff 8 8 5 5 Paul Waterman 8 8 Ralph Hewins 8 8 1 Sandra Boss 8 8 3 3 5 5 7 8 2 Dorothee Deuring 7 7 2 2 4 4 7 7 3 Steve Good 8 8 1 1 5 5 8 8 4 Anne Hyland 8 8 3 3 5 5 2 2 Gender diversity Nick Salmon 8 8 3 3 5 5 8 8 62% Male Past Director 5 Andrew Christie 3 3 1 1 2 2 2 2 Chairman of Committee.
1 Appointed to the Board on 1 February 2017, Sandra missed 1 Remuneration Committee meeting due to an engagement arranged prior to her appointment to the Board.
2 Appointed to the Board on 1 March 2017.
3 Appointed Remuneration Committee Chairman and stepped down from 38% Female the Audit Committee on 25 April 2017.
4 Stepped down from the Remuneration Committee on 25 April 2017.
5 Retired from the Board and as Remuneration Committee Chairman on 25 April 2017.
Board independence The Board considers all the Non-Executive Directors to Board experience be independent in character and judgement throughout Finance Investment 2017 and is satisfied that each Director exercises 50% independent judgement.
Manufacturing The Non-Executive Directors provide constructive challenge 50% and help support the Executive Directors in developing strategy and business priorities.
The Directors are required at all times Chemicals to avoid conflicts of interest, act for a proper purpose and in the 38% best interests of the Company, consistent with their statutory duties.
No individual or group dominates decision making.
R&D Technology 38% 46 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Induction Sandra Dorothee All new Directors are invited to participate in an induction Boss Deuring programme that includes: NonNonExecutive Executive Director Director Meeting members of the Executive Leadership team and corporate advisers.
Tailored training on the duties and responsibilities of a Director of a UK listed company.
Site visits Site visits Undertaking a programme of site visits.
3 3 Both Sandra Boss and Dorothee Deuring received a tailored comprehensive induction programme.
Company Secretary The Company Secretary supports the Chairman in ensuring the Board functions efficiently and effectively.
LAURA HIGGINS, COMPANY SECRETARY Laura joined the Company on 2 January 2018 and became Company Secretary on 31 January 2018.
Skills, competence and experience Laura brings extensive company secretarial experience from roles in UK and internationally quoted companies across FMCG, Leisure, Broadcasting, Publishing, Mining and Support Service sectors.
Her last role was at Britvic plc where she held the position of deputy company secretary.
Laura holds a degree in Law and Legal Studies with History and is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
Nationality British Development and support All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and may take independent professional advice, as appropriate, at the expense of the Company.
Directors are given the opportunity throughout the year to undertake training and attend seminars to keep their skills and knowledge up to date, and receive internal briefings on technical and or other regulatory developments that they need to be made aware of.
An example is the training update given by the Companys external legal advisers on the Market Abuse Regulation.
The Company Secretary supports the Chairman in ensuring that the Board and Board Committees operate within the governance framework adopted and that communication and information flows within the Board and its Committees and between management and Non-Executive Directors.
47 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Communications with shareholders Geographical breakdown of shareholder base The CEO and CFO are the Companys principal contacts with investors, analysts and the financial press.
The Company maintains a comprehensive programme of activities to ensure 65% their needs are met.
This includes stock exchange 13% UK announcements, investor meetings, the annual report and Rest of updates to the corporate website.
The Company appointed a Europe Director of Investor Relations midway through 2017 to support the CFO in maintaining and developing communications with investors and analysts.
19% North America The Board receives regular feedback from shareholders 3% following meetings with management in results and other Rest of investor roadshows.
Analysts forecasts and research reports world about the Company and the wider chemicals sector, as well as presentations and reports from the Companys joint corporate brokers, are provided to all Directors, helping Non-Executive Directors to develop a clear understanding of the views of major shareholders.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director Corporate Governance Code are available for contact by shareholders at any time.
The FRC is expected to publish an updated version of the Corporate Governance Code in 2018 to implement a number From time to time, where appropriate, the Chairman and of changes that the Government has consulted on including: the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee will organise stakeholder engagement and additional responsibilities of a programme of meetings with major shareholders to update the Remuneration Committee.
The Board will monitor these them on any significant developments in business strategy, developments and make the necessary changes to its corporate governance matters or consult them on proposals operation and the terms of reference of its Board committees for executive remuneration.
The AGM gives all of the Companys shareholders the opportunity to speak with the Directors and the chairmen of the Board Committees.
The Notice of AGM is dispatched at least 20 working days before the meeting.
The Company proposes separate resolutions for substantially separate issues.
In line with best practice, voting is conducted by poll.
Shareholders have the option to vote either for or against a resolution, or to withhold their vote.
The results of the meeting are announced to London Stock Exchange and published on the corporate website.
Investor concentration 35% Top 5 shareholders 42% Top 30 shareholders 19% Top 100 shareholders 4% Others For more information about Board Committees www.
com  48 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017
