58 Directors Report: Governance Corporate Governance continued Relevant skills and expertise It is a requirement of the Code that the Board and its Committees should wider economic insight gained through her various roles, including as a have the appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and Member of the Oversight Board of the Office for Budget Responsibility as knowledge of the Company to enable duties and responsibilities to be well as experience from her other non executive positions.
This was reviewed during the year and was utilised Gwyn Burr, Independent Non Executive Director, has over 25 years in drawing up the recruitment framework, including the list of desired skills, executive experience, principally in customer service in the retail sector, in the process used for the appointment of a new Independent Non which included the roles of Customer Director and Customer Service and Executive Director in February 2018.
The Board considers that each Colleague Director from 2005 to 2013 at Sainsbury plc.
Gwyn also has Director brings relevant and complementary skills, experience and significant experience on several boards as a non executive director.
background to the Board, details of which are set out below, and Mike Hussey, Independent Non Executive Director, has in-depth expertise additional information is also set out in the biographies on pages 46 to 47. in land development and marketing, particularly in London, gained from his The Board also considers that each Director is able to allocate sufficient previous roles as a director of Land Securities plc and as head of leasing time to the Company to discharge their responsibilities effectively and and marketing of the Canary Wharf Group plc.
Mike is currently CEO of makes this an important requirement of recruitment.
Almacantar, a property development fund he founded in 2010.
Kevin Beeston, Chairman, has a wealth of commercial, financial and high Angela Knight, Independent Non Executive Director, has significant level management experience including being a former CEO of a FTSE high-level experience in both the public and private sectors.
Kevin also has significant experience of chairing boards of sector, she was a Member of Parliament from 1992 until 1997, including both public and private companies and of being a non executive director two years as the Economic Secretary at HM Treasury, and is currently and sitting on audit, nomination and remuneration committees.
Chairman of the Office of Tax Simplification in HM Treasury.
In the private Pete Redfern, Chief Executive, has operational responsibility for delivering sector, she has significant experience as a non executive director including the Companys strategy in a profitable, safe and environmentally as the Senior Independent Director of quoted companies.
Pete has significant financial, operational and Rob Rowley, Independent Non Executive Director and Senior Independent management experience, gained from his various roles in industry and Director, has a wealth of financial, commercial and management expertise, from his time at KPMG.
In 2014 he joined the Board of Travis Perkins plc principally from his time as Finance Director of Reuters plc and Deputy as an independent non executive director and serves on their Chairman of Cable & Wireless plc.
Rob has substantial experience as a remuneration and Stay Safe committees.
non executive director including the chairing of audit committees, and has Ryan Mangold, Group Finance Director, has operational responsibility for recent and relevant financial experience as required by the Code.
managing the Companys finances and overseeing IT: commercial department and pensions matters.
Ryan has financial, treasury, risk and Humphrey Singer, Independent Non Executive Director, has a wealth of financial experience, most recently in his role as the Group Finance Director financial control expertise including that gained from his time with Mondi Group and Anglo American plc.
In addition, Humphrey also has expertise in the areas of both digital solutions and customer services which has already James Jordan, Group Legal Director and Company Secretary, is a been useful to the Company.
It has been announced that Humphrey has solicitor and oversees compliance with legal and regulatory obligations been appointed as the Chief Finance Officer of Marks and Spencer Group and manages the Secretariat and Legal Departments.
James has plc and will take up this role later in the year.
He also has recent and significant legal, commercial, transactional and regulatory governance relevant financial experience as required by the Code.
Kate Barker, Independent Non Executive Director, is an industryrecognised economist and has led policy reviews for the Government in the areas of land use, planning and housing supply.
Kate also brings a Operational oversight Division of responsibilities The Board has an established framework of delegated financial, commercial Operational management of the Companys business is undertaken by the Chief Executive who receives advice from the Group Management Team and operational authorities, which define the scope and powers of the Chief Executive and of operational management.
The GMT is the most senior executive committee and, in addition to the Chief Executive, consists of the Group Finance Director, the Group Legal In line with the Code, the roles and responsibilities of the Chairman andthe Director and Company Secretary, the three Divisional Chairmen and the Chief Executive have been clearly defined, set out in writingand signed by Group Operations Director, the Group HR Director, the Divisional Managing Kevin Beeston and Pete Redfern in their respectivecapacities.
Director of Central and East London and the Managing Director of the Major Developments business.
The GMT meets on a regular basis and also once Health, safety and environment each month with the Divisional Managing Directors when it sits in the capacity As also set out in our 2017 Sustainability Report, which will shortly be available of the wider Group Operational Team.
co. uk corporate sustainability, the Board is fully The Board also receives regular reports and minutes from the Treasury committed to providing a safe place in which our employees and Committee, which meets under the chairmanship of the Group Finance subcontractors can work, and that our customers can live.
We also ensure Director, and also comprises the Group Legal Director and Company that all of our sites are developed to high standards of environmental Secretary, one of the Divisional Chairmen who rotate periodically and the management.
As the first substantive item at each Board meeting, the Board Group Treasurer.
The key responsibilities of the Treasury Committee are, receives detailed reports on health, safety and environmental mattersin broadly, to monitor and keep under review the Groups financial risks, financial respect of the Companys operations in the UK and Spain.
TheCompanys policies, financial facilities, covenant compliance and insurance programme in detailed carbon reporting, as required by BEIS, is set outonpage 30. the light of current and proposed strategic and , and Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 59 to make recommendations to the Board or GMT, as appropriate, regarding The Board also continues to recognise, welcomeand take very seriously its policy or operational changes in these areas.
responsibility to comply with the recommendations of the Davies Report as built on by the Hampton Alexander Review, encouraging increased All businesses and employees are expected to operate at all times to the participation by women on boards, which is now targeted at 33% for all FTSE highest standards of integrity and conduct in all matters concerning the 350 companies by 2020: and which is also aimed at increasing the number of Group.
Accordingly, there is a Code of Business Conduct, which sets women in leadership positions of FTSE 100 companies to 33%, namely outthe standard for individual dealings both internally and externally.
Formal members of the Executive Committee and those senior leaders who are direct policies have been adopted, which set out the ethical framework within reports to Executive Committee members.
The proportion of women on the which all Taylor Wimpey companies and employees are required to Taylor Wimpey Board remained two out of nine 22% throughout 2017.
As at undertake their business this includes, in line with the Bribery Act 2010, the date of this Annual Report, following the appointment of Gwyn Burr on anAnti-Corruption Policy which requires an annual sign-off by designated 1 February 2018, the proportion of women increased to 30% and will increase seniormanagement.
All business units receive training each year from to 33% following the conclusion of the 2018 Annual General Meeting AGM, external experts on legislative and regulatory matters.
when, as previously announced, Rob Rowley stands down from the Board.
The following documents relating to the Groups management processes and The Board will keep its balance and composition under regular review and division of responsibility are available for review on the Companys website at when so doing will take into account the recommendations of the above www.
co. uk corporate investor-relations corporate-governance: Reports encouraging an increased proportion of women, referred to above, Schedule of matters specifically reserved for the decision of the Board, and also the Parker Review and its Report into the Ethnic Diversity of Boards.
including full oversight of all decisions on profit expectations and The Board considers that there is an effective balance with three Executive Dividend Policy.
Directors and six shortly to become five, with effect from 26 April 2018 Non Terms of reference of the Board Committees: Audit, Nomination and Executive Directors plus myself as Chairman, which ensures that each Remuneration, which outline their objectives and responsibilities viewpoint is properly represented around the Board table.
anddefine a programme of activities to support the discharge of It also ensures that in line with the Code, there is an effective balance of .
guidance, support and constructive challenge to the Executive.
The Board Policies covering operational, compliance, corporate responsibility and also considers that this will continue to be the case when Rob Rowley stands stakeholder matters, including those related to the Bribery Act 2010 and down from the Board after the AGM, as referred to above.
Anti-Corruption referred to above, which are reviewed whenever necessary to take account of developments in corporate governance, The process followed in appointing a new director to the Board, which was changes in legislation and revised processes.
used in connection with the appointment of Gwyn Burr on 1 February 2018, encompassing a comprehensive search, assessment and recruitment The Companys Articles of Association.
process led by the Nomination Committee, is set out on page 68 to 69.
Relevant reporting against these is provided to the Audit Committee by the The Nomination Committee makes recommendations on appointments and Head of Internal Audit and the Secretary as appropriate.
succession planning to the Board, and more details can be found in the Nomination Committee Report on pages 67 to 73.
Advice available to the Board In accordance with the Code, all Directors will again be subject to election or All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Secretary.
re-election as appropriate by shareholders at the AGM of the Company which TheBoard has an established procedure whereby Directors may take is being held on 26 April 2018 other than Rob Rowley.
Biographical details of independent professional advice at the Companys expense where they judge each Director can be found on pages 46 to 47 and also on page 58. it necessary to do so in order to discharge their responsibilities as Directors.
The Board took advice during the year from Eversheds Sutherland LLP in Annual re-election to the Board developing processes and training modules designed to alert management to The Code requires every Director to seek election or re-election, as any instances of Modern Slavery.
appropriate, at each years AGM.
Accordingly, atthe 2018 AGM, every Advice was also received from Deloitte during the year via the Audit Director, irrespective of the date of his or her appointment and the length of Committee on the significant governance developments during the year.
his or her service on the Board, will be submitted for re-election other than Rob Rowley.
The Board receives at each meeting a report from JPMorgan Cazenove Cazenove on the sector and the relative performance of the Details of the resolutions to be proposed in this respect and supporting Companysshare price.
biographical details of the Directors appear in the Notice of Meeting on pages 151 to 157.
Board and Committee balance, diversity, independence As part of the 2017 Board evaluation process, the Board reviewed and andeffectiveness re-affirmed that it considers each of the Non Executive Directors to be A key role of the Board Chairman is to ensure that the Board is conducted so independent in character and judgement and that there are no relationships as to allow the Independent Non Executive Directors to challenge the which could affect the Directors judgement.
For Gwyn Burr, who was Executive Directors constructively whilst, at the same time, also supporting appointed on 1 February 2018, this evaluation took place as part of the them to implement the strategy and run the business effectively.
In line with the Code, a rigorous evaluation took place role is to ensure that it has the right blend of skill, independence and with regard to each of Kate Barker, Mike Hussey and Rob Rowley as they knowledge, and this is something that is kept under regular review in will each have served seven, six and eight years respectively by the time of conjunction with the Nomination Committee.
Rob Rowley will, as announced on 10 January 2018, stand down from the Board at the conclusion of the Companys 2018 AGM It is the Companys policy, in line with the Code, that proposed appointments on 26 April 2018. to the Board, and succession planning, are based on merit, and judged against objective criteria, whilst also having due regard to thebenefits of In addition, the Board re-evaluated each Directors time commitments, diversity and inclusiveness, including gender, age, disability, ethnicity, thought andwas satisfied that, in line with the Code, they each continued to allocate and experience.
sufficient time to the Company in order to discharge their responsibilities effectively, including not only attendance at Board and applicable Committee meetings but also preparation time for meetings, visits to businesses including taylorwimpey.
co. uk 60 Directors Report: Governance Corporate Governance continued the annual Board away day visit and other additional requirements that may participate in any discussions or decisions relating to the contract be required from time to time.
For Gwyn Burr, who was appointed with effect or arrangement.
from 1 February 2018, this evaluation took place as part of the appointment The Board undertakes a regular review of each Directors interests, if any, process.
It has previously been announced that Gwyn Burr will stand down as outside the Company.
In addition, all new appointments and interests of an independent non executive director of DFS plc during the Spring of 2018.
Directors are reported to the Board for consideration or noting as appropriate.
Recognising the importance of the time commitment of each Director to Following these reviews, the Board remains satisfied that, in line with the shareholders, this will continue to be kept under review for all Directors during Code, all Directors are able to allocate sufficient time to the Company to 2018, including as part of the annual Board evaluation process.
enable them to discharge their responsibilities as Directors effectively and that The Chairman, at the time of his appointment on 1 July 2010, met the any current external appointments do not detract from the extent or quality of independence criteria as set out in the Code.
time which the Director is able to devote to the Company.
This is further borne out by Directors attendance at Board and Committee meetings, which has Management been at or very close to 100% over many years.
Progress in achieving the Group Strategy is reviewed at each Board meeting Anti-bribery and anti-corruption and is reported on page 13.
The Chief Executive has responsibility for preparing and reviewing strategic plans for the Group and the annual In line with the Bribery Act 2010, the Company has written policies on budgetary process.
These are subject to formal review and approval by avoiding and not tolerating bribery or corruption.
The policies apply across all theBoard.
of the Companys businesses and are available for review externally on the Companys website and by all employees on the Companys extranet.
The Budgets are re-examined in comparison with business forecasts throughout risk to the Company of non-compliance would be reputational damage, the year to ensure they are sufficiently robust in order to reflect the possible financial penalties and the possible exclusion from certain approved partner impact of changing economic conditions and circumstances.
These risks are mitigated by training for senior managers and Executive and the Board conduct regular reviews of actual results and future by issuing an annual reminder to all businesses and key departments requiring projections with comparison against budget and prior year, together with each managing director or departmental head to check that their teams have various treasury reports.
Disputes that may give rise tosignificant litigation or complied with the policies during the reporting year: remain aware of the contractual claims are monitored at each Board meeting, with specific policies requirements for the coming year: and to formally confirm in writing updates on any material developments or new matters presented by that they have done so.
The Group has clearly defined policies, processes and procedures governing This 2017 Annual Report and Accounts all areas of the business, which will continue to be reviewed and refined in Your Directors have responsibility for preparing this 2017 Annual Report and order to meet the requirements of the business and changing market Accounts and for making certain confirmations concerning it.
Defined authority limits continue to be closely monitored in with the Code provision C. 1.1 the Board considers that, taken as a whole, it is response to prevailing market conditions.
Any investment, acquisition or fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for significant purchase or disposal of land requires detailed appraisal and is shareholders to assess the Companys position, performance, business subject to approval by the Board or the Chief Executive, depending on the model and strategy.
value and nature of the investment or contract.
The Board was able to reach this conclusion after receiving advice from the There is a clearly identifiable organisational structure and a framework Audit Committee.
The processes of review and assessment followed by that ofdelegated authority approved by the Board within which individual Committee in that respect are set out on page 66. responsibilities of senior executives of Group companies are identified andcan The Viability Statement, as required by the Code, appears on page 41. be monitored.
The Operating Framework, within which delegated authorities, responsibilities and related processes are explained in detail, is available for review and guidance online by any employee through the Companys intranet.
These activities are reinforced through process compliance and other audits conducted by Internal Audit.
The annual employee performance appraisal process is competency-based, with individual objectives cascaded down from the appropriate business objectives.
The process also identifies training needs to support achievement of objectives.
During 2017 the Groups control environment was further enhanced through a robust risk assessment and review led by the Audit Committee, which identified the key risks to be reviewed and assessed by Internal Audit as part of its programme of work during the year.
Ensuring there is no conflict of interest In order to assist Directors in complying with their duty to avoid conflicts or possible conflicts of interest, it is standard procedure that the Board must first give its clearance to such potential conflicts of interest which would include directorships or other interests in outside companies and organisations following which, an entry is then made in the statutory register which the Company maintains for this purpose.
Whenever any Director considers that he or she is, or may be, interested in any contract or arrangement to which the Company is or may be a party, the Director gives due notice to the Board in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the Companys Articles of Association.
In such cases, unless allowed by the Articles, any Director with such an interest is not permitted to Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 61 Board evaluation A key requirement of good governance is Briefing and planning meetings between the meeting of the Board and of the Audit ensuring that the Board itself is operating Chairman, Secretary and MSP.
Committee as noted on page 52, but also effectively.
The carrying out of an annual preparation time for meetings, visits to our A detailed and comprehensive bespoke evaluation is a very important exercise and it is businesses and other additional requirements questionnaire which MSP sent individually to one which the Board takes very seriously, whilst that may be required from time to time.
all Directors for completion and return to them.
also recognising the focus that our shareholders On the one occasion when Mike Hussey missed An interview with each of the Directors.
In line with the Code, the Board a meeting of the Board and of the Audit Meetings with key internal reports conducts its annual evaluation exercise via an Committee, he was comprehensively briefed by immediately below Board level who have independent external facilitator once every three the Secretary following the meeting on the main experience of attending the Companys years.
Accordingly the evaluation for 2017 was matters arising.
Board meetings and external advisers such externally facilitated by Manchester Square as the Audit partner and Broker.
Consistent with previous exercises, the 2017 Partners MSP, which was chosen for its track evaluation proved to be very useful.
It was record in performing rigorous evaluations for a Attendance at a meeting of each of the pleasing to note that MSP concluded that the number of FTSE100 companies and who have Board and the Nomination and Board continues to function very well.
However, no other connection to the Company.
Remuneration Committees, to experience it also provided an opportunity to reflect on how the Board and its committees in action.
The exercise considered the effectiveness of the we operate and where we can improve.
I can Presentation of the key findings and Board, each Board Committee and each confirm that the Board has already focused on recommendations by MSP to the Board on Director, and also focused on the Boards the areas identified for improvement and will a non-attributable basis.
approach to key governance issues: continue to do so during the course of 2018.
Strategy The overall outcome of the evaluation exercise Details of this years evaluation: its outcome: the was that MSP considered that the Board was Challenges and risks actions planned by the Board during 2018 to functioning well and in line with first class Values and culture address the issues raised: and the actions taken corporate governance principles, and is during 2017 to address the issues raised in the Role providing effective leadership to the Group.
last internally facilitated evaluation conducted in Dynamics As part of the Board evaluation, the time 2016 and reported in last years Annual Report, Engagement commitments of all Directors in line with the are set out in the table below.
requirements of the Code were reviewed in Structure The outcome of the 2016 Board evaluation detail.
Following this review, the Board was Composition which was internally facilitated, in line with the satisfied that each Director was able to allocate requirement of the Code that the exercise be Succession sufficient time to discharge his or her externally facilitated every three years was responsibilities to the Company effectively.
This The 2017 evaluation process was conducted reported on in detail in last years Corporate included not only attendance at Board and between August and November 2017 and Governance Report.
The main action points applicable Committee meetings where consisted of the following: arising from that exercise, and action taken in attendance was 100% during 2017 for all respect of each, are set out in the table below.
Directors, save for Mike Hussey missing one 2016 Evaluation Recommendations included Actions taken during the year Additional reporting to take place on key areas such as financial analysis, Additional reporting to the Board on these areas of the business took competitor comparisons, IT, and macro economic and market issues.
place at Board meetings during 2017 and will continue, going forward.
There needs to be continued focus on cyber risk and further improving the This has been the subject of detailed reviews by the Board and the Audit Companys defences against the risk.
Committee during 2017 and will continue, going forward.
Additional focus to take place on diversity and inclusivity including continued This remained a key topic for the Board and the Nomination Committee monitoring and review.
during 2017 and remains so during 2018.
The Boards Diversity Policy and details of progress achieved, and plans for further progress during 2018, are set out in the Nomination Committee Report on pages 71 to 73.
Each of these key areas remains firmly on the Boards agenda during 2018 and an update will be provided in the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts.
2017 Evaluation Recommendations included Actions being or to be taken during 2018 Devote additional Board time to strategy.
Although significant time is already devoted to strategic matters this recommendation is already being addressed with additional time earmarked for discussion.
Devote additional time to risk including non-operational risk, and those which Work commenced on this during 2017 and is planned to be developed are considered to be strategic and lower probability in nature.
Undertake additional focus on succession planning taking into account This will be a topic for Nomination Committee consideration during 2018. forthcoming NED changes based on length of service.
co. uk 62 Directors Report: Governance Audit Committee Report Audit Committee Committee members Number of meetings attended a Humphrey Singer Chairman 3 3 Audit Kate Barker 3 3 b Committee Mike Hussey 2 3 Angela Knight 3 3 Humphrey Singer Kevin Beeston Rob Rowley 3 3 Chairman of the Chairman Audit Committee a Humphrey Singer was appointed Chairman on 10 January 2018 as successor to Rob Rowley, who chaired the Committee throughout 2017. b Mike Hussey missed one meeting due to being overseas on business.
Main objective To assist the Board in fulfilling its corporate governance Dear Shareholder responsibilities relating to the Groups risk management and I am pleased to be able to take my first opportunity since apointment as internal control framework: internal audit process: financial reporting Chairman of the Audit Committee to summarise below, and in the report which practices including the key accounting judgements: external audit follows, the ongoing responsibilities and objectives of the Committee: the work process: and whistleblowing procedures.
that has been carried out during 2017: and the priorities established for 2018.
2017 performance The Committee supports the Board in fulfilling its corporate governance Progressed the design and development of a Combined responsibilities, including the Groups risk management and internal control Assurance Model to bring together all aspects of assurance across framework: internal audit process: financial reporting practices: the preparation the Group to further support strong controls and governance.
and compliance of the Companys Annual Report and Accounts: external audit process: and whistleblowing procedures.
Monitored planned initiatives to drive enhancements across those core processes that involve both the Finance and Commercial The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are summarised opposite functions to further support operational activity.
and are available in full on the Companys website.
Following a review during Monitored those significant IT initiatives that either directly protect, 2017 it was determined that they remain appropriate and reflect the support and enhance the current IT environment or that are key in Committees responsibilities under the UK Corporate Governance Code the their contribution to business initiatives underway to enhance the Code and related regulations, including the guidance note issued in March experience of customers, suppliers and employees.
2017 by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on terms of reference for Audit Committees.
Received the Group Legislative and Regulatory Risk Assessment and ensured that appropriate measures and controls are in place The Committee conducts an annual evaluation of its performance against its and are robust.
The evaluation for 2017 was recently formally assessed by the Committee at its February 2018 meeting.
2018 key areas of focus The key performance areas of the Committee during 2017 are set out Oversee development of policies and processes, ensuring opposite and described in more detail in this report.
compliance with the EU General Data Protection Regulation and consistent implementation across all parts of the business, in The Committees key areas of focus for 2018 are also set out opposite, with particular customer interfaces.
the continuation of robust risk management and work to further reduce risk in areas, such as cyber security, remaining key priorities for the year ahead.
Engage with management to ensure an effective risk management and control framework continues to evolve to meet the changing The Committee holds meetings with the external auditor and the Head of demands of the environment in which the business operates with Internal Audit, independent of the Executive, and these assist in ensuring that appropriate focus on sites with higher inherent complexity.
reporting, forecasting and risk management processes are subject to rigorous review throughout the year.
Oversee both the Delivery and Commercial Excellence Programmes to improve efficiency and effectiveness of the I am pleased to confirm that throughout the year the Committee met the operational teams.
Financial Reporting Council FRC guidance on Audit Committees which was Engage with Management to gain assurance that the Sales and issued in April 2016, and which was incorporated into the Code.
The aim of Marketing processes: the related documentation: and the the guidance was to further improve good governance around the communication with our customers support the Groups Customer Committees competence: induction for new members: audit rotation: Journey aspirations.
independent assessment of areas of judgement: and sufficiency of resourcing for the Committee: all with the aim of ensuring that it was able to perform its Receive and review the Group Fraud Risk Assessment together primary function of protecting shareholders interests in relation to the with the approach to ongoing organisational awareness.
Companys financial reporting and internal control.
Audit Committee The Committee will continue to focus on ensuring that all relevant codes and The Audit Committee is chaired by Humphrey Singer, who succeeded regulations are complied with to ensure that the business is operating in a Rob Rowley as its Chairman on 10 January 2018.
Rob Rowley chaired controlled and managed environment.
the Committee throughout 2017 and continues to be a member of the I should like to thank Rob, who stands down from the Board at the conclusion Committee until he stands down from the Board at the conclusion of the of the Companys 2018 AGM, on behalf of the Committee and the Companys 2018 Annual General Meeting AGM on 26 April 2018.
All shareholders, for his work as Chairman of the Committee since 2010, and to members of the Committee are Independent Non Executive Directors as wish him well for the future.
The Board has determined that Humphrey Singer, and Rob Rowley who currently chairs the audit committee at Greene King plc and Camelot Group each have recent and relevant financial experience as required by theCode.
In addition, and in line with the Code, the Board considers that the Audit Committee when considered as a whole, has the necessary competence relevant to the housebuilding Humphrey Singer sector in which the Company operates.
Chairman of the Audit Committee Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
