Herald Investment Trust plc Annual report & financial statements 2017 34 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT COMPLIANCE Under the provisions of the Companys articles of The board is committed to achieving and demonstrating association, a director appointed during the year is required high standards of corporate governance.
This statement to retire and seek election by shareholders at the next AGM.
outlines how the principles of the April 2016 UK Corporate All directors retire annually and if appropriate, offer Governance Code the Code, which can be found at themselves for re-election.
uk, were applied throughout the financial year.
The board confirms that the Company has complied INDEPENDENCE OF DIRECTORS throughout the year under review with the relevant All the directors are considered by the board to be provisions of the Code, except where indicated below.
independent of the manager and free of any business or TheCompany was admitted to the FTSE250 on 19 October other relationship which could interfere with the exercise of 2017.
It reports as a smaller company for Code purposes their independent judgement.
for the year ending 31 December 2017 but will not be able to report on that basis for the year ending 31 December 2018.
MEETINGS There is an annual cycle of board meetings which is The Association of Investment Companies has published its designed to address, in a systematic way, overall strategy, own Code of Corporate Governance which provides a review of investment policy, investment performance, framework of best practice for investment companies which revenue budgets, dividend policy and communication with can be found at www.
The board is of the shareholders.
The board considers that it meets sufficiently opinion that the Company has complied with the regularly to discharge its duties effectively.
The table below recommendations of the AIC Code.
shows the attendance record for the board and committee meetings held during the year.
All the directors attended the THE BOARD AGM.
In addition, the board held an offsite strategic The board has overall responsibility for the Companys awayday in December 2017, which was attended by all of affairs.
It has a number of matters reserved for its approval the directors and the investment manager.
including strategy, approval of the financial statements, Board Audit Nomination investment policy, borrowings, gearing, treasury matters, Number of meetings 4 2 1 dividend and corporate governance policy.
The board also Julian Cazalet 4 2 1 reviews the financial statements, investment transactions, revenue budgets and performance.
Full and timely Tom Black 4 2 1 information is provided to the board to enable it to function Karl Sternberg 4 2 1 effectively and to allow directors to discharge their James Will 4 2 1 responsibilities.
The chairman is responsible for organising the business of NOMINATION COMMITTEE the board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
The nomination committee consists of all the directors and He reviews channels for the provision of information the chairman of the board is chairman of the committee.
with the company secretary at least once a year.
The The committee meets on an annual basis and at such other executive responsibilities for investment management and times as may be required.
The committee has written terms administration have been delegated to HIML and BNYM of reference which include reviewing the board, identifying respectively, and in the context of a board comprising and nominating new candidates for appointment to the entirely non-executive directors, there is no chief executive board, board appraisal, succession planning and training.
Tom Black is the senior independent director.
The committee also considers whether directors should berecommended for re-election by shareholders.
The The directors believe that the board has a balance of skills committee is responsible for considering directors potential and experience which enable it to provide effective conflicts of interest and for making recommendations to the leadership and proper governance of the Company.
board on whether or not the potential conflicts should be Information about the directors, including their relevant authorised.
The terms of reference are available on request experience, can be found on page 33. and at www.
The board comprises four directors, all of whom are Appointments are made on merit irrespective of race, non-executive.
All directors will retire at the AGM and offer colour, religion, age, educational professional background themselves for re-election.
While the committee does not consider it appropriate to set diversity targets, it will operate in The board has reviewed the performance of all directors.
accordance with the following standards: Ineach case, their performance continues to be effective and they remain committed to the Company.
Their when seeking to recruit a new director s, the nomination contribution to the board is valued highly and the board committee will evaluate the skills, experience, recommends their re-election to shareholders.
independence, knowledge and diversity of the board and prepare a description of the role and capabilities required There is an agreed procedure for directors to seek to fulfil the appointment and will normally appoint an independent professional advice if necessary at the independent agency to assist in the recruitment process: Companys expense.
it will ensure that a diverse group of candidates is considered: and TERMS OF APPOINTMENT The terms and conditions of directors appointments are set candidates will be considered on merit and against out in formal letters of appointment which are available for objective criteria having regard to the benefits of diversity, inspection on request.
Herald Investment Trust plc Annual report & financial statements 2017 35 PERFORMANCE EVALUATION The audit committee and board monitor performance The nomination committee met to assess the performance of the functions performed by HIML, the company of the chairman, each director, the board as a whole and its secretary and BNYM through regular review.
Since committees, after inviting each director and the chairman July 2014, when HIML became the Companys AIFM to consider and respond to a set of questions.
The appraisal under the Alternative Investment Fund Managers of the chairman was led by Tom Black.
The appraisals Directive AIFMD, the audit committee and board and evaluations considered, amongst other criteria, the also monitor the controls managed by the AIFM.
balance of skills of the board, training and development requirements, the contribution of individual directors and The AIFM has a risk policy covering the risks associated the overall effectiveness of the board and its committees.
with its management of the portfolio and it has in Following this process it was concluded that the place its own risk management procedures, which are performance of each director, the chairman, the board and periodically reviewed.
Risk limits are set by the AIFM and its committees continues to be effective and each director approved by the audit committee taking into account and the chairman remain committed to the Company.
several factors, including investment strategy and risk appetite.
The investment policy limits are described in A review of the chairmans and other directors the strategic report and are monitored at each board commitments was carried out and the nomination meeting, taking account of appropriate sensitivity analysis.
committee is satisfied that they are capable of devoting sufficient time to the Company.
HIML has a compliance function in accordance with FCA regulations.
The compliance function provides INDUCTION AND TRAINING the audit committee and board with a report on its Training for new directors is tailored to the particular monitoring procedures on a regular basis.
Compliance circumstances of the individual appointee.
Regular briefings monitoring by HIML includes risk based internal are provided on changes in regulatory requirements that monitoring as well as external monitoring of services could affect the Company and the directors.
Directors that have been delegated to third parties principally receive other relevant training as necessary.
fund accounting and company secretarial services.
For fund accounting, monitoring includes reviewing REMUNERATION the monthly net asset value produced by BNYM versus As all the directors are non-executive there is no HIMLs own system, reviewing BNYMs client accounting requirement for a separate remuneration committee.
compliance reports and internal audit confirmations Directors fees are considered by the board as a whole and reviewing KMPGs annual Service Organisation within the remuneration policy limits approved by Control SOC1 report on BNYM.
The audit committee shareholders, set out on page 40. also receives regular compliance reports from BNYM, including performance against service level standards.
INTERNAL CONTROLS, RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL AUDIT Under AIFMD, the Company has appointed a depositary, The directors acknowledge their responsibility for the BNY Mellon Trust & Depositary UK Limited, whose Companys risk management and internal controls responsibilities include cash monitoring and safe keeping of systems and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The depositary has delegated custody systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate services to The Bank of New York Mellon SA NV, London the risk of failure to achieve business objectives Branch and is responsible for monitoring the sub-custodian and can only provide reasonable but not absolute in detail, the results of that monitoring being reported to assurance against material misstatement or loss.
HIML and the audit committee through periodic depositary reports.
The scope of the fund accounting services includes The board confirms that there is a continuing process reconciliations to custody records.
Provision of custody for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant services by BNYM is covered by a SOC1 report, a copy of risks faced by the Company, in accordance with the which is provided to audit committee members.
Finally, guidance on risk management, internal control and related a detailed risk map is prepared by the company secretary financial and business reporting, published by the FRC.
for the audit committee, identifying the significant risks faced by the Company summarised on page 31 and The directors confirm that they have reviewed the the key controls employed to manage those risks.
effectiveness of the Companys risk management and internal control systems and they have procedures in place These procedures ensure that consideration is given to review their effectiveness on a regular basis.
No significant regularly to the nature and extent of the risks facing the weaknesses were identified in the year under review and Company and that they are being actively monitored.
in the period up to and including the date of this report.
Where changes in risk are identified during the year, these procedures also provide a mechanism to The practical measures to ensure compliance with assess whether further action is required to manage regulation and company law, and to provide effective and the changes identified.
The board confirms that efficient operations and investment management, have these procedures have been in place throughout been delegated to HIML, the company secretary and BNYM.
the year under review and that they continue to be in place up to the date of approval of this report.
Herald Investment Trust plc Annual report & financial statements 2017 36 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED The audit committee carries out an annual review of AGM DIGITAL PROXY VOTING the need for an internal audit function.
The committee Starting with this years AGM, the Company has introduced a continues to believe that the compliance and internal new initiative for shareholder proxy voting.
Shareholders are control systems and the internal audit function in place strongly encouraged to submit proxy votes online by visiting within the manager and the administrator provide sufficient www.
There is a straightforward registration assurance that a sound system of internal control, which process and a number of our shareholders are using the site safeguards shareholders investment and the Companys already.
All that you need is your name, address and investor assets, is maintained.
An internal audit function, specific code, which can be found on your share certificate.
If you to the Company, is therefore considered unnecessary.
are having trouble locating your share certificate or investor code, please call the shareholder helpline on 0871 664 0300 ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT or from overseas 44 0 371 664 0300.
The respective responsibilities of the directors and the auditors in connection with the financial statements are set Any shareholder who is unwilling or unable to vote digitally out on pages 43 to 47. can opt-in to receive a paper proxy card by telephoning the shareholder helpline.
CREST members are unaffected by AUDIT COMMITTEE thischange.
A separate audit committee report appears on page 37.
Its chairman is James Will and all of the non-executive AGM LIMIT ON DIRECTORS FEES directors are members, including the chairman, Julian The directors are proposing to increase the aggregate Cazalet, as his long corporate finance experience is a annual limit on directors fees set out in the articles of considerable asset to the committees deliberations.
The current limit effectively restricts the number of directors to four, thus RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS stopping the board from being able to enhance its skillset by The board places great importance on communication with bringing on one or more additional directors, should that be shareholders.
The Companys manager meets regularly with thought desirable or for governance reasons necessary.
larger shareholders and reports to the board.
The chairman also meets with shareholders both with the manager and on AGM RECOMMENDATION his own.
Shareholders wishing to communicate with the The directors unanimously recommend all holders to vote in chairman or any other director may do so by writing to him favour of all the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM.
at the registered office of the Company which is shown on page 70.
SUMMARY STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE The board has concluded that, as demonstrated by the The Companys AGM provides a forum for communication disclosures made in the foregoing, the Company has with all shareholders.
The level of proxies lodged for each complied throughout 2017 with all of the applicable resolution is announced at the meeting and is published on requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
com, subsequent to the meeting.
The notice period for the AGM is at least 20 By order of the board working days.
Shareholders and potential investors may obtain up-to-date information on the Company from the Julian Cazalet managers website.
Chairman 20 February 2018 PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES At the AGM of the Company to be held on 19 April 2018, the Company will as usual be seeking authority to make limited purchases of the Companys ordinary shares see the notice of AGM at page 67.
Buy-backs are considered by the board to be a useful tool, where surplus cash is not being utilised for investment, to assist in the maintenance of liquidity in the Companys shares.
