68 Corporate governance statement ACCOUNTABILITY: AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Ross Paterson Chairman Following the extremely tragic and The Committee also determined During the year, sudden death of Manjit Wolstenholme the focus of the Groups internal audit on 24 November 2017, Ross Paterson was activity and reviewed its findings and the Audit Committee appointed to the role of Chair of the Audit verified that recommendations were being Committee on 1 February 2018.
Ross is the appropriately implemented.
In addition, continued its key current Finance Director at Stagecoach recognising the value of an effective oversight role for Group plc, a member of the FTSE 250, he whistleblowing channel, the Committee also chairs the Audit Committee at Virgin again reviewed arrangements for the the Board with its Rail Group Holdings Limited so is well Groups employees to raise concerns placed to chair the Audit Committee in confidence.
specific duties as of the Group.
During 2017, the Audit Committee set out in its terms of The Committee is very grateful for Manjits undertook the second full evaluation effective chairmanship and contribution exercise of the Deloitte audit approach to reference to reassure to the work of the Committee.
ascertain the effectiveness of the external shareholders that their audit function.
Further to the completion Audit Committee Chairs overview of the evaluation of the external audit interests are properly During the year, the Audit Committee process we are satisfied with both the continued its key oversight role for the auditors independence and audit protected in respect of Board with its specific duties as set out approach and have recommended to in its terms of reference to reassure the Board that Deloitte be re-appointed the Groups financial shareholders that their interests are as auditor in 2018. properly protected in respect of the management Groups financial management As noted in this Corporate Governance and reporting.
Statement, the Board delegates certain of its duties, responsibilities and powers The Audit Committee works to a structured to the Audit Committee, so that these programme of activities, with agenda can receive suitably focused attention.
items focused to coincide with key events However, the Audit Committee acts in the annual financial reporting cycle.
on behalf of the full Board, and the The Committee reports regularly to the matters reviewed and managed by Board on its work.
the Committee remain the responsibility of the Directors as a whole.
During 2017, the Committee has continued to monitor the integrity of the Groups Role of the Audit Committee financial statements and supported the The Audit Committee has delegated Board with its ongoing monitoring of the authority from the Board set out in its written Groups risk management and internal terms of reference.
The terms of reference control systems in line with the enhanced for the Audit Committee take into account requirements from 2015 under the the requirements of the Code and are Corporate Governance Code.
available for inspection at the registered THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 69 office and at the Annual General Meeting, The Committee reviewed the half-year - Ensuring consistency in the reporting and can also be found on the Group and annual financial statements and the of the Groups performance and website at http: www.
co. uk significant financial reporting judgements.
management information as about-us corporate-governance.
As part of this review, the Committee described on pages 22 to 23, risk supported the Board by reviewing the reviews as described on pages 24 to The key objectives of the Audit financial viability and the basis for 31, business model and strategy as Committee are: preparing the accounts on a going described on pages 4 and 5 A crossconcern basis as outlined below.
The check between Board Minutes and the - To provide effective governance and Committee also reviewed and challenged annual report is undertaken to ensure control over the integrity of the Groups the external auditors report on these that reporting is balanced financial reporting and review significant financial statements.
- Whether information is presented in a financial reporting judgements clear and concise manner, illustrated - To support the Board with its ongoing As discussed above, the effectiveness by appropriate KPIs to facilitate monitoring of the effectiveness of the of the external audit function was shareholders access to relevant Groups system of internal controls and considered during 2017.
During the information risk management systems evaluation process the Committee - To monitor the effectiveness of the considered: the independence and To aid our review, the Committee considers Groups internal audit function and objectivity of the external auditor: the reports from the Group Financial Controller review its material findings make-up and quality of the audit team: and also reports from the external auditor - To oversee the relationship with the the proposed audit approach and the on the outcomes of their half-year review external auditor, including making scope of the audit: the execution of the and annual audit.
As a Committee, we recommendations to the Board in audit and the quality of the audit report to support Deloitte in displaying the necessary relation to the appointment of the the shareholders: as well as ultimately the professional scepticism their role requires.
external auditor and monitoring the fee structure.
external auditors objectivity and The Committees assessment of the annual independence.
The Committee discussed reports from report to ensure that it is fair, balanced PwC as the Groups internal auditor on and understandable took into account Composition of the Audit Committee their audit and assessment of the control the following considerations: The members of the Committee are environment.
The Committee reviewed set out on page 60 of this Corporate and proposed areas of focus for the Significant issues considered by Governance Statement.
The Committee internal audit programme of review the Committee members are all independent Nonincluding the approach to ensure that After discussion with both management Executives and have been selected the internal audit activity continues to be and the external auditor, the Committee with the aim of providing the wide range aligned to the principal Group risks.
determined that the key risk of misstatement of financial and commercial expertise of the Groups 2017 financial statements necessary to fulfil the Committees duties.
Financial reporting related to: The Board considers that as a chartered The primary focus of the Committee, in accountant and serving Finance Director relation to financial reporting in respect of - Property valuations of a FTSE 250 company, I have recent and the year ended 31 December 2017, was to - REIT compliance relevant financial experience.
review with both management and the - Joint venture accounting external auditor the appropriateness of Meetings are attended, by invitation, by the half-year and annual financial Property valuations the Chief Financial Officer, the Deputy statements concentrating on: The Groups principal assets are Chief Financial Officer and the Group investment properties and investment Financial Controller.
- The quality and acceptability of properties under development that are accounting policies and practices either owned on balance sheet or in USAF I also invite our external auditor, Deloitte, - The clarity of the disclosures and or LSAV.
The investment properties are to each meeting.
The Committee regularly compliance with financial reporting carried at fair value based on an appraisal meets separately with Deloitte without standards and relevant financial and by the Groups external valuers who carry others being present.
As appropriate, I also governance reporting requirements out the valuations in accordance with the invite our internal auditor, PwC, to attend - Material areas in which significant RICS Red Book valuation guide, taking into the meetings.
Deloitte and PwC meet judgements have been applied or account transactional evidence during independently of management to ensure where there has been discussion with the year.
The valuation of property alignment, to update on respective the external auditor assets involves significant judgement findings and consider the impact on - Whether the annual report and and changes in the core assumptions the relative approaches of their work.
accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, could have a significant impact on balanced and understandable and the carrying value of these assets.
Committee meetings provides the information necessary for Management discuss the underlying The Committee met five times during the shareholders to assess the Groups performance of each asset with the year and attendance at those meetings is position and performance, business external valuers and provide detailed shown on page 64 of this Corporate model and strategy.
performance data to them including rents, Governance Statement.
University lease agreements, occupancy, The Committees assessment of the annual property costs and costs to complete for Main activities of the Committee during report to ensure that it is fair, balanced development properties.
Management the year and understandable took into account receives detailed reports from the valuers Meetings of the Committee generally the following considerations: and performed a detailed review of the take place just prior to a Group Board valuations to ensure that management meeting and I report to the Board as - A review of what fair, balanced and considers the valuations to be appropriate.
part of a separate agenda item, on the understandable means for Unite The valuation report is reviewed by the activity of the Committee and matters of - The high level of input from the Chief Chief Financial Officer and the Group particular relevance to the Board in the Executive Officer and Chief Financial Property Director prior to sign-off.
At its five meetings Officer with early opportunities for the during the year, the Committee focused Board to review and comment on the on the following activities.
annual report THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 70 Corporate governance statement ACCOUNTABILITY: AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED During the year, the Committee and or the PID requirement will be satisfied.
The Internal controls the Board met with members of the combined PID from the distributions made Led by the Groups risk assessment process, Groups valuer panel and challenged during 2017 comprise 78% of the Groups we reviewed the process by which the them on the basis of their valuations and forecast tax-exempt property rental Group evaluated its control environment.
their core assumptions, including the yield business profit, leaving a small amount Management is responsible for establishing for each property, rental growth and that can be paid as part of the May and maintaining adequate internal forecast costs.
Internal controls are designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding The Committee questioned the external Joint venture accounting among other things the reliability of valuers on market trends and transactional Two of Unites significant assets are its financial reporting and the preparation of evidence that supports the valuations.
The investments in USAF and LSAV which the the financial statements for external Committee was satisfied that the Groups Group has historically accounted for as reporting purposes.
A comprehensive valuers were appropriately qualified and joint ventures.
strategic planning, budgeting and provided an independent assessment of forecasting process is in place.
The Committee was The Group reports under IFRS 10 12 financial information and performance satisfied that an appropriate valuation which provides guidance on how insight is reported to the Board.
process had taken place, the core an investor should account for its assumptions used were reasonable and interests in other entities, including a The Committees work to review the hence the carrying value of investment definition of control and guidance on effectiveness of the internal controls was and development properties in the how to classify and account for jointly driven by the Group Financial Controllers financial statements was appropriate.
During the reports on the effectiveness of internal year, management undertook a detailed controls, supported by the work of the The auditor explained the audit review of its classification for both USAF internal auditor and their reports to the procedures to test the valuation and LSAV, and following that analysis Audit Committee.
The feedback from the of investment and development concluded that both USAF and LSAV Groups internal auditor on specific areas properties and the Groups should continue to be treated as joint of control is tested on a periodic basis and disclosures on the subject.
The Committee considered our external auditor is requested to provide of the audit work, the auditor reported no this and agreed there was no material specific feedback and assessment of the inconsistencies or misstatements that were change and accordingly it was Groups financial controls and highlight material in the context of the financial appropriate to continue to account for any areas of weakness.
No significant statements as a whole.
USAF and LSAV as a joint venture under weaknesses were identified through the IFRS 11, with Unite recording its 24.58% course of the Committees reviews.
Further analysis and detail on asset share of the results and net assets of valuations is set out on page 36.
USAF as a joint venture using equity Internal audit accounting and likewise 50% for LSAV.
The Group engages PwC to perform REIT compliance internal audit activity, with this internal With effect from 1 January 2017, the Group Risk management audit function reporting directly to the converted to REIT status.
As a REIT, profits The Groups risk assessment process and Audit Committee.
from the Groups property rental business the way in which significant business risks and gains on disposal of property assets are are managed is a key area of focus for The Committee considered and approved exempt from UK corporation tax.
the scope of the internal audit activity to the Group does not recognise a deferred be undertaken during 2017 and looking tax liability in relation to unrealised gains Our work here was driven primarily forward on a twelve month basis to ensure on investment properties, or accelerated by performing an assessment of the that the internal audit approach is more capital allowances on property rental approach taken by the Groups Risk adaptable to the risk environment.
Maintaining REIT status Committee, chaired by Joe Lister, Chief Committee also discussed and challenged involves significant judgement about the Financial Officer.
The Risk Committee is the output from the internal audit reviews future performance of the business and responsible for the delivery of the Groups undertaken in the prior year and concluded compliance with the REIT rules and there Risk Management Framework, which that the reviews provided good support for would be a material impact on the Groups the Committee has approved, and the statements made by management and tax charge and financial results of not Groups assessment of its principal risks and that the control environment is robust in remaining compliant with the REIT regime.
uncertainties, as set out on pages 28 to 31. the areas tested over the last three years.
The Group monitors compliance with The Board also formally reviewed During the year, PwC focused their the REIT requirements on a quarterly the Groups principal risks at two internal audit work on revenue and basis to confirm that the interest cover test meetings during the year.
Through receivables, procure to pay, project and balance of business test in relation to these reviews, the Committee management and IT service continuity.
The balance of business considered the risk management All areas of internal audit were being test relating to assets is determined procedures within the business and reviewed for the first time in 2017, aside based on figures at 1 January 2017 was satisfied that the key Group risks from procure to pay, and, overall, PWC and so compliance has already were being appropriately managed.
concluded that there were no significant been confirmed for the year.
issues and controls were well designed, The risk assessment flags the importance but noted there were some areas of The Group has modelled tax adjusted of the internal control framework to improvement to be made to maximise property business profits for five years and manage risk and this forms a separate controls and operational efficiency, declared PIDs in respect of the May 17 and area of review for the Committee.
which management is in the process November 17 distributions to ensure that of implementing.
THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 71 External audit Independence and external During 2017, Deloitte acquired a The effectiveness of the external audit audit tender consultancy business, Market Gravity, process is facilitated by appropriate audit The Committee considers the rewhich at the time had already been risk identification at the start of the audit appointment of the external auditor, engaged to provide advisory services to cycle which we receive from Deloitte in including the rotation of the audit partner the Group.
Market Gravitys work with the a detailed audit plan, identifying their which is required every five years, each Group related to supporting the services assessment of these key risks.
year and also assesses their independence offered to our students and as such did on an ongoing basis.
The Group put the not constitute any management decision For the 2017 financial year, the significant external audit out to tender in May 2015 making or financial reporting which the risks identified were in relation to one and appointed Deloitte as the external Audit Committee therefore felt valuation of properties, REIT compliance, auditor following a robust review: the 2015 comfortable to approve this work to revenue recognition, management year-end was the first year with Deloitte as continue.
Subsequent to their acquisition override, and the classification of joint the Group auditor and as such we are in and the initial activity detailed above, the ventures.
These focus areas were year three of the audit cycle with Audit Committee gave their approval for discussed at the Committee and it was Deloitte in 2017. the second and third phases of the work.
agreed that they should be the principal areas of focus as they represent the areas The Committee reviewed Deloittes audit The combined fees for the non-audit with the greatest level of judgement and work and determined that appropriate services performed by Deloitte, were materially impact the overall performance plans are in place to carry out an effective 0.4m which virtually all related to the of the Group.
These risks are tracked and high quality audit.
Deloitte confirmed Market Gravity work referred to above.
through the year and we challenged to the Committee that it maintained During the year, Deloitte charged the the work done by the auditor to test appropriate internal safeguards to ensure Group 0.3 million for audit services.
managements assumptions and its independence and objectivity.
As part While the level of non-audit fees is greater estimates around these areas.
of the Committees assessment of the than the audit fees charged to the Group, on-going independence of the auditor, the Committee is comfortable that the We assess the effectiveness of the audit the Committee receives details of any auditors objectivity and independence process in addressing these matters relationships between the Group and has not been compromised due to the through the reporting we receive from Deloitte that may have a bearing on their nature of the work undertaken by Market Deloitte at both the half-year and independence and receives confirmation Gravity not involving management year-end and also reports from that they are independent of the Group.
decision-making, preparation of financial management on how these risks data or the design and implementation are being addressed.
As discussed above, an assessment of of internal controls.
Deloittes effectiveness, its processes, audit For the 2017 financial year, the Committee quality and performance was undertaken The Committee approved the fees for was satisfied that there had been in May 2017 following completion of the audit services for 2017 after a review of the appropriate focus and challenge on the 2016 audit.
level and nature of work to be performed, primary areas of audit risk and assessed the including the impact of the convertible quality of the audit process to be good.
We The Committee confirms compliance bond, REIT conversion and accounting hold private meetings with the external with the provisions of CMI Order 2014. standard changes, and after being auditor at each Committee meeting to satisfied by Deloitte that the fees were provide additional opportunity for open Non-audit services appropriate for the scope of the work dialogue and feedback from the To further safeguard the objectivity required.
These fees are also benchmarked Committee and the auditor without and independence of the external against other listed real estate companies management being present.
Matters auditor from becoming compromised, the of comparable size and complexity.
typically discussed include: Committee has a formal policy governing the engagement of the external auditor to Committee evaluation - The auditors assessment of business provide non-audit services.
No material The Committees activities formed part and financial statement risks and changes have been made to this policy of the evaluation of Board effectiveness management activity thereof during the year.
This precludes Deloitte performed in the year.
Details of this - The transparency and openness of from providing certain services, such as process can be found under interactions with management, valuation work or the provision of Performance evaluation.
confirmation that there has been no accounting services.
restriction in scope placed on them by Ross Paterson management and the independence For certain specific permitted services Chair Audit Committee of their audit such as reporting accountant activities 21 February 2018 - How they have exercised professional and compliance work, the Committee scepticism has pre-approved that Deloitte can be engaged by management, subject to I also meet with the external lead the policies set out above, and subject audit partner outside the formal to specified fee limits for individual Committee process.
engagements and fee limits for each type of specific service.
For all other services, or those permitted services that exceed the specified fee limits, I as Chairman, or in my absence, another member, can preapprove permitted services.
THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017
