56 Corporate governance statement BOARD OF DIRECTORS Phil White Richard Smith Joe Lister Professor Sir Tim Wilson Elizabeth McMeikan Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer and Managing Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director Director of People and Communications H N R H A R N R A N H Relevant skills Relevant skills Relevant skills Relevant skills Relevant skills and experience and experience and experience and experience and experience Phil has served as Chairman since May 2008.
Richard was appointed Chief Executive in Joe joined Unite in 2002 having Tim was appointed to the board in December Liz was appointed a Non-Executive Director in He was Chief Executive of National Express Group June 2016.
Prior to this, he was Unites Managing qualified as a chartered accountant with 2010.
He was appointed Knight Bachelor February 2014.
She has significant experience plc from 1997 to 2006 and led the business through Director of Operations from 2011, a role that .
He was appointed for services to Higher Education and to business in customer-focused businesses Tesco and growth in the UK and overseas.
He gained involved Richard leading the service provided as Chief Finance Officer in January 2008 having in the 2011 New Years honours list.
He is a strong Colgate Palmolive, where she was successful extensive executive experience in the publicto our customers, and managing maintenance previously held a variety of roles including advocate of the role of Universities in economic in driving growth through an understanding transport sector during the period of deregulation and facilities management across the Investment Director and Corporate Finance development and is acknowledged as one of the of customer needs and an innovative and privatisation.
He is the Non-Executive Chair Groups portfolio.
In addition to managing the Groups leading thinkers in University-business collaboration.
of Lookers plc as well as a Non-Executive Director finance function and investment strategy, Joe is He is the author of the  of VP plc.
Richard joined Unite as Deputy Chief Financial also responsible for People and Communications.
Wilson Review of BusinessUniversity Collaboration, Liz is Senior Independent Director at FTSE 250 Officer in 2010.
Prior to this, he spent 18 years in Joe is a member of the Council at the University published in March 2012. pub group JD Wetherspoon and Chairman of the the transport industry, working in the UK, Europe, of Essex.
Remuneration Committee at FlyBe plc.
She is a Australia and North America.
Richard spent 13 Formerly Vice-Chancellor of the University of Non-Executive Director at import export fruit and years at National Express Group where he held a Hertfordshire, Tim served on the Board of the vegetable company, Fresca Group Ltd, and CH & range of senior finance, strategy and operations Higher Education Funding Council for England Co Ltd, a privately-owned catering company.
roles, including Group Development Director and HEFCE, was Deputy Chair of the CBI Innovation, Chief Financial Officer, North America.
Science and Technology Committee and a In November 2012, Liz was appointed Chairman trustee of the Council for Industry and Higher of Moat Homes Ltd, a leading housing association Education CIHE.
He has extensive experience in working in the South-East.
both UK and international Higher Education.
Richard Simpson Andrew Jones Ross Paterson Chris Szpojnarowicz Group Property Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Company Secretary R N A R N Relevant skills Relevant skills Relevant skills Relevant skills and experience and experience and experience and experience Richard sets the strategic direction for all aspects Andrew Jones is Chief Executive Officer of Ross was appointed as a Non-Executive Director Chris was appointed Company Secretary and of Unites property portfolio, oversees the fund LondonMetric Property, following the 2013 merger in September 2017.
He is Finance Director of Head of Legal in 2013, following General Counsel management of Unites co-investment vehicles of London & Stamford and Metric.
Andrew was Stagecoach Group plc, and as a member of roles at GE, MTV Networks and other multinationals.
and leads the property development activities.
a co-founder of Metric and Chief Executive Stagecoachs Board is responsible for finance, He was previously an M&A corporate and Richard joined Unite in 2005 and has held a variety Officer since its inception in March 2010.
In addition, he is a commercial lawyer at Clifford Chance and of senior roles within the Group.
He is a qualified previous roles include Executive Director and Non-Executive Director and the Audit Committee Baker McKenzie.
Chris uses his general counsel chartered surveyor and a Fellow of the Royal Head of Retail at British Land.
He joined British Chair of Virgin Rail Group Holdings Limited, and a and corporate commercial legal experience to Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
Land in 2005 following the acquisition of Pillar member of the Business Policy Committee of the fuse our corporate and risk governance with our Property where he was on the main Board, with Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
In this way, Chris links his Company Richard has been a Non-Executive Director responsibilities for their retail portfolio and the Secretary and governance leadership role with of CityWest Homes since January 2017.
Andrew was appointed to the Board in 2013.
THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 57 Board committee key N Nomination Committee A Audit Committee H Health & Safety Committee R Remuneration Committee Chairman of committee Phil White Richard Smith Joe Lister Professor Sir Tim Wilson Elizabeth McMeikan Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer and Managing Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director Director of People and Communications H N R H A R N R A N H Relevant skills Relevant skills Relevant skills Relevant skills Relevant skills and experience and experience and experience and experience and experience Phil has served as Chairman since May 2008.
THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017
