e c n C a n u l r t e u v r e o G Governance framework Governance framework The Board is primarily responsible for strategic direction and Code compliance leadership, evaluating and managing risk and ensuring internal This section has been prepared in accordance with the April 2016 controls are in place.
Its overriding duties are to run the Company edition of the Code, which applies to the Companys Annual Report as stewards for the Companys stakeholders, with good governance, and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 and is available strong values and a safety-driven and ethical culture.
It is the Boards view that for the year ended 31 December 2017, the Company complied with all the There is a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for principles set out in the Code apart from provision A.
3.1 of the the Boards decision which is reviewed regularly.
A summary of Code which applies to the appointment of a former chief executive the matters reserved for the Board is set out below.
These are as chair of the same company, which is explained in more detail in matters that are significant to the Group as a whole because of the Nomination Committee section on page 83. their potential strategic, financial and reputational implications or consequences.
The Board has four principal Committees to deal Leadership with specific aspects of the Groups affairs.
The Chair of each The role of the Board Committee provides reports to the Board on the matters The Board is accountable to shareholders for managing the discussed at each Committee meeting to ensure that all Company in a way which promotes its success.
It ensures that there Directors have visibility of and the opportunity to discuss is a complementary balance in its strategy between promoting the matters being considered by each Committee.
long-term growth and delivering short-term objectives.
Internal control Leadership Management Strategy Matters reserved for the Board Key matters reserved the annual production plan the appointment and the appointment or removal for the Board include and financial budget: removal of Directors or of the Companys external the approval of: the Company Secretary: auditors and main financial, the Companys dividend the Groups strategy and legal and technical advisers.
and Health, Safety and the annual performance business plans: Environmental policies, evaluation of the Board, The full schedule of matters material restructurings or Anti-Bribery and Corruption its Committees and reserved for the Board is reorganisations, including Code and Share individual Directors: available on the Companys major acquisitions, mergers Dealing Rules: website www.
annual and half-yearly and disposals and changes to the framework for reports, circulars and other the Groups capital structure: the management of the shareholder documents and Groups principal risks: the principal regulatory filings major Group financing, with stock exchanges: and major capital expenditure and projects: 68 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2017 p i h s V d a r l a u e w s e t S STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Roles and responsibilities Division of responsibilities On 27 April 2017, the Company announced changes to the Board effective from 1 January 2018, including the appointment of a new Chair, Chief Executive Officer and the additional appointment of the Senior Independent Director to a combined role of Deputy Chair and Senior Independent Director with responsibility for Board governance matters and representing the interests of independent shareholders.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chair, Chief Executive Officer and Deputy Chair.
These roles and those of the other Directors are clearly defined so that no single individual has unrestricted powers of decision.
A summary is set out below: Chair The key roles and responsibilities include: leadership of the Board: Oleg Novachuk developing appropriate Group objectives, plans, policies and strategies with delegated authority from the Board and ensuring that these are implemented by the Chief Executive Officer, to build a sustainable business for the long term: ensuring effective communication with shareholders, major customers, strategic and commercial partners, regulators, host governments and other relevant stakeholders to maintain stakeholder confidence in the management of the Company: leadership and oversight on all health, safety and environmental matters in the countries in which the Group operates: and ensuring the Board determines the nature and extent of the principal risks the Group is willing to take to achieve its strategic objectives.
Chief Executive Officer The key roles and responsibilities include: responsibility for the executive management of the Group and leading the senior management team in Andrew Southam the day to day running of the Groups business: timely implementation of agreed strategy: planning human resourcing, staff development and management succession: together with the Chair overseeing compliance of the Groups operations with all relevant health and safety standards with special regard to environmental and social concerns: ensuring the Groups risk profile is managed in line with limits which are deemed acceptable by the Board and that an effective framework of internal controls and risk management is maintained: and recommending to the Board appropriate annual budgets and medium-term financial and production plans and ensuring they are achieved.
Deputy Chair and The key roles and responsibilities include: Senior Independent leading on Board governance matters including the annual review of Board effectiveness: Director chairing the Nomination Committee: Michael Lynch-Bell promoting effective and constructive relationships and communication between non-executive Directors and executive Directors and senior management: acting as a sounding board for the Chair and ensuring that the other Directors have an intermediary through him when necessary: being the point of contact for shareholders and other stakeholders to discuss matters of concern which would not be appropriate through the normal channels of communication with the Chair, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer.
No such matters of concern were raised during 2017: and meeting with a range of major shareholders when required to develop a balanced understanding of investor issues and concerns and report the outcome of such meetings at subsequent Board meetings.
Independent nonproviding an independent external perspective to the deliberations of the Board, drawing on their executive experiences from their careers in other businesses: Directors constructively challenging the strategies proposed by the executive Directors and scrutinising the performance of management in achieving agreed goals and objectives: monitoring the Groups risk profile: playing a key role in the functioning of the Board and its Committees: and providing between them an appropriate balance of skills, experience, knowledge and independent judgement.
com 69 Governance framework continued Corporate governance framework Shareholders Approving formal matters and providing ongoing communication Board of Directors Managing the Company on behalf of its shareholders.
Setting the strategy and risk appetite and overseeing risk management, internal control and corporate governance processes Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Health, Safety and Audit Committee Reviewing the composition Setting and implementing Environment Committee Reviewing the integrity of of the Board and its the remuneration policy financial reporting, internal Developing and overseeing Committees, including and determining the controls and assurance a framework of HSE policies succession planning and remuneration of executive processes and the work and standards to leading the process Directors and certain of the external auditors manage risk for appointments members of senior management Chief Executive Officer Implementing the strategy determined by the Board Executive Committee Supporting the Chief Executive Officer in the day-to-day running of the Group and operation of the risk management framework In reaching its determination of independence, the Board has Effectiveness concluded that each of Lynda Armstrong, Alison Baker, Michael Composition of the Board Lynch-Bell, John MacKenzie and Charles Watson provides objective The Board is currently comprised of the Chair, Chief Executive challenge to management and is willing to defend his or her own Officer, and six non-executive Directors.
The balance of Directors beliefs and viewpoints in order to support the interests of the on the Board ensures that no individual or small group of Directors Company and its stakeholders.
None of them has any business can dominate the decision-making process and that the interests of or other interests which are likely to, or could appear to, affect minority shareholders are protected.
Biographies of all Directors their judgement in their capacity as Directors of the Company.
The Board carries out a review of the independence of its nonIt is the Companys policy that at least half the Board, excluding the executive Directors on an annual basis and is satisfied that all of its Chair, should be independent non-executive Directors.
Other than non-executive Directors remain independent with the exception Vladimir Kim, the Board considers each of its current non-executive of Vladimir Kim, due to his significant shareholding in the Company.
Directors to be independent in character and judgement.
70 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Commitment Development Directors are expected to attend every Board meeting and every On appointment, all new Directors receive a comprehensive and meeting of any Committee of which they are a member, unless structured induction, tailored to their individual requirements.
there are exceptional circumstances preventing their attendance.
The induction programme, which is arranged by the Company Scheduled Board and Committee meetings are arranged at least a Secretary, includes visits to the Groups businesses and meetings year in advance to allow Directors to manage other commitments.
with senior managers and external advisers as appropriate.
The programme is designed to facilitate their understanding of the Directors are provided with the relevant Board or Committee Group, the key drivers of business performance, the role of papers for consideration around seven days in advance of each the Board and its Committees and the Companys corporate meeting via an electronic board portal.
Regular agenda items governance practices and procedures.
It also provides them with this year included: reports on health, safety and environmental appropriate training and guidance as to their duties, responsibilities matters: cash forecasts: updates on operations: requests for and liabilities as a director of a public limited company listed on the capital expenditure approval: reports on operational and financial London, Hong Kong and Kazakhstan Stock Exchanges.
performance: updates on the Groups principal risks and risk management processes: updates on business development To assist Directors in the performance of their duties, there are projects and strategic matters: corporate communications: procedures in place to provide them with appropriate and timely changes in corporate governance: and reports received from information, including receiving information on Group business Board Committees.
If a Director is unable to attend a meeting development and financial performance between meetings.
This due to exceptional circumstances, he or she still receives the papers enables the Directors to discharge their duties effectively on in advance of the meeting and has the opportunity to discuss with strategic, financial, operational, compliance and governance issues.
the relevant Chair or the Company Secretary any matters he or Where appropriate, additional training and updates on particular she wishes to raise and to follow up on the decisions taken at the issues are provided.
During the year, the Board received briefings meeting.
The Chair, Chief Executive Officer, Deputy Chair and on anti-bribery and corruption, the proposed changes to the Code Company Secretary are always available to discuss issues relating and the corporate offence of failure to prevent the criminal to meetings or other matters with the Directors.
Reasons for facilitation of tax evasion the CCO Offence.
non-attendance are generally prior business or personal All Directors are provided with the opportunity for, and commitments that cannot be re-arranged or illness.
encouraged to attend, training to ensure they are kept up to The number of scheduled Board meetings which each Director was date on relevant legal, financial and industry developments or eligible to attend and the number of meetings attended during 2017 changes in best practice.
Typical training for Directors includes is shown below: internal briefings, attendance at seminars, forums, conferences and Attendance at scheduled working groups as well as the receipt of written and verbal updates Directors during the year meetings during 2017 from relevant bodies or external advisers on legal, regulatory and 1 Simon Heale 6 6 governance matters.
Oleg Novachuk 6 6 The Board receives regular reports on shareholder sentiment Andrew Southam 6 6 from the Head of Investor Relations to ensure that members of Lynda Armstrong 6 6 the Board remain apprised of the current views of shareholders.
2 Alison Baker 2 2 Non-executive Directors can attend meetings with shareholders Vladimir Kim 6 6 and analyst presentations and all shareholders have the opportunity Michael Lynch-Bell 6 6 to meet informally with the Directors at the Annual General Meeting.
John MacKenzie 6 6 Charles Watson 6 6 1 Simon Heale stepped down from the Board on 31 December 2017 2 Alison Baker was appointed to the Board on 9 October 2017 In addition to the six scheduled meetings of the Board during the year, four further meetings were held which focused on the Board changes and the review of the Groups strategy and associated principal risks.
com 71 Governance framework continued Information and support Re-election The Company Secretary, through the Chair and Deputy Chair, is Directors newly appointed by the Board are required to submit responsible for advising the Board on all governance matters and themselves for election by shareholders at the Annual General for ensuring that Board procedures are followed, applicable rules Meeting following their appointment.
In accordance with best and regulations are complied with and that due account is taken practice and the UK Corporate Governance Code, all current of relevant codes of best practice.
The Company Secretary is also Directors will be submitted for election or re-election at the responsible for ensuring communication flows between the Board forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
and its Committees, and between senior management and nonVladimir Kim non-executive Director and Eduard Ogay former executive Directors.
All Directors have access to the advice of the executive Director of the Company are deemed to be acting in Company Secretary and in appropriate circumstances, may also concert with each other by the Panel on Takeovers and Mergers obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
and to constitute a Concert Party for the purposes of the City The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a Code on Takeovers and Mergers.
Under the Listing Rules, a matter reserved for the Board.
The Company Secretary is Susanna Concert Party is classed as a controlling shareholder of the Freeman who joined the Group in 2014 and was appointed in April Company.
This means that the independent non-executive 2016.
She is admitted as a solicitor in England and Wales and over Directors of the Company must be elected or re-elected by a the course of her career has been company secretary of three majority of votes cast by independent shareholders.
Therefore, other UK listed companies.
at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the resolutions for Performance evaluation the re-election of the independent non-executive Directors will An externally facilitated annual performance evaluation of the Board be taken on a poll and passed only if a majority of votes cast by and its Committees is carried out every three years, with internal independent shareholders which excludes Vladimir Kim and annual performance evaluations carried out for the intervening years.
Eduard Ogay, in addition to a majority of the votes cast by all The previous externally facilitated annual performance evaluation of shareholders, are in favour.
the Board and its Committees was conducted in 2015 and there will Conflicts of interest be another external evaluation during 2018.
Directors have a statutory duty to avoid situations in which they In 2017, a full internal performance evaluation process of the Board have or could have a direct or indirect interest that conflicts or and its Committees, facilitated by the previous Chair with the may conflict with the interests of the Company.
The Companys assistance of the Company Secretary, was carried out.
An in-depth Articles of Association give the Directors authority to approve questionnaire on the performance of the Board was circulated and such situations and there is no breach of duty by a Director if the completed by the Directors and focused on: relevant situation has been authorised in advance.
In addition, a Director has a duty to disclose to the Board any transaction or strategy and risk evaluation: arrangement under consideration by the Company in which he composition and capability: or she has a personal interest.
organisational behaviour and culture: Directors are required to declare all directorships or other risk management and internal control: and appointments outside the Group which could give rise to an effectiveness of Board and Committee meetings actual or potential conflict of interest.
Only the independent and communication.
Directors are able to authorise such conflict situations and, where Based on the responses received to the questionnaires, the appropriate, this authorisation may be subject to certain conditions.
Company Secretary prepared a report which was circulated and Directors are also required to declare if there are any changes presented to the Board at its meeting in December 2017.
The in circumstances that may affect an existing authorisation.
The overall conclusion was that the Board and its Committees were Company Secretary minutes the consideration of any actual or operating effectively.
A small number of potential improvement potential conflict of interest and any authorisation granted and areas such as enhancing the interrelationships between Board maintains a register of this information.
Committees, a review of reporting at Board meetings, the timing The Companys Articles of Association also include provisions of meetings and a continued focus on Board development and on relating to the treatment of third-party confidential information succession planning were identified and are being incorporated received by a Director and the circumstances in which a Director into the Board and Committee processes for 2018. should absent himself or herself from a Board meeting and refrain During the year, the previous Chair held a number of meetings from reviewing Board papers in relation to a matter in which he with non-executive Directors without executive Directors being or she has an actual or potential conflict.
These provisions will only present.
The Senior Independent Director also led the nonapply where the circumstance giving rise to the potential conflict executive Directors in evaluating the performance of the previous of interest has previously been authorised by the Directors.
Chair as part of the Board evaluation process and, following the evaluation, the Board was satisfied that Simon Heale continued to be able to fulfil all of the commitments required of the role to its satisfaction.
On 31 December 2017, Simon Heale stepped down from the Board and Oleg Novachuk succeeded him as Chair.
72 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Kazakhmys group company.
No competitively sensitive information Anti-Bribery and Corruption ABC can be exchanged between the parties except in relation to a The Group has in place an ABC Compliance Programme the specific business purpose and where suitable controls are in place.
Programme to assist in the prevention of unlawful activities by individuals or Group entities and to comply with the requirements Succession planning of the UK Bribery Act 2010.
The Board has a firm stance on The Group develops its pipeline with regard to diversity and aims bribery and corruption and attaches the utmost importance to ensure a minimal potential impact on the business in the event to the Programme in clarifying the standards expected of all that key staff were to leave the Groups employment.
The Group employees of the Group wherever it conducts business.
reviews each year its personnel requirements and has developed a programme to manage succession planning to ensure that the The foundation of the Programme is the ABC Code, below Group has the necessary human resources to carry out its business which there is a subset of policies which provide a process for successfully, especially in the area of production.
The Chief Executive operating in accordance with the Programme in specific situations.
Officer is closely involved in this process together with the Group These policies include the process for dealing with public officials, Human Resources Director.
Key positions are identified and gifts and hospitality, third-party due diligence, conflicts of interest, potential successors assessed, following which they are trained lobbying, social investment, and Speak-Up.
Regular training in ABC and developed in order to be ready to succeed to positions and awareness campaigns are carried out across the Group and when required.
monitoring and assurance is carried out by the internal audit team and by external advisers.
Accountability We undertake due diligence on our potential suppliers, customers, The Board considers the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a consultants, agents, distributors and other business partners to whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable and that it provides check they are suitable to do business with and are reputable and the necessary information required for shareholders to assess the ethical.
We aim to ensure they do not commit or engage in any Companys position and performance, business model and strategy, form of bribery or corruption.
New business partners complete and that the business continues to operate as a going concern.
an ABC questionnaire in which they need to include two business Risk management and internal control referees amongst other information.
If we have a continued The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent relationship with our business partners, the questionnaire is of the principal risks the Group is willing to take in order to achieve updated periodically.
its strategic objectives and to maintain sound risk management and Anti-bribery and corruption clauses are included in our contracts internal control systems.
The Board has established a Group-wide with our business partners.
system of risk management and internal control which identifies and enables management and the Board to evaluate and manage, the During 2017, new employees were trained on ABC and existing Groups principal risks.
Due to the limitations inherent in any system employees received refresher training and online testing was carried of internal control, this system provides robust, but not absolute, out to ensure there was a good understanding of the Programme.
assurance against material misstatement or loss and is designed to Awareness campaigns were undertaken, including by way of posters manage rather than eliminate risk.
The effectiveness of the Groups which were displayed around operational sites to promote awareness system of internal control is regularly reviewed by the Board.
The Groups ABC Policies were reviewed and updated during the year and a number of these Policies can be The Board confirms that throughout 2017 and up to the date of viewed on the Groups website at www.
approval of this Annual Report and Accounts, there have been rigorous processes in place to identify, evaluate and manage the Related party transactions principal risks faced by the Group, including those that would The Group has in place a policy for the identification of related threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or parties and a process for the approval of any transactions with these liquidity in accordance with the Guidance on Risk Management, parties.
Under this policy, all Kazakhmys group entities are deemed Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting to be related parties due to Vladimir Kims substantial shareholdings published by the Financial Reporting Council.
in both the KAZ Minerals Group and the Kazakhmys group.
The list of related parties is regularly reviewed and updated throughout To assist in the identification and management of the Groups the year and, prior to entering into any related party transactions, principal risks, the Board has established a risk management a review is undertaken to ensure that the proposed transaction is framework, developed a system of regular reports from on an arms length basis and on normal commercial terms.
Specific management and reserved specific key matters for its decision.
consideration is given to the requirements under the Listing Rules.
TheBoard has authorised the Audit Committee to oversee the riskmanagement framework and the effectiveness of the Groups Competition policy financial reporting, internal control and assurance systems.
The A competition policy is in place to govern any dealings between Board is regularly presented with updates on the Groups principal the KAZ Minerals Group and the Kazakhmys group and their risks together with a risk map, and any changes since the previous employees.
This policy recognises that the two groups are update are explained.
Each Board Committee provides updates on competitors and its aim is to prevent anti-competitive behaviour.
any risks considered within its remit when providing regular updates Prior approval is required internally within the KAZ Minerals Group to the Board.
before any Group company enters into any arrangement with a www.
com 73 Governance framework continued The Groups risk management framework is continually reviewed The Group has also adopted a Suppliers Charter which sets out by the Board, with specific consideration given to material financial, our expectations of our suppliers in relation to their treatment operational and compliance controls, and steps are taken to address of their workers to ensure they are committed to employment any issues.
During 2017, no significant internal control failings practices which are acceptable to the Group.
Under our standard were identified.
terms of business our customers and suppliers agree to comply with the principles of the Code of Fair Employment and Suppliers The Groups approach to risk management, the risks identified Charter and to ensure there is no modern slavery within and how it profiles these risks is set out in the Risk Management their operations.
Overview and Principal Risks section on pages 56 to 63.
The Company published its first Modern Slavery Act statement in May Internal audit 2017 which can be found on our website at www.
Internal audit advises management on the extent to which systems of internal control are appropriate and effective to Human Rights manage business risk, safeguard the Groups resources, and ensure The Company acknowledges that human rights are basic rights compliance with the Groups policies and legal and regulatory that form the foundation for freedom, justice and peace, which requirements.
It advises on ways in which areas of risk can be apply equally and universally in all countries.
We are guided by addressed and provides objective assurance on risk and controls to our Human Rights Policy which has been approved by the Board senior management, the Audit Committee and the Board.
Internal and can be found on our website at www.
KAZ audits work is focused on the Groups principal risks: the Head of Minerals supports human rights that are defined, recognised and Internal Audit and the Group Risk function work together when identified in international conventions.
We follow the international considering the appropriate scope and focus of internal audits.
The human rights principles encompassed in the Universal Declaration three-year programme of work of the internal audit department of Human Rights, and adopt the UN Guiding Principles on Business is considered and approved by the Audit Committee on a rolling and Human Rights.
As set out in our Code of Fair Employment, we annual basis, subject to any additional suggestions from the commit to our employees working in an environment and under Committee.
The audit plan has space for ad hoc audits as conditions that respect their rights and require the same standards required by the Committee or management.
Through due diligence we aim to prevent and mitigate any infringement of human rights both Under the internal audit plan, a number of audits take place internally and amongst our business partners.
across the Groups operations and functions to identify areas for improvement of the Groups internal controls.
Findings are Relations with shareholders reported to relevant operational management who put in place Dialogue with shareholders processes for strengthening controls.
Internal audit follows up on The Board endeavours to ensure good communication with its the implementation of recommendations and reports on progress shareholders and maintains an active dialogue with its key financial to senior management and to the Audit Committee.
audiences including institutional shareholders, sell-side analysts, private individuals and potential new shareholders.
We consulted The Head of Internal Audit reports regularly to the Chair of the with major institutional investors during the year in respect of the Audit Committee and attends each Audit Committee meeting to Board changes.
The Head of Investor Relations is in communication present the findings from internal audits.
with shareholders on a day-to-day basis and the Chief Executive Modern Slavery Act 2015 Officer and Chief Financial Officer are closely involved in investor The Board recognises the importance of the provisions of relations activities at key times throughout the year.
The Board is the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and the Directors aim to ensure provided with shareholder and broader market feedback from that slavery and human trafficking have no part in the Groups the Head of Investor Relations at each Board meeting.
The Group has always been vigilant about employee The executive Directors are available, through the Head of welfare and aims to be transparent in its practices.
The Group has Investor Relations, to discuss the concerns of major shareholders established a Code of Fair Employment which sets out its stance in at any time and the Deputy Chair is available to discuss governance relation to forced labour, slavery, human trafficking and child labour.
Non-executive Directors make themselves available to The Human Resources department periodically conducts a attend meetings with shareholders when requested, in order to Group-wide review to check internal compliance with the Code develop an understanding of their views.
The Company responds of Fair Employment and no instances of any breach have been as necessary to requests it receives from individual shareholders identified.
A training programme was developed during the year on a wide range of issues.
and training of relevant staff was carried out to raise awareness of modern slavery issues.
Employees are encouraged to report There is regular contact with key institutional shareholders, external any instance or suspected occurrence of modern slavery or financing providers and sell-side analysts to discuss the strategy, human trafficking in the supply chain to management or financial performance and investment activities of the Group.
through the Groups Speak-Up helpline facility.
Meetings with management are also supplemented by visits to the Groups operations.
During 2017, executive Directors and senior management held meetings with institutional investors in the United Kingdom, continental Europe and the United States of America and attended conferences in these locations, providing a comprehensive dialogue with shareholders and potential new investors.
74 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS During 2017, the Company issued quarterly production updates Diversity in January, April, July and October and interim management KAZ Minerals endeavours to create a positive, supportive statements in April and October.
These, together with copies of and inclusive culture amongst its workforce.
We promote our analyst presentations each half year, the Groups preliminary and corporate values of teamwork, integrity, long-term efficiency, half-yearly results and all announcements issued to the London and professional development and safety and we strongly believe in Hong Kong Stock Exchanges in English and in Chinese, are available the importance of diversity and equality.
Diversity and equality in on the Companys website www.
our workforce enable the business to draw from a wide range of thought, experience and expertise.
The KAZ Minerals workforce Annual General Meetings represents all sectors of society and reflects the communities local The Notice of Annual General Meeting is circulated to all to its operations.
We do not discriminate between our employees shareholders at least 20 working days prior to such meeting and on the basis of age, gender, race, nationality or ethnic origin, family it is Company policy not to combine resolutions.
All shareholders situation, religion, language, political beliefs, sexual orientation, are invited to attend the Annual General Meeting where there is pregnancy, maternity or paternity or disability protected an opportunity for individual shareholders to question the Chair, characteristics except as may be required to comply with applicable Deputy Chair and, through them, the chairs of the principal Board laws and regulations including those relating to employment and Committees.
After the Annual General Meeting, shareholders can health and safety in the countries in which we operate.
We meet informally with the Directors.
endeavour to ensure a fair and consistent approach in the At the Annual General Meeting, the Chair provides a brief summary recruitment and employment of our people regardless of their of the Companys activities for the previous year to shareholders.
differences and we do not tolerate any form of unlawful or unfair All resolutions at the 2017 Annual General Meeting were voted discrimination, victimisation or harassment based on protected on by way of a poll.
The procedure for voting on a poll follows characteristics, whether direct or indirect.
best practice and allows the Company to count all votes rather Our approach is set out in the Companys Diversity and Equality than just those of the shareholders attending the meeting.
Policy which applies to all our staff.
It is particularly relevant to As recommended by the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors, line managers and other employees and contractors resolutions proposed at the 2017 Annual General Meeting were concerned with the recruitment, training and promotion of staff voted separately and the voting results, which included all votes cast and with any employment matters which relate to others.
The HR for, against and those withheld, together with all proxies lodged prior Director is responsible for ensuring that the policy is applied and the to the meeting, were announced to the London and Hong Kong Group Human Resources team has been trained and has driven Stock Exchanges and made available on the Companys website as awareness amongst managers of the provisions of the policy and soon as practicable after the meeting.
As in previous years, the Form of their obligation to comply with them.
of Proxy clearly advised that a vote withheld is not a vote in law and This year, we are proud to report that 24% of our staff are female, is not used in calculating the votes for or against a resolution.
which we believe is amongst the highest of our mining peer group.
Board Committees The proportion of females on the Board and in senior management, The five Committees of the Board are the Audit, Health, Safety 25% and 23% respectively, is representative of females in the and Environment, Nomination, Remuneration and Operations workforce as a whole and we will continue to build on this in 2018 Ramp Up Assurance Committee, the latter established in 2017 with as we increase our focus on gender diversity.
We plan to engage a planned 18 month life.
Board Committee members are appointed with members of our female workforce during the year, in order by the Board upon the recommendation of the Nomination to understand better any challenges they may face in the workplace Committee, which reviews the composition of each Committee with the aim of identifying ways of reducing or eliminating any regularly.
In accordance with their specific skills and experience, such challenges.
independent non-executive Directors are appointed to different Board Committees.
Committee members are expected to attend each Committee meeting, unless there are exceptional circumstances which prevent them from doing so.
Only members of the Committees are entitled to attend Committee meetings, but others may be invited to attend.
The terms of reference of each Committee are reviewed annually and are available to view on the Companys website www.
They can be obtained on request from the Company Secretary at the Companys registered office.
Board Committee membership The current membership of the Boards Committees is shown on page 65. www.
com 75 Governance framework continued Audit Committee In October 2017 we welcomed Alison Baker as a member of the Committee.
Alison is a chartered accountant who provided audit, capital markets and advisory services for nearly 25 years, leading the UK and EMEA Oil & Gas practice at  and prior to that the Energy, Utilities and Mining Assurance practice at Ernst & Young in the UK.
The Committee looks forward to continuing to benefit from her valuable experience during 2018.
I would also like to thank my other fellow Committee members, John MacKenzie and Charles Watson, whose insightful contributions have enabled the Committee to perform its duties effectively.
Dear shareholder, The Audit Committee reports to the Board on its assessment In this report there is a summary of the significant issues that of effective governance in financial reporting, internal control the Committee considered over the course of the year and and assurance processes and on the procedures in place for the activities that it undertook in the performance of its duties.
the identification and management of risk.
During 2017, the Over the next 12 months, the Committee, as part of its Committee continued to focus on its core role of reviewing the usual duties, will continue to assess the implications of new Groups financial results, including significant financial reporting and proposed accounting standards and will monitor tax estimates and judgements, as well as the financial disclosures in developments arising in both Kazakhstan and the United the interim management statements, monitoring the Groups Kingdom including updates on the OECDs Base Erosion systems of internal control and risk management and overseeing and Profit Shifting BEPS project.
the relationship with the external auditors and with the internal audit function.
In 2017, KPMG changed its Group audit partner Michael Lynch-Bell in accordance with mandatory partner rotation requirements.
Chair, Audit Committee Composition Role and responsibilities The current members of the Committee are: The primary responsibilities of the Committee are set out on the pages that follow.
Whilst the Committee has very specific Michael Lynch-Bell, Chair: duties which are set out in its terms of reference, its overarching Alison Baker: purpose is to reassure shareholders that their interests are properly John MacKenzie: and protected in respect of the Companys financial management and Charles Watson reporting.
The Committee regularly updates the Board on matters Michael Lynch-Bell has recent and relevant financial experience, discussed at its meetings.
The Board has delegated responsibility having spent 38 years with Ernst & Young developing and later to the Committee for monitoring the Companys procedures and leading, its global mining and energy practices.
Alison Baker also system of internal control in relation to risk management and the has recent and relevant financial experience having spent nearly 25 Committee oversees the internal and external audit processes years in the provision of audit, capital markets and advisory services which report into it.
John Mackenzie has 25 years experience Key roles and responsibilities of the Audit Committee include: in the metals and mining industry and was CEO of copper at Anglo American between 2009 and 2013 and Charles Watson has over monitoring and challenging, where necessary, the integrity of the 30 years experience in the extractives industry.
Accordingly, the financial statements, the annual and half-yearly results, interim Board considers that the Committee as a whole has competence management statements and any other formal announcement relevant to the mining sector.
relating to financial performance, including a review of the financial reporting judgements which they contain: The Chair of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial reviewing and challenging, where necessary, the actions and Officer, Company Secretary, Head of Internal Audit and the lead judgements of management taking into account the views of partner and audit manager of the external auditors are usually theexternal auditors in relation to the Companys financial invited to attend Committee meetings.
At the end of each meeting statements, strategic report, financial review, governance the Committee meets separately with representatives of the statement insofar as it relates to audit and risk management, external auditors and the Head of Internal Audit, without half-yearly reports, preliminary announcements and related management being present, to discuss any matters arising formal statements, including the going concern assumption from their audits or in relation to any other matter.
and the viability statement: 76 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS reviewing the Companys internal controls, including financial External auditors controls and risk management systems: KPMG were appointed as external auditors of the Group in 2012 approving the annual and three year internal audit plans following a formal competitive tender process and continue to be and monitoring the role and effectiveness of the internal the Companys external auditors.
audit function: The appointment of KPMG is reviewed annually and the Committee overseeing the Companys relationship with the external undertook an assessment of the effectiveness of the external audit auditors, including the monitoring of their independence and process during the year.
Consideration was given to performance, expertise, the terms of their engagement and fees, and assessing objectivity, independence, resource and relevant experience of the the effectiveness of the audit process with due regard to relevant external auditors and following the identification and discussion UK professional and regulatory requirements: of improvements that could be implemented, the Committee agreeing the scope of the external auditors annual audit plan and recommended to the Board the reappointment of KPMG.
The reviewing the output: Committee believes that the Group continues to benefit from reviewing and approving any changes to the policy on the the insight and knowledge that the external auditors have of its provision of non-audit services by the external auditors: business processes and controls and following the Committees recommendation, the Board has approved resolutions to be assessing annually the Committees own performance, proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, to reappoint constitution and terms of reference: and KPMG as the Companys external auditors and to authorise the reporting to the Board on how the Committee has discharged Directors to set KPMGs remuneration.
A copy of the Committees terms of reference is available to view During the year Juliette Lowes was appointed as the lead audit on the Companys website www.
engagement partner for KPMG, in compliance with the five-year rotation requirement for individuals fulfilling this role.
In accordance with regulations on tendering audit contracts at least Audit Committee responsibilities every 10 years, it continues to be the intention of the Committee that the external audit will be put out to tender by 2022 at the latest, subject to any further regulatory change.
Monitoring Overseeing Reviewing risk Policy on the provision of non-audit services The Committee reviews annually the Groups policy on the use of the external auditors for non-audit services.
The policy identifies those non-audit services which may, and those which may not, be Reporting Analysing provided and sets out the process through which non-audit services must be approved.
Under the policy, the external auditors can only be used for non-audit services where there are benefits to the Attendance at Audit Committee meetings Group and the provision of such services will not threaten the During 2017, there were six scheduled meetings of the Audit external auditors independence and objectivity.
Committee, including two meetings which were convened to Under the policy, any new engagement for non-audit services in discuss one item of business only, the financial disclosures in the excess of 100,000 must be approved by either the Chief Financial interim management statements, with each member attending Officer and the Committee Chair or a sub-committee of any two as shown below: Committee members and certain engagements must additionally Attendance at Committee scheduled meetings be subject to a competitive tender process.
Members member since during 2017 Full information on engagements and total annual fees paid for Michael Lynch-Bell 27 February 2013 6 6 non-audit services are reported to the Committee.
Details of all Alison Baker 9 October 2017 2 2 fees paid to the external auditors for audit and non-audit services John MacKenzie 1 January 2016 6 6 for the year ended 31 December 2017 and information on the Charles Watson 24 August 2011 6 6 nature of non-audit fees appear in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements on page 125.
Alison Baker was appointed to the Committee on 9 October 2017. www.
com 77 Governance framework continued Internal audit Activities in 2017 approved the annual and rolling three-year operational plans: and At its meetings in 2017, the Committee: regularly reviewed reports from the internal audit department, Financial reporting received presentations from the Head of Internal Audit on reviewed the annual and half-yearly results and interim internal control and followed up on the manner in which management statements including the quality and acceptability recommendations made in these audits had been addressed.
of accounting policies, significant financial reporting estimates External auditors and judgements applied in preparing them, the transparency approved the terms of engagement of the external auditors, and clarity of the disclosures within them and compliance with the fees paid and scope of work: financial reporting standards and governance: received reports on the findings of the external auditors considered whether the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as during the half-yearly review and annual audit and reviewed the a whole, was fair, balanced and understandable and provided the recommendations made to management by the external auditors necessary information for shareholders to assess the Companys and managements responses: position and performance, business model and strategy: reviewed the performance and effectiveness of the external received reports from management and the external auditors auditors in respect of the previous financial year and on accounting, financial reporting, regulatory and taxation issues: recommended their reappointment: considered impairment indicator reviews performed performed an annual review of the policies on the independence by management: and objectivity of the external auditors, the use of the external reviewed the methodology for producing the disclosure of ore auditors for non-audit services, and the employment of former reserves and mineral resources and other relevant disclosures employees of the external auditors: in the Annual Report and Accounts: assessed the continued independence and objectivity of the reviewed the basis for preparing the Group accounts on a going external auditors: and concern basis: and reviewed the quality assurance processes of the external auditors considered the viability statement to be made by the Company.
and letters of representation to them.
Internal control Other matters reviewed the structure and effectiveness of the Groups system reviewed reports on changes to UK and Kazakhstan of internal control as set out on pages 73 and 74 and the tax legislation: disclosures made in the Annual Report and Accounts on received an overview of the corporate offence of failure to this matter: prevent the facilitation of tax evasion under the Criminal Finances reviewed and recommended to the Board amendments to the Act 2017, a briefing on compliance procedures to be implemented Group Treasury Policy: in relation to this offence and reviewed and recommended to the reviewed and recommended to the Board the Group Tax Board for adoption, a new Non-Facilitation of Tax Evasion Policy Strategy: and which incorporates the Groups anti money laundering principles reviewed the Groups processes for disclosing information to the for the Group: external auditors and the statement concerning such disclosure in reviewed the Speak-Up policy: the Annual Report and Accounts.
received reports on matters raised via the Speak-Up facilities, the Risk management process for the investigation of those matters raised, the outcome received an overview of the Groups risk environment and risk of any investigation and any actions taken in relation thereto: management activities together with analysis of the key risks to reviewed status updates on the Groups Anti-Bribery and achieving the Groups strategic priorities: Corruption Compliance Programme: reviewed and challenged the Groups top 20 risks identified by received an update from management on the latest technical management in the Group risk map and movements of those accounting, taxation and regulatory issues: risks over the course of the year and received benchmarking received a report on IT security: of the Groups principal risks against industry peers: received a presentation on the structure and composition of reviewed the effectiveness of the Group risk management the Groups finance function: framework as described on pages 56 and 57: reviewed the terms of reference and the results of the reviewed reports from internal audit on issues identified performance evaluation of the Committee: and and confirmed that there was an appropriate response reviewed the training requirements of the Committee members.
from management: reviewed reports from external auditors on any issues identified in the course of their work including the internal controls report: and monitored the Groups catastrophic risk insurance arrangements.
78 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Significant judgements considered by the Audit Committee The Committee considered, amongst other matters, a number of significant judgements in relation to the financial reporting of the Group, including: Significant issues Committee action Going concern and viability statement It is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in The Committee considered and approved the preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017.
In underlying assumptions used in the preparation reaching this conclusion, management took into account the financial position of the long-term viability statement, together with of the Group and its forecast cash flows and made certain assumptions and the going concern assumption.
After reviewing judgements as set out in the basis of preparation note to the financial statements papers prepared by management and also taking on pages 114 to 115 and in the Strategic Report on page 40. into account the external auditors review of the papers and their assumptions, the Committee This Annual Report and Accounts also includes the long-term viability statement concluded that it was appropriate to prepare the in compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Management accounts on a going concern basis.
The Committee considered the Groups long-term viability statement, in addition to and together considered the long-term viability statement and with the going concern statement, which is set out on page 58. going concern statement and approved managements disclosures.
Impairments Group At 30 June 2017 and 31 December 2017, an assessment of impairment indicators The Committee considered managements or reversals across the Groups cash generating units was performed and did assessment as at 30 June 2017 and as at not identify indicators which would require an impairment or reversal review.
Having received input Accordingly, impairment reviews were not undertaken on the cash generating units.
from the external auditor and evaluated the assessment of impairment indicators at both reporting periods, the Committee agreed with managements assessment and disclosures.
Impairments KAZ Minerals PLC The increase in copper prices during 2017, the successful ramp up to commercial The Committee considered papers setting levels of production and design capacity at the Bozshakol clay and sulphide and out managements valuation of the Companys the Aktogay sulphide and oxide plants, respectively, together with the increased investments.
Having received input from the Free Cash Flows and the increased market capitalisation of the Group, resulted external auditor, challenged the appropriateness in a re-assessment in the carrying value of the Companys investments and an of key assumptions used by management in the impairment provision was partially reversed.
See page 155 of the Companys discounted cash flow models and considered standalone financial statements.
external market valuations of the Group, the Committee agreed with managements assessment and disclosures.
Consideration and assessment of tax matters of the Group Due to the evolving nature of tax legislation and its application in Kazakhstan The Committee considered papers prepared by and Kyrgyzstan, management is required to make judgements and estimates in management and after receiving input from the relation to tax risks, the outcomes of which can be less predictable than in other external auditor, concluded that the Groups tax jurisdictions.
Management has determined its best estimates for taxes payable and position has been appropriately accounted for the likelihood and timing of taxes receivable, and accounted for them accordingly.
Commercial production at Aktogay and Bozshakol The Aktogay sulphide plant and the Bozshakol clay plant commenced sales The Committee considered papers prepared during 2017 and were in the pre-commercial production stage, with revenues by management and taking into account the and operating costs capitalised to property, plant and equipment.
Management external auditors review of the papers and monitored the performance of the respective plants during the year, in particular their assumptions, concluded that managements against their design capacities, and determined that the Aktogay sulphide and assessments of commercial production on both Bozshakol clay plant achieved commercial production on 1 October 2017 and assets were appropriate.
1 July 2017 respectively, from which dates revenues and related operating costs are reflected in the Groups income statement.
com 79 Governance framework continued Health, Safety and Environment Committee The Committee approved a new three year strategic plan for improving our health and safety performance and spent time monitoring compliance with safety standards, reviewed the effectiveness of the EMEX health and safety reporting system and encouraged greater awareness and closer management of HSE risks.
We also champion improved HSE incident reporting across the Group.
We made two trips to Kazakhstan in 2017, one in June and one in October 2017, to visit three of our operations.
The Committee met with the Group HSE team in Kazakhstan and visited the two Dear shareholder, new mines, Bozshakol and Aktogay, as well as Artemyevsky, an Over the course of the year, the Committee has continued established underground mine in the East Region.
During our to support the commitment of management to the control visits to the operations we met with locally based staff and of health, safety and environmental HSE related risks, whilst managers to gain a first-hand view of the risks and challenges providing essential challenge.
faced by them, to see the Groups HSE initiatives in practice and discuss areas where improvements could be made and the ways Early in 2017, the Committee considered and approved a three in which these could be achieved.
Our particular focus is helping year underground mine safety improvement project, including the Group achieve its goal of zero fatalities.
measures for improvements to ground support, backfill quality, raise excavation, ventilation, mine planning, electrical safety, Simon Heale retired from the Board on 31 December 2017 and contractor management and emergency response.
During accordingly is no longer on the Committee having served on it the year we were updated on progress against this plan.
The for nearly five years.
We have greatly appreciated his support Committee also received the findings of internal and external and advice and he will be missed.
Michael Lynch-Bell has joined reviews of HSE at a number of our sites which were conducted the Committee and we look forward to the benefit of his during the year.
These reviews assess compliance with the experience going forward.
Groups HSE policies, make recommendations for further We will continue to focus on further progress by the Group in all improvements and can also be used to focus on specific areas of HSE areas over the next few years.
In 2017, one such area of focus was emergency response providers at our mine sites.
The Committee considered the Charles Watson outcomes of these audits and encouraged improvements to Chair, Health, Safety and Environment Committee be made in various areas identified.
reviewing compliance by the Group with relevant health, safety Composition and environmental legislation: The current members of the Committee are: monitoring and assessing the commitment and behaviour Charles Watson, Chair: of management towards health, safety and environmental Lynda Armstrong: related risks: Michael Lynch-Bell: and reviewing significant safety incidents, considering the key John MacKenzie causes thereof and ensuring actions are taken to prevent similar Role and responsibilities incidents occurring including reporting of these incidents and any The Committee is primarily responsible for keeping under review near misses: the development and maintenance of a framework of policies and facilitating the promotion by management of a culture of care standards which are used to assess, manage and where possible andsensitivity towards the environment and the communities prevent, health, safety and environmental risks.
Reports on the in which the Group operates: Committees reviews are then provided to the Board.
making proposals to the Remuneration Committee regarding Two of the three meetings of the Committee during the year appropriate health, safety and environmental performance were held in Kazakhstan and involved meeting with management objectives for executive Directors and certain senior managers responsible for health and safety at the mine sites, with each visit and providing its assessment as to performance against such lasting for two or three days.
objectives: and reviewing the findings of any internal or external reports Key responsibilities of the Committee include: on theGroups health, safety and environmental systems.
assessing the impact of health, safety and environmental issues on The Committees terms of reference are available to view the Groups stakeholders and ensuring remedial action is taken in on theCompanys website www.
respect of any such issues where appropriate: 80 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS with local management and obtained an overview of the status Attendance at Health, Safety and Environment of operational readiness: Committee meetings visited the mine, concentrator, clay plant and tailings dams There were three scheduled meetings of the Health, Safety and at Bozshakol: Environment Committee during 2017, with each member attending as shown below: visited the underground mine at Artemyevsky and reviewed the new underground support systems: Attendance at Committee scheduled meetings evaluated the Committees effectiveness for 2017, including Members member since during 2017 identifying training needs and reviewed its terms of reference Charles Watson 16 November 2011 3 3 and future role and direction: Lynda Armstrong 21 October 2013 3 3 reviewed environmental reports prepared for the Group Simon Heale 13 March 2013 3 3 including one on tailings dams: and John MacKenzie 1 March 2015 3 3 received an update on the EMEX health and safety reporting Michael Lynch-Bell 1 January 2018 Not applicable system across the Group.
Simon Heale stepped down from the Board on 31 December 2017.
Plans for 2018 Activities in 2017 In 2018, the Committee will seek assurance that health, safety At its meetings in 2017, the Committee, amongst other matters: and environmental systems, procedures and behaviours are well established throughout the Group.
Over the course of the year it reviewed updates on the implementation of the three year plans to visit an East Region mine, as well as Bozshakol and Aktogay.
health and safety strategy focused on strengthening the long-term foundations for safe productive work: received a status update on corporate responsibility reporting, including key performance indicators: reviewed and evaluated fatal and serious incident reports through the Fatal and Serious Incidents Review Panel and visited locations of some of the fatalities and serious incidents at the mines: reviewed and approved the three year underground mine safety improvement project: visited the mine, the concentrator, the maintenance workshop and the tailings dams at Aktogay, where the Committee met www.
com 81 Governance framework continued Operations Ramp Up Assurance Committee The Committee receives reports and presentations from the members of management responsible for directly overseeing Bozshakol and Aktogay and is supported by the use of an external advisor who performs periodic site visits providing the Committee with an independent assessment of the ramp up.
The external advisor also provides recommendations to management and the Committee on potential improvements.
The Committee met four times over the course of 2017 and, whilst some opportunities for improvement have been identified, has been encouraged by the progress made at both sites.
Dear shareholder, The Operations Ramp Up Assurance Committee was John MacKenzie established in February 2017 with a planned 18-month life to Chair, Operations Ramp Up Assurance Committee monitor key technical and operational matters at Bozshakol and Aktogay during the ramp up phase in their development, with the objective of assuring that these operations implement systems and processes capable of delivering sustainable performance in line with their design parameters.
Composition Attendance at Committee meetings The current members of the Committee are: There were four scheduled meetings of the Committee during 2017, with each member attending as shown below: John MacKenzie, Chair: Attendance at Lynda Armstrong: and Committee scheduled meetings Charles Watson Members member since during 2017 Charles Watson 17 February 2017 4 4 Role and responsibilities Lynda Armstrong 17 February 2017 4 4 The Committee is primarily responsible for reviewing and providing John MacKenzie 17 February 2017 4 4 assurance to the Board on the ramp up of operations at Bozshakol and Aktogay.
Plans for 2018 Key responsibilities of the Committee include in relation to In 2018, the Committee will continue to monitor the ramp up Bozshakol and Aktogay: of operations at Aktogay and Bozshakol until it is satisfied that the required systems and processes are sufficiently established undertaking regular reviews of the operations performance to support the long-term operation of these mines at their against approved plans and metrics, identifying any material risks design parameters.
and issues that may impact successful delivery of the Companys business plan and ensuring that operational reporting is clear and consistent with transparent performance metrics: reviewing the results of technical and operational audits of the operations conducted by management and external advisors: reviewing the assumptions and methodology underpinning the operations mineral reserves and resources estimates and satisfying itself that the approach and judgement exercised are reasonable: reviewing specified technical and operational matters regarding the operations: and reviewing the scope of potential risks in the areas of focus of the Committee and the adequacy of the systems in place to manage those risks.
82 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Nomination Committee The Committee appointed Clifton Hill which has no connection with the Company following a tender process as external search consultant to recruit a Chief Financial Officer and following an extensive search, John Hadfield was selected, joining the Group in November 2017 and appointed to the role on 1 January 2018.
John brings extensive financial experience in the extractives industry from his previous roles at BG plc and Shell plc.
In recognition of the need to maintain the Groups existing high standards of corporate governance, the Board appointed me, Senior Independent Director since August 2013, as Deputy Chair Dear shareholder, with effect from 1 January 2018.
The division of responsibilities As announced on 27 April 2017, there have been significant between the Chair, the Chief Executive Officer and myself changes to the Board during 2017.
Simon Heale, the previous as Deputy Chair have been clearly defined and approved by Chair, stepped down from the Board on 31 December 2017 after the Board.
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for the 11 years with the Company, including five as Chair.
Simons strong management of the Group and the Chair, in addition to the duties leadership and guidance will be greatly missed by the Board and set out above, leads the Board other than in matters of Board we wish him every success for the future.
governance, which are led by me as Deputy Chair.
For further detail of the roles and responsibilities of the Directors, please The Committee carefully considered the successor to the role of see page 69.
Chair and concluded, having consulted with major shareholders, that the appropriate person to chair the Company was Oleg As part of the Board changes, the Committee recommended Novachuk, whose operational knowledge, project development the appointment of a new independent non-executive Director expertise and relationships with industrial, financial and political before the Board changes took effect on 1 January 2018.
The leaders in both China and Kazakhstan are invaluable to the Committee appointed Zygos which has no connection with Group and its future prospects.
Oleg is uniquely qualified to the Company following a tender process as external search take responsibility as Chair for the strategic leadership of KAZ consultant to identify candidates for the non-executive Director Minerals going forward and accordingly he was appointed Chair role with recent and relevant financial experience and Alison on 1 January 2018.
The Chair role is now full-time and includes Baker was identified and chosen for the role.
We are delighted specific responsibility for strategy, government relations and to welcome Alison to the Board and as a member of the Audit business development.
Oleg retains a significant shareholding in Committee with effect from 9 October 2017.
She also joined the the Group and his interests remain closely aligned with those of Nomination Committee on 1 January 2018.
She will take over other shareholders.
from me as Chair of the Audit Committee at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in May this year.
The Committee believes that Olegs appointment as Chair will allow the Group to continue to benefit from his unique skills, In February 2018, the Committee considered and discussed a experience and relationships in the region in which the paper setting out the regulations and guidelines regarding the Group operates.
retirement of Directors at the Annual General Meeting and having discussed the performance of all Directors, concluded that it was Andrew Southam was identified by the Committee as Olegs appropriate to recommend that all the Directors be proposed to clear successor to the role of Chief Executive Officer having been retire and stand for election or re-election by shareholders at the with the Company in senior roles for the past 12 years and with Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in May 2018. a deep understanding of the business of the Group, its culture and its stakeholders.
He was appointed Deputy Chief Executive Officer from 1 July 2017 and Chief Executive Officer with effect Michael Lynch-Bell from 1 January 2018.
com 83 Governance framework continued The Committees terms of reference are available to view on the Composition Companys website www.
The current members of the Committee are: Michael Lynch-Bell, Chair, Lynda Armstrong and Alison Baker Attendance at Nomination Committee meetings There were two scheduled meetings of the Nomination Role and responsibilities Committee during 2017, each member attending as shown below: The Committee is primarily responsible for leading the process for Attendance at Board and Committee appointments and for keeping under review Committee scheduled meetings the balance of skills, experience, independence, knowledge and Members member since during 2017 general diversity on the Board to ensure the composition of Michael Lynch-Bell 1 September 2013 2 2 the Board and its Committees remains appropriate.
Lynda Armstrong 7 May 2015 2 2 Simon Heale 1 January 2007 2 2 The Committee, which provides a rigorous, formal and transparent Alison Baker 1 January 2018 Not applicable procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board, generally consults with external search consultants and advisers Simon Heale stepped down from the Committee on 31 December 2017. on prospective Board appointments.
The Committee keeps under Two additional meetings were held to discuss changes to the Board review the planned and progressive refreshing of the Board and its and all members were in attendance.
It assesses the performance of current Directors and makes recommendations to the Board for their reappointment Governance where appropriate as well as advising the Board on the terms of any The Committee is chaired by the Deputy Chair of the Company reappointment.
It supervises and puts in place succession planning and all members of the Committee are independent non-executive for non-executive Directors and for certain senior managers and, Directors in accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate where appropriate, makes recommendations to the Board on Governance Code that a majority of members should be Directors conflicts of interest for authorisation.
If a matter concerns the Deputy Chair, then he leaves the meeting and Lynda Armstrong takes the chair.
Key roles and responsibilities of the Nomination Committee include: Diversity regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition including The Board is comprised of men and women with a wide range of skills, experience, independence, knowledge and general diversity skills and business experience drawn from a number of industries, of the Board and making recommendations to the Board with which enables different perspectives to be brought to Board regard to any changes: discussions.
Furthermore, the Board is made up of a variety of overseeing succession planning for Directors and certain senior nationalities, which brings cultural diversity as well as different managers, taking into account the challenges and opportunities geographical experiences and viewpoints.
The combination of facing the Company, and the skills and expertise that will be these factors enables the Board to benefit from a variety of skills, needed on the Board in the future: perspectives and thoughts, which provides a dynamic environment selecting and appointing external search consultants to identify for decision making.
When recruiting, the Board seeks to maintain potential candidates for the Board and senior management or improve its diversity.
positions when required: The Board recognises the need to create conditions which foster responsibility for identifying and nominating, for the approval talent and we encourage all employees to achieve their full career of the Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when potential at the Group.
As part of the Groups approach to human they arise in light of the role and capabilities required for a resource management, it encourages employee diversity and aims particular appointment: to ensure that KAZ Minerals future senior leadership team reflects keeping under review Directors existing and any new conflicts of the demographics of the countries in which it operates and the interest and making recommendations as to whether a conflict general employee base.
should be authorised: reviewing the results of the Board performance evaluation process in relation to the composition of the Board and reviewing annually the time commitment required from the non-executive Directors to fulfil their duties: reviewing annually the Committees own performance, constitution and terms of reference: recommending to the Board suitable candidates for the membership of Board Committees: recommending the reappointment of non-executive Directors as appropriate at the conclusion of their specified term of office: and recommending the re-election by shareholders of Directors in accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
84 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Activities in 2017 At its meetings in 2017, the Committee amongst other matters: appointed external search consultants and conducted interviews for the appointments of John Hadfield and Alison Baker as Chief Financial Officer and non-executive Director respectively: conducted a thorough review of and recommended the appointment of Charles Watson for a further term of one year following the end of his seventh year of appointment to the Board: conducted a thorough review of and recommended the appointment of John MacKenzie to the Board for a further term of three years following the expiry of his first three year term on the Board in March 2018: in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, recommended to the Board the re-election of all Directors by shareholders at the 2017 Annual General Meeting having due regard to the performance and ability of each Director to continue to contribute to the Board and its Committees: reviewed the time commitment required by non-executive Directors to fulfil their duties: and amended its terms of reference and conducted a review of the results of the performance evaluation of the Committee.
Recruitment process For the recruitment of new candidates to fill appointments to the Board we generally use executive search consultants who specialise in the recruitment of high calibre executive and non-executive candidates and have no other connection with the Company.
This ensures that we have access to a wide and high calibre pool of candidates from which to choose.
A formal, rigorous and transparent search process is put in place with a candidate profile and position specification prepared, including time commitment expected and experience required.
Interviews are then conducted by the Chair of the Nomination Committee, the other members of the Committee and the executive Directors.
Sometimes other non-executive Directors are also invited to meet candidates during the interview process.
