54 DIRECTORS REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT The Committee also reviewed the independence of the auditor and agreed the fee for the audit work and the review.
The Committee continues to consider that the auditor and the audit engagement partners remain independent.
During the year we conducted our annual review of the Viability Statement, the Principal Risks facing the Group and the Group Risk Register.
The Principal Risks were amended slightly during the year to include information on risks related to Government policy, further information can be found on pages 25 and 26.
Another major role of the Audit Committee is the effective governance of the Groups financial reporting.
The Committee reviewed both the Half Year Report and the Annual Report for the financial year and the related regulatory disclosures.
At the request I am pleased to introduce the Groups Audit Committee of the Board, the Audit Committee Report for the year ended 31 December 2017.
In the considered and is satisfied that the 2017 Annual Report taken as a whole year Simon Litherland joined the Audit Committee, on is fair, balanced and understandable 3 April 2017.
As set out in the Corporate Governance and provides the necessary information to assess the Companys position, statement, Simon is a qualified accountant and has performance, business model proven finance experience, which I consider enhances and strategy.
the blend of experience and competencies of the The Audit Committee met five times members of the Committee.
All members of the Committee attended each of the meetings.
In addition the Group Finance Introduction We also monitor the performance and Director and the Group Risk Manager One of the Audit Committees key the objectivity of the external auditor.
regularly attend the Committee meetings.
activities during the year was the This is the second year that Ernst & I report to the Board on the Committees assessment of significant financial issues.
Young have been the Groups auditor.
work and our findings after each meeting.
The Committee considered that the They prepared a detailed audit plan financial issues of greatest materiality prior to commencing their audit, setting Further information on the work of were revenue recognition: the carrying out their consideration of the main audit the Committee during the year is set value of the Groups land and work in risks and the appropriate materiality out below.
progress including the accuracy of cost level.
The Committee reviewed the plan recoveries: and the carrying value of with the auditor and agreed the scope the Groups available for sale financial of their work.
In addition the Committee Rachel Kentleton, assets being shared equity receivables.
reviewed the Groups policy for the Chairman of the Audit Committee These items have not changed from the Provision of Non-Audit Services by the previous year.
External Auditor during the year, taking into consideration the Financial Reporting Councils revised Ethical Standard dated June 2016.
The only non-audit work carried out by the auditor during the year was the review of the Groups Half Year Report.
Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2017 12 Corp Governance v54.
indd 54 07 03 2018 11:30 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 55 Role of the Audit Committee The key roles of the Audit Committee are set out in the table below, together with a summary of the main activities during the year.
Audit Committee Key roles and 2017 Activities Audit Committee Key Role 2017 Activities and Priorities Effective Governance of Group Financial reporting, including the Review of the Half Year and Annual Report and of the related adequacy of related disclosures regulatory announcements Monitor the effectiveness of Internal controls and risk Assessment of significant financial issues management systems Review of Groups Principal Risks Review of Groups Viability Statement Performance of the Group Risk Management Function Continued monitoring of the Group Risk Function Reviewed self-assessment of the Group Risk Function Monitor the External Audit Monitor and review performance of the audit Review and monitor the independence of the statutory auditor Review of Non Audit Services Policy Recommended the re-appointment of the auditor Compliance, whistleblowing and fraud Review of the Groups current tax status and tax strategy Review of proposal for net settlement of awards under the Groups 2012 Long Term Incentive Plan Continued monitoring of risks and the Groups whistleblowing procedures 2017 Priorities and Main Activities in addition, the Committee reviewed the processes around the The Audit Committees 2017 priorities and the accounting treatment that recruitment and training of staff main activities are set out below.
would arise in 2018 of the proposed and the processes around the net settlement of 40% of awards Groups succession planning, given 1.
Financial Reporting that vested on 31 December 2017 the Groups continued increase in The Audit Committee reviews the under the Groups 2012 Long Term staffing and vesting of awards under Annual Report and the Half Year IncentivePlan 2012 LTIP.
the 2012 LTIP: and report and the related regulatory announcements and monitors the IT and cyber risks and conveyancing Further information on these matters integrity of financial reporting.
processes in our in house legal isset out below.
Assessment of Significant 3. Review of the Groups Viability Financial Issues Statement, Principal Risks and 4. Review of External Audit The Audit Committee reviews Risk Register The Audit Committee monitors the and assesses the significant The Audit Committee conducts regular performance and the objectivity of the financial issues facing the Group reviews of the Groups Principal Risks External Auditor.
During the year the and determines the key risks of and Risk Register.
It also reviews Committee evaluated the auditors misstatement of the Groups financial the Viability Statement annually.
performance after their first audit for statements.
As a result of its review The major risks facing the Group are the Group and concluded that it had it has assessed that the material scrutinised by the Committee and been conducted well.
Following their financial issues of the Group for are reviewed against the controls first audit, Ernst & Young made 2017 were: in place to manage those risks, some minor amendments to their in order that the controls remain audit approach for the 2017 audit in revenue recognition: appropriate.
In particular, the Audit relation to revenue testing.
As a result the carrying value of the Groups Committee reviewed: of the experience they gained they land and work in progress including have incorporated more use of data the potential impact of economic the accuracy of cost recoveries: analytics, which they believe will aid uncertainty with the UKs ongoing their audit.
The Committee reviewed the carrying value of the Groups negotiations on leaving EU: the detailed audit plan prepared by available for sale financial assets the potential impact of changes to Ernst & Young prior to commencing including shared equity receivables: Government policy on the economy their audit and agreed the scope and and on the housebuilding industry: of the work to be undertaken.
The Committee also agreed the work for the review of the Half Year report.
indd 55 07 03 2018 11:30 56 DIRECTORS REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT continued Following the appointment of the The Committee receives regular reporting External audit new auditor and the publication of on managements adherence to the The auditor was appointed in April 2016 the Financial Reporting Councils Groups policies and procedures in both following a tender exercise.
There is no revised Ethical Standard dated June of these critically important areas of plan to re-tender the audit this year and 2016, the Committee reviewed its the business.
the Audit Committee has recommended policy for the Provision of Non-Audit to the Board that Ernst & Young be reThe Committee also ensures the Services by the External Auditor.
Ernst & Young again approach adopted by management The only non-audit work carried out prepared a detailed audit plan identifying in recovering the cost of both land by the auditor during the year was the their assessment of the key risks for audit and work in progress remains in review of the Groups Half Year Report.
The significant risks line with established Group policies The Committee agreed the fees identified were revenue recognition, the and procedures through regular risk payable to the auditor for the audit and carrying value of the Groups land and monitoring reports.
The Committee for the half year review and considered work in progress including the accuracy has again reviewed managements the independence of both the firm of cost recoveries and the carrying value assessment of the net realisable and the audit engagement partners.
of the Groups shared equity receivables value of the Groups land and work in Following the review, the Committee These have not changed from the progress held at 31 December 2017. continues to consider that Ernst & previous years audit.
The other areas of The Committee concluded that the Young and Peter McIver and Victoria audit focus included valuation of goodwill approach adopted by management Venning, the audit engagement and intangible assets: accuracy of current supported the asset carrying values.
tax accrual and deferred tax balances: Carrying value of shared valuation of the Groups defined benefit 5.
Other Key Actions equity receivables pension scheme obligations and share The other key actions of the There are second charge loans remaining based payments.
In addition, there Committee during the year were: due to the Group under shared equity was a review to confirm that the Group full review of liquidity risk and contracts previously entered into with should properly be considered as a whether the Group can continue to some of its customers.
These are held going concern: a review of the Viability adopt the going concern basis in as receivables and reported as available Statement and their requirements as preparing the accounts: and for sale financial assets on the Groups auditor to address the Boards application balance sheet.
The Committee monitors of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
review of the Groups current tax the effectiveness of internal controls status and tax strategy.
The Audit Committee assesses the exercised over the key processes that effectiveness of the external audit Revenue recognition are employed by the Group in managing process annually with the auditor and the The Committee monitors the these second charge loans.
Regular private effectiveness of the internal controls At 31 December 2017 the carrying meetings are held between the Audit exercised over the key processes value of these receivables was 117.3m.
Committee and Ernst & Young without employed by the Group to ensure the Following a review of the assumptions management present to discuss the accuracy of revenue recognition and adopted by management in support of auditors assessment of business associated disclosures.
Revenue for the the carrying value of these receivables, risks and managements activities with year was 3,422.3m.
the Committee has concluded they regard to those risks, the transparency Carrying value of land and work remain appropriate.
The Committee and openness of interactions with in progress including the monitors the ongoing performance management and confirmation that there accuracy of cost recoveries of these receivables with respect to has been no restriction in scope placed The carrying value of the Groups land redemptions and delinquency and are on them.
totalled 2,010.6m at 31 December satisfied that management have adopted 2017, and the carrying value of work appropriate assumptions in this regard in progress on site totalled 723.9m.
in support of the carrying value of The Committee continues to monitor these assets.
theGroups key processes employed in The Committee considers that the the acquisition of land and its investment Group managements application of its in site development activities and the accounting policies has resulted in a effectiveness of the internal controls carrying value which appropriately reflects exercised over those processes.
the inherent risks of recoverability of these shared equity receivables.
indd 56 07 03 2018 11:30 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 57 The Committee ensures that the Senior management from the Finance Internal control and auditor has exercised due professional Department monitor the Groups financial risk management scepticism.
The Committee has reviewed management and reporting systems The effective management of risk and is satisfied with the performance and continually assess the integrity and is central to the achievement of our of Ernst & Young LLP.
A resolution to effectiveness of the Groups accounting objectives and delivery of the long term re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditor procedures.
Senior management from sustainable growth of our business.
of the Company will be made at the the Finance and Company Secretarial The Board has overall responsibility for Companys AGM to be held on 25 April Departments review all financial reports the Companys system of internal control 2018.
The Company has complied with and trading updates with appropriate and for the review of its effectiveness.
the provisions of the Statutory Audit consultation with the Groups external The internal control environment of Services Order 2014. advisors, ensuring that such reports the Company is based upon a three and statements are accurate, complete lines of defence model, with controls As set out above, the Audit Committee and consistent with the requirements of applied by management, supported by reviewed its policy for the Provision of all relevant legislation and regulations.
Group wide functions and a Group Risk Non-Audit Services by the External Each operating business and Group department operating as the third line.
The Committee formulates function is required to report to the Group Standardisation of systems, processes and oversees the Companys policy in standardised formats to ensure that all and procedures is applied across the on monitoring the objectivity and financial reporting is accurate and that Group, wherever possible, in order to independence in relation to non-audit all matters which may be material to the ensure consistent and robust internal services.
In order that the nature of any Group as a whole have been reported to controls are in place.
non-audit services performed by the the Board.
Senior management reports auditor and the fee earned for that work The Risk Committee ensures the Boards its findings to the Audit Committee and relative to the fees earned for the audit policies are implemented through the through that Committee to the Board.
do not compromise, and are not seen to regular review of control systems and The Group Risk Department has compromise the auditors independence, procedures.
This includes determining facilitated an update to the Groups objectivity and integrity, the auditor is appropriate control procedures and the risk registers during the year to reflect excluded from undertaking a range of review of the effectiveness of internal changes to the profile of risks facing the work on behalf of the Group.
The work controls, including the review of reporting Group.
This included an assessment of the auditor is excluded from undertaking provided by the Group Risk function.
risks at both strategic and operational includes appraisal or valuation services, The members of the Risk Committee levels.
The updated Group risk registers management functions and litigation during 2017 were Jeff Fairburn have been approved by both Risk and support, actuarial services and legal Chairman, Rachel Kentleton, Mike Audit Committees and by the Board.
or remuneration services on behalf of Killoran, and Dave Jenkinson.
The Risk The principal risks faced by the Group the Group.
Committee is supported by the Group set out on pages 25 and 26 have Details of the audit fee paid to Ernst & Risk Manager and Group Risk function.
remained broadly the same as the prior Young LLP are on page 100.
In addition The Risk Committee reports to the Audit year, with the addition of a specific risk Ernst & Young were paid audit related Committee, which oversees the Risk on Government policy relating to the fees of 46,125 in 2017 for their review of Committees activities.
The Group Risk the Half Year Report.
Department also conducted a selfThe Audit Committee reviews the assessment of its activities and working At the request of the Board, the Audit internal control and risk management practices in 2017, and has initiated a Committee considered whether the systems in relation to the processes of number of actions to further strengthen 2017 Annual Report taken as a whole financial reporting and the preparation its processes as a result.
was fair, balanced and understandable of the consolidated accounts, as well and whether it provided the necessary as the reports that are sent to the Risk information for shareholders to assess Committee.
The Company has complied the Companys position, performance, with the Governance Code provisions business model and strategy.
The Audit on internal control, having continued Committee is satisfied that, taken as a to operate procedures consistent with whole, the Annual Report is fair, balanced the Guidance on Risk Management and understandable.
Reporting, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting issued by the FRC in September 2014 throughout the year.
indd 57 07 03 2018 11:30 58 DIRECTORS REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT continued There were six meetings of the Risk In addition to the meetings of the Risk Committee within 2017, ensuring there Committee, the Committee members has been an ongoing and robust process also completed the following tasks, for the identification, evaluation and whichare essential parts of the Groups management of the main risks faced risk control framework: by the Group and the effectiveness of maintaining continuous detailed the controls in place to mitigate them.
involvement in monitoring and The key features of the Risk Committees controlling work in progressand review process were as follows: controls over land acquisition review of reports produced by the assessment: Group Risk Department on internal regular site visits and discussions with control and management of risk: site based personnel: review of representations on risk and ongoing review of Group performance control from all Managing Directors in comparison to operational forecasts of operating businesses following and financial budgets: and individual reviews of internal control within their operating businesses: involvement in board discussions for each operating business, particularly review of representations on risk operational board meetings where all and control from both Group and aspects of operations and performance divisional management: are routinely analysed.
review of reports provided by heads of On completion of these processes the various business functions, covering Risk Committee formally considered areas such as tax, information the annual review of the effectiveness technology and the shared equity of the Groups system of internal portfolio: and control.
This review covered all material controls including financial, operational monitoring of whistleblowing reports and compliance controls, as well as or other significant control issues or the Groups risk management system.
There were no material issues identified Following the review of reports and from the review.
The review for 2017 has information presented to the Risk been completed and approved by the Committee, where minor weaknesses Risk and Audit Committees and by the or improvement opportunities in internal Board.
A detailed 2018 programme of controls were identified, action has work for the Group Risk Department, been taken to improve and strengthen designed to provide effective coverage of procedures.
This is typically carried out key areas of risk, has also been approved by the Group Risk Department liaising by the Risk and Audit Committees.
with regional and departmental managers on conclusion of their work.
The Companys system of internal control is designed to manage risk effectively, in order to achieve business objectives: it is not intended to completely eliminate risk.
The system can only provide reasonable assurance on the effectiveness of risk management and does not provide absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
