60 Corporate governance statement LEADERSHIP Corporate culture and governance an open, harmonious and transparent This direct access to management leadership manner, ensuring open communication opens dialogue beyond the boardroom.
The Group is home to 50,000 students between the Board and senior leaders.
Additionally, with Board meetings taking during a crucial stage of their personal This is why various members of the senior place in cities across the UK, the Board development and with Universities right leadership team regularly present to the visits both new developments and existing across the UK.
The Board has ultimate Board.
During 2017, Unites Operations properties and meets with our Operations responsibility to Unite Students shareholders Director, Student Experience Director, teams.
This gives it a grounded insight to for all the Groups activities as well as a Head of Digital, Area Managers, the implementation of our overall broader responsibility extending to Development Director, Funds Director business strategy.
representing our various co-investment vehicles, University Partnerships Director To discharge this broader responsibility and Head of Legal & Company Secretary effectively, the Group needs to operate in among others presented to the Board.
Board structure Nomination Audit Committee Committee Chair: Phil White Chair: Ross Paterson Unite Andrew Jones Elizabeth McMeikan Management Elizabeth McMeikan Sir Tim Wilson Board Sir Tim Wilson Ross Paterson Unite Executive Committee Board Health & Safety Remuneration Risk Committee Committee Committee Chair: Chair: Sir Tim Wilson Christopher Szpojnarowicz Chair: Elizabeth McMeikan Richard Smith Richard Smith Andrew Jones Elizabeth McMeikan Joe Lister Phil White Richard Simpson Sir Tim Wilson Ross Paterson See the S ee the See the See the Nomination Audit Health & Safety Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Committee Report Report on p66 Report on p68 Report on p72 on p75 The Remuneration Committee Report is incorporated into this Corporate Governance Statement by reference.
THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 61 How the Board operates The Board is able to oversee the setting and Details of the number of Board and Board operating rhythm linked to implementation of the Groups strategy Committees meetings held during the strategy and business oversight due to a flat management structure: three year, and Director attendance, is available The Board has an annual operating members are Executive Directors and in the table on page 64. rhythm with an agenda of items for the therefore actively involved in day-to-day forthcoming year built around our strategic implementation.
The Boards meetings are split is balanced by five Non-Executive between strategy considered in light of Directors, including the Chairman, who emerging risks and the approval of specific bring a depth and breadth of experience investments above certain thresholds and in senior management, higher education, routine operational, property and financial finance, customer service and real estate.
updates providing context for the strategic discussions as well as governance oversight Senior leaders are regularly invited to of in-year activity.
attend meetings and present to the Board.
This provides the Board, and in Meetings take place throughout the particular the Non-Executives Directors, UK, often at Universities so the Board with direct and open access to leaders can meet Vice-Chancellors and learn throughout the Group and helps build a about their experiences with Unite, their culture of openness and directness.
In accommodation requirements more addition, external experts are also invited generally and broader developments to present to the Board such as University in the higher education sector.
Vice-Chancellors and property valuers to give the Directors a broader and independent perspective.
Board operating rhythm Regular updates from the Board Ensure that the detailed work performed in the Board Committees is considered Committees on their activities by the Board as a whole.
and recommendations Operational, property and Provide the Board with the necessary information to track the Groups financial updates performance and challenge any problems with performance.
Market and Higher Education Ensure the Board is equipped with the most up-to-date knowledge and sector updates understanding of the industry and environment in which we operate.
Discuss, review and approve our strategy and five-year plan, and track how we Strategy and five-year plan are performing against our current strategy and five-year plan.
Review and discuss our principal risks at a Group level and also review operational level risks the Boards operational risk review is to verify that risks have been properly Risk identified and that appropriate risk-mitigation plans are being correctly managed with clear actions and ownership.
Review and challenge new development schemes being recommended by New development schemes management and, due to the significant capital expenditure involved and key strategic decisions required, approve these new development schemes.
Review of the Boards training needs and ensure that the Board is up to date on Training key legal and regulatory changes.
During 2017, this was focused on social media, information technology and Corporate Governance developments.
Review of key Group policies, such as the Anti-Bribery Policy, to ensure they are Review of Group policies appropriate and implemented effectively.
THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 62 Corporate governance statement LEADERSHIP CONTINUED Board activity and annual programme February Preliminary Growth strategy Property Treasury results approval of Policy review portfolio sale March Nomination Service style Post-completion Property Committee review review - approval of leadership, of 2016 property development development completions Liverpool and and succession site acquisition planning Manchester May Development Internal audit Assess auditors Review internal H & S Committee Higher Strategy plan controls Safety priority Education and KPIs review June Digital IT strategy Growth strategy Half-year Principal valuation risks review preview July Group Board and Interim results H & S Committee - Grenfell Tower fire safety review September Nomination Committee Tax review and Strategic plan Property - Board REIT compliance and talent review - approval site appointments acquisition Ross Paterson Leeds and development Bristol November 2018 budget Internal Audit Funding growth Sales cycle Capital themes ITSC GDPR: review and operating Procure to Pay: customer guidelines Revenue & demographics review Receivables December Principal risks Approve Prospective Training: H & S Committee Customer Whistleblowing review - Brexit 2018 budget year end Corporate fire safety review satisfaction Readiness Plan out-turn Governance review Anti-bribery update review Financial and risk Investor Strategy management Operational Commercial relations Governance Quality properties Quality service platform University partnerships Quality people Earnings & NAV growth No board activity in January, April, August and October THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 63 Composition and appointments Directors seeking re-election, it is confirmed Board composition The composition of the Board during 2017 that the performance of each of these is set out in the table on page 64.
Non-Executive Directors continues to 1 be effective.
They each demonstrate 1 Chairman 1 The Board currently consists of the commitment to the role, and add value 2 2 Executive Chairman, three Executive Directors and and relevant experience to the Board.
8 3 Non-Executive Roles Total Directors 4 In accordance with the requirements of The Groups terms of reference for the the Code, each of the current Directors Chairman and the Chief Executive clearly 3 offers themselves for re-election at the establish the division of responsibility Annual General Meeting to be convened between the two roles.
Brief biographies of all the of those roles, and that of the Senior Directors are set out on pages 56 and 57.
Independent Director, are set out Following the individual performance in the table below.
evaluations of each of the Non-Executive Role Description Chairman Phil Whites principal responsibilities are: - to establish, in conjunction with the Chief Executive, the strategic objectives of the Group for approval by the Board - to organise the business of the Board - to enhance the standing of the Company by communicating with shareholders, the financial community and the Groups stakeholders generally.
Chief Executive Richard Smith has responsibility for: - establishing, in conjunction with the Chairman, the strategic objectives of the Group, for approval by the Board - implementing the Groups business plan and annual budget - the overall operational and financial performance of the Group.
Senior Independent Director As Senior Independent Director, Elizabeth McMeikans principal responsibilities are to: - act as Chairman of the Board if the Chairman is conflicted - act as a conduit to the Board for the communication of shareholder concerns if other channels of communication are inappropriate - ensure that the Chairman is provided with effective feedback on his performance.
Responsibility and delegation These topics are scheduled as part A schedule of specific matters is reserved of the Boards annual operating rhythm for the Board.
Those include: and forward agenda or brought to the Board on an ad hoc basis.
- approving the strategic objectives of the Group and the business plan to achieve those objectives - approving major investments, acquisitions, mergers and divestments - approving major development schemes - approving appointments to and dismissals from the Board - reviewing systems of internal control and risk management - approving policies relating to Directors remuneration.
THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 64 Corporate governance statement LEADERSHIP CONTINUED Directors attendance at meetings in 2017 Date of Appointment Audit Remuneration Nomination Health & Safety Current Directors Status to the Board Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Phil White Chairman 21 January 2009 9 N A 3 2 N A Sir Tim Wilson Independent 01 December 2010 9 5 3 2 3 Andrew Jones Independent 01 February 2013 9 N A 3 2 N A Elizabeth McMeikan Independent 01 February 2014 9 5 3 2 3 Joe Lister Executive 02 January 2008 9 N A N A N A N A Richard Simpson Executive 01 January 2012 9 N A N A N A N A Richard Smith Executive 01 January 2012 9 N A N A N A 3 Ross Paterson Independent 21 September 2017 3 2 1 0 N A 1 Manjit Wolstenholme Independent 01 December 2011 8 4 2 2 N A 1 Passed away, November 2017.
Board Committees The chart to the right shows the current Board tenure The Board has delegated certain tenure of the Non-Executive Directors responsibilities to its Committees, rounded up to the nearest year, Years 5 1 as detailed on the following pages.
1 Phil White 9 terms of reference for each Committee 4 2 Sir Tim Wilson 7 are reviewed annually and the current Professional advice and board support versions are available on the Companys Directors are given access to independent 3 Andrew Jones 5 26 website at www.
The professional advice at the Companys 4 Elizabeth 4 Total current membership of each Committee expense when the Directors deem it McMeikan 3 2 of the Board is set out in the chart on necessary in order for them to carry out 5 Ross Paterson 1 page 60. their responsibilities.
The Directors also have regular dialogue with, and direct Board tenure access to, the advice and services of Each of the Executive Directors has a the Company Secretary, who ensures rolling contract of employment with that Board processes and corporate a 12-month notice period, whilst Nongovernance practices are followed.
Executive Directors are, subject to re-election by shareholders, appointed Insurance to the Board for a term of approximately The Company maintains Directors and three years.
In accordance with the Officers liability insurance, which is recommendations of the Code, the renewed on an annual basis.
Directors will all retire at the Annual General Meeting and will submit themselves for re-election by shareholders.
THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017
