66 Corporate governance statement EFFECTIVENESS: NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Phil White Chairman Nomination Committee Chairs overview Committee overview Succession planning The Committees focus this year has been Composition on our talent development and succession The Committee is comprised entirely and talent pipeline planning.
The Committee mapped the of Non-Executive Directors.
The members businesss strategic objectives and growth of the Committee are set out on page 60 development ambitions against our wider leadership of the Corporate Governance Statement.
continued as a key and high performing high-potential At the invitation of the Committee, any individuals.
Where gaps are identified, other Director or other person may be area of focus for the the Committee ensures a suitable invited to attend meetings of the programme is in place to deliver our Committee if considered desirable in Committee.
This leaders of tomorrow with the right assisting the Committee in fulfilling its role.
extends to developing Role The year ended sadly with the sudden The role of the Committee is to: high-performing and tragic passing of Manjit Wolstenholme, individuals beyond our Senior Independent Director and - Ensure that appropriate procedures Audit Committee Chair.
Manjit had been are adopted and followed in the the Board to help instrumental to the sustainable growth nomination, selection, training, and financial delivery of the business over evaluation and re-election of Directors secure the businesss the last six years we had the pleasure of and for succession planning, with due working with her, and she will be sorely regard in all cases to the benefits of long-term missed.
The Committee decided to wait diversity on the Board, including gender until the New Year before it considered - Regularly review the structure, size, sustainability.
potential appointees for these two key composition, skills and experience positions.
Following a review in January of the Board and to make 2018, Elizabeth McMeikan and Ross recommendations with regard to any Paterson were appointed as our adjustments considered necessary Senior Independent Director and - When it is agreed that an appointment Audit Committee Chair respectively.
to the Board should be made, lead a I am confident they will be able to selection process that is formal, rigorous continue the excellent work that and transparent Manjit had done.
- Be responsible for identifying, reviewing and recommending candidates for Phil White appointment to the Board.
Chair Nomination Committee 21 February 2018 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017
