Corporate governance overview Board of Directors Oleg Novachuk Chair Appointed to the Board: 2005 Skills and experience: Oleg joined the Group in 2001 and was appointed Chair on 1 January 2018, with responsibility for strategy, government relations and business development.
Oleg was Finance Director from 2005 to 2007, overseeing the Groups Listing on the London Stock Exchange, before serving as Chief Executive Officer from 2007 to 2017, during which time he led the delivery of the major Oleg Novachuk Andrew Southam growth projects, Bozshakol and Aktogay, and the Restructuring Chair Chief Executive Officer that created KAZ Minerals.
Prior to joining the Group, Oleg was chairman of Kazprombank JSC.
Andrew Southam Chief Executive Officer Appointed to the Board: 2014 Skills and experience: Andrew joined the Company in 2006 and he has held a number of senior positions including Chief Financial Officer from 2013 to 2017 and was appointed Chief Executive Officer at the start of 2018.
He brings significant strategic and operational oversight and Michael Lynch-Bell Lynda Armstrong OBE was, together with Oleg Novachuk, one of the architects of the Restructuring which created KAZ Minerals.
Andrew is a chartered Deputy Chair and Senior Independent nonaccountant who began his career at Deloitte in London, where he Independent Director executive Director provided audit and transaction services to a number of UK listed companies.
Prior to joining the Company, Andrew worked in corporate development at GlaxoSmithKline plc.
Michael Lynch-Bell Deputy Chair and Senior Independent Director Appointed to the Board: 2013 Skills and experience: Michael gained extensive experience working with companies in the mining, oil and gas industries during his 38 year career with Ernst & Young.
He played a key role in establishing Ernst & Youngs practice Alison Baker Vladimir Kim in Kazakhstan and advised a number of major CIS companies on Independent nonNon-executive Director transactions.
He retired as senior partner of Ernst & Youngs transaction advisory practice for mining and metals and as an executive Director elected member of its global advisory council in 2012.
He was previously trustee and treasurer of ActionAid International.
In his role as Deputy Chair and Senior Independent Director, Michael is responsible for leading on Board governance matters and he provides a point of contact between the Company and independent shareholders.
Other appointments: Chair of Seven Energy International Limited and non-executive director of Lenta Ltd, Barloworld Limited and Gem Diamonds st Limited.
He is also a trustee of 21 Century Legacy and The John MacKenzie Charles Watson Children of Sri Lanka Trust and a member of the United Independent nonIndependent nonNations Expert Group on Resource Classification.
executive Director executive Director A N R H 66 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Lynda Armstrong OBE John MacKenzie Independent non-executive Director Independent non-executive Director Appointed to the Board: 2013 Appointed to the Board: 2015 Skills and experience: Skills and experience: A geophysicist by training, Lynda had over 30 years natural John is a senior mining executive with more than 25 years resources experience with Shell.
During this time, she held a experience in the metals and mining sector, mostly acquired with number of senior exploration and operational roles, including the Anglo American group where he was CEO of Zinc from 2006 director of UK Exploration and New Business Development, to 2009 and CEO of Copper from 2009 to 2013.
John brings exploration director of Petroleum Development Oman and extensive international operating experience and a wealth of technical vice president for Shell International.
Lyndas technical health and safety knowledge to the Group gained in Africa, and operational experience of the extractives industry and her South America, North America and Europe.
clear commitment to health and safety provide valuable insight Other appointments: and guidance to the Group.
She was previously chair of the Executive chairman of Mantos Copper and chief executive officer trustees of the British Safety Council.
of mining at Audley Capital Advisors LLP.
Other appointments: O A H Non-executive director of rsted A S formerly DONG Energy A S and the Central Europe Oil Company Limited, a director of Charles Watson Calyx Consulting Ltd, a member of the supervisory board of SBM Independent non-executive Director Offshore N. V. and chair of the Engineering Construction Industry Appointed to the Board: 2011 Training Board.
Skills and experience: R N H O During his 29 years at Shell, Charles gained extensive experience in both operational management and major project delivery.
At Shell Alison Baker he held a number of senior global executive positions, culminating in Independent non-executive Director his appointment as executive vice president responsible for Russia Appointed to the Board: 2017 and the CIS, including oversight of Shells activities in Kazakhstan, Skills and experience: chairman of Shell Russia and chairman of the board of directors Having nearly 25 years experience in the provision of audit, capital for the Sakhalin Energy Investment Company.
He was previously markets and advisory services, Alison previously led the UK and non-executive director of JSOC Bashneft.
Charles expertise in EMEA Oil & Gas practice at  and prior to major project delivery and focus on the continued improvement that the UK Energy, Utilities and Mining Assurance practice at Ernst in health and safety performance is of significant importance to & Young.
She has extensive emerging markets experience including the Group.
in the energy and mining sectors in Kazakhstan.
H A R O Other appointments: Non-executive director of Centamin plc, non-executive director of Helios Towers plc and trustee and treasurer of the Restoration of Appearance and Function Trust RAFT.
A N Vladimir Kim Non-executive Director Appointed to the Board: 2005 Skills and experience: Vladimir joined the Group in 1995, when he was appointed managing director and chief executive officer of Zhezkazgantsvetmet JSC and was elected chair of that company in 2000.
He was appointed Other appointments: Chair of the Company in 2005 prior to its listing on the London A Audit Committee Stock Exchange.
Vladimir stepped down as Chairman in 2013 but R Remuneration Committee remains on the Board as a non-executive Director.
With extensive N Nomination Committee knowledge of the mining industry, a thorough working knowledge H Health, Safety and Environment Committee of the CIS and an exemplary understanding of the political and O Operations Ramp Up Assurance Committee regulatory environment in Kazakhstan, Vladimir brings valuable Chair Kazakh mining experience and continues to perform a vital role in assisting and supporting the Company in its dealings with the Government and local authorities in Kazakhstan.
