44 Strategic Report Group Financial Review continued Balance sheet Pensions Net operating assets were 2,654.1 million 31 December 2016: 2,539.6 As at 31 December 2017, the IAS 19 defined benefit pension scheme million, reflecting a net investment of 61.7 million 2016: 113.3 million year valuation is in surplus by 23.9 million.
This is due to significant asset on year in land and work in progress WIP, funded by profitability in the outperformance and changes in actuarial assumptions, the most significant of period, as well as a lower pension deficit.
Return on net operating assets which relates to the life expectancy of scheme members.
During 2017, a increased by 1.7 percentage points to 32.4% 2016: 30.7%, mainly reflecting Medically Underwritten Mortality Study MUMS was commissioned in addition improved profitability while maintaining balance sheet discipline.
Net operating to using postcode analysis data which has historically formed the basis of asset turn increased to 1.53 times 2016: 1.48 times.
As at 31 December 2017, the UK held short term owned land valued at 2.3 The Study surveyed 3,206 members covering 45% of scheme liabilities, all billion 2016: 2.3 billion, representing 56,619 plots 2016: 57,287.
The total between the ages of 55 and 80 and had a 58% response rate, representing controlled short term landbank represented 18,230 plots 31 December 621 million of the scheme liabilities.
The liability reduction resulting from this 2016: 18,947.
The value of long term owned land decreased by 33.3% to study has been partially offset by a 0.15% decrease in the discount rate with 90 million 2016: 135 million, representing 26,836 plots 2016: 27,826, the balance of actuarial assumptions staying broadly stable.
Due to the rules with a total controlled strategic pipeline of 90,409 plots 31 December of the scheme, this surplus cannot be recovered by the Group and therefore a 2016: 80,190.
Total potential revenue in the owned and controlled landbank deficit of 63.7 million has been recognised on the balance sheet under increased to 47 billion in the period 31 December 2016: 42 billion, IFRIC14 the limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum funding requirements reflecting underlying price improvement and the increase in the scale of and their interaction.
This deficit is equal to the present value of the remaining the landbank.
committed payments under the 2013 triennial valuation.
The Group continues to work closely with the Trustees in managing pension risks, including Average WIP per UK outlet at 31 December 2017 increased by 6.7% to management of interest rate, inflation and longevity risks.
The Scheme assets 4.8 million 2016: 4.5 million, reflecting the high proportion of strategic land are approximately 80% hedged against changes in both interest rates and conversions which require a greater level of infrastructure investment, build inflation expectations on the Schemes long term, self-sufficiency basis.
The cost inflation, and our continuing focus on delivering a consistent standard to Scheme also benefits from a bulk annuity contract which covers some of the our customers that has added, on average, two weeks to our production largest liabilities in the Scheme, providing protection against interest rate, programmes.
UK WIP turn reduced marginally to 2.95 times 2016: 3.00 inflation and longevity risk.
In 2017 we paid 23.1 million in pension times as a result.
As at the balance sheet date, the Group held certain land contributions 2016: 23.1 million.
and work in progress that had been written down to a net realisable value of 87.7 million 31 December 2016: 138.3 million of which the balance in the During 2017 we engaged with the Pension Trustees on the triennial valuation UK was 69.9 million 31 December 2016: 119.6 million.
As at of the pension scheme as at 31 December 2016.
The agreed technical 31 December 2017, the associated write-downs were 93.3 million provisions deficit at 31 December 2016 was 222 million, which has reduced 31 December 2016: 147.0 million of which the balance in the UK was to c. 30 million as at 31 December 2017 due to the liability hedging 46.9 million 31 December 2016: 96.8 million and principally relates to programme in place as well as continued asset performance.
recovery plan has been agreed with the Trustees in principle for contributions from 1 April 2018 moving to 40 million per annum with a funding mechanism As at 31 December 2017, in the UK, 2% of our short term owned and that will be tested on a quarterly basis such that should the scheme reach a controlled land was impaired 31 December 2016: 3%, with 83% of the short technical provisions surplus, further contributions will be suspended and only term owned and controlled landbank purchased after 2009, 63% of which recommence if the funding level falls below 96% given how well capitalised was sourced through our strategic pipeline, resulting in a land cost to average the scheme is.
selling price in the short term owned landbank of 14.8% 31 December 2016: 15.4%.
Turning profit into cash We continue to use land creditors as a way of funding land acquisitions where this results in better return on our investment for longer dated delivery 1,000 90 schemes and is value-enhancing for the business.
Land creditors increased to 80 800 639.1 million 31 December 2016: 599.8 million and, combined with net cash, resulted in adjusted gearing of 4.1% 31 December 2016: 8.1%.
70 600 326.6 million of the land creditors is expected to be paid within 12 months and 201.6 million between one and two years from balance sheet date.
60 400 Included within the land creditor balance is 117 million of UK land overage 50 commitments 31 December 2016: 130 million.
200 The mortgage debtor balance was 63.1 million at 31 December 2017 40 0 31 December 2016: 78.0 million, with the decrease due to redemption 30 receipts of 18.5 million 31 December 2016: 21.1 million, offset by gains 200 including fair value adjustment of 0.6 million and interest income of 20 400 2.9 million.
600 10 Our net deferred tax asset decreased to 29.3 million in the period 31 December 2016: 57.4 million and relates principally to our pension deficit 800 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2012 and our Spanish business.
9.4 million of this asset relates to the temporary differences of our Spanish business, including brought forward trading losses.
EBITDA Pensions, tax, interest Short term land plots Net assets at 31 December 2017 increased by 23.7% to 3,587.8 million, Working capital Dividends before dividends paid in the period, and by 8.2% overall year on year to 3,137.3 million 31 December 2016: 2,900.3 million.
The net asset increase from 31 December 2016 was driven by profitability in the period and the pension actuarial assumptions and asset performance decreasing the pension deficit year on year, offset by the 450.5 million dividend paid in the year.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 m Plots 000 45 Value distributed during 2014-2017 m The chart demonstrates shows how value is contributed distributed amongst stakeholders and invested in the business.
500 450 400 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 Contribution to Employment Pension Taxes Net investment Debt servicing Dividends local communities contributions in land and WIP 2014 2015 2016 2017 Cash flow Going concern Net cash increased to 511.8 million at 31 December 2017 from The Directors remain of the view that the Groups financing arrangements and 364.7 million at 31 December 2016, despite returning 450.5 million to balance sheet strength provide both the necessary facilities and covenant shareholders by way of dividends in the year 2016: 355.9 million.
This headroom to enable the Group to conduct its business for at least the next improvement in net cash is largely as a result of strong performance in 12 months.
Accordingly, the consolidated financial statements are prepared underlying trading and maintaining balance sheet discipline.
Net land spend, net of the movement in land creditors, was 645.6 million Accounting standards 2016: 583.2 million and we invested the sum of 2,386.7 million in work in The consolidated financial statements have been produced in accordance progress in the period 2016: 2,269.8 million.
In 2017, we paid 5.1 million in with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as endorsed and interest costs 2016: 13.5 million.
During 2017, we paid 126.7 million in adopted for use in the EU.
There have been no changes to IFRS during 2017 corporate tax 2016: 71.0 million, reflecting the profit and loss charge.
that have a material impact on the Group results.
13.3 million was spent during the year to acquire shares for satisfying future share scheme awards 31 December 2016: 10.6 million.
In the 12 months to 31 December 2017 we converted 87.5% of operating profit into operating cash flow 2016: 81.4%.
Financing structure Ryan Mangold At 31 December 2017 our committed borrowing facilities were 638.7 million Group Finance Director with an average maturity of 2.6 years.
Average net cash for 2017 was 186.5 million 2016: 87.4 million net debt.
On 14 February 2018, we completed an amendment and extension of the 550 million revolving credit facility to mature in 2023 on improved terms with an option to extend for a further two years.
This extends the average maturity For our Viability Statement see page 41. of the committed borrowing facilities to 5.2 years Spain Approval of the Strategic Report The Spanish housing market remained positive throughout 2017.
We This Strategic Report was approved by the Board of Directors and completed 301 homes in 2017 2016: 304 at an average selling price of signed on its behalf by 352k 2016: 358k.
The total order book as at 31 December 2017 was 329 homes 31 December 2016: 293 homes.
The Spanish business delivered a significantly improved operating profit of 26.8 million for 2017 2016: 20.6 million and an operating profit margin of 28.5% 2016: 22.0% as a greater proportion of delivery is from high-quality Pete Redfern locations acquired more recently and as we see the benefits of an improving Chief Executive wider market environment.
Looking ahead, we believe the business is well positioned for further growth in 2018. taylorwimpey.
co. uk m 46 Directors Report: Governance Board of Directors A leadership team committed to our stakeholders Independent Non Chairman Executive Directors Executive Directors N R N A R Kevin Beeston Pete Redfern Ryan Mangold James Jordan Kate Barker DBE Chairman Chief Executive Group Finance Director Group Legal Director and Independent Company Secretary Non Executive Director Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment Joined July 2010 Joined July 2007 Joined November 2010 Joined July 2011 Joined April 2011 Skills & experience Skills & experience Skills & experience Skills & experience Skills & experience Kevin has significant Pete was previously Group Ryan has operational James, a solicitor, was previously Kate is a business economist experience of chairing Chief Executive of George responsibility for managing GroupCompany Secretary and and was previously a boards and of being a non Wimpey Plc and, before that, the Companys finances and General Counsel of George member of the Bank of executive director of both successively held the posts also oversees the Wimpey Plc from February 2002 Englands Monetary Policy public and private of Finance Director and Chief commercial, information until July 2007, when, following Committee MPC from 2001 companies.
He also brings Executive of George technology and pension the merger, he was appointed to until May 2010.
During this a wealth of commercial, Wimpeys UK functions.
He has financial, the same position with Taylor period, Kate also led two financial and high level housing operations.
treasury, risk and financial Wimpey plc.
Before joining the major policy reviews for the management experience control expertise including Group, James held senior legal Government, on housing Pete has full day to day including being a former that gained from his five and company secretary roles in supply and on land operational responsibility for CEO of a FTSE years as Group Financial industry which included positions use planning.
Controller of Mondi Group with The Rugby Group Plc and strategy in a profitable, safe Kate will become the and earlier whilst holding a English China Clays Plc.
Kevin was formerly and environmentally Companys Senior number of senior finance Chairman of Equiniti Group responsible manner.
He has James oversees compliance Independent Director on roles with the Anglo plc: Serco Group plc and significant financial, with legal and regulatory 26 April 2018.
American plc group Domestic and General operational and obligations and also manages of companies.
Limited: and was previously management experience, the Companys Legal and External appointments anon executive director gained from his various roles Ryan previously held the Secretariat Departments.
Kate is a Trustee Director ofIMI plc.
in industry and from his time post of Group Financial He has significant legal, and Chairman of the British at KPMG.
Controller of Taylor commercial, transactional Coal Superannuation Wimpey plc.
and regulatory corporate External appointments Scheme and a non executive Kevin is Chairman of Elysium External appointments governance related director of Man Group plc.
Healthcare Limited and a Pete is a non executive Her other roles include being non executive director of director of Travis Perkins plc, a member of the National Severn Trent plc: Marston where he is also chairman of External appointments Infrastructure Commission Corporate Limited and The the Stay Safe Committee James is a Trustee of the and an external member of Football Association Premier and a member of the Tennis Foundation charity Oxford Universitys Council.
where he also chairs their He is also Chairman of the Audit and Remuneration Youth Adventure Trust Committees.
charity and a Trustee of the homelessness charity Crisis.
Board gender diversity Executive Group Board Non Executive Find out more Male: 3 Male: 7 Male: 3 Read more on Read more on our Audit Committee A Female: 0 Female: 3 Female: 3 our Governance Board Activities Nomination N and Board Page 55 Committee Structure Remuneration Read more on our R Pages 48-61 Committee Board Framework Page 54 Chairmanship of the Committee.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 47 N R N A N A R N A R N A Gwyn Burr Mike Hussey Angela Knight CBE Rob Rowley Humphrey Singer Independent Independent Independent Independent Independent Non Executive Director Non Executive Director Non Executive Director Non Executive Director Non Executive Director Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment Joined 1 February 2018 Joined July 2011 Joined November 2016 Joined January 2010 Joined December 2015 Skills & experience Skills & experience Skills & experience Skills & experience Skills & experience Gwyn has over 25 years Mike is Chief Executive of Angela brings to the Board a Rob has a wealth of financial, Humphrey has a wealth of executive experience, Almacantar, aprivate wealth of experience gained commercial and financial experience and principally in marketing, HR property investment and at a senior level in both the management expertise, expertise in the areas of and customer service in the development company public and private sectors.
principally from his time as both digital solutions and retail sector, which included which he founded in Finance Director of Reuters customer services.
He is Previously, Angela was a the roles of Customer February 2010.
He has held plc and Deputy Chairman of Group Finance Director of Member of Parliament from Director and Customer a number of senior roles in Cable & Wireless plc.
Dixons Carphone plc, a role 1992 to 1997, including two Service and Colleague the property sector, most to which he was years as the Economic Rob is the Companys Director at Sainsbury plc.
recently as an executive appointedin 2014.
board director of Land Previously, Gwyn held Securities plc.
External appointments non executive positions External appointments External appointments Humphrey is Group with the Principality Building Angela is Chairman of the Rob is the senior External appointments Finance Director Society Limited, Wembley Office of Tax Simplification in independent director and Mike is a Fellow of the Royal of Dixons Carphone plc and National Stadium Limited HM Treasury: senior Chairman of the audit Institution of Chartered it has been announced that and the Financial independent director of committee of Greene King Surveyors, a Trustee of the he will leave his current role Ombudsman Service.
TPICAP Plc: and a non plc and a non executive Royal College of Surgeons on a date to be determined, executive director of director of Camelot Group of England and a Governor in order to join Marks and External appointments Arbuthnot Latham & Co. where he is also Chairman of of the Southbank Centre.
Spencer Group plc as their Gwyns other non executive the audit, risk and Chief Finance Officer.
Hammerson plc, Just Eat plc, Sainsburys Bank plc, Metro AG a German listed company and DFS Furniture plc where it has been announced that she intends to step down in the Spring of 2018.
Non Executive Director tenure Non Executive Director experience Customer Public Financial 0-3 years 5-6 years 7-8 years Materials service Economist sector Media Marketing Property services 3 1 2 2 1 1 1 1 2 2 2 taylorwimpey.
co. uk 48 Directors Report: Governance Corporate Governance Good governance is at the heart of what we do Governance highlights for 2017 Fully met all of the requirements of the UK Corporate GovernanceCode.
Fully met all of the requirements set out in the Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on Risk, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
Made good progress towards achieving our strategy for improving diversity and inclusivity at all levels throughout the Groups businesses.
Conducted a comprehensive  Board Evaluation exercise.
Further developed and enhanced the Companys succession and contingency planning processes across the Group.
Reviewed data collection in preparation for publishing the Companys first Gender Pay statement which will appear on our website in 2018.
Fully embedded processes and procedures across the business and its supply chain in compliance with the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and prepared our second annual statement which appears on our website.
Implemented a new Remuneration Policy and new long term incentive plan.
Validated the procedures and processes which will be required to meet the new statutory reporting of payment terms during 2018.
Kevin Beeston, Chairman Culture, values and ethics Dear Shareholder The Board strongly believes that good governance should be focused not In my capacity as Chairman of the Board, I am very pleased to again have only on how the Board itself operates effectively but also, and very importantly, thisopportunity to make a personal statement on the Companys approach on the culture within which all of our businesses operate and conduct tocorporate governance.
themselves on a day to day basis.
The culture, values and ethics set out in the Firstly, I would like to emphasise again that the Board continues to take Chief Executives Statement on page 12 are set by the Board and then led in corporate governance very seriously and has been able to demonstrate this our operations by the Chief Executive and the rest of our Executive and senior over many years with full compliance with the UK Corporate Governance management teams.
The principles of good governance are embedded Code the Code.
The requirements of the Code are summarised in the table throughout the organisation and by way of example, manifest themselves in on page 53 where we have included a signpost directing you to the relevant anumber of different ways, including the following: page which sets out in detail how the Company has complied with the various An absolute and non-negotiable requirement to ensure the health and provisions of the Code.
Where possible, the Company has consistently safety of our employees, customers, subcontractors, suppliers and sought to comply with planned improvements to the Code, and with wider visitors to our offices and developments.
Please see page 18. governance initiatives, often in advance of their formal application to our The requirement to observe good business practice, including abiding by reporting years.
This proactive approach is demonstrated by the all applicable laws and regulations that relate to our business.
Please see establishment during the year of our National Employee Forum, in response to page 60. the Governments employee voice initiative and which is likely to form part of the revised Code scheduled to apply to companies with effect from The provision of mandatory training on key legislation and regulations to 1 January 2019.
The Board recognises the importance of considering the allof our business units.
Companys responsibilities and duties to both its shareholders and its broader Our Group-wide Operating Framework control document setting out stakeholder group and this has been part of our culture and decision making delegated authority limits.
The Directors duties of s. 172 of the Companies Act A system of controls and checks underpinned by a rigorous Internal 2006 help to underpin the good governance which is at the heart of what we AuditDepartment and overseen by the Audit Committee.
do and the Board receives regular briefings and updates on corporate Regular and embedded risk assessment and monitoring processes.
governance at its Board and Committee meetings.
This report on corporate governance aims to set out and explain in clear terms Encouraging and investigating any disclosures made either directly or the governance-related processes and procedures in place at Taylor Wimpey through an independent whistleblowing hotline.
Please see page 66. which we believe are essential for the delivery of the long term success of the Company.
It is these processes that ensure we comply with all applicable Governance developments during the period laws and regulations as well as, of course, meeting the requirements of There were a number of significant developments in the area of corporate relevant stakeholders, including our shareholders and their representative governance during 2017. bodies with whom we are always very pleased to engage and we very much appreciate their constructive and helpful approach.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 49 Perhaps the most important of these was the publication in August of the Kate Barker will be the Companys Senior Independent Director following the Governments proposals for Corporate Governance reforms in certain key AGM, and brings to the role a wide range of experience, both of the Company areas, in respect of which the Company has already taken action to address and of wider corporate, economic and stewardship principles.
some of these areas, as set out below: As reported on page 62, Humphrey Singer was appointed as Chairman of the Requiring annual reporting and narrative around CEO pay relative to the Audit Committee on 10 January 2018 and brings wide experience of financial workforce.
Please see page 88. reporting and compliance to the role, including from his prior period of service on the Audit Committee prior to this appointment.
Demonstrating how the Directors met the requirement of s. 172 of the Companies Act for them to promote the success of the Company for its The Nomination Committee regularly reviews the composition: balance: skills: members whilst also having regard to long-term success: other and experience of the Board and concluded throughout 2017 and, following stakeholders interests including employees: shareholders: customers: the changes set out above announced earlier in 2018, that the balance and suppliers and the wider communities in which our business operates : composition of the Board, which includes a majority of Independent Non the impact on the environment: and maintaining high standards of Executive Directors, will continue to provide the right blend of experience, ethics.
Please see page 51. expertise and challenge to ensure good governance so as to enable the Strengthening the voice of employees at Board level which I have Company to successfully implement its strategy.
Board evaluation Key amongst these developments is the requirement to clearly explain how the Board led an appropriate level of engagement with stakeholders in order It is a key requirement of good governance that an annual evaluation is carried out to ensure that the Board itself operates effectively.
In line with the Code to meet its duty under s. 172 of the Companies Act to promote the success of the Company whilst taking into account the interests of other requirement that the evaluation be  at least every three years, the evaluation for 2017 was facilitated by Manchester Square Partners.
Details of this engagement during 2017 and into 2018, together with our actions taken in response, are set out on page 51. details of the evaluation methodology and its outcome are set out on page 61.
The UK Financial Reporting Council FRC has published its proposals for a Diversity review of the Code, focusing particularly on the culture of the Company: on Diversity and inclusivity has continued to be a key item on the overall UK succession planning at Board level: on proposals arising from the governance agenda during 2017, as the Company works towards the target Governments consultation during 2017 on executive pay, Directors duties introduced by Lord Davies of Abersochs review forthe proportion of women and Board composition: and wider recommendations to promote good on each FTSE 350 companys board to increasefrom the current 25% target corporate governance.
The Board welcomes these proposals and will to 33% by 2020.
The Board also welcomes the Hampton Alexander Review explain in next years Annual Report and Accounts what changes were which proposes to increase Board and senior leadership diversity, more made to the Code and how the Company has responded to them.
details of which are set out on page 71.
The Board very much welcomes The Investment Association published its views on how companies should these increased targets which are designed to givegreater impetus to the seek to respond to the Governments initiatives towards increasing progress of enhanced gender diversity on PLCboards.
This, together with productivity, including greater recognition of the importance of human other aspects of diversity, such as the latest proposals from the FRC to capital and a clearer focus on training and development.
Details of our require greater consideration of ethnic and social diversity when planning initiatives in this regard appear on pages 22 to 23, 40 and 69.
Board appointments, is very much in the thinking of the Nomination Committee when reviewing the balance and composition of the Board and The aim of these initiatives is to ensure that good governance goes deeper the structuring of talent development initiatives across the Group.
The Board reviewed and welcomed these initiatives as they are designed to help to provide shareholders and all of our The Company fully recognises the importance of diversity and its policy is to stakeholders with increased assurance that the Company is being managed appoint or promote, as appropriate, the best person for the role in question with their best interests firmly in mind, whilst also taking account of other without taking account of factors such as educational or professional relevant interests and the impact of the Companys activities on the backgrounds save as appropriate for the position: age: gender: ethnicity: or wider community.
The objective of this policy is to ensure that diversity is built into the Companys appointment and promotion process and that only relevant The Board welcomes the Governments proposals and will respond to them, to the extent not already done so, as they are implemented.
factors are taken into account when considering such matters.
The policy hasbeen implemented through training sessions on unconscious bias for Appointments and succession management teams throughout the Companys business and its head office functions.
Progress to date in this area is set out on page 70.
There was no change to the composition of the Board during 2017.
On 10 January 2018, after a review of the Boards composition by the Conclusion Nomination Committee, the Company announced a number of changes: I believe that your Board remains effective and continues to work well.
Gwyn Burr was appointed as an Independent Non Executive Director on I am confident that the Board has the right balance of skills, expertise and 1 February 2018.
Gwyns executive experience over 25 years, principally in professionalism to continue to deliver strong governance whilst allowing the customer service in the retail sector, will add to the Boards skill sets in this Executive Directors to implement and deliver the strategy as set out on area.
Gwyn has excellent experience gained from both her previous executive page 13 within the strong culture that we have worked hard to establish.
positions and also from her non executive roles, all of which will help to further Whilst I am also pleased with the Boards activity and approach with regard strengthen the Boards expertise, including our ongoing focus on customer to corporate governance, we continually look for ways to learn and improve.
I am delighted to welcome Gwyn to the Board and to support As ever, I very much look forward to meeting with shareholders at the Annual Resolution 12 at the 2018 Annual General Meeting proposing her election by General Meeting on 26 April 2018 and, as always, along with all ofyour shareholders, in respect of which more details appear on page 156.
Directors who will all be present at the AGM, remain available to answer Rob Rowley will stand down as an Independent Non Executive Director and or respond to your questions, concerns and suggestions at anytime.
as the Senior Independent Director after the conclusion of the 2018 AGM on 26 April 2018.
I should like to express both mine and the Boards gratitude to Rob for his long and valued contribution to the Companys progress and stewardship.
Over the past eight years he has provided wise counsel as Senior Independent Director to myself as Chairman, careful oversight of the Audit Committee and an invaluable contribution to the Board.
We wish him all the very best for the future.
co. uk Chairman 50 Directors Report: Governance Corporate Governance continued Role of the directors Whilst all Directors share collective responsibility for the activities of the Board, some Directors roles have been defined in more detail as Governance considerations have developed over time, as follows: Chairman Ensuring high standards of corporate Encouraging constructive challenge and Agreeing the Chief Executives governance and setting the cultural tone from facilitating effective communication personal objectives the top between Directors Ensuring there is effective two-way Building a well-balanced and highly Ensuring the effectiveness of the Board and communication and debate with shareholders effective Board enabling an annual review of its effectiveness Maintaining an appropriate balance between Chairing Board meetings and setting Engaging individually with Directors the interests of stakeholders Board agendas as required Promoting effective Board relationships Ensuring appropriate induction and development programmes for individual Directors Chief Executive Developing and implementing Group strategy Regularly reviewing the organisational Maintaining relationships with investors and structure: developing the Executive Team: advising the Board accordingly Recommending the strategic plan and related and planning for succession annual budget Setting the culture at the top, particularly with Ensuring the Chairman and the Board are regard to compliance and sustainability Ensuring coherent leadership of the Group kept advised and updated regarding Day to day running of the business key matters Managing the Groups risk profile and establishing effective internal controls Group Finance Director Operational responsibility for managing the Overseeing the commercial, information In conjunction with the Group Management Companys financial affairs, including treasury technology and pension departments Team overseeing the Companys risk profile and tax matters Group Legal Director and Company Secretary Advising the Board on matters of corporate Providing support to the Chairman and Non Keeping abreast of shareholders views governance, compliance and on legal issues Exercutive Directors Responsible for all legal compliance matters Ensuring effective support to the Board and relating to the Group its meetings and agendas to enable efficient process Non Executive Directors Providing effective and constructive challenge Serving on Board committees Keeping abreast of shareholders views to management Providing advice to management and sharing Assisting in development and approval their experience and wisdom of strategy Senior Independent Director Acting as a sounding-board for the Chairman Acting as an intermediary for other Directors, Leading the search for a new Chairman, on Board-related matters when necessary when necessary Chairing meetings in the absence of Leading the evaluation of the Being available to shareholders who wish to the Chairman Chairmans performance discuss matters which cannot be resolved otherwise Read more about individual Directors skill sets on page 58.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 51 Stakeholder engagement We actively encourage engagement with our shareholders and other stakeholders.
As previously mentioned, the Directors are required by law to act in a Engagement with our employees way that promotes the success of the Company for the benefit of The Board was pleased to introduce during 2017 a National Employee shareholders as a whole.
In so doing the Company must also have Forum NEF with the purpose of giving employees a voice with regard regard to wider expectations of responsible business behaviour, such as to key matters that are being considered.
The NEF builds on our existing having due regard to the interests of its employees and the impact of the network of Employee Consultation Committees and consists of elected Companys business on the community in which it operates, and also employees from across the business and from a number of different office the wider environment.
Early meetings have included discussions on During the year, the Board specifically discussed this requirement on customer service, the Modern Slavery Act and health and wellbeing which several occasions and concluded that its existing processes and have all generated a good level of healthy debate.
The meetings are decision making, properly take into account both the duty to attended by a member of the Group Management Team and so far have shareholders and the remaining considerations with regard to other been attended by either the Group Legal Director and Company Secretary stakeholder related matters as referred to above.
or by the Group Human Resources Director.
Going forward, the meetings will be attended by other senior executives and also by the Chairman and Engagement with stakeholders during the year took place as the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee when topics such as described below.
strategy, remuneration and other operational matters will be discussed.
The Board also receives at each Board Meeting detailed reports on Engagement with our shareholders employee matters, at Group level and for each operating division.
The Board actively seeks and encourages engagement with shareholders including its major institutional shareholders and shareholder bodies.
The More details are set out on pages 23, 48, 81 and 95.
Board fully supports the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code and also welcomes and acknowledges the Stewardship Code, both of Health and safety which aim to foster a more proactive governance role by major The health and safety of our employees: customers: suppliers: shareholders.
The Board has put in place arrangements designed to subcontractors: and all visitors to our businesses and development sites: facilitate contact with shareholders concerning business, governance, continues to be a non-negotiable top priority for the Company.
The Board remuneration and other relevant topics.
This provides the opportunity for receives reports on health, safety and environmental matters, at Group meetings between shareholders and the Chairman, the independent Non level and for each operating division at each Board Meeting.
The HSE Executive Directors including the Senior Independent Director as well as Director attends each Group Operational Team meeting and also attends the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Legal Director and the Board on an annual basis to present on key HSE issues, initiatives, Company Secretary and other executives as appropriate, in order to trends and statistics.
More details are set out on pages 6, 14, 21 and 28 establish a mutual understanding of objectives.
The Company also to 29. operates a structured programme of investor relations, based on formal announcements and publications covering the Full Year and Half Year Engagement with our customers results.
In addition, the Chairman meets with the Companys institutional Delivering high levels of customer satisfaction enhances the reputation of shareholders from time to time, both proactively and upon request, in our business and reduces the costs associated with rectifying poor quality order to discuss the Company and its performance, governance and work.
The Board and the Group Management Team regularly review remuneration policies.
As set out in the Remuneration Report, the customer satisfaction scores as independently reported and consider Remuneration Committee undertakes a consultation exercise each year ways in which these can be improved.
One such change during 2017 was and as part of this exercise, the Committee Chairman also engages the introduction of an online Customer Portal, guiding customers through directly with shareholders and their representative bodies.
More details the Customer Journey in purchasing their new home and providing a are set out on pages 74 and 81. forum for two-way communication as the building and sales processes are The Company is, of course, also always very pleased to hear from and progressed.
The Board receives monthly reports on customer service engage with our private shareholders and has, for example, previously met matters, at Group level and for each operating division.
Following the with the United Kingdom Shareholders Association to facilitate contact Companys review into historic leasehold practices, during the year we with shareholders located in the North of England, which took place at a also established the Taylor Wimpey Ground Rent Review Assistance regional office and included site visits.
Scheme in order to help our customers who have leases with ground rents that double every ten years to the fiftieth anniversary before being capped, What our shareholders have asked us this year to covert them to an RPI mechanism should they wish to participate in the During 2017 the Company held 153 meetings with shareholders holding in Scheme.
We have apologised to these customers and recognise that the implementation of these clauses fell short of the standards that we set for aggregate around 35% of the Companys shares, taking the form of group meetings: one to one meetings: conference telephone calls: site visits: the ourselves.
More details are set out on pages 7 and 32 to 33.
AGM - before, during and after the meeting: at the announcement of the Companys full year and half year results.
Key themes discussed included: Engagement with our supply chain We negotiate with subcontractors and suppliers, both on a national and a Current trading, market demand and house price outlook.
local basis, to develop framework agreements and local commercial terms The Companys medium term strategy and business model.
which reflect the payment practices and performance on which we are The likely impact of Government policy.
required to report in respect of the first half of 2018 by 31 July 2018.
The The land market, build costs and labour availability.
report will be available online from that date.
More details are set out on pages 21 and 28 to 29.
The Companys financial targets and dividend policy.
Engagement with local communities All Directors receive formal reports and briefings during the year about the We actively seek the views of local communities and develop a tailored Companys investor relations programme and receive detailed feedback planning and community engagement strategy for each development site, through surveys, direct contact and also other means.
This enables all working closely with communities and other local stakeholders throughout Directors to develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders all aspects of the planning process.
We also support communities, both about the Company.
locally and nationally, through our charitable work, including financially and giving time, energy and leadership to support local efforts.
More details are The Board encourages all shareholders to vote at the AGM, which is set out on pages 7, 15, 21, 27 and 96 to 97. attended by all Directors.
The Notice of AGM, including details of all resolutions to be proposed at the meeting, is set out on page 151. taylorwimpey.
co. uk 52 Directors Report: Governance Corporate Governance continued Number of Board attendance meetings The Board met on eight occasions during 2017 and there was full attended in Board members during 2017 2017 attendance at all meetings by all Directors except, as noted on the table opposite, Mike Hussey missed one meeting due to being overseas on Kevin Beeston, Chairman 8 8 business.
The Board regularly considers the number of Board meetings that Pete Redfern, Chief Executive 8 8 take place each year and has concluded that eight meetings remain Ryan Mangold, Group Finance Director 8 8 appropriate but will keep the number under review.
Additional Board James Jordan, Group Legal Director and Company Secretary 8 8 meetings would be convened as and when necessary and there are also processes in place for approving transactions and other matters that may Rob Rowley, Senior Independent Director 8 8 require approval in between Board meetings.
Kate Barker, Independent Non Executive Director 8 8 Directors make every effort to attend all Board and applicable Committee Mike Hussey, Independent Non Executive Director 7 8 meetings, as strongly evidenced by the exceptionally strong attendance Angela Knight, Independent Non Executive Director 8 8 records over many years.
Where, exceptionally, a Director is unable to attend Humphrey Singer, Independent Non Executive Director 8 8 a meeting, it is Board policy that the Chairman and or the Group Legal Director and Company Secretary the Secretary will, as soon as possible, brief the Director fully on the business transacted at the meeting and on any The Board and its Committees decisions that have been taken.
In addition, the views of the Director are As at the date of this Report, the Board consists of ten Directors, namely:the sought ahead of the meeting and conveyed to those attending by the Chairman, three Executive Directors and six Independent NonExecutive Chairman and or the Secretary as appropriate.
Details of the attendance Directors.
Their names, responsibilities and other details appearon page 58. of each Director at Board and Committee meetings are set out in the table opposite and on pages 62, 67 and 74.
The role of the Independent Non Executive Directors is to offer advice and guidance to the Executive Directors, using their wide experience in business Board responsibilities and from their diverse backgrounds, details of which are set out in their biographies on pages 46 to 47 and 58 and in the Board diversity analysis on The Board discharges its responsibilities by providing strategic and pages 46 to 47.
They also provide a constructive challenge, monitoring the entrepreneurial leadership of the Company, within a framework of strong overall direction and strategy of the Company: scrutinising the performance governance, effective controls and a strong culture emphasising openness of the Executive Directors: and satisfying themselves as to the integrity of the and transparency, which enables opportunities and risks to be assessed and financial information made available both to the Board and to the managed appropriately.
In addition, the Board sets the Companys strategic Companys shareholders.
The Non Executive Directors also play an aims: ensures that the necessary financial and human resources are in important part in the appointment or removal of Executive Directors and in placeforthe Company to meet its objectives: and reviews general succession planning for the Board and other executive and senior .
management positions below Board level.
Company culture A healthy culture is extremely important and the Board fully agrees with the FRC that it both protects and generates value and that it should be the subject of a continuous focus rather than wait for a crisis.
The Board is responsible for the Companys culture and for defining and setting the Companys values and standards from the top.
Culture is established by leadership and by example but this also needs to be underpinned by clear policies and codes of conduct which ensure that the Companys obligations to its shareholders and other stakeholders are clearly understood and met, as described in more detail on page 51.
The Board is led in these respects by the Chairman, who ensures the Board operates correctly, setting its culture and, by extension, that of the Company in its operations and its dealings with all stakeholders.
During the course of 2017 and into 2018, the Board actively reviewed and monitored several key areas that it considers are important indicators of the Company culture, including health, safety, and environmental matters as set out on page 55, customer service, land and major projects, risk strategy, and diversity and inclusivity.
The Board will keep all of these areas under regular review.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 53 Appliance of the UK Corporate Governance Code The UK Financial Reporting Council promotes high quality corporate governance and reporting through The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, with which all companies with a premium listing on the UK Stock Exchange are required to either comply in full, or explain why, and to what extent, they do not so comply.
The Corporate Governance section of this Annual Report explains how the Code principles have been applied, asset out below: All directors should be submitted for re-election at regular intervals, subject Section A: Leadership to continued satisfactory performance.
See page 59 Every company should be headed by an effective board which is collectively responsible for the long term success of the company.
Section C: Accountability There should be a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the The board should present a fair, balanced and understandable company between the running of the board and the executive assessment of the companys position and prospects.
See page 66. responsibility for the running of the companys business.
No one individual The board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the should have unfettered powers of decision.
See page 58. principal risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
The The chairman is responsible for leadership of the board and ensuring its board should maintain sound risk management and internal control effectiveness in all aspects of its role.
As part of their role as members of a unitary board, non executive directors The board should establish formal and transparent arrangements for should constructively challenge and help develop proposals on strategy.
considering how they should apply the corporate reporting, risk See page 50. management and internal control principles and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the companys auditors.
Section B: Effectiveness The board and its committees should have the appropriate balance of Section D: Remuneration skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the company to enable Executive directors remuneration should be designed to promote the them to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively.
long-term success of the company.
Performance-related elements should See page 58. be transparent, stretching and rigorously applied.
There should be a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the There should be a formal and transparent procedure for developing policy appointment of new directors to the board.
See pages 68 to 69. on executive remuneration and for fixing the remuneration packages of All directors should be able to allocate sufficient time to the company to individual directors.
No director should be involved in deciding his or her discharge their responsibilities effectively.
All directors should receive induction on joining the board and should Section E: Relations with shareholders regularly update and refresh their skills and knowledge.
There should be a dialogue with shareholders based on the mutual The board should be supplied in a timely manner with information in a form understanding of objectives.
The board as a whole has responsibility for and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
See page 69. ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders takes place.
See The board should undertake a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of pages 51, 74 and 81. its own performance and that of its committees and individual directors.
The board should use general meetings to communicate with investors See page 61. and to encourage their participation.
Statement of compliance For the year ended 31 December 2017, the Company complied with all the provisions of the Code: the Financial Conduct Authoritys FCA Disclosure and Transparency Rules sub-chapters 7.1 and 7.2 which set out certain mandatory disclosure requirements: the FCAs Listing Rules 9.8.
7AR which include the comply or explain requirement: and the BEIS Directors Remuneration Reporting Regulations and Narrative Reporting Regulations.
These regulations are publicly available as follows: The Code can be found at www.
uk The FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules as well as Listing Rules can be found at www.
uk The BEIS Directors Remuneration Reporting Regulations and Narrative Reporting Regulations can be found at www.
uk The FRC Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting can be found at www.
co. uk 54 Directors Report: Governance Corporate Governance continued How we are governed Audit Committee The Board Reviews and advises the Board on Oversees the relationship with the proposed full year and half year external auditor Provides strategic and reporting and announcements Oversees the reporting of internal audit entrepreneurial leadership connected therewith investigations and reviews the within a framework of Undertakes a detailed half-yearly review implementation of changes stronggovernance and of the Groups risk assessment and resulting therefrom effective controls mitigation processes and outcomes, Reviews the whistleblowing policy and Is responsible for the and advises the Board on its annual any investigations Companys culture and for risk review defining and setting its values and standards Chairman of the Audit Committee Read more about this Committee Establishes the Groups Humphrey Singer on pages 62 to 66. riskappetite and oversees processes designed to ensure compliance Nomination Committee therewith Reviews the balance, diversity, Reviews succession and contingency Defines which matters are independence and effectiveness of planning across the Groups senior reserved for decision of the Board positions and related training, theBoard including profit development and talent management Oversees the selection, interview and expectations and appointment of new Directors to Reviews, sets targets for, and drives the dividendpolicy the Board strategy and progress to further improve diversity and inclusivity throughout the Group Chairman of the Nomination Committee Read more about this Committee Kevin Beeston on pages 67 to 73.
Remuneration Committee Advises the Board on remuneration Ensures that rewards for achieving or policy at Board and executive level exceeding agreed targets are not excessive Ensures that remuneration is geared to the enhancement of shareholder value Promotes the increasing alignment of executive and wider employee interests Ensures that targets are appropriate with those of shareholders by and are geared to delivering the encouraging appropriate share plan strategy whilst appropriately limiting participation and executive risk-taking shareholding guidelines Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Read more about this Committee Kate Barker on pages 74 to 92.
Board activities As a Board we review health, safety and environmental performance at every Board meeting and also regularly review: our business strategy: key This Report seeks to explain what your Board of Directors does and describes risks: the market: operational matters: customer service: diversity and how it is responsible for setting the culture and values of the Company, inclusivity: corporate responsibility: our financial position and performance: ensuring that the Company is run in the best interests of its shareholders as governance, compliance and legal matters: and stakeholder-related matters well as other stakeholders, and how it interacts with its shareholders in including the make up of our share register and investor relations explaining the Companys strategic goals and performance against them.
programme: community engagement: and human resources and wider From a governance perspective, it is not just a case of what is done but also, employee matters.
This is done through the consideration and discussion of and just as importantly, how it is done.
In light of this, we therefore try and regular reports submitted by the Executive Directors and through regular avoid a simple box ticking type approach to corporate governance, reports and presentations from oursenior management and external preferring our own governance to be something that is properly embedded in advisers.
The Board and individual Directors also undertake regular visits to our people, processes and decision making at all levels and vested in the our regional businesses and theirdevelopment sites, which has proved to personal values of all Directors and senior management.
be both very useful and informative.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 55 Board activities and priorities Regular items at Board meetings include the review of Board Committee activities Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees : detailed updates on health, safety and environmental matters: reports from the Executive Directors covering progress towards the Companys strategic objectives, its financial position and prospects, legal and corporate governance matters, and compliance updates: progress reports on addressing past leasehold matters: human resourcing: and stakeholder matters including customer services: wider employee matters: and an update from the Companys stockbroker which details movement in the share register.
Special matters considered during the year at Board meetings included the following: Feb Apr May Jun Jul Reviewed the draft 2016 Annual Reviewed the draft Trading Reviewed and agreed the Received a strategy and Considered the Half Year Report and Accounts and the Statement to update updated Pension Scheme business update from the results for 2017 Sustainability Report shareholders on progress for Trust Deed and Central and South Considered the Companys the year to date Scheme Rules West Division Established and reviewed action dividend policy going forward points arising from the 2016 Reviewed arrangements for Reviewed progress towards Considered the findings of the Determined the level of interim Board evaluation the 2017 Annual GDPR and the actions to initial review into cladding dividend for 2017 and special General Meeting improve the resilience of the systems used on past and Determined the amount of the dividend proposed for 2018 Groups information present developments post final ordinary dividend for 2016 Received a strategy and Considered the Half Year technology systems the Grenfell fire disaster and the special dividend for 2017 business update from the risk review to be proposed to shareholders North Division Undertook a longer-term risk Reviewed the draft Half Year for approval at the 2017 AGM review in preparation for Approved the Taylor Wimpey Results Statement future strategy reviews Approved in principle the draft Ground Rent Review Received a strategy and Full Year Results Statement Assistance Scheme and the Received a strategy and business update from the related provision business update from the Conducted the annual risk review Central London Division London and South Agreed the first statement in East Division respect of the Modern Slavery Act and reviewed the underlying processes Agreed the processes to be put in place to ensure that the Employees Voice is taken into account on strategic, business and remuneration matters Received a strategy and business update on the Central Sep Oct Dec London business Recieved an annual report on litigation This meeting was held as part of Reviewed the Groups borrowing Presentation on the Groups health, safety and an away day and the Board facilities in relation to current environmental performance during the year received updates on strategic forecasts Detailed review of the year end risk the following: Received the half-yearly update management report Customer service and on human resources including Reviewed the outcome of the Board evaluation digital communications progress on Diversity, Inclusivity for 2017 and agreed action points and Gender Pay Production and procurement Reviewed the 2017 year end projection and Received strategy and business Land and Planning budget for 2018-2020 updates from the North Division The culture of the Received an economic overview from an and the Major business: and external expert Developments business A strategy update Received a strategy and business update from the London and South East Division taylorwimpey.
co. uk 56 Directors Report: Governance Corporate Governance continued Board action and objectives Strategy and execution Organisational capacity 2017 Board objectives 2017 Board objectives To set the Companys strategic objectives and agree the actions To ensure that the Company has the necessary resources in terms for theirachievement of finance, people, supply chain and Group structure to enable it to deliver the strategy To review the Companys performance, resourcing, and achievements affecting its ability to deliver the strategy To ensure that its people are suitably trained and that sufficient provision is being made for succession planning at all levels To review and, if necessary, revisethe strategy or its objectives in the light of wider economic, financial and market considerations 2017 Performance To ensure the strategy is sufficiently resilient in different forward The Board reviewed reports at each meeting on the financial looking scenarios performance of the Company and the availability, currently and To take all measures to ensure that health and safety remains the forecast going forward, offinancial, people and supply Groups top priority chain resourcing The Board and the Nomination Committee formally reviewed on 2017 Performance two occasions the strategy for succession planning and related The Board regularly reviewed performance to date towards training assessment and provision, both for the Board and the achieving its strategic objectives executives immediately below Board level, and progress in At each meeting, detailed reports from the Executive Team were achieving it.
The Board also reviews human resources related discussed, reviewing forward resourcing requirements in the areas matters at each Board meeting of capital, finance, people andland, and operating decisions taken or proposed toaddress them 2018 Board objectives The dividend policy was reviewed in relation to strategic To ensure that resourcing remains sufficient to achieve the strategy expectations going forward together with wider diversity considerations The Groups financing arrangements were reviewed in relation to To ensure that training and development plans support continuous current strategic forecasts improvement in the teamand contribute towards wider diversity improvements Health and safety progress and performance is the first main item of business at each Board meeting 2018 Board objectives Risk management To ensure the Companys strategy remains robust in the light of 2017 Board objectives any forecast market and wider economic changes To review and agree the Companys risk appetite in seeking to To ensure the Companys performance remains on schedule to achieve its strategic objectives achieve the strategy To regularly review the robustness of the Companys systems of To take all measures to ensure that health and safety remains the risk reporting: assessment: and internalcontrols Groups top priority and will remain an ongoing area of focus 2017 Performance The risk review was conducted twice during the year, at the Boards July half year and February full year meetings, and covered both the systems used and the reported risks.
At the February meeting the position was subject to independent check with external auditor reports on risk processes connected with the annualaudit The Boards annual risk review for 2017 was completed at the February 2018 Board meeting following a process embracing all levels of the Groupsbusinesses During the year, the Board and Audit Committee received updates on the resilience of the Groups systems to cyber attack and action taken to maintain security 2018 Board objectives To ensure risk remains within the Companys agreed risk appetite and is adequately monitored and reviewed as appropriate to reflect external and internal changes Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 57 Stakeholder engagement Governance and values 2017 Board objectives 2017 Board objectives To increase shareholder attendance and voting, including To ensure that there is continued full compliance with the UK registering proxies, at the AGM Corporate Governance Code the Code and with wider statutory and regulatory requirements To keep employees engaged and informed on the Companys performance and prospects and to give them a voice at Board To ensure that remuneration is to remain implemented within the level on key matters including remuneration Companys Remuneration Policy To assist prospective and actual purchasers of houses in making To implement the improvements arising from the 2016 and successfully concluding what is, for many, the largest value Board appraisal and potentially most stressful transaction of theirlives To conduct an  Board evaluation To maintain communication and a culture of continuous To monitor shareholder feedback and continue to actively promote improvement throughout the Companys supply chain wider engagement To further embed Modern Slavery Act best practice 2017 Performance To take account of shareholder guidance and consultation Shareholder communication was conducted through encouraging attendance at the AGM: encouraging and steadily increasing voting 2017 Performance on resolutions proposed thereat: briefings to analysts and the The Company has fully complied with the requirements of the press: and direct consultation on certain special matters revised Code in its 2017 reporting The Board regularly reviewed its duties under s. 172 of the The Companys Remuneration Policy was proposed to Companies Act 2006 shareholders for its first three year renewal at the Companys 2017 Employee involvement was promoted through regular briefing AGM and was approved with a vote in excess of 98% material online and in hard copy: interactive online Q&As: strategy The Board evaluation was  for 2017 asreported updates around the businesses: and explanation of Company on page 61 and as required in at least each third year performance around half year and full year reporting and trading statements.
The Board also introduced a National Employee In addition to the AGM, shareholder and institutional feedback was Forum, in response to the employee voice proposal being put sought when presenting the Companys half year and full year forward by the Government, and the early meetings of the Forum results and in notifying proposalsfor updating the Remuneration have generated useful and informed debate on a number of topics, Policy.
The results of the feedback from shareholders was taken including remuneration intoconsideration by the Board together with advice from itsstockbrokers Customer Service processes were embedded following a period of change and enhancement during 2016 and reviews have led to Modern Slavery Act 2015: The Company made its first statement in further improvements which were implemented subject to Board March 2017 after reviewing its operations and its supply chain.
monitoring throughout the year Detailed guidance has been issued around the business and key personnel are required to undertake training in identifying: The supply chain received constant feedback from Group assessing: and reporting any instances that might arise: with the businesses, suppliers and subcontractors, which fed into updated aim of reducing the risks of modern slavery and related practices arrangements andagreements.
Processes and checks were as far as possible.
See pages 8 and 96 for further details introduced to guard against instances of modern slavery 2018 Board objectives 2018 Board objectives To ensure that there is continued full compliance with the Code To actively encourage shareholder participation through clear and with wider statutory and regulatory requirements messaging and reporting and careful review of shareholder feedback To ensure that remuneration is to remain within the Companys Remuneration Policy and proportionately rewards achievement of To monitor the planned further improvements in Customer Service the strategy performance during 2018 To implement the improvements identified on page 61 arising from To ensure the Group works with subcontractors and suppliers to the  2017 Board appraisal constantly seek ways of further improving quality: sustainability: anddelivery in a safe working environment To conduct an effective Board evaluation To monitor and further develop the employee voice through the To monitor shareholder feedback and continue to actively promote National Employee Forum wider engagement To further embed Modern Slavery Act best practice taylorwimpey.
