63 Committee purpose and responsibilities The membership of the Audit Committee is set out in the table opposite.
Committee meetings are also attended, by invitation, by the Executive Directors, Head of Internal Audit, other senior executives and by Deloitte LLP Deloitte, the external auditor.
The Committee also meets privately with representatives from Deloitte during at least two Committee meetings per annum, which normally take place around the time of the Full and Half Year financial statements, in order to discuss any matters which the auditor may wish to raise in confidence, with only the Secretary being present.
Committee activities during 2017 The Audit Committee met on three occasions during the year.
The reports considered at the February 2018 meeting concluded the Committees activities with regard to the Companys 2017 reporting and have been included on page 66.
At those meetings, the Committee carried out its remit which primarily included the following: Feb 2017 Jul 2017 Dec 2017 Feb 2018 Reviewed the final draft 2016 Annual Reviewed the final draft Half Year Reviewed and confirmed the Reviewed the final draft 2017 Annual Report and Accounts together with any Statement for 2017 together with processes which allow the Committee Report and Accounts together with any significant accounting and audit issues details of any significant accounting to ensure that the 2017 Annual Report significant accounting and audit issues thereon: considering issues of issues thereon: considering issues of and Accounts meets the requirements thereon: considering issues of materiality and the external auditors materiality and the external auditors of Code provision C. 1 that the Board materiality and the external auditors report on the progress of the audit: and report on its review of that statement.
presents a fair, balanced and report on the progress of the audit: conducting a formal compliance check.
understandable assessment of the conducting a formal compliance check.
Conducted the 2017 Half Year Companys position and prospects.
The disclosure of relevant audit risk review.
The disclosure of relevant audit information to the auditors and the Reviewed and confirmed the information to the auditors and the Received the Group fraud processes in place to underpin it.
processes which allow the Committee process in place to underpin it.
to assess the performance of Deloitte Reviewed the Groups 2016 draft Full Reviewed the Groups draft 2017 Received a further detailed presentation during the audit of the Companys Year Results Statement: and advising Full Year Results Statement: and on progress to date on GDPR and 2017 full year reporting and the the Board regarding the advised the Board regarding the plans for further improving the Groups effectiveness of the external audit appropriateness of the proposed final appropriateness of the proposed final resilience to cyber attacks.
process: and in light of the findings, to dividend on ordinary shares for 2016 dividend on ordinary shares for 2017 Advised the Board regarding the make a recommendation to the Board and special dividend for 2017. and special dividend for 2018. appropriateness of the proposed as to Deloittes re-appointment at the Concluded the prior years risk review.
Concluded the prior years risk review.
interim ordinary dividend for 2017 and 2018 AGM.
Reviewed the draft viability statement special dividend for 2018.
Reviewed the draft viability statement Received a briefing on key accounting to appear in the 2016 Annual Report to appear in the 2017 Annual Report Reviewed Deloittes audit plan for the judgements with regard to the and Accounts.
audit of the Companys 2017 Companys 2017 accounts.
Reviewed the Committees accounts, and report on the progress Reviewed the Committees Oversaw the process leading to the performance against its agreed of the audit to date.
performance against its agreed Boards Viability Statement included in objectives for 2016 and setting its key objectives for 2017 and agreed its key Led the appraisal of Deloittes its 2017 reporting.
objectives and priorities for 2017. objectives and priorities for 2018. performance during the audit of the Concluded the 2017 year end Held a private meeting with Deloitte.
Held a private meeting with Deloitte.
Held a private meeting with the Head of Agreed Internal Audits programme of Received a detailed presentation on Internal Audit.
work for 2018. progress to date and plans for further Agreed Internal Audits programme of improving the Groups resilience to work for 2017. cyber attacks and wider IT security generally.
co. uk 64 Directors Report: Governance Audit Committee Report continued In addition, at each meeting, the Committee also reviewed its other areas of Risk management and internal control responsibility, including: The Group has established an ongoing process of risk management and Financial reporting practices.
internal control, applying Main Principle C. 2 and its Supporting Provisions of the Code which relates to determining the nature and extent of principal risks The risk management and internal control framework.
and the maintenance of sound risk management and internal control systems.
The internal audit process and the review of reports received and actions The Board is responsible for the effectiveness of the system of internal control, arising therefrom.
which has been designed to meet the requirements of the Group and the Checking for any incidences of fraud, actual, alleged or precautionary, risks it encounters, including taking account of environmental, social and and ensuring proper controls and a response plan are in place.
The systems cannot eliminate the risk of failure but rather seek to manage both the likelihood of their occurrence and the The adequacy of the Companys whistleblowing procedures and the extent of their impact, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute status of any investigations.
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In carrying out these activities, the Committee places reliance on regularreports The Principal Risks facing the Company, as assessed by the Board, are set from Executive Management, Internal Audit and from Deloitte.
In monitoring the out on pages 36 to 41, together with information on the action taken and or financial reporting practices, the Committee reviewed accounting policies, areas planned to mitigate each one, and a description on page 37 of the Groups of judgement highlighted by Executive Management and by the external auditor, appetite for risk.
the going concern assumptions and compliance with accounting standards and the requirements of the Code.
The Board makes its assessment of risk half yearly, after overseeing a bottom-up and top-down review of risk in all areas of the business.
Action to Committee competence mitigate the effect of each one is led by the Chief Executive either directly or A key requirement of the FRCs guidance on Audit Committees is that each indirectly in conjunction with the Group Management Team GMT.
Committee member should have sufficient knowledge: training: and expertise: The Boards assessments use a standard methodology which takes into to contribute effectively to the Committees deliberations.
account environmental, social and governance considerations.
In As Committee Chairman, I have extensive experience in my role of Group compliance with the Code, the Board also regularly reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control in providing a Finance Director of Dixons Carphone plc of the financial reporting requirements of FTSE 100 companies: of financial reporting preparation and responsible assessment and mitigation of risks.
compliance for public companies: of dealing with internal and external The Boards monitoring covers all controls, including financial, operational, auditors: and I also have experience of both attending Audit Committees and compliance and assurance controls which include risk management.
of being a member of an Audit Committee.
This experience has given me an Compliance with the Groups system of internal control is primarily driven and insight into key areas of shareholder concern and independent experience of co-ordinated through compliance with an established Operating Framework robustly challenging both the executive and the external and internal auditor.
supported by detailed manuals covering the main disciplines.
These include I am assisted by four other Independent Non Executive Directors: clear levels of delegated authority, responsibility and accountability, and are Rob Rowley is the Committees former Chairman, who I succeeded as subject to periodic review to ensure they remain appropriate and proportionate to the Groups changing strategic and operating requirements.
Chairman of the Committee on 10 January 2018 and who also has recent and relevant financial experience through currently chairing the Audit Adherence to the Operating Framework is monitored by management and assessed independently by Internal Audit.
At its half year and year end Committees at Greene King plc and Camelot Group.
It has been announced that Rob will stand down from the Board at the conclusion of the Companys meetings, the Board reviews risk in relation to the Companys strategic objectives and its current plans to deliver them.
It also reviews progress and 2018 AGM.
Kate Barker has wide experience of key areas in which the Company operates day to day, having led Government policy reviews into performance in action taken to mitigate the impact of thoserisks.
housing supply and land use planning.
She also has experience of being a The Board is supported in this by more regular and detailed reviews, by the non executive director with Man Group plc and previously with Yorkshire Audit Committee, including the review of progress reports from Internal Audit, Building Society.
Mike Hussey has in-depth experience in land development and by risk reviews across the business, led by the GMT.
These reviews and marketing, and also has experience at senior level as an executive board during 2017 resulted in a number of enhancements to internal controls, director of Land Securities plc and with Canary Wharf Group plc.
Angela designed to reduce or better manage risk across the business.
Knight has wide experience of financial services and banking and has These included: extensive non executive director experience.
A seamless interface between the Enterprise Resources Planning ERP Between us, I am confident that the members of the Audit Committee have and the consolidation system and collection of non-financial data the necessary competence relevant for the house building sector as automatically, together with an improved audit trail of submissions.
envisioned by the Code and that this will continue to be the case after Rob Enhanced self-certification of business unit compliance with key controls Rowley stands down.
As described in the Nomination Committee Report on page 69, there is a formal Further standardisation of the approach to monitoring and control of process of induction for new Directors and this includes specific reference to large-scale infrastructure projects.
assisting competence in relevant Committee areas through exposure to appropriate areas of the Companys operations and performance.
The Committee oversees the actions being taken to monitor Information Technology IT initiatives which aim to either directly protect against and reduce All the members of the Audit Committee are Independent Non Executive the risk of cyber-related type attacks and fraud: support and enhance the Directors and both myself, as Chairman and Rob Rowley have recent and current IT environment including data protection: or that are crucial in their relevant financial experience as required by the Code.
contribution to key business initiatives aiming to enhance the experience of I am confident that the composition: balance: and expertise of the Audit customers, suppliers and employees.
Committee can give shareholders confidence that the financial: reporting: risk: At its meeting in February 2018, the Board, after conducting its own review and control processes of the Company are subjected to the appropriate level and after reviewing more detailed assessments from the Audit Committee, of independent, robust and challenging oversight.
remained satisfied that the system of internal control continued to be effective in identifying, assessing, and ranking the various risks facing the Company: and in monitoring and reporting progress in mitigating their potential impact on the Company.
The Board also approved the statement of the Principal Risks and Uncertainties set out on pages 36 to 41 of this Annual Report.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 65 The Regulations substantially curtail those non-audit services which can be Viability statement provided by the auditor to the Group and in particular prohibits all tax-related The Committee reviewed the viability statement set out on page 41 together services, including compliance services as well as general advice, and all with the methodology underpinning it: the period it covered: and the consultancy and advisory services.
The Regulations also require that Board robustness of the stress-testing undertaken.
The outcome of that review was approval is required if eligible non-audit services, such as due diligence and that it recommended its approval to the Board similar assurance services exceed 30% of the prior year Group audit fee.
In addition, fees for eligible non-audit services are not to exceed 70% of the External auditor Group audit fee, calculated on a rolling three-year basis.
The Board is satisfied that, following the above-mentioned review and taking into account the new Re-appointment regulation, this policy will be conducive to the maintenance of good As noted earlier, Deloitte LLP is the Companys external auditor.
Their governance, best practice and auditor independence and objectivity.
performance is kept under regular review by the Board and the Audit Non-audit services in 2017 predominantly related to work undertaken as a Committee and the Committee undertakes a formal assessment of the result of Deloittes role as auditors, in particular the assurance work carried out external audit process each year including both current and ongoing suitability.
in connection with the announcement of the Companys half year results for This review takes the form of a detailed checklist and questionnaire issued to 2017, which is of direct benefit to shareholders although it is not formally Directors: executives involved in the detailed stages of the audit process: and regarded as audit work for reporting purposes.
Deloitte also performed a representative sample of employees in regional business units which were certain real estate work, for which they were selected as they were considered subject to audit.
The responses were augmented by external feedback on the to be the best supplier for that service.
All independence considerations were relative performance of auditors generally, and from regulatory sources.
considered with regard to these services, in line with the above policy, and The outcome of this review was that the Committee recommended to the were fully compliant with it.
Board, which in turn is recommending to shareholders in Resolution 13 at The Audit Committee fully recognises and supports the importance of the the 2018 AGM on page 151, that Deloitte LLP should continue as auditor to independence of auditors.
Its review of the auditors performance during 2017 the Company.
The Committee is satisfied that the carrying out of the above work did not, and will not going forward, impair the independence Tender of the external auditor.
It also recognises that, from time to time, there is a The Company last conducted a tender process for the external audit in clear commercial advantage based on cost and timetable requirements in 2007 2008.
UK rules relating to the requirement for rotation of external using the Companys auditors.
As a result, the value of non-audit services auditors by FTSE 350 companies permit transitional arrangements in line with work was 0.1m in 2017 2016: 0.1m which represents just under 25% of guidance issued by the FRC which, applied to the Company, allow the the audit fee as set out in Note 6 to the Accounts on page 116. present auditor, Deloitte, to continue in office up to and including the conclusion of the audit of the Companys 2020 accounts.
This is considered Internal Audit by the Committee to be in the interests of shareholders and other The Internal Audit function reviews the effectiveness and efficiency of the stakeholders and it permits the present audit partner, Edward Hanson, to systems of internal control in place to safeguard the assets: to quantify, price, conclude his five year audit partner rotation and allows sufficient time transfer, avoid or mitigate risks: and to monitor the activities of the Group in thereafter for the Committee to prepare for the external audit to be the subject accomplishing established objectives.
The annual Internal Audit plan, and the of a competitive tender of alternative firms to Deloitte, during 2020.
The individual audits conducted in line with the audit plan, are driven primarily by Company will of course keep the matter under regular review, taking into the principal risks faced by the business.
Following each review an Internal account the annual performance review to be conducted by the Committee Audit report is provided to both the management responsible for the area as well as other relevant factors.
There are no contractual restrictions on the reviewed and the GMT.
These reports outline Internal Audits opinion of the Companys selection of its external auditor.
management control framework in place together with actions indicating improvements proposed or made as appropriate.
The Chief Executive, the Statement of compliance GMT and senior management consider thereports on a regular basis and are The Company has complied throughout the reporting year with the provisions responsible for ensuring thatimprovements are made as agreed.
A database of The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation of audit recommendations and improvement initiatives is maintained.
Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Follow-up and escalation processes ensure that such improvements are Responsibilities Order 2014. implemented and fully embedded in a timely manner.
The Company belongs to and participates in industry-wide forumsandother Appointment of the auditor for non-audit services initiatives aimed at combating fraud within the constructionindustry.
The Audit Committee has a formal policy, reviewed annually, on whether the Companys external auditor should be employed to provide services other Summaries of all key Internal Audit reviews and activity and resulting reports than audit services.
In line with the Code, the Committee has regard to the are provided to the Audit Committee for review and discussion.
relevant ethical guidance regarding the provision of non-audit The Internal Audit function also formally reviews proposed related-party servicesby Deloitte.
transactions, such as purchases by employees from Group companies, to As part of that policy, the Committee has determined that the following ensure proper procedures are followed and that such procedures are assignments should not be undertaken by the auditors: undertaken strictly in accordance with the formal policy in place and, where applicable, company law.
Bookkeeping or other services related to the accounting records or financial statements.
The most recent independent formal evaluation of the Internal Audit function was carried out in 2015 on behalf of the Audit Committee by PwC and its Internal audit outsourcing services.
finding was that Internal Audit continues to operate effectively.
A number of The provision of advice on large Information Technology systems.
initiatives were progressed subsequently to ensure the Internal Audit function Services connected with valuation, litigation support, legal, recruitment continues to meet both current best practice and the evolving needs of the or remuneration.
The next such evaluation will be carried out during 2019.
Where non-audit services have an initial or forecast face value in excess of The Internal Audit Charter, which codifies the aims, processes and outputs of 100,000 there must be prior review and authorisation by the Group Finance Internal Audit, was reviewed by the Committee for ongoing appropriateness.
The Internal Audit function and its reporting lines enable it to be independent The Committee has reviewed this policy in light of the new regulation set out in of the executive and to exercise independent judgement.
the EU Audit Directive and Audit Regulation 2014 which applied to the The Head of Internal Audit has direct access at all times to the Chairman of Company from 1 October 2017. the Audit Committee, the Chairman of the Board and also to the Chief Executive and the other Executive Directors.
co. uk 66 Directors Report: Governance Audit Committee Report continued Ensured that it correctly reflected the Companys business model, as Whistleblowing described on page 21.
The Groups whistleblowing policy is supported by a clear process that Ensured that it correctly described the Companys strategy, as described includes an  hotline through which any person, including on pages 13 and 20. employees of the Company, may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting, other operational matters or Considered whether it presented the information in a clear and concise inappropriate behaviours in the work place.
All whistleblowing cases are manner, illustrated by appropriate KPIs, to facilitate shareholders access formally investigated by the Head of Internal Audit, Group Director of Health, to relevant information.
Safety and Environment where appropriate, Group Human Resources Director and or the Group Legal Director and Company Secretary depending Significant items on the nature of the issue.
The Chief Executive is apprised of all allegations The items below are those that the Audit Committee have considered in and conclusions of the review.
discharging their duties and in considering the financial reporting of the Group.
Whistleblowing incidents and their outcome are reported to the Audit Cost allocation of inventory Committee.
Whistleblowing is a standing item on each Audit Committee The cost allocation framework used across the Group determines the profit agenda, which allows the Committee to regularly review the adequacy of the forecasted for each site and dictates the way in which inventory is costed and policy in line with its requirement to do so under the Code.
The policy itself is allocated across each development.
It also ensures that any costs incurred in periodically reviewed and includes the ability for workers to make protected excess of the original forecast are recognised appropriately as the site progresses.
disclosures with regard to matters arising under the Modern Slavery Act 2015 with regard to our business and its supply chain.
The Committee is satisfied The Committee reviewed the work undertaken by Deloitte LLP as part of the that the policy and its administration remain effective.
year-end audit which included testing of the Group-wide controls to monitor cost allocation and substantive testing.
This enabled the Committee to gain Going concern assurance that the framework is used consistently and that areas of significant judgement including future sales prices, build costs and the allocation of The Group has prepared forecasts, including certain sensitivities, taking into account the Principal Risks and Uncertainties identified on pages 36 to 41. shared infrastructure costs are being accurately represented in site forecasts.
Having considered these forecasts, the Directors remain of the view that the Groups financing arrangements and capital structure provide both the Exceptional provision in relation to leasehold At the July meeting, the Committee reviewed the assumptions used and the necessary facilities and covenant headroom to enable the Group to conduct its business for at least the next 12 months.
The Committee reviewed the calculation of the 130.0 million exceptional provision.
An update was provided to the Committee at the December meeting as some assumptions from the half forecasts and the Directors expectations based thereon, and agreed that they were reasonable.
Accordingly, the consolidated financial statements have year had crystalised as the Group had signed agreements with freeholders representing approximately 90% of identified leases.
This review, combined with been prepared on a going concern basis.
reviewing the report provided by Deloitte LLP enabled the Committee to conclude that the 130.0 million provision originally recognised remains the Viability Statement most appropriate estimate.
The viability statement is designed to be a longer term view of the sustainability of the Companys strategy and business model and related resourcing, in the Defined Benefit Pension valuations light of projected wider economic and market developments.
The Committee During the year a Medically Underwritten Mortality Study MUMS was reviewed the Directors expectations: the criteria upon which they were based: undertaken as part of the 2016 pension triennial valuation.
The results of this, and the sensitivities applied: and agreed that they were reasonable.
The along with the market based assumptions discount and inflation rates used statement appears on page 41 together with details of the processes, in calculating the net pension liabilities were discussed and agreed by the assumptions, and testing which underpin it.
Committee to establish the net pension deficit recognised on the balance sheet at 31 December 2017.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Viability statement and going concern Code provision C. 1 Although the viability statement and going concern are matters for the whole The Board has responsibility, under Provision C. 1 of the Code and its Board, a review is made by the Committee of the appropriateness of the five-year Supporting Principles and Code Provisions, for preparing the Companys assessment period, the Groups headroom under its covenants and undrawn Annual Report and Accounts: for ensuring that it presents a fair, balanced and facilities in relation to the Groups financial forecasts and sensitivity analysis.
understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects: and that it provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Alternative Performance Measures APMs Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee reviewed the Groups use of APMs and concurred with the presentation and balance between APMs and statutory measures throughout Process the annual report.
They concluded that the APMs presented are appropriate The review of the Companys Annual Report and Accounts took the form of a and meet the criteria set out in the ESMA guidance.
They were able to detailed assessment of the collaborative process of drafting them, which conclude this as they are widely used industry measures, form the basis of the involves the Companys Investor Relations: Company Secretariat: and Finance key strategic targets and are linked directly to executive remuneration.
Departments, with guidance and input from other relevant Departments and external advisers.
It ensured that there is a clear and unified link between this Critical accounting judgements and key sources of Annual Report and Accounts and the Companys other external reporting,  and between the three main sections of the Annual Report and Accounts The Committee has considered the matters of key judgement and key the Strategic Report: the Governance Reports: and the sources of estimation uncertainty used in preparing the financial statements Financial Statements.
and they concur with the disclosure made in Note 2 on pages 111 to 112.
In particular, the Committee: Recommendation to the Board Reviewed all material matters, as reported elsewhere in this A summary of the process and of the Committees findings was considered Annual Report.
by the Board at its meeting on 26 February 2018.
The outcome of that Ensured that it correctly reflected the Companys performance in the review was that the Committee confirmed to the Board that the 2017 reporting year, as described in this Annual Report.
Annual Report and Accounts met the requirements of Code provision C. 1, Ensured that it presented a consistent message throughout.
and the Boards formal statement to that effect, to meet the requirements of the Code, is set out on page 60.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 67 Nomination Committee Report Nomination Committee Dear Shareholder I am pleased to be able to take this opportunity as Chairman of the Nomination Nomination Committee to summarise the important ongoing objectives and Committee responsibilities of the Committee: the work that has been carried outduring 2017: and its plans for the coming year.
Kevin Beeston The Nomination Committee performs an extremely important role andthiscan Kevin Beeston Chairman of the be demonstrated by the fact that in addition to myself, alloftheNon Executive Chairman Nomination Committee Directors are also members of this Committee.
The primary objectives of the Committee are to support the Board infulfilling its responsibilities to ensure that there are firstly, formal, rigorous Main objective andtransparent processes in place for the appointment of new Directors both to the Board and to senior management positions, and secondly, effective, To ensure there shall be a formal, rigorous and transparent process deliverable and well thought through succession planning and contingency for the appointment of new Directors to the Board, its Committees planning processes in place across theGroup for all key positions.
and to other senior roles and in conjunction with the Board to ensure effective diversity improvements and succession planning With regard to Board appointments, following a detailed review by the processesacross theGroup.
Committee of the Boards composition and the requirements of the Companys strategy, it was announced on 10 January 2018 that a number of 2017 performance changes would be made to refresh the Board and its Committees: Further progressed the diversity and inclusivity agenda across the Gwyn Burr joined the Board as an Independent Non Executive Director business, including partnering initiatives with selected third parties.
on 1 February 2018, bringing considerable experience including in the key Reviewed contingency and longer term succession planning for area of customer service which will strengthen the Boards expertise in allsenior roles across the business.
Acted upon comments made in the Board Appraisal for 2016 Rob Rowley will stand down at the conclusion of the Annual General regarding improving certain skill sets.
Meeting on 26 April 2018 as an Independent Non Executive Director after over eight years of distinguished service.
Led preparations for Board and Board Committee succession planning.
Kate Barker will succeed Rob as the Boards Senior Independent Director with effect from 26 April 2018.
2018 objectives Humphrey Singer succeeded Rob as Chairman of the Audit Committee To further progress the diversity and inclusivity agenda across the on 10 January 2018. business and ensure the progress made is embedded within Kates and Humphreys respective appointments are a result of the Committees our business.
medium term Board succession planning activities over recent years.
To continue to review and enhance succession planning processes Guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC is that Nomination across the Group.
Committees should generally look deeper into the Company to identify future leaders for the business: adopt a wider outlook in identifying potential Nomination Committee Directors: and look further ahead than any immediate requirement to replace The Committee is chaired by the Chairman of the Board and is an individual Director.
The Committee has addressed this through the further composed of a majority of Independent Non Executive Directors as development of the Companys Talent Management Boards to identify future required by the Code.
Its members are set out in the table below.
talent and ensure that associated training and development plans are in place, to identify those executives with short and longer-term potential to be Directors, and to encourage and assist their further development with this aim.
Committee members Number of meetings attended The Committee has also focused increasingly on the skills of individual Kevin Beeston Chairman 2 2 Directors, and of the Board as a whole, in assessing whether each has the necessary skill sets and whether there are any particular skills gaps, Kate Barker 2 2 particularly in relation to the Companys medium term and longer-term Mike Hussey 2 2 strategic direction and the Boards ability to drive it effectively.
More details are Angela Knight 2 2 set out on page 58.
Rob Rowley 2 2 The Committee also welcomes the Hampton Alexander Review which is Humphrey Singer 2 2 seeking to improve Board and senior leadership diversity across FTSE350 companies by setting targets to: Gwyn Burr was appointed a Committee member on 1 February 2018.
Increase the target for womens representation on FTSE350 Boards to 33% by 2020.
Set a new target for womens representation on FTSE100 companies executive positions at Board level and those that directly report to the executive committee members including the Companys GMT to 33% by 2020.
Following the appointment of Gwyn Burr noted above, the Company currently has three women on its Board 30% and six across the combined Board and GMT 35% and is therefore already compliant with the proposed revised target for wider executive positions and moving closer to compliance with that for the Board alone which is expected to be reached when Rob Rowley steps down from the Board at the conclusion of the Companys 2018 AGM.
co. uk 68 Directors Report: Governance Nomination Committee Report continued The Committee has also reviewed processes designed to meet the Committee purpose and responsibilities requirement to publish on a Government website, during 2018, certain The Committee has procedures in place with regard to maintaining a formal, statistics and commentary around the gender pay gap during the tax year rigorous and transparent process for Board appointments, ensuring that ended 5 April 2017.
The Company strongly supports the Governments appointments to the Board are made on merit and assessed against objective initiative on gender pay gap reporting and looks forward to publishing criteria.
The Committee guides the Board in regularly assessing whether there its findings.
is an appropriate balance of expertise and skills on the Board and other diversity considerations.
The Committee notes and welcomes the 2011 report The Committee made good progress during 2017 and its achievements made during 2017 and its plans for 2018 are set out in the left hand from Lord Davies of Abersoch on Women on Boards the Davies Report : the 2015 Report which raised the target from 25% to 33% by the end of 2020: columnof page 67. and the Hampton Alexander Review which extends the 33% target by 2020 to include the executives at Board level and those that report directly to the The key priorities of the Committee remain the following: executive committee members for the Company this is the GMT.
To regularly review the Boards composition, balance, diversity, skill sets, and individual Directors time commitment.
The Committee oversees on behalf of the Board, and advises the Board on, the identification, assessment and selection of candidates for appointment to To regularly review our succession and contingency planning across the Board.
The Committee has a formal, rigorous and transparent process thebusiness, and ensure that there is a clear link to individuals career against objective criteria.
A description of how appointments are typically development and professional development.
made to the Board is set out below and this was followed in connection with To drive the Companys diversity and inclusivity agenda across all levels of the recent appointment of Gwyn Burr to the Board as an Independent Non our business.
To ensure the Group continues to have the necessary level of Board and senior management skills and leadership to deliver the strategy.
In meeting its objectives, both the Committee and the Board take into account ENGAGE diversity including gender.
We fully support the various Government initiatives The engagement of independent recruitment consultants The in this key area, including the Beyond One by 21 report and Zygos Partnership whohave no other connection to recommendations launched in 2016 by Sir John Parker, which seek theCompany.
toincrease ethnic diversity on UK boards.
I can confirm that diversity and inclusivity remains very much on the TaylorWimpey agenda with regular reporting now taking place including CONSIDER aspecific annual update and discussion.
Whilst we continue to make The preparation of a long list of potential candidates which took progress, we do of course recognise that there is still further work to be done into account the outcome of the Committees latest review of the in order to achieve our wider diversity and inclusivity strategy.
composition and skill sets of the Board.
The Committees objectives, the strategy for delivering them, progress made towards them during 2017 and targets and plans for 2018 are described in more detail in this Report.
SELECT The Committee will continue to focus on ensuring that the present and future The selection of a short list of suitablecandidates meeting the composition of the Board and the Groups executive management Committeescriteria.
isappropriate for the delivery of the Groups strategy and that all relevantUK Corporate Governance Code the Code requirements continue to be met.
INTERVIEWS AND MEETINGS Interviews and meetings with the Chairman, Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Legal Director and Company Secretary and with each Non Executive Director.
SELECT CANDIDATE Kevin Beeston Chairman of the Nomination Committee TAKE UP REFERENCES APPOINTMENT INDUCTION Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 69 The Nomination Committee also guides the Board in assessing from time to As highlighted in the Committees 2017 performance on page 67, a key focus time whether the Board has the correct balance of expertise and in arranging of the Committees work during the year was on progressive succession orderly succession planning for appointments to the Board and in respect of planning at all senior levels of the Company with a view to identifying key senior management positions across the business.
This considers not only the prospects and tailoring training and development plans to allow them to immediate succession planning for Directors but also a deeper review into the demonstrate their potential for future progression.
As part of this process, Companys management structure to identify those with longer term potential management below Board level is provided with regular access to the Board, to develop into future successors in the medium to long term.
The Committee including the opportunity to attend Board meetings and other Board-related also reviews Board composition in light of the Companys strategy, to ensure functions in order to give presentations on specialist topics, project work and as far as possible that new appointments help support the drive to achieve its the performance of specific regional businesses and Divisions.
This helps to strategic objectives and required skill sets.
provide valuable exposure to the Board for up and coming management as well as being extremely valuable for Board members in assessing the Companys strength in depth.
Committee activities during 2017 The Committee meets formally at least twice a year.
During 2017, in addition to overseeing the recruitment of Gwyn Burr as an Independent Non Executive As noted on page 67, the Committee met on two occasions during 2017 Director and planning succession to the positions of Senior Independent and the activities at each meeting were: Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee, the Committees principal agenda items consisted of longer term succession planning, reviewing and approving the contingency plan for key members of staff and considering progress on diversity across the business.
Wider succession planning and diversity also remained on the Board agenda regularly throughout the year.
May Oct In addition, and in line with the Code, the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director, independent of each other, hold meetings at least annually with the Non Executive Directors without the Executive Directors present.
Information and professional development Reviewed succession and Oversaw the selection and contingency planning progress and appointment of Gwyn Burr as an The Company has procedures whereby newly-appointed Directors including further plans for: Independent Non Executive Director Non Executive Directors receive a formal induction.
This includes training and continuing familiarisation with the Companys business, strategy, operations The Board: Oversaw consequent changes in the positions of Senior Independent including health and safety and systems, the principles underlying the The Non Executive Directors: Director and Chairman of the discharge of their duties as Directors and wider issues relating to the housing Board Committees: and Audit Committee sector.
The induction also includes meetings with key executives and function The Executive levels immediately heads from across the business, advisers and site visits.
Received an update of progress below the Board.
around Group succession planning The Board recognises the importance of induction and training.
These Reviewed progress and plans for and related development plans programs for Directors were reviewed during the year and are considered to developing talent Received an update on contingency remain appropriate.
Reviewed progress and plans for planning for key Executives below All Directors visit Group operations on a regular basis, engaging with contingency planning Board level employees at all levels in order to foster and maintain an understanding ofthe Reviewed the Board composition Recommended to the Board, business.
Board visits are arranged each year to operations and at least one following a rigorous review of the Reviewed the process to gather data Board meeting per annum takes place either in, or at a nearby location with individuals performance, that Kate for the Companys Gender Pay representatives from, a regional business over three days.
In 2017, the Board Barker: Mike Hussey and Rob Gap reporting visit, accompanied by the GMT, encompassed presentations on culture, Rowley, who will each have served customer services, digital, production and procurement: a planning update: for in excess of six years as an and performance updates from designated businesses.
Independent Non Executive Director at the time of the Companys 2018 The Group Legal Director and Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the AGM, should each continue in office Board and its Committees and he attends all meetings.
It is Board policy that and, with the exception of Rob wherever possible a formal agenda and reports are issued electronically to Rowley who will stand down, be Directors in respect of all Board and Committee meetings at least one week recommended for re-appointment prior to the meeting, in order to allow sufficient time for detailed review and at the AGM consideration beforehand.
Formal minutes are prepared in respect of all Board Received an update on diversity and Committee meetings and are then circulated and submitted for approval and inclusivity at the next meeting.
All Board papers are circulated electronically and Board meetings have been effectively paperless for several years, which has worked well and aided the overall efficiency of the wider Board process.
The Secretary provides regular briefings to the Board on regulatory and governance matters which are included as part of his formal regular reporting to the Board, and are supplemented, as appropriate, by briefings from independent advisers.
The Board also receives regular briefings and updates on environmental, social and governance ESG matters.
