32 intu properties plc Annual report 2017 Relationships People are what make us tick.
Our relationships and reputation with our stakeholders are important to the overall sustainable success of our business We maintain close relationships with introducing a net promoter score system regular client reviews with customer our stakeholders, checking in with them similar to Tell intu, to measure key points relationship managers.
regularly to nd out what we are doing along the relationship chain with tenants, well, what we can do better, and where such as leases or shoptting.
We attend a wide range of industry their needs have changed.
Every two conferences and we host regular years our materiality process takes a Working with our stakeholders Merchants Association meetings with formal sounding of the issues around our Customers tenants during the year to discuss local business that are most relevant to them.
Our customers are at the heart of plans and issues.
everything we do, so we listen to them In 2017 we introduced a reputation carefully to keep our centres continually Investors management framework into the evolving and meeting their requirements.
We deliver long-term value to our business to enable us to measure how Our net promoter score, which we assess investors through strong, stable income we are perceived by our stakeholders from Tell intu and is consistently high at streams and capital appreciation.
This robustly and to ensure that our strategy 70, shows where we are succeeding and ensures we have the ability to move the reects their needs and perceptions.
where we could make improvements.
Understanding the requirements and concerns of both We have a large number of stakeholders This year we continued our research existing and potential investors is key.
but we initially focused on five primary into the customer journey which aims groups: customers, tenants, employees, to enhance customer experience in our This year we conducted 390 meetings local and national government and centres.
Our brand tracker measures with investment institutions, including investors.
Working with Reputation awareness, advocacy and consideration away days to see our centres in action in Institute we identied areas of most of our brand by customers spontaneous the UK and Spain.
We hosted regular concern or interest to each of these five awareness was 26 per cent at the end investor visits to our centres to show groups and then used existing data sets of 2017.
We heard from 20,000 shoppers how we are meeting our objectives and to see how intu was perceived.
through our Tell intu customer feedback attended investor conferences in the UK programme and our Shopper View and internationally.
We took analysts and Combined with the 2017 RepTrak UK research panel of 2,000 customers investors to Madrid Xanad, to show survey this resulted in a reputation score participated in 22 projects.
them the quality of our Spanish portfolio across a number of core competencies.
and to reveal our latest plans for We also benchmarked ourselves against Retailers intu Costa del Sol.
not only our property peers but also Good relationships with our retailers are relevant leisure and retail brands in the essential to understanding their retail We also engaged in environmental, social FTSE 100 and 250. requirements and helping them ourish.
and governance indices which show high performance year-on-year.
As a result of this initial work, in 2018 We build our relationships through open we are undertaking bespoke qualitative communication across the business.
As research with our tenants and will be well as day-to-day contact we hold Strategic report Relationships 33 Suppliers Centre managers are empowered This year intu staff volunteered 28,000 We rely on our suppliers to help our to engage with their local MPs and hours to help local community groups.
business run smoothly, from day-to-day councillors and to actively participate in We held over 1,300 community activities operations through to the construction local Business Improvement Districts and in our centres.
We engaged with nearly of major developments.
We have open, town centre partnerships.
For example, 900 charities and reached over 3,600 transparent and long-term relationships intu Chapelelds general manager is people through our various community with suppliers to ensure they maintain the the vice-president of the Chamber of employment and other schemes.
In total, same high standards we set ourselves.
Commerce, putting us at the heart of we donated 1.9 million in community For example, our relationship with Trinity local business and community activity.
support through time, space and money.
Fire & Security goes back five years.
Not We also work with local authorities to only does it give us peace of mind that progress our development pipeline.
our crucial re alarm systems function correctly, but knowing our centres so well Our people enables them to proactively initiate ideas Our employees are the experts behind that keep us innovative.
the success of the business.
In centres, they are the face of intu and delivering Local and national government our brand promise is central to making Enduring relationships with local both customers and retailers happy.
authorities, town centre management Our commitment to employee and MPs is vital to our sustainability as a engagement is the key to our motivated long-term business.
Our centres are at the workforce and was central to achieving heart of many of the towns and cities in Investors in People gold award for all 14 The value of long-term relationships which we operate and where we play a of our centres.
Good long-term relationships are essential vital community role.
In some the local to our development programme, ensuring authority is our investment partner.
This year we engaged with our employees projects run smoothly with planners, using many channels such as our intranet, suppliers and residents.
Over the last Each year we host an annual staff presentations, briengs and 10 years we have worked closely with parliamentary dinner for MPs in whose employee consultation forums.
Our Win Watford Borough Council to bring the constituencies our centres lie, to discuss Your Dream reward and recognition intu Watford extension to fruition and issues of local importance.
programme entered its third year.
create a scheme that enhances Watford town centre and will benefit residents for We are working closely with the Minister Local communities years to come.
We have worked with our of State for Disabled People, Health and intu centres are at the heart of the construction partner Laing ORourke Work to champion accessibility in retail communities where they are located.
previously, and they are well-versed in and our CR Manager is co-chairing a retail Good community engagement benets what we expect of them in their role as accessibility forum with the Minister.
our customers and local people, and an intu supplier.
ultimately is good for our business.
