6 64 4 Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT OUR LEADERSHIP ENSURES CLEAR DECISION MAKING WITHIN THE SAFEGUARDS OF ASOUND GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK DRAX GROUP PLC BOARD Responsible for overseeing the Groups strategy and risk appetite, monitoring performance and ensuring that the necessary controls and resources are in place to deliver the Groups plans AUDIT COMMITTEE NOMINATION COMMITTEE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Overseas financial reporting, internal Makes recommendations on the Oversees the Groups approach controls and risk management structure, size and composition of toremuneration and sets key systems, whistleblowing and fraud, theBoard and succession planning for performance measures internal and external audit thedirectors and senior executives effectiveness Page71 Page81 Page76 EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Focuses on the Groups strategy, financial structure, planning and performance, succession planning and organisational development All Board committees are authorised to obtain legal or other HOW THE BOARD FUNCTIONS professional advice as necessary, to secure the attendance of At each meeting the Board receives a report from the Group Chief external advisers at their meetings and to seek information required Executive officer in relation to key business and operational matters from any employee of the Group in order to perform their duties.
and from the Group Chief Financial officer updating the Board on the financial performance of the Group.
It also receives regular ROLE OF THE BOARD reports on performance against the Business Plan, safety, The Board determines: the Groups strategy: the Groups appetite operational, financial and periodic business reports from senior forrisk: the risk management policies: the annual plan and key management across the Group.
Of equal importance, the Board also performance indicators: acquisitions and disposals and other receives industry, regulatory and topical updates from external transactions outside delegated limits: material changes to experts and advisers, as well as internal specialists, from time to time.
accounting policies or practices: significant financial decisions: Papers are distributed in advance of Board and committee meetings, capital structure and dividend policy: shareholder communications: to brief directors.
prosecution, defence or settlement of material litigation: Group remuneration policy: the terms of reference of Board committees: The core activities of the Board and its committees are documented and the Board structure, composition and succession.
and planned on an annual basis and a list of matters arising from each meeting is maintained and followed up at subsequent TERMS OF REFERENCE meetings.
The Board has a schedule of matters reserved for its decisions and formal terms of reference for its committees.
These are reviewed Directors may, in the furtherance of their duties, seek independent annually and are available to view on the Groups website at professional advice at the Companys expense.
director sought independent professional advice.
Matters which are not specically reserved to the Board and its The Company Secretary advises the Board on all governance committees under their terms of reference, or to shareholders in matters, ensuring good information flows within the Board, its General Meeting, are delegated to the Executive Committee or committees, the Executive Committee and senior management.
otherwise delegated in accordance with a schedule of delegated Heensures that Board processes are complied with and is also authorities approved by the Board.
responsible for compliance with the Listing, Prospectus, Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 65 65 DisclosureGuidance and Transparency Rules and the Companies The Group Company Secretary is the Secretary to the Board.
Thereiscollaboration with other parties to ensure wider Notes: corporatecompliance.
1 Will Gardiner was the Group Chief Financial Officer until 31 December 2017.
On 1 January 2018 hewas appointed as Group Chief Executive Officer.
2 David Nussbaum was appointed as a director on 1 August 2017.
The Companys Articles of Association the Articles, give the 3 Dorothy Thompson ceased to be a director on 31 December 2017. directors power to authorise conflicts of interest.
The Board has aneffective procedure to identify potential conflicts of interest, BOARD ROLES consider them for authorisation and record them.
The Articles At 31 December 2017, the Board comprised of the Chairman, three alsoallow the Board to exercise voting rights in Group companies executive directors and four independent non-executive directors.
without restriction for example to appoint a director to a Group The key responsibilities of members of the Board are as follows: company.
Position Role The Company has appropriate insurance cover in place in respect of Chairman Responsible for leading and managing legal action against directors of the Company and its subsidiaries.
the Board, its effectiveness, and The Nomination Committee report contains details of the selection, governance.
Ensures Board members appointment, review and re-election of directors, as well as the are aware of and understand the views Board performance review and directors development.
The Articles and objectives of major shareholders are available on the Groups website at www.
Helps set the tone from the top in terms of the SCHEDULE OF MATTERS RESERVED FOR THE BOARD purpose, goal, vision and values for the At least once a year the Board reviews the nature and scale of whole organisation.
matters reserved for its decision and these include: D ividend policy.
Group Chief Executive Responsible for the day-to-day Company strategy, business objectives and annual budgets.
officer management of the business, developing Succession planning for the Board and senior management.
the Groups strategic direction for Approval of significant funding decisions.
consideration and approval by the Board Review and approval of corporate transactions.
and implementing the agreed strategy.
Group Chief Financial Supports the Chief Executive in Other day-to-day operational decisions are delegated by the Board officer developing and implementing strategy, tothe Executive Committee, subject to formal delegated authority and in relation to the financial and limits.
operational performance of the Group.
GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW Chief Executive, Responsible for leading and developing The Board recognises that there is always scope for improvement to DraxPower the operation of the Power Generation make us better able to achieve our aspirations and deal with the business.
To address this, we continually work to ensure Independent Responsible for bringing sound that our governance structures and processes are aligned with the Non-executive directors judgement and objectivity to the Boards requirements of the business and that good governance is deliberations and decision-making embedded by management throughout the Group.
Constructively challenge and believe that governance is not only about following the rules, but support the executive directors.
Monitor also about doing things in the right way.
We believe that it is the delivery of the strategy within the risk important for the Board to establish and lead a strong moral and and control framework set by the Board.
ethical culture within the organisation.
The values of the Group are Senior Independent Acts as a sounding board for the expressed as: honest, energised, achieving and together, or HEAT Director Chairman and a trusted intermediary for as it is known within the business.
These values have been other directors.
Available to discuss any established for several years, and are embedded throughout the concerns with shareholders that cannot organisation in the way ourpeople go about their everyday business.
be resolved through the normal channels of communication with the Chairman THE BOARD IN 2017 orthe executive directors.
The composition of the Board in 2017 was as follows: the Chairman, three executive directors and four independent non-executive directors.
Position Role Philip Cox CBE Chairman Tim Cobbold Independent non-executive director 1 Will Gardiner Group Chief Financial officer Andy Koss Chief Executive, Drax Power David Lindsell Senior Independent non-executive director 2 David Nussbaum Independent non-executive director 3 Dorothy Thompson CBE Group Chief Executive officer Tony Thorne Independent non-executive director 6 66 6 Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED 2017 CALENDAR OF BOARD ACTIVITIES HIGHLIGHTS JAN JANUARY 2017 2017 Approval of changes to management and operational structure.
Review of the challenges presented by the EU sustainability regulations comprised in FEB FEBRUARY 2017 the Renewable Energy Directive.
2017 Approval of the completion of the Opus Top ten risk analysis and in particular the Energy acquisition.
completion of actions necessary Statement on prevention of slavery and tosatisfactorily address the two Health & human trafcking in Drax Group plc was Safety Executive Improvement Notices MAR presented to the meeting and discussed.
relating to levels of dust detected in areas 2017 Preliminary results approved.
of the generation plant and the Principal 2016 Annual report and accounts Risks for the Annual report and accounts approved.
Investment plan for the B2B Energy APR 2017 2016 Corporate Scorecard approved by Supply business approved.
MARCH 2017 MAY 2017 Group renancing approved.
APRIL 2017 B usiness plan and budgets for Opus JUN 2017 Energy approved.
Performance and Deferred Share Plans approved.
JUL JULY 2017 2017 MAY 2017 2017 interim report and accounts New dividend policy approved.
JUNE 2017 AUG 2017 Review of the operations of the Power AUGUST 2017 Generation business, including Appointment of David Nussbaum as consideration of OCGT projects.
Discussed an update on Group risks.
SEP 2017 SEPTEMBER 2017 Update on data protection in readiness forthe implementation of the GDPR.
Review of the B2B Energy Supply OCT business strategy.
2017 Succession to the role of Group CEO.
OCTOBER 2017 NOV NOVEMBER 2017 Sale of Billington Bioenergy approved 2017 Announcement of the appointment of ascompany no longer in line with Nicola Hodson as a newnon-executive Groupstrategy.
Group strategy review and approval of Review of draft Business Plan for 2018. gas repowering project.
DEC 2017 New people strategy approved.
DECEMBER 2017 Update on OCGT projects.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 67 67 BOARD DIVERSITY DIRECTORS INTERESTS, INDEMNITY ARRANGEMENTS In 2017, there were seven male directors and one female director on ANDOTHER SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS the Board.
Other than a service contract between the executive directors and a Group company, or as noted in the Remuneration Committee report, NUMBER OF MEETINGS HELD no director had a material interest at any time during the year in any The Board and its committees have regular scheduled meetings and significant contract with the Company or any of its subsidiary hold additional meetings as required.
Directors are expected, where undertakings.
possible, to attend all Board meetings, relevant committee meetings, the Annual General Meeting AGM and any General Meetings.
There are no agreements between the Group and its directors The Board has eight scheduled meetings each year.
providing for compensation for loss of ofce or employment because In 2017, an additional three meetings were held by telephone to of a takeover bid.
address matters requiring formal decisions and a Shareholder General Meeting was held to approve the Opus Energy acquisition.
The Board has reviewed the independence of each non-executive In addition, the Board meets at least annually to consider strategy.
None of the non-executive directors who served during the year had any material business or other relationship with the Group, TIME COMMITMENT and there were no other matters that were likely to affect their Under the terms of his letter of appointment, the Chairman is independence of character and judgement.
The Board recognises expected to commit between 50 and 70 full days a year to this role.
that in view of the characteristics of independence set out in the UK Under the non-executive directors letters of appointment, each is Corporate Governance Code, length of service is an important factor expected to commit 12 to 15 full days a year.
That includes when considering the independence of non-executive directors and attendance at Board meetings, the AGM, one annual Board strategy that directors having served for longer than nine years may not be day and at least one site visit per year.
In addition, they are expected considered independent.
In November, David Lindsell was reto devote appropriate preparation time ahead of each meeting.
The appointed for a fourth time until the 2019 AGM.
The Board considers time commitment expected in respect of their membership of the that David Lindsells experienced oversight in ensuring careful Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees is an additional financial stewardship as Chairman of the Audit Committee is crucial three to four full days a year in each case.
However, in practice during a period of change in the implementation of the new strategy considerably more time is devoted, particularly by the Chairmen of and the development of the new Group CEO into that role, and the the Board committees.
Non-executive directors also spend time with establishment of a new Group CFO.
The established Chairman of the management, to maintain their knowledge of the developing Audit Committee continuing in post during this period of transition business and to understand the operational challenges being faced.
and assisting in the recruitment and induction of a new Audit Committee Chairman in 2018 will be an integral part of ongoing good COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE financial governance.
The Board is satisfied that David Lindsells It is the Boards view that throughout the period commencing on judgement has remained wholly independent and that hehas 1 January 2017, the Company has complied in full with the principles consistently displayed all of the behaviours expected of of the Code issued in April 2016.
The Code can be found on the ourindependent non-executive directors.
The Board therefore Financial Reporting Council website at www.
considers all of the non-executive directors to be independent.
With the exception of David Nussbaum who was appointed as a director on 1 August 2017, and Nicola Hodson who was appointed asa director on 12 January 2018, all of the directors listed on pages 5859 served throughout the year.
Each of those listed, except for Dorothy Thompson, remained directors as at the date of the approval of this report.
Biographical details of the directors appear on pages 5859.
BOARD ATTENDANCE 2017 The table below shows the number of meetings held and the directors attendance during 2017.
of % of Date appointed as a director possible meetings meetings 1 Director and member of the Board meetings attended attended Tim Cobbold 27 September 2010 8 7 88% Philip Cox 1 January 2015 8 8 100% Will Gardiner 16 November 2015 8 8 100% Andy Koss 1 January 2016 8 8 100% David Lindsell 1 December 2008 8 8 100% David Nussbaum 1 August 2017 3 3 100% 2 Dorothy Thompson 20 October 2005 8 8 100% Tony Thorne 29 June 2010 8 8 100% Notes: 1 The maximum number of meetings that each individual was entitled to, and had the opportunity to attend 2 Dorothy Thompson ceased to be a director on 31 December 2017 6 68 8 Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED STRATEGY IN PROGRESS Succession planning, development and induction In September 2017 we announced that Atimetable wasadopted for the process after12 successful years as Group Chief and regular Committee discussions and Executive officer, Dorothy Thompson would updates wereheld throughout.
From a be leaving the Group at the end of the year detailed understanding of our requirements andthat Will Gardiner would be appointed and specication of the role, a list was as Group Chief Executive officer with effect compiled of potential external candidates from 1 January 2018. and an assessment of both theexternal and internal candidates was carried out using The Nomination Committee has a wellthe same criteria to ensureconsistency.
established and robust succession planning Ashortlist was then drawn up and the process in place and it regularly identies shortlisted candidates met theCommittee.
and monitors potential suitable internal candidates for senior roles.
The Chairman of The Nomination Committee unanimously the Nomination Committeeled the process agreed that Will Gardiner had the blend of to appoint a new Group Chief Executive skills and experience to be our next Group officer and had a number of discussions Chief Executive officer.
Will joined Drax as with the Nomination Committee to scope Group Chief Financial officer and amember out the best approach to take and the of the Group Board in November 2015.
He requirements for the role.
The Committee has been a key architect of our new strategy enlisted the help of a professional external and is a focused, innovative and engaging executive recruitment agency, Russell leader.
Aside from assisting with the recruitment, Russell Reynolds has no connection with the Group.
DIRECTORS DEVELOPMENT The Board is committed to the development of all employees visits to Drax Biomass operations and reviewed the wider anddirectors and has reviewed, and will continue to review, sustainability programme and activities.
Periodically, the noneachdirectors development requirements and make appropriate executive directors also meet with senior management to be arrangements to address them.
For example, as part of his ongoing briefedon the Groups business and specic Board training development, Will Gardiner worked with an executive coach during isarranged covering key relevant topics.
In addition to regular coaching sessions, where his coach Septemberthe Board held its meeting at one of the Opus Energy ofces inNorthampton where the Board received presentations reviewed priorities and challenges with him, his coach also prepared 360 degree feedback to support more in-depth coaching.
ontheoperation of the retail business by members of the senior management team.
The directors were then taken through The non-executive directors visit operational sites both in the UK variouscustomer scenarios to illustrate the customer experience.
In 2017 a delegation of the Board visited operational and administrative sites in the US, and over a three-day period carried out These programmes are reviewed regularly during the year.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 69 69 SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT IS A PRIORITY FOR THE GROUP TO ENSURE GOOD UNDERSTANDING OF OUR INVESTMENT CASE SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT calendar of events, the website provides content relating to Drax believes engagement with shareholders is very important.
themarkets in which the Group operates.
TheGroup has a comprehensive investor relations programme, maintaining regular dialogue with shareholders and investors.
The Board receives reports of meetings with institutional shareholders together with regular market updates which give the Throughout the year, meetings are held for the Group Chief directors a clear understanding of shareholders views and concerns.
Executive officer, Group Chief Financial officer and Head of The Chairman is also available to meet with shareholders, independently of the executive directors, as required.
InvestorRelations to meet with institutional shareholders and sell-side analysts.
These meetings allow us to discuss the Companys business model, strategy and marketplace, as well as update on The Annual report and accounts is sent to all shareholders who wish performance.
Meetings are arranged proactively and on request to receive a copy.
It is also available in the investor section of the andoften include site visits, which provide shareholders with Companys website www.
valuable insight into the Groups operations.
Communication with all our stakeholders is an essential part of Digital communication is increasingly used as a means of keeping in ourbusiness.
Details of communications with stakeholders are touch with shareholders.
During 2017 we introduced a new Investor contained in the Stakeholder engagement section of this report Relations section to the Drax Group website.
In addition to providing beginning on page 42, with further details of our communications information on RNS announcements, Company publications and a with investors set out below.
THE DRAX INVESTOR RELATIONS PROGRAMME INCLUDES THE FOLLOWING ACTIVITIES 1.
CAPITAL MARKETS Through the year the GENERAL MEETING ENGAGEMENT DAYEVENTS management team are available The AGM is attended by the full The executive directors and A Capital Markets Day was to meet shareholders and, in Board of directors.
Details of the members of the senior heldin June and included addition, following the full and resolutions to be proposed at management team engage with management presentations.
half year results, a structured the AGM on 25 April 2018 can be sell-side analysts formally at the Theexecutive directors were programme of meetings is found in the Notice of AGM full and half year results present, as well as members of arranged to allow management which is available at www.
In addition, the the senior management team.
to meet with shareholders and com, and will be dispatched to Group CFO and Head of Investor prospective investors.
shareholders who have Relations are in regular dialogue Why it is important requested a hard copy of the with analysts as they publish Capital Markets Days allow the Why it is important documentation from the research on the Company.
Group to provide the capital The Group considers that it is Company.
All shareholders markets with insight on strategy important that the owners of areinvited to vote on the Why it is important as well as the different aspects thebusiness have access to resolutions and the results Sell-side analysts write research of the business and expand on management in order to aremade available after the on theCompany, which is sent its plans to create shareholder understand the business, meetingand published on totheir clients, existing and value.
It is therefore important that Frequency Frequency Why it is important analysts have up-to-date and Periodically.
The AGM provides all accurate information on the business andits strategy in order shareholders with a forum to putquestions to the Board of to present an informed view to Directors, and to vote on the equitymarket.
7 70 0 Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Communications with shareholders are given a high priority and the The Companys private registered shareholders hold, in aggregate, Chairman is keen to ensure that he maintains an open relationship approximately 0.65% of the issued share capital.
The Board is as with the Companys major shareholders and communicates directly interested in their views as it is in the views of institutional and with them and offers them the opportunity to meet any other corporate shareholders.
All shareholders are free to put questions to directors.
This enables the Board to understand their views on the the Board at the AGM.
Questions asked in person at the AGM will Group and its governance.
The Company has implemented the receive a verbal response whenever possible.
Otherwise, a written provisions of the Companies Act 2006 regarding electronic response will be provided as soon as practicable after the AGM.
communication with its shareholders, in order to give shareholders Questions asked at other times will normally receive a written more choice and flexibility in how they receive information from the response.
Shareholders attending the AGM will have an opportunity Company.
com contains a wide to meet informally with the directors immediately after the meeting.
range of information on the Group, including a dedicated Investors section and all information reported to the market via a regulatory The Annual report and accounts is available to shareholders at least information service also appears as soon as practicable on 20 working days before the AGM.
Form of Proxy which allows them to vote for or against, or to abstain, on each resolution.
Particulars of aggregate proxies lodged are Financial results are communicated to the market twice a year and announced to the London Stock Exchange and appear on the at the preliminary and interim results, a presentation is given to Groups website as soon as practicable after the conclusion of sell-side analysts, which is made available to the public through a theAGM.
webcast on the Groups website www.
TheBoard also reviews and discusses the investor feedback from post-results OTHER STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT investor meetings conducted by the Group Chief Executive and the We communicate with our employees through various channels Chief Financial officer.
The Group engages Makinson Cowell, part of such as open forums and the employee newsletter.
We seek the KPMG Group, to advise and assist with communications with employee feedback through our All Ideas Matter AIM initiative and shareholders and regularly discusses matters with its brokers, we regularly carry out a full employee engagement survey with JPMorgan.
This year the Chair of the Remuneration Committee, Tony Thorne, We strive to have a positive impact on local communities and work also consulted with shareholders on the proposed changes to the hard to ensure we understand the potential impacts of our business current remuneration policy.
We regularly meet with local people, as well as with community and local authority representatives, to make sure 2017 Calendar of investor events that peoples voices are heard.
We work closely with a number of trade and industry associations, particularly those active in energy, February General Meeting Opus Energy acquisition renewable energy, timber and forestry sectors, and our Corporate Affairs team engages with regulators and policy makers to ensure 2016 year-end results released our business understands and contributes to the evolving regulatoryagenda.
Sustainability remains at the heart of our UK investor roadshows business and as we grow this will be a continued focus to enable us March Dialogue with shareholders on AGM remuneration to achieve a positive economic, social and environmental impact.
resolutions and on 2016 Directors Remuneration report The feedback from all of these activities is available to the Board through the Executive Committee, ensuring that the interests of April Annual General Meeting allstakeholders are considered, when relevant, in decision making.
June Capital markets event for investors and analysts Thisis supportive of the Boards duty to promote the success of July 2017 interim results released theCompany as set out in Section 172 of the Companies Act 2006.
Forfurther detail and information on stakeholder engagement UK investor roadshows andcommunication please refer to pages 4245.
December Trading update Communication with shareholders and shareholder representative bodies on proposed changes to the Companys remuneration policy
