Governance Audit and Risk Committee Report In this report Dear Shareholder, The purpose of this report is to highlight areas that the Committee has reviewed On the following pages we set out the Audit and Risk Committees report for 2017, during the year.
We report to shareholders whichprovides an overview of the areas considered by the Committee during the year.
on the significant financial reporting issues and judgements made in connection with As expected, 2017 was more challenging than recent years for ITV.
Economic uncertainty in the preparation of the Companys financial particular associated with Brexit has resulted in lower UK advertising revenues and profits.
Also highlighted is how the However, the Committee has continued to ensure that judgements remain balanced.
Committee has assisted the Board in reviewing the Companys internal control During the year, ITVs 2016 Annual Report and Accounts were included as part of a sample and risk environment.
We explain what within the FRC thematic review of reporting on Alternative Performance Measures APMs, the Committee has done to review the with the object of improving the quality of disclosures and identifying good practices.
effectiveness of our internal and Asaresult of the review, our denitions of APMs on page 34 have been claried to aid external auditors.
Our risk management process continues to develop.
We have included some case studies onpage 78 and 79 to highlight some initiatives that we have developed to consider the approach of our leadership teams in relation to risk on production and development of ourthree lines ofdefence model for the approach to health and safety in production.
During the year, we were delighted to welcome Margaret Ewing as a Non-executive Director and successor to me as Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee.
I will be stepping down as aDirector of the Company following the AGM in May 2018.
Margaret brings very broad experience to the Committee, having been a senior partner at Deloitte, Group Finance Director of listed companies and is an experienced Non-executive Director.
Further information on corporate governance and a schedule setting out how we comply with the Code can be found on our website www.
As mentioned in previous years, we seek to respond to shareholders expectations in our reporting.
We reiterate that we welcome feedback from shareholders.
John Ormerod Chairman, Audit and Risk Committee 28 February 2018 We have engaged with the HSE, our insurers and unions on a new approach to health and safety risk on production, which ensures local ownership of risks.
72 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Audit and Risk Committee Report The current members are: Who is on the Committee John Ormerod Chairman The Committee is composed entirely Margaret Ewing appointed 31 October 2017 ofindependent Non-executive Directors.
Mary Harris Andy Haste Full details of attendance at Committee Anna Manz meetings can be found on the table on page 68.
The Committee members have between them a wide range of business and financial experience.
TheCommittee considers that John Ormerod, Anna Manz and Margaret Ewing have recent and relevant financial experience for the purposes of the Code.
Detailed biographies can be found on page62 and 63.
The main role of the Committee is to: Our role Monitor the integrity of published financial information and review significant financial reporting Following each meeting, the Committee issues and judgements communicates its main discussion points Provide advice to the Board on whether the Annual Report and Accounts are fair, balanced and and findings to the Board.
understandable and the appropriateness of the going concern statement and the longer-term viability statement Assist the Board to establish and articulate overall risk appetite and oversee and advise the Board on specic strategic risk exposures and mitigations Review the risk identication and assessment processes and undertake deep dives of high risk business areas or processes Review the effectiveness of the internal control and risk management processes Monitor and review the effectiveness and independence of the internal audit function Provide advice to the Remuneration Committee on financial reporting matters and related judgements and risk management as they affect executive remuneration performance objectives, and Review the quality and effectiveness of the external audit and the procedures and controls designed to ensure auditor independence.
Meetings February KPMG audit conclusions May July November Year end financial and findings Half year financial Half year report Year end planning reporting issues and APMs and exceptional reporting issues and KPMG review conclusions Full year financial judgements items judgements and findings reporting issues and Fair, balanced and Compliance checklist External audit strategy judgements understandable review Draft Annual Report Internal audit September Distributable reserves ofthe Annual Report andAccounts independence and Emerging and business planning andAccounts Audit opinion evaluation specic risk reviews KPMG interim controls Viability Statement review findings verication Review effectiveness of internal audit and the following years internal audit plan At each meeting the Committee receives a report from the Head of Internal Audit on the progress of the work and internal audit findings.
In addition to the September riskfocused meeting, the Committee also considers specic risk topics at meetings throughout the year.
In addition to Committee members the Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive, COO & CFO, Director of Group Finance, Group Legal Director, Head of Internal Audit, Directorof Treasury, Director of Tax and the external audit partner regularly attend meetings.
The Committee members meetregularly with the external auditor partner and Head of Internal Audit without executives present.
An annual review of the performance of the Committee was conducted for the year.
In addition Annual review tofeedback from members of the Committee, input was sought from the Chief Executive, COO&CFO, Director of Group Finance, members of the external and internal audit teams and theChairman of the Board.
Overall, the review concluded that the Committee is responding appropriately to its terms ofreference and will continue to develop its role.
Priorities for the year The Committees terms of reference will include revisiting the internal audit model after the strategic refresh, and reviewing how the can be accessed on our website.
Committee engages with the risk functions to ensure they continue to meet the needs of the www.
The Committee will continue to review its membership to ensure the skills and experience governance align with the business as it develops.
73 Governance Audit and Risk Committee Report continued Our focus in 2017 In planning its own agenda, and reviewing the audit plans of the internal and external auditors, the Committee takes account of significant issues and risks, both operational and financial, likely to have an impact on the Companys financial statements and or the Companys execution and delivery of its strategy.
The Committee also addresses specic queries referred to it by the Board or Remuneration Committee.
During 2017, there were no topics where there was significant disagreement between management, the external auditor and the Committee, or unresolved issues that needed to be referred to the Board.
Set out in the tables below is information on the key matters considered during the year.
Regular reviews and recurring transactions The following table summarises the regular reviews and activities undertaken by the Committee.
Some of these areas may require theapplication of judgement by management or have underlying complexity.
Financial results announcements Auditor engagement and fees Financial External Annual Report and Accounts Auditor independence and objectivity disclosure audit Accounting judgements and estimates Auditor Independence policy including and non-audit fees Developments in financial reporting judgements Audit plans Fair, balanced and understandable Auditor performance and effectiveness Viability Statement page 58 Key areas of judgement Going concern page 120 Auditor management reports Goodwill impairment note 3.3, page 143 Audit report Tax note 2.3, page 131 Deal debt see page 75 Pension accounting note 3.7, page 153 deficit nancing see below Revenue recognition IFRS 15 page 75 Appropriateness of Alternative Performance Measures page 78 Litigation provisions page 76 Internal Audit independence Principal risks and uncertainties Internal Risk and effectiveness and risk mitigations control Internal Audit plan Effectiveness of the risk management process Internal Audit report findings and outcomes Cyber security page 77 Effectiveness of internal controls Business continuity Post-acquisition reviews Information security and GDPR Monitoring acquisition earnouts Technology modernisation page 77 and related accounting Health and safety Whistleblowing process Regulatory and programme Material litigation compliance Insurance programme Bonus and share plan outcomes Fraud controls Further information on our risk Anti-bribery controls management framework can be found Technology controls on pages 50 to 57 Tax policy and controls Treasury policy and reports Tax and Treasury Committee review 74 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Audit and Risk Committee Report Most of the topics mentioned above are relevant to all businesses.
However, matters specic to ITV include: Deal debt: this is where management estimates the over and under delivery of advertising value to agencies.
The Committee reviewsmanagements approach and method of determining the provisions required for net under delivery.
deficit nancing: as part of our strategy to expand our content portfolio, significant investment in high-end drama is made.
The Committee reviews the accounting implications, including revenue recognition and recoverability of the amounts invested.
Complex discrete transactions The Group completed certain transactions during the period that were in line with strategy but could have been considered outside thenormal course of business, as set out below.
The Committee carefully reviewed these transactions to ensure that the judgements applied by management were reasonable and any complex accounting guidance followed correctly.
During 2018, the Committee will alsoundertake post-acquisition reviews of significant investments in subsidiaries and associates over the past five years.
Action taken by the Committee Area of focus Financial reporting and judgement Action taken by management andoutcome Talpa signed a four year deal The following points were noted: The Committee assessed Revenue tolicense The Voice of China managements proposed recognition A review of key documentation inJanuary 2016 and credit accounting treatment for the between the insurers, ITVor the insurance was arranged.
outstanding receivables and customer had been performed Theformat revenue for all credit insurance, considered by management fouryears was recognised in managements report on the Management had sought legal fullin2016 inline with our policy accounting treatment, had direct counsel and opinion and accounting standards.
conversations with the legal As a result of the above actions, advisers and agreed with the In 2017, Talpa took back the management considered it assessment that: licence for The Voice of China appropriate that: dueto a breach of agreement The receivables should be The outstanding receivables bythe customer resulting from fullyprovided against are fully impaired non-payment of outstanding No asset should be recognised While management consider invoices.
ITV is pursuing talent in relation to the credit the credit insurance policy forthe amounts due and has insurance in 2017 remains effective, under IFRS submitted a claim under its credit The disclosure, as proposed, no asset should be recognised insurance policy for the amounts is appropriate at present due from the customer.
KPMG also presented their view Due to the timing difference While management is confident onthe matter to the Committee, between the impairment of in the Groups position that the noting consistent conclusions the receivables in 2017 and credit insurance policy remains onthe appropriate accounting the potential recognition of effective, IFRS only permits treatment and disclosure.
the credit insurance policy anasset relating to the credit recovery in a later period, this insurance tobe recognised should be highlighted within whenthe receipt of monies the financial statements isvirtually certain.
The judgement focused on: Whether the 30 million of unpaid receivables held on the balance sheet are recoverable Whether an asset should be recognised for the credit insurance Also see note 2.1 on page 124.
75 Governance Audit and Risk Committee Report continued Action taken by the Committee Area of focus Financial reporting and judgement Action taken by management andoutcome The Group has announced Management proposed that The Committee assessed London its intention to redevelop incremental costs incurred across managements proposed properties itsSouth Bank site and build a the project over the medium treatment for the incremental new London ofce.
term, both capital and income costs, discussed the proposed statement related, should be presentation with management, The teams currently located ring-fenced and removed from and agreed that: inthe South Bank site will be the underlying results i. e. any relocated to various sites on The new London ofce project one-off, dual running or dual atemporary basis while the is a significant one-off and temporary rent costs and capital SouthBank site is redeveloped.
not in the normal course expenditure on planning new of business Over the course of the project build of HQ.
It will require separate incremental costs, both capital disclosure of the accounting and income statement related, implications within the will be incurred.
nancialstatements and The judgement focused on in the Finance Review thepresentation of these The Committee also agreed incremental costs, as exceptional, withmanagement that all other which arise solely asa result of costs that were expected to the project, within the Annual beincurred regardless of the Report and Accounts.
property decision, such as depreciation on studios or ofce t costs or service charges, will continue to be recognised as an operating expense within the underlying results.
In 2016, due to evidence of Based on the current status of The Committees actions included: Accounting for alleged breaches of contract thebusiness, and taking into Gurney litigation A review of the nature of andother fraudulent issues, the account the legal proceedings, thedispute and developments Group, having taken legal advice, management proposed that to date initiated legal proceedings foraccounting purposes: Discussions with ITVs general againstthe minority owners, Gurney should be treated as counsel and US legal advisers, whocontinue to hold a38.5% ifithad been wound down with and membership interest in Gurney no further results recognised A review of managements Productions LLC Gurney.
inthe accounts, a provision proposed accounting treatment, These minority owners dispute recognised against the including provisions held theallegations and have countergoodwilland against assets The Committee agreed with claimed for damages ofat within Gurney managements proposed least$150 million.
The action An acquisition-related accounting and presentation.
liabilityshould continue to bemaintained for potential Financial reporting and ongoing contractual judgement involved: obligations The accounting for the No provision should be held ongoingoperations of Gurney forthe counter-claim against The measurement of liabilities ITV as the Directors believe held for settlement of a thiscounter-claim is completely counter-claim, if any, and without merit, and forthecost of ongoing A provision for legal costs, legalproceedings accounted as an exceptional cost, should be held for ongoing legal proceedings 76 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Audit and Risk Committee Report Other matters In addition to financial reporting matters, the following topics were reviewed: Area of focus Issue Action taken by Committee Outcome Cyber security is an increasing The Committee undertook a Completed and planned Cyber security riskas our business develops detailed review of the cyber mitigations were reviewed and simulation newrevenue streams and direct security risks and strategy, and assessed.
including ongoing actions taken The Committee noted the by management around: progress that had been made Embedding IT controls andwill continue tomonitor andreview mitigations.
Educating our colleagues Detection and response Ownership across organisation and third parties The Committee also reviewed findings from a cyber incident andphishing exercise conducted during the year.
Legacy business systems continue The Committee reviewed the Completed and planned Technology to be modernised to reduce a programme of work to modernise mitigations were reviewed modernisation number of key business risks.
legacy business systems, including: and assessed and the Committee will continue to keep this Implementation of a cloudunderreview.
based financial and payroll system in the US Development of a bespoke artiste payment system in the UK Progress in the replacement of our airtime sales system The Criminal Finances Act 2017 The Committee monitored the Prevention procedures were Tax introduced new Corporate actions taken by management to reviewed and assessed and the Offences of Failure to Prevent implement reasonable prevention Committee considered these to the Facilitation of Tax Evasion.
procedures in line with published be adequate.
The Committee will HMRC guidance.
The issue of employment and The Committee received regular The Committee noted the Employment worker status in the modern updates from management in progress and will continue status economy has come under order to assess whether ITV is tomonitor and review this area.
ITVStudios increasing scrutiny, particularly following best practice in how production inthe UK where employment itengages people, and adapting andtax law and practice are to change where appropriate.
Employment status can be especially complex in television production, where freelancers areoften used both behind and infront of camera.
77 Governance Audit and Risk Committee Report continued Area of focus Issue Action taken by Committee Outcome During 2017, ITVs 2016 Annual The Committee discussed the FRC The FRC welcomed the planned Alternative Report and Accounts were review points with management changes and these have been Performance selected within a sample of and agreed with managements reflected in the Annual Report Measures companies for the Financial recommendation to provide: and Accounts: refer to page 34.
Reporting Councils FRC Further explanations of thematic review of reporting exceptional restructuring and relating to Alternative reorganisation costs in future Performance Measures.
Annual Reports and Accounts, The FRC has asked that we point andto cease referring to these out that its review only covered costs as non-recurring the specic disclosures relating to Disclosure noting that the the thematic review and provided acquisition-related costs are no assurance that the report and not considered to be part of accounts were correct in all the core operations of the material respects.
business and hence require highlighting in the accounts, Matters discussed with the FRC rather than referring to them focused on: as being non-recurring or one-off in nature Why restructuring and reorganisation costs were determined to be non-recurring How the company determined that acquisition-related expenses should be treated as operational exceptional costs In 2016, after reviewing the This analysis was prepared and The Committee agreed with the Treasury policy annual Treasury report, the discussed at the Tax and Treasury proposal to amend the treasury Committee had requested further Committee.
A recommendation policy on FX risk management analysis not just on what foreign for some amendments to the and recommended that the Board exchange FX exposures were treasury policy on FX risk approve the revised policy.
being hedged, butalso on what managed was reviewed by the was being left unhedged.
Committee as part of the 2017 annual treasury report.
Following an internal audit review The Committee reviewed the The Committee agreed to keep Anti-bribery and on the implementation of our result of the internal audit, the the agreed actions under review.
corruption anti-bribery and corruption recommendations and Management has put in place policies, actions to strengthen managements response.
across-business steering group implementation of the Groups tohelp ensure that the agreed programme were recommended actions, such as risk assessments by Internal Audit.
and enhanced local language guidance and training, are implemented consistently acrossthe business.
Case study: new approach to health and safety Emmerdale project We have been working on a project with Emmerdale trialling a refreshed approach to considering the effectiveness ofhealth and safety on production.
The project was in three stages Discovery, Collaborative Analysis and Improvement and required all aspects of the production team to focus on the day-to-day constraints and opportunities that they face identifying risks and potential mitigations.
A team, nominated from the production, is in place, supported by thehealth and safety team, to deliver improvements.
We have engaged with the HSE, our insurers and unions on this new approach, which supports risk management in a more efficient andeffective way while ensuring local ownership of risks and accountability for the implementation of solutions.
78 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Audit and Risk Committee Report Risk management and internal controls Risk management The Committee continued to consider the process for managing risk within the business and assisted the Board in relation to compliance with the Code.
Further information on our risk management processes and details of our principal risks is included in the Strategic Report on pages 50 to 57.
Following on from earlier reviews by the Committee on health and safety processes in the business, we have developed some innovative programmes to develop our approach to risk, moving away from a rules and process driven system to a cultural people driven solution, which we believe encourages a focus on prevention rather than reaction to failure.
Further information is set out in the case studies belowand on page 78.
In 2017, the Committee reviewed the management of pension risks in ITVs dened benefit schemes, focusing on how management andpension trustees were managing risks relating to longevity, interest rates, inflation rates and investment strategy.
The Committee also reviewed the General Data Protection Regulation readiness plan for the business.
This included detail of the governance model and the results of a detailed personal data audit.
The Committee reviewed the workstream activities and plans andwill keep this under review in 2018.
Internal controls The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups systems of internal control and for regularly reviewing the effectiveness of those systems.
The Committee assists the Board in reviewing the systems of internal control.
The primary responsibility for the operation ofthese systems is delegated to management.
Such systems can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Key control procedures are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk.
As part of our internal control process, the Groups strategy is reviewed and approved by the Board.
The Group performs an annual strategyreview and a rolling five year financial planning exercise, which are reviewed and approved by the Board.
The five year plan feeds into theannual budget cycle.
The Executive Directors review formal forecasts, detailed budgets, strategies and action plans and the Board approves the overall Group budget as part of its normal responsibilities.
The results of operating units are reported monthly to the Board, along with an update of the Groups performance against strategic KPIs and cash.
Actual results are compared with budget and forecasts, andkey trends and variances are explained and analysed.
Leading Risk During the year, we introduced a Leading Risk programme to support our leadership Risk is clearly team in ITV Studios to consider risk effectively within its business area.
The programme was developed with a focus on behaviour rather than process controls and to help build a significant aconsistent language around risk.
We partnered with the London School of Economics LSE on a research project based on this programme, which will provide us with consideration abetterunderstanding of risk decisionmaking to help us enhance a positive risk management culture.
We are The programme uses case studies to provide effective group conversations about how examining how risk management works in reality, the impact of risks that are realised, the impact of leadership behaviours on risk management and the importance of culture and voice to risk managers think actively manage risk.
Building on this, the programme seeks to provide an understanding of risk drivers and risks that are accepted in the pursuit of goals.
Output includes a risk and feel about risk.
appetite model that reflects the views of the leadership team, which can be articulated throughout the business.
To date, nearly 200 of our leaders in the UK and US have gone through the programme with further roll-out during 2018 internationally.
200 Dr Soane, LSE, explains: of our leaders in the UK and Risk is clearly a significant consideration for ITV.
We are examining how risk managers UShave gone through the think and feel about risk.
We are also assessing risk managers views on how their teams programme with further rollmake decisions about risk, and on the organisational climate.
For example, do people feel empowered and enabled to speak up if they see something theyre worried about?
Do teams that have a strong shared understanding about decision processes.
79 Governance Audit and Risk Committee Report continued Assurance The Committee satisfies itself that internal controls are operating throughout the year principally based on a programme of internal auditreviews, reviews of the effectiveness of internal controls including fraud and anti-bribery, reviews of balance sheet checklists certied bylocal management, deep dive sessions with relevant management on the management of certain key risks and controls and through asuite of automated analytics that monitor financial transactions in our systems.
In addition to the internal audit programme, there are anumber of exception reports that cover transaction processing.
For those subsidiaries not covered by exception reporting software, amonthly self-assessment takes place, which is subject to independent internal review.
Our auditors Internal auditor The Groups internal audit activity is outsourced to Deloitte which reports directly to the Committee.
The Committee continues to believe that outsourcing offers access to the wide range of skills and resources in the various geographies required and endorses its continuing use.
The Committee keeps under review the internal audit relationship with Deloitte and the procedures to ensure appropriate independence ofthe internal audit function is maintained.
The effectiveness of internal audit is assessed over the year using a number of measures that include but are not limited to : An evaluation of each audit assignment completed using feedback from the part of the business that has been audited, and A high level annual review that is completed by obtaining feedback from senior management in each division Prior to the start of the year, the Committee considered and approved the internal audit plan, which included audits across the Group as well as assurance over live projects.
During the year, the Committee reviewed findings from these internal audit reports, the actions taken to implement the recommendations made in the reports and the status of progress against previously agreed actions.
All internal audit reports are available to the Committee.
External auditor The Groups external auditor is KPMG.
The table below summarises the process followed to manage the relationship and audit process.
Engagement Audit tendering and rotation Independence, objectivity Reappointment and fees The Committee considers KPMG were appointed as auditor The Committee seeks to ensure During the year, the Committee carefully the scope of planned of ITV plc in December 2003 prior the objectivity and independence considered the performance work and the assessment of to the Company becoming the of our auditor through: andaudit fees of our auditor, riskand materiality on which it parent company of the ITV Group andthelevel of non-audit work Focus on the assignment and isbased.
In particular, through on 2 February 2004.
In 2012 we undertaken, and recommended rotation of key personnel theCommittee Chairman, undertook a competitive tender tothe Board that a resolution for The adequacy of audit resource theCommittee participates and, applying the BIS guidance the reappointment of KPMG for Policies in relation to non inthenegotiation of the audit onthe EU Audit rules.
The next afurther year as the Companys auditwork feetoensure that there is an mandatory tender would be for auditor be proposed to appropriate balance between the 2023 nancialyear and the As a result of these strict shareholders at the AGM in May thescope of work and the cost of next mandatory rotation would guidelines the Committee 2017.
The resolution was passed assurance.
The Committees aim is befor the 2024 financial year.
believes that non-audit services and KPMG was reappointed.
to support a robust and effective do not have a direct or material The Committee continues to The Committee has audit and strong reporting lines effect on the audited financial monitor audit quality to ensure recommended the reappointment tothe Committee.
A copy of our Auditor arobust and effective audit.
of KPMG at the AGM on Independence policy is available The Committee agrees the 10 May 2018.
We comply with the provisions on our website at www.
termsof engagement, audit ofthe Statutory Audit Services andnon-audit fees and reviews Fees paid to KPMG for 2017 are forLarge Companies Market progress and results throughout set out in note 2.1 on page 128.
Investigation Mandatory Use the year.
ofCompetitive Tender and Audit We monitor relationships with Processes and Audit Committee other audit rms to ensure we Responsibilities Order 2014. have sufficient choice for any future appointment.
80 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Audit and Risk Committee Report External audit effectiveness and quality The Committee follows the review programme below to satisfy itself of external audit effectiveness and quality.
February May July November Audit scope and materiality Audit plan and strategy Fees and independence Auditor Independence policy Independence and objectivity Engagement Audit Quality Review focus areas reviewed every two years Conrmation of work performed Audit fees final approval and other significant risks Reappointment Audit quality is reviewed throughout the year and the Committee continues to use the Financial Reporting Councils FRC Audit Quality Practice Aid to structure its review of audit quality.
When making its assessment of audit quality, the factors the Committee focused on included: The audit strategy for the year addressed thematic concerns that the FRC had highlighted.
External audit quality reports Reviewing the auditors understanding of business progress against the strategy and emerging industry Auditor themes, as well as the auditors discussion with management on key corporate transactions.
interaction with management Enquired with regards to: Auditors own view of Audit methodology and its effective application to ITV effectiveness Robustness of challenges and findings on areas that require management judgement Whether there had been an internal peer review of the ITV audit and what the findings were, and The experience of the senior members of the audit team In its assessment of audit quality, the Committee also took into account: The detailed audit strategy for the year, including the coverage of emerging risks Group materiality and component materiality How the auditor communicated any key accounting judgements and conclusions, and Feedback from management of the performance of the auditor There were no significant findings from the evaluation this year and the Committee considers the external audit to have been robust and effective.
