STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THE AIC CODE OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE WITH THE PRINCIPLES OF THE AIC CODE OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance is the process by which the board of directors of a company protects shareholders interests and Operation of the Board by which it seeks to enhance shareholder value.
Shareholders The Board is ultimately responsible for framing and hold the directors responsible for the stewardship of a executing the Companys strategy and for closely companys affairs, delegating authority and responsibility monitoring risks.
There is a formal schedule of matters to to the directors to manage the company on their behalf and be speci cally approved by the Board.
I t has delegated holding them accountable for its performance.
investment management, within clearly fide ned parameters and dealing limits, to Investec Fund Managers Limited The Board considers the practice of good governance to IFM and the administration of the business to Investec be an integral part of the way it manages the Company Asset Management Limited IAM.
The Board reviews the and is committed to maintaining high standards of financial performance of the Company at Board meetings and sets reporting, transparency and business integrity.
the objectives for the Manager.
As Temple Bar is a UK-listed company the Boards principal The Corporate Company Secretary the Company Secretary governance reporting obligation is in relation to the UK is responsible to the Board, inter alia, for ensuring that Board Corporate Governance Code the UK Code issued by the procedures are followed and for compliance with applicable Financial Reporting Council FRC.
However, it is recognised rules and regulations including the AIC Code.
Appointment that investment companies have special circumstances or removal of the nominated representative of the Company which have an impact on their governance arrangements.
An Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
investment company typically has no employees and the roles of CEO, portfolio manager, administration, accounting and The content and presentation of Board papers circulated company secretarial tend to be outsourced to a third party.
before each meeting contain suf cient information The Association of Investment Companies has therefore concerning the financial condition of the Company.
Key drawn up its own set of guidelines known as the AIC Code of representatives of IFM attend each Board meeting enabling Corporate Governance the AIC Code issued in February directors to probe on matters of concern or seek clari cation 2013 and updated in 2016, which recognises the nature of on certain issues.
investment companies by focusing on matters such as board Biographies of those directors in of ce at the date of signing independence and the review of management and other of the financial statements are set out on page 17.
There were third party contracts.
The FRC has endorsed the AIC Code seven Board meetings, two audit committee meetings and and con rmed that companies which report against the AIC four nomination committee meetings held during the year Code will be meeting their obligations in relation to the and the attendance by the directors was as follows: UK Code and paragraph LR9.8.
6 of the FCAs Listing Rules.
The Board believes that reporting against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code will provide better Number of meetings attended information to shareholders.
Audit Nomination Board Committee Committee The Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code which incorporates the UK Code, except John Reeve 7 2 4 as set out below.
The UK Code includes provisions relating Arthur Copple 7 2 4 to: Nicholas Lyons 5 1 2 the role of the chief executive June fide Moller 7 2 4 executive directors remuneration the need for an internal audit function Richard Jewson 6 2 4 Lesley Sherratt 7 1 4 The Board considers these provisions are not relevant to the position of Temple Bar, being an externally managed David Webster 7 2 4 investment company.
In particular, all of the Companys Richard Wyatt 1 day-to-day management and administrative functions are outsourced to third parties.
As a result, the Company has no appointed 23 January 2017 appointed 27 November 2017 executive directors, employees or internal operations.
The Company has therefore not reported further in respect of these provisions.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 201 7 23 247986 TBR AR 01pp-33pp.
indd 23 22 02 2018 14:16 22 02 2018 14:16 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Audit committee relationship it is the view of the Board that long service aids the understanding and judgement of the directors.
The audit committee is a formally constituted committee The directors have a range of business and financial skills of the Board with fide ned terms of reference.
Its role and experience relevant to the direction of the Company.
and responsibilities are set out in the Report of the Audit Mr Jewson is the Senior Independent Director.
The Board is satis ed that members of the audit committee have relevant and recent financial Re-election of directors experience, with at least one member having audit or Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at the accounting experience, to ful l their role effectively and also first AGM following their appointment and, thereafter, are have suf cient experience relevant to the sector.
The auditor, subject to retirement on an annual basis.
In addition, the who the Board has identi ed as being independent, is invited appointment of each director is reviewed by other members to attend the audit committee meeting at which the annual of the Board every year.
Directors are not, therefore, subject accounts are considered and any other meetings that the to automatic re-appointment.
Non-executive directors are committee deems necessary.
The committee is chaired by not appointed for speci ed terms.
Because of the nature of Mr Jewson, the Senior Independent Director.
an investment trust the Board believes that the contribution and independence of a director is not diminished by long Nomination committee service.
A nomination committee comprising all the directors has been established to oversee a formal review procedure The Board has carefully considered the position of each governing the appointment of new directors and to of the directors and believes it would be appropriate for evaluate the overall composition of the Board from time to them to be proposed for re-election.
Each of the directors time, taking into account the existing balance of skills and continues to be effective and to display an undiminished knowledge.
This committee is chaired by Mr Reeve.
enthusiasm and commitment to the role.
During the year the Board appointed Richard Wyatt as Diversity an additional director.
The process leading up to this The Boards policy on diversity, including gender, is to appointment involved the identi cation and interview of take this into consideration during the recruitment and potential candidates put forward by an external agency, appointment process.
Typically, the Board seeks to ensure Nurole, an independent rm of consultants, alongside that there is a suitable balance between directors with the evaluation of various other candidates either known industrial commercial and traditional City backgrounds.
personally to or recommended by individual board members.
However, the Board is committed to appointing the most Following an extensive review process it was decided to appropriate candidate, regardless of gender or other forms proceed with the appointment of Mr Wyatt, as the candidate of diversity, and therefore no targets have been set against best quali ed to complement the existing balance of skills which to report.
and experience on the Board.
He will stand for election at the AGM alongside all other Board members proposed for reInduction and training election in accordance with our policy.
New directors appointed to the Board are provided with an induction programme which is tailored to the particular The committee is also responsible for assessing on an annual circumstances of the appointee.
Regular brie ngs are basis the individual performance of directors and for making provided during the year on industry and regulatory matters recommendations as to whether they should remain in of ce.
and the directors receive other relevant training as required.
Management engagement committee Individual directors may seek independent advice at the As all the directors are fully independent of the management expense of the Company within certain limits.
company, the Board as a whole ful ls the function of a Ongoing evaluation management engagement committee.
On an annual basis the Board formally reviews its Independence of the directors performance, together with that of the audit and nomination Each of the directors is independent of any association with committees and the effectiveness and contribution of the the Manager and has no other relationships or circumstances individual directors, including the Chairman, within the which might be perceived to interfere with the exercise context of service on those bodies.
The review encompasses of independent judgement.
Three of the seven directors an assessment of how cohesively these bodies work as a Mr Reeve, Mr Jewson and Mrs fide Moller have served on whole as well as the performance of the individuals within the Board for more than nine years from the date of their them.
In 2016 the Board also employed the services of Board first election, but given the nature of the Company as an Evaluation, an external evaluation agency, to carry out an investment trust and the strongly independent mindset of independent evaluation of its performance.
On the basis the individuals involved, the Board is rmly of the view that of these reviews the Board has concluded that it has an all of the directors can be considered to be independent.
appropriate balance of skills and is operating effectively.
In arriving at this conclusion the Board makes a clear distinction between the activities of an investment trust and a conventional trading company.
An investment trust has no employees or executive directors, the most signi cant relationship being with the Manager.
In overseeing this TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 24 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 247986 TBR AR 01pp-33pp.
indd 24 22 02 2018 14:16 22 02 2018 14:16 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Shareholder communications The Board has also established a series of investment parameters, which are reviewed annually, designed to Shareholder relations are given high priority by both the limit the risk inherent in managing a portfolio of Board and the Manager.
The principal medium by which the investments.
The safeguarding of assets is entrusted Company communicates with shareholders is through half to an independent reputable custodian with whom the yearly and annual reports.
The information contained therein holdings are regularly reconciled.
is supplemented by daily NAV announcements and by a monthly fact sheet available on the Companys website.
The effectiveness of the overall system of internal control is reviewed on an annual basis by the Board.
Such a system can The Board largely delegates responsibility for communication provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against with shareholders to the management company and, through material misstatement or loss.
The Board believes that there feedback, both from the Manager and the Companys is a robust framework of internal controls in place to meet stockbroker, expects to be able to develop an understanding the requirements of the AIC Code.
The Board receives a quarterly report from the Manager summarising any shareholder The Board receives reports from its advisers on internal correspondence together with any comments about Temple control matters.
Based on the foregoing the Company has a Bar on social media.
Members of the Board are willing to continuing process for identifying, evaluating and managing meet with shareholders for the purpose of discussing matters the risks it faces.
This process has been in place for the in relation to the operation and prospects of the Company.
reporting period and to the date of this report.
The Board encourages investors to attend the AGM and welcomes questions and discussion on issues of concern or areas of uncertainty.
By order of the Board of Directors Following the formal AGM proceedings the portfolio manager makes a presentation to the meeting outlining the key investment issues that face the Company.
Accountability, internal controls and audit John Reeve The Board pays careful attention to ensuring that all Chairman documents released by the Company, including the Annual 20 February 2018 Report, present a fair and accurate assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
The Board con rms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the risks faced by the Company in accordance with the FRCs document Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Controls and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
The directors are responsible for the Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In order to facilitate the control process the Board has requested the Manager to con rm annually that it has conducted the Companys affairs in compliance with the legal and regulatory obligations which apply to the Company and to report on the systems and procedures within IFM which are applicable to the management of Temple Bars affairs.
The Board meets on seven scheduled occasions in each year and at each meeting receives suf cient financial and statistical information to enable it to monitor adequately the investment performance and status of the business.
In addition, financial information is circulated to the directors on a monthly basis.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 201 7 25 247986 TBR AR 01pp-33pp.
indd 25 22 02 2018 14:16 22 02 2018 14:16 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE I am pleased to present the Committees report to shareholders SIGNIFICANT ISSUES CONSIDERED REGARDING THE on the effectiveness of the external audit process and how ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS this has been assessed for the year ended 31 December 2017.
The Committee also considered signi cant issues and areas of key audit risk in respect of the Annual Report and Financial ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES Statements, as outlined below.
The Committee reviewed the The Company has established a separately chaired external audit plan at an early stage and concluded that the Audit Committee the Committee whose duties include appropriate areas of audit risk relevant to the Company had considering and recommending to the Board for approval the been identi ed and that suitable audit procedures had been contents of the half yearly and annual financial statements, put in place to obtain reasonable assurance that the financial and providing an opinion as to whether the Annual Report, statements as a whole would be free of material misstatements.
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced, understandable and The table below sets out the key areas of risk identi ed by the provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess Committee and also explains how these were addressed by it.
the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee also reviews the external auditors report Signi cant Issue How the issue was addressed thereon and is responsible for reviewing and forming an Veri cation of the The Committee reviews reports from its opinion on the effectiveness of the external audit process existence of the service providers on key controls over and audit quality.
Other duties include reviewing the assets in the portfolio the assets of the Company.
Monthly appropriateness of the Companys accounting policies and reconciliations are performed by the ensuring the adequacy of the internal control systems and independent Depositary together with standards, as set out in more detail below.
The Terms of an annual veri cation of the existence Reference of the Committee are available on the Companys of all portfolio holdings carried out by the auditor.
Any signi cant issues website at www.
co. uk are reported by the Manager to the The Committee meets at least twice a year.
planned meetings are held prior to the Board meetings The valuation of the The Committee reviews detailed portfolio to approve the half yearly and annual results.
investment portfolio valuations on a regular basis throughout the year and receives con rmation from COMPOSITION the Manager that the pricing basis is appropriate.
The audit includes a check All the directors are members of the Committee, which of pricing back to source data to con rm is chaired by Mr Jewson.
The Board considers that the that the correct valuation basis has been members of the Committee have suf cient recent and applied in accordance with the accounting relevant financial experience for the Committee to policies adopted, as disclosed in note 1 to discharge its function effectively.
At least one member of the Financial Statements.
All investments the Committee has audit or accounting experience and the are in quoted securities in active markets, Committee has members with suf cient experience relevant are considered to be liquid and have been to the sector.
The Chairman of the Company is a member of categorised as level 1 within the IFRS 13 hierarchy.
the Committee to enable him to be kept fully informed of any issues which may arise.
Going concern Having considered the Companys investment objective, risk management RESPONSIBILITIES AND REVIEW OF policies and cash ow projections THE EXTERNAL AUDIT the Committee is satis ed that the Company has adequate resources and During the year the principal activities of the an appropriate financial structure to Committee included: continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
considering and recommending to the Board for approval the contents of the half yearly and annual The veri cation of The Committee reviews income financial statements and reviewing the external investment income forecasts and receives explanations auditors report thereon: from the Manager for any variations or reviewing the scope, execution, results, cost signi cant movements from previous effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the forecasts and prior year numbers.
external auditor: reviewing and recommending to the Board for approval The provision of portfolio valuation, accounting and the audit and non-audit fees payable to the external administration services is delegated to the Companys auditor and the terms of their engagement: Manager, who sub-delegates fund accounting to a third reviewing and approving the external auditors plan party service provider.
T he provision of custody services is for the financial year, with a focus on the identi cation contracted to HSBC.
of areas of audit risk, and consideration of the appropriateness of the level of audit materiality adopted: reviewing the quality of the audit engagement partner and the audit team, and making a recommendation to the Board with respect to the re-appointment of the auditor: reviewing the appropriateness of the Companys accounting policies: and ensuring the adequacy of the internal control systems and standards.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 26 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 247986 TBR AR 01pp-33pp.
indd 26 22 02 2018 14:16 22 02 2018 14:16 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION AUDITOR AND AUDIT TENURE CONCLUSIONS IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Companys current auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, has acted in this role since 2003 pursuant to a competitive tender The production and audit of the Companys Annual Report process which took place at that time.
There has not been a and Financial Statements is a comprehensive process subsequent tender process.
The appointment of the auditor requiring input from a number of different contributors.
One is reviewed each year and the audit partner changes at least of the key governance requirements of a Companys financial every five years in accordance with professional and regulatory statements is for the Report and Financial Statements to standards in order to protect independence and objectivity be fair, balanced and understandable.
In order to reach a and to provide fresh challenge to the business.
The last five conclusion on this matter, the Board has requested that the yearly partner rotation took place in 2017.
The Committee Committee advise on whether it considers that the Annual is aware that EU legislation requires listed companies to Report and Financial Statements ful ls these requirements.
rotate their auditor every 10 years.
Under the transitional As a result of the work performed, the Committee has arrangements for rms where the tenure was between 11 and concluded that the Annual Report for the year ended 20 years on the effective date under the new EU rules, there 31 December 2017, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced is a grace period of nine years after the enactment of the EU and understandable and provides the information necessary legislation.
Accordingly, based upon the new legislation, Ernst for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, & Young will not be able to act as auditor to the Company business model and strategy.
The Committee has reported for accounting periods starting on or after 17 June 2023 so on these findings to the Board.
The Boards conclusions the last financial year that they could serve as auditor would in this respect are set out in the Statement of Directors end on 31 December 202 3.
The Committee has not decided Responsibilities on page 28. when to put the audit out to tender but will keep this matter under review.
There are no contractual obligations that restrict the Companys choice of auditor.
Other non-audit fees of 2,300 excluding VAT paid to Ernst & Young LLP relate to their services in the electronic ling of tax returns: due to this Richard Jewson amount being negligible, the Committee does not consider this a threat to the auditor's independence.
Chairman Audit Committee ASSESSMENT OF THE EFFICIENCY OF THE EXTERNAL 20 February 2018 AUDIT PROCESS To assess the effectiveness of the external audit, members of the Committee work closely with the Manager to obtain a good understanding of the progress and ef ciency of the audit.
Feedback in relation to the audit process, and also of the effectiveness of the Manager in performing its role, is also sought from relevant parties, notably the audit partner and team.
The external auditor is invited to attend the Committee meeting at which the annual accounts are considered, where they have the opportunity to meet with the Committee without representatives of the Manager being present.
To form a conclusion with regard to the independence of the external auditor, the Committee considers whether the skills and experience of the auditor make them a suitable supplier of any non-audit service and whether there is any threat to their objectivity and independence in the conduct of the audit resulting from the provision of such services.
On an annual basis, Ernst & Young LLP review the independence of their relationship with the Company and report to the Board, providing details of any other relationships with the Manager.
As part of this review, the Committee also receives information about policies and processes for maintaining independence and monitoring compliance with relevant requirements from the Companys auditor, including information on the rotation of audit partners and staff, and details of any relationships between the audit rm and its staff and the Company, as well as an overall con rmation from the auditor of its independence and objectivity.
As a result of their review, the Committee has concluded that Ernst & Young LLP is independent of the Company and the Manager.
The Company con rms that it has complied with the September 2014 Competition and Markets Authority Order.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 201 7 27 247986 TBR AR 01pp-33pp.
indd 27 22 02 2018 14:16 22 02 2018 14:16 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual The directors con rm that to the best of their knowledge: Report and the financial statements in accordance with the financial statements, prepared in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
the applicable accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and pro t Company law requires the directors to prepare financial or loss of the Company: and statements for each financial year.
Under that law the the Annual Report includes a fair review of the development directors have chosen to prepare the financial statements in and performance of the business and the position of the accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Company, together with a description of the principal as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law the risks and uncertainties that the Company faces.
directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satis ed that they give a true and fair view of the The UK Corporate Governance Code also requires Directors state of affairs of the Company and of the pro t or loss of to ensure that the Annual Report and Accounts are fair, the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial balanced and understandable.
In order to reach a conclusion statements, the directors are required to: on this matter, the Board has requested that the Audit Committee advise on whether it considers that the Annual select suitable accounting policies in accordance Report and Accounts ful ls these requirements.
The process with IAS8: Accounting Policies, Changes in by which the Committee has reached these conclusions is set Accounting Estimates and Errors, and then apply out in the Audit Committees report on pages 26 and 27.
As these consistently: a result, the Board has concluded that the Annual Report for present information, including accounting policies, the year ended 31 December 2017, taken as a whole, is fair, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, balanced and understandable and provides the information comparable and understandable information: necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys provide additional disclosures when compliance with the performance, business model and strategy.
speci c requirements in IFRS is insuf cient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and state that the Company has complied with IFRS, subject On behalf of the Board to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate John Reeve accounting records which are suf cient to show and explain Chairman the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable 20 February 2018 accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for ensuring that the Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties it faces.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 28 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 247986 TBR AR 01pp-33pp.
