Governance Management Board 1 Julian Bellamy 3 Carolyn McCall 7 Kelly Williams 9 Andrew Garard Managing Director, ITV Studios Chief Executive Managing Director, Commercial Group Legal Director and Appointed: February 2016 Appointed: January 2018 Appointed: December 2014 CompanySecretary Experience: Julian joined ITV in 2014 Experience: Full biography Experience: Kelly joined ITV inAugust Appointed: November 2007 as Managing Director of the Studios onpage62.
2011 as Group Commercial Director Experience: Andrew joined ITV business in the UK and was promoted and joined the Management Board asGroup Legal Director in 2007 4 Kevin Lygo to Managing Director of ITV Studios asManaging Director, Commercial in andtook on the additional role Director of Television inFebruary 2016.
He is also Chairman ofCompany Secretary in 2009.
Appointed: August2010 roles included Creative Director and of Thinkbox, sits onthe BARB Heisalso on the board of ITN, Experience: Kevin joined ITV as Head of Commissioning at Discovery Strategy board and is Vice Chairman isresponsible for content Managing Director, ITV Studios Networks International, Head of ofthe Advertising Association.
management and the ITVarchive, in2010 and became Director of Programming at Channel 4 and prior Beforejoining ITV, Kelly was the Group Secretariat and corporate Television in February 2016.
Kevins to that he ran BBC3 and E4.
He also SalesDirector at Channel 5 and prior responsibility.
Previously, Andrew previous roles included Director of spent time as Channel 4s Head of to that heldvarious positions at wasa partner in the corporate Television and Content at Channel 4, Factual Entertainment and was a UKTV, Sky and ThamesTelevision.
department of LeBoeuf Lambs Director ofProgrammes at Channel 5 commissioning editor ofChannel 4 London ofce.
Prior to this, Andrew and a number ofpositions at the 8 Julian Ashworth News and Current Affairs.
was Group General Counsel and BBC, including Head of Independent Director of Strategy and Company Secretary at Cable & 2 David Osborn Commissioning for Entertainment.
Direct toConsumer Wireless plc where he was a member Group HR Director Appointed: February 2018 of the Group Executive responsible 5 Rufus Radcliffe Appointed: October2014 Experience: Julian recently joined for Group Legal.
Prior to that, he Group Marketing and Experience: David joined ITV as ITVto lead the strategy review and wasGlobal Head of Legal and Deputy ResearchDirector the HRDirector for ITV Studios in development of the ITV Direct to General Counsel for Reuters Group Appointed: April2017 May 2011, and was appointed to the Consumer business.
Before joining plcin the UK, and before that Experience: Rufus joined ITV in Management Board in October 2014 ITV, Julian was Global Director of GeneralCounsel, Asia.
August 2011 and was promoted as Group HR Director, responsible Policy Strategy at BT and prior to that tothe Management Board in 2017. fordelivering the Groups People held various strategy, and business He also sits on the Freeview Board Strategy.
David gained previous development and commercial roles and is a Fellow of the Marketing experience in both the UK and at RELX plc, Centrica plc and Bain Society.
Before joining ITV, Rufus internationally while working in &Company.
He has also served as spent 10years at Channel 4, and avariety of businesses including amember of the UK Governments prior tothat held various positions EMIMusic, Vodafone, Visa Europe Digital Economy Council, a board atMcCann Erickson and JWT.
member of TECHUK, the British Screen Advisory Council, the Royal 6 Ian Griffiths Taskforce against cyberbullying Chief Operating officer and andamember of the UK Council Group Finance Director forChild Internet Safety.
Appointed: September 2008 Experience: Full biography on page62.
Full biographies can be found on our website: www.
com about board-of-directors 64 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Management Board 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 65
