7 76 6 Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES IN2017 The Audit Committee follows a programme of work designed to ensure that the Group has sound risk management processes, a robust system of internal control and delivers fair and balanced performance reporting.
The acquisition of Opus Energy, its risk management and internal control systems and its integration into the Group was a particular focus in 2017.
ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE The Committee assists the Board to full itsoversight responsibilities.
Its primary WITH THE INCREASED RANGE OF THE functions are to: monitor the integrity of the financial GROUPS ACTIVITIES, THE COMMITTEE statements and other information HAS FOCUSED ON THE EFFECTIVENESS provided to shareholders: review significant financial reporting OFTHEEXTENDED RISK MANAGEMENT issues and judgements contained in thenancial statements: ANDINTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEMS advise the Board on whether the Committee believes the annual report DAVID LINDSELL andaccounts are fair, balanced and CHAIRMAN understandable: COMMITTEE MEMBERS ATTENDING BY INVITATION maintain an appropriate relationship with Tim Cobbold Chairman of the Board, Group Chief the Groups external auditor and review David Nussbaum Executive, Chief Financial officer, the effectiveness and objectivity of the Tony Thorne Group Financial Controller, Group external audit process: Nicola Hodson Finance Manager, Head of Group Risk review the systems of internal control appointed 12 January 2018 and Internal Audit, External auditor andrisk management: Deloitte.
monitor and review the effectiveness of The Board is satisfied that the the internal audit function: and Committees membership has NUMBER OF MEETINGS HELD make recommendations to the Board therecent and relevant financial IN2017 toput to shareholders for approval experience required by the Code.
The Group Company regarding that appointment of the Secretary acts as Secretary external auditor.
TERMS OF REFERENCE The Committees terms of reference are reviewed annually by the Committee and ATTENDANCE IN 2017 then by the Board.
The terms of reference Date Maximum No.
of % of are available on the Groups website at Committee appointed possible meetings meetings www.
member a member meetings attended attended Tim Cobbold 27 September 2010 5 5 100% 1 David Nussbaum 1 August 2017 1 1 100% David Lindsell 1 December 2008 5 5 100% Tony Thorne 29 June 2010 5 5 100% Note: 1 David Nussbaum was appointed as a non-executive director with effect from 1 August 2017 and joined the Committee from this date Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 77 77 The Chairman of the Committee reports the Committees deliberations to the following Board meeting.
The minutes of each Committee meeting are circulated to all members of the Board.
In undertaking its duties, the Committee has access to the services of the Chief Financial officer and the Group Company Secretary and their resources, as well as access to external professional advice.
MAIN ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR During the year, the Committee undertook its duties in accordance with an annual work plan, which is agreed in November for the following calendar year.
A rolling 12-month plan is reviewed at each meeting.
The main areas of work undertaken by the Committee at each of its routinely scheduled meetings during 2017 are set out in the table below.
In addition, the Committee met in January 2017 to review the contents of the shareholder circular in relation to the acquisition of Opus Energy and recommend that the Board approve the circular.
Meeting February April July November Item under review Year-end review of Review of Senior Review of accounting Review of accounting issues and judgements issues and judgements and accounting issues and Accounting officer judgements 2016 reporting to HMRC affecting the 2017 key regulatory focus areas Consideration of the Review of management interim financial affecting the 2017 2016 annual report, update on year-end statements financial statements financial statements accounting issues and Review of the accounting Review of the internal audit plan for 201718 andpreliminary results judgements treatment of the announcement Review of the auditor acquisition of Opus Review of Deloitte Review of the independence policy Energy and related planning report on the effectiveness of Review of the operation disclosures in the interim 2017 audit and proposed internalcontrols and of the whistleblowing financial statements audit fees consideration of fraud policy including incidents Consideration of the Review and approval of Review of 2017 internal reported and half-yearly financial theexternal auditors audit strategy and risk investigation outcomes report terms of engagement mapping Review of the activity of Review of a report Review of the composition Review of final report and matters addressed fromDeloitte on their and qualications of the from Deloitte on their by the Ethics and interim review findings Groups finance teams audit findings Business Conduct Review of an Review of the Assessment of the Steering Committee independent assurance effectiveness of the effectiveness of the Review of the external report on the Groups internal controls external audit process auditors management sustainability of the and risk management Review of the Audit letter for the 2016 audit biomass burned in systems and the Committees Reviewed proposed audit 2016 17 and the effectiveness of its effectiveness fees for 2017 implementation of procedures for detecting Noted the satisfactory Review of principal IT recommended process fraud and preventing outcome of the meeting risks and controls, improvements bribery with the Financial including cyber security, Review of the Audit Review of the key risks and Reporting Council FRC infrastructure Committees terms controls in Drax Power and vulnerability and ofreference Drax Biomass regarding its letter relating to the Groups preparedness for the EU Review of the Auditor Review of Drax Group tax 2015 Annual report and General Data Protection Independence Policy strategy document for accounts and reviewed Regulation publication as required by the reference to the FRC Review of key risks and the Finance Act 2016 letter in the 2016 Audit controls in Haven Power Committee Report and Opus Energy In addition, there are a number of routine items which are put to each meeting as follows: a review of the minutes and actions from previous meetings: reports from the internal audit function on its progress with the programme for the year and new internal audit reports, further details of which can be seen on page 80.
No significant weaknesses were identied in any of the internal audit reports prepared during the year, although improvements inprocesses and procedures were made as a result of reviews: quarterly internal controls updates: and the Committees rolling annual plan.
During 2017, the Committee also received updates on financial risks and controls from each of the Groups primary business units.
DraxPower, Haven Power, Opus Energy and Drax Biomass all attended Committee meetings to present their updates.
The integration ofOpus Energy and maintaining appropriate financial controls was a key focus area through the year.
The Committee met key management andreviewed progress as Opus Energy controls and methodologies were updated to match those of the existing Retail business.
During the year the Committee received reports of a fraud affecting Haven Power perpetrated by a third party intermediary.
TheCommittee was satisfied that additional controls have been introduced to reduce the risk of recurrence.
The amount involved was not material in the context of the Group.
7 78 8 Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED The Committee met twice in the absence of management with each of the external auditor February and July and Head of Group Risk andInternal Audit April and November.
No matters of concern were drawn to the Committees attention at any of these meetings.
The Committees understanding with both the external and internal auditor is that, if they should at any time become aware of any matters givingthem material concern, they will immediately draw it to the Committees attention via the Chairman of the Committee.
REVIEWING THE 2017 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS Between the year-end date and the date of the approval of the annual report and accounts, the Committee met in February 2018 principally to review the draft 2017 Annual report and accounts and the external auditors findings.
The Committee reviewed papers prepared by management on accounting issues and judgements affecting the accounts and a report from Deloitte LLP setting out their audit findings.
The Committee also reviewed the underlying process, internal controls, forecasts and relevant assumptions made in preparing theViability Statement, disclosed on page 50.
Having challenged the assumptions made in this process and considered the appropriateness of the three-year period of assessment, the Committee concluded that the process supporting the Viability Statement was robust.
Explanations of the critical accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions are set out in detail throughout the notes to the consolidated financial statements, with a summary on pages 119 and 120 which also includes an explanation of the two non-IFRS measures of performance used by the Group.
The Committee reviewed these aspects of the financial statements, paying particular attention to those issues that involve the most subjective and complex judgements, namely impairment of xed assets, valuation of derivative financial instruments and business combinations, which are discussed below.
In previous years, ROC valuations were among such aspects.
However, following several years in which the net realised value of ROCs, including value recovered through the ROC recycling fund, has not differed signicantly from the expected realisable value at which they were stated in the balance sheet, the Committee no longer considers the valuation of ROCs to be subject to such a high level of subjectivity and complexity.
The existence and valuation of fuel inventories was also regarded as an area of significant risk in previous years, principally due to the need to derive year-end volumes of biomass on-site at Drax Power Station from data on the weight of inventory movements and thermal efficiency calculations, since it is not practicable to physically count the stocks at the year end.
During 2017, management reviewed the IT systems which sit behind the weighing process, the data flows between them, and the accuracy of the calculations, all of which has provided greater assurance regarding the accuracy of the biomass inventory valuation.
The Committee noted also that an internal audit review was carried out during the year of the processes and controls to manage biomass stocks held off-site and managed by third-party service providers, and that the review had concluded that the controls in place to measure and report biomass volumes were appropriate in design and effective in operation.
Accordingly, the Committee does not regard biomass inventories as a significant issue in relation to the 2017 financial statements.
The significant issues in relation to the financial statements were as follows: Matter Issue and key judgements Factors considered and conclusions reached Carrying value of In 2017 the market capitalisation of the Group remained Management presented an overview of the methodology Power Generation materially below the carrying value of the Groups net and most critical assumptions to theCommittee meeting xed assets assets.
In addition, the value of Sterling against both in November 2017. the Euro and US Dollar indicated a potentially material increase in the long-term costs of fuel for our generation The Committee reviewed an updated report at its business, which arepredominantly priced in these meeting in February 2018 that considered renements in currencies.
assumptions and key judgements up to the present time, as described in note 2.4.
As a result, in accordance with the requirements of IFRS, management conducted an impairment review in respect It was noted that the cash flows that underpin the of the Drax Power cash-generating unit CGU.
They did value in use calculation for the Drax Power CGU were so by comparing the present value of the future cash derived from the Groups five-year business plan, which flows of the CGU with the carrying value ofitstangible was subject to review by the Board in January 2018. and intangible assets.
This review included challenge of the key assumptions, including commodity and currency forward curves, the The assumptions that underpin such calculations expected useful life of the coal generating units seenote are, by their nature, dependent upon the application 3.1 and revenue sources after the expiry of thecurrent of judgement and are thus subject to uncertainty.
In Renewables Obligation certicate scheme in 2027. particular this is because observable market information is only available for a limited proportion of the remaining After challenging management regarding these longerlives of the Groups power generation assets.
term assumptions, the Committee concluded that a reasonable, supportable and consistent approach had been taken in preparing the review and that there was no current indication of impairment.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 79 79 Matter Issue and key judgements Factors considered and conclusions reached Valuation of The Group makes extensive use of derivative financial The Committee reviewed the Groups derivative position derivative financial instruments in order to manage key risks facing the in February, July and November 2017 having regard in instruments business and its balance sheet includes significant particular to the critical judgemental areas described in assets and liabilities arising from derivatives which are note 7.2 and considered the position as at 31 December stated at their fair value.
In particular, the asset values of 2017 at its meeting in February 2018. forward foreign currency purchase contracts reduced substantially in the period following the recovery At each meeting, management explained the trends ofSterling against US Dollar.
in market prices that underpinned changes in the fair value of the derivative portfolio and highlighted any Changes in the fair value of such instruments are new types of derivative instrument for the Committees recognised in the income statement or when the specic consideration.
criteria for hedge accounting are met, in thehedge reserve.
The Committee concluded that the fair value calculations had been performed in a reasonable and consistent The fair values for derivative financial instruments are manner based on quoted market prices as explained determined using forward price curves and, where an in note 7.2 and that the system of controls in place was instrument incorporates an element of optionality, an t for purpose.
Accordingly, it was concluded that the option pricing model.
amounts included in the financial statements were appropriate.
The inputs to these calculations include assumptions regarding future transactions and market movements, aswell as credit risk, and are therefore subjective.
Business During the year, the Group acquired Opus Energy Group The Committee reviewed management reports detailing combinations Limited, a well-established energy retail business serving the valuations and key judgements and estimates, noting customers in the SME market.
To account for the that management had been assisted by independent business combination the identiable assets acquired valuation specialists in measuring the fair value of and liabilities assumed are required to be measured existing customer contracts.
The Committee concluded at their acquisition-date fair values.
This process can that the assumptions used to value the contracts were require estimation of the effects of uncertain events on appropriately supported andreasonable.
In the case of Opus Energy, as stated page 148, the fair value measurement of the existing customer contracts depends on a number of assumptions, and in particular requires estimates to be made of likely margins on current customer contracts, future contract renewal rates and future margins on renewed contracts.
Unbilled B2B Energy The acquisition of Opus Energy resulted in a significant The Committee reviewed the process for and Supply revenue increase in the amount of revenue from electricity and assumptions applied in determining the calculation gas supplied to customers between the date of the last of unbilled receivables, noting that historically, final meter reading and the financial year end.
The amount settlements had been closely in line with the unbilled of this revenue is based on estimates in relation to the receivables recognised in the financial statements.
The volume of energy consumed and the valuation of that Committee concluded that the process and assumptions consumption.
applied were appropriate and reasonable.
FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE As a result of its review of the Annual report and accounts, underpinned by its discussions with operating and finance management regarding the strategic report, and with the Group finance team regarding the financial statements, the Audit Committee advised the Boardthat, in the Committees view, the Annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides theinformation necessary for shareholders to assess the companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
REVIEW OF AUDIT COMMITTEE EFFECTIVENESS BY MEMBERS In line with the FRCs Guidance on Audit Committees, the Committee reviewed its own effectiveness and concluded that the composition ofits membership, the manner in which it operates and the reviews that it undertakes throughout the year all contribute to the continuedeffective functioning of the Committee.
The Board performance evaluation questionnaire referred to on page 72 included questions on the effectiveness of the Audit Committee, in particular its effectiveness in monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial statements, the Groups internal controls and risk management systems, its arrangements and processes to ensure compliance with its ethical standards, and the effectiveness of the internal audit activities and the external audit process.
The questionnaire also asked whether the Committee has sufficient expertise, time and access to key staff and information to enable it to discharge its monitoring and oversight role effectively.
Based on responses to the questionnaire, the Committee, the members of which between them have extensive experience and expertise in business management, financial management, financial reporting and auditing, discharged its responsibilities effectively in 2017.
8 80 0 Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED EXTERNAL AUDITOR EFFECTIVENESS Having considered the effectiveness and independence of the The Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the external auditor, external auditor as described above, the Audit Committee agreed to Deloitte LLP, who have performed the role continuously since the recommend to the Board that the a resolution to reappoint Deloitte Companys listing in 2005 and were reappointed in 2017 following a LLP as the companys external auditor should be put to shareholders tender process.
The review of effectiveness incorporated feedback at the AGM in April 2018. frommanagement and key individuals across the Group, as well as the Committees own experience.
The assessment considered the INTERNAL AUDIT independence and objectivity of Deloitte, the robustness of the The Group operates a co-sourced model for its internal audit auditprocess, the quality of delivery of the audit plan, the quality of function.
reporting on findings and recommendations to the Committee and management, and the experience and expertise of the audit team Under this model, the internal team conducts core financial control andthe quality of service provided.
Reviews of specialist technical areas are outsourced to rms with appropriate experience and qualications.
INDEPENDENCE OF THE EXTERNAL AUDIT The Group has an Auditor Independence Policy, the provisions of The Committee receives reports at each meeting regarding the which include: internal audit programme and reviews undertaken.
seeking conrmation that the auditor is, in its professional Recommendations are made to management for control judgement, independent of the Group, and obtaining from improvements as appropriate.
Topics dealt with by internal audit itanaccount of all relationships which may affect the rms reports reviewed by the Committee during 2017 included: independence and the objectivity of the audit partner and staff: ROC controls and verication a requirement to rotate the lead audit partner every five years.
The Fixed asset capitalisation current lead audit partner, James Leigh, has completed four years Financial risk management processes of his term: Controls around the power trading strategy a policy governing the engagement of the auditor to conduct Foreign currency risk management non-audit work, under which: C yber security Derivatives accounting the auditor may not be engaged to provide certain categories of work, including those where they may be required to audit their Off-site biomass stocks own work or make management decisions, or where the auditor Opus Energy commodity hedging would act in an advocacy role for the Group: there is a clear approval process for engaging the auditor to In addition, at the April and November meetings the Committee received reports detailing progress with implementing conduct other categories of non-audit work, subject to financial limits.
Permitted non-audit services for which the fee exceeds recommendations previously raised by internal audit.
Following the 50,000 is required to be approved in advance by the Audit most recent of these updates, in November 2017, the Committee was Committee: satisfied that management is taking appropriate steps to deal with all engagements of the auditor to conduct non-audit work are the recommendations raised.
reported to the next meeting of the Committee: and the balance between the fees paid to the external auditor for The Chairman of the Committee, independent of management, audit and non-audit work is monitored by the Committee.
maintains regular and direct contact with both the internal and external auditor, allowing open dialogue and feedback.
At its annual The Policy can be found on the Companys website at review, the Committee concluded that the internal audit function www.
The Committee receives reports from the external auditor on its This report was reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee on ownprocesses and procedures, to ensure its independence and 15 February 2018. objectivity and to ensure compliance with the relevant standards.
Details of the amounts paid to the external auditor during the year for audit and other services are set out in note 2.3 to the consolidated financial statements on page 131.
No contractual obligations exist that restrict the Groups choice of external auditor.
DAVID LINDSELL AUDITOR REAPPOINTMENT CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The Group has complied with the provisions of The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014.
The Group conducted a tender to appoint the external auditor during 2016 and the Board agreed to reappoint Deloitte LLP.
Deloitte have now been the Groups auditor for the past 12 years.
