Governance Corporate Governance Our Governance structure Board Audit and Risk Committee Disclosure Committee Nomination Committee See the Audit and Risk Committee Report COO & CFO and other senior managers Chairman and Non-executive Directors on page 72.
Meets to ensure compliance with the Meets to review the structure, size, and continuing obligations under the Disclosure composition of the Board, including skills, Guidance and Transparency Rules DTRs.
Identies and nominates for Board approval candidates to ll Board vacancies, and considers Remuneration Committee succession planning for Directors and See the Remuneration Report on page 82. otherSenior Executives.
Considers and Tax and Treasury Committee reviews any conflicts of interest that may COO & CFO and other senior managers be reported by the Directors.
Meets to consider and approve tax and treasury related matters in respect of corporate transactions or other activities.
General Purpose Committee Monitors compliance with tax and treasury Executive Directors related policies and procedures.
Meets as required to conduct business withinclearly dened limits set by the Board.
Matters reserved for the Board and Committee terms of reference are available on our website: www.
com investors governance Management Board Meets to consider, approve and implement strategy and operational plans, monitors operating andnancial performance, and assesses and manages risk.
ITV Studios Board ITV Broadcast Board Operational Risk Business Resilience Executive directors and Executive Directors and Steering Group Response Team seniorexecutives of divisional seniorexecutives of divisional Manages and considers a Acts as tactical response business.
Meets to consider number of existing and emerging team in the event of an and approve operational and approve operational operational risks and ensures incident, supporting the matters, and assesses and matters, and assesses and that the business addresses the Management Board in manages risk in relation manages risk in relation controls and mitigations dealingwith a crisis.
appropriately including in business area response plans, relation to: health & safety, child testing programmes and protection, business resilience, incident reporting.
data protection, insider dealing, whistleblowing, anti-bribery & corruption, information security, fraud, technology and cyber risk.
Programme Compliance Corporate Advisory Group Responsibility Board Manages and considers issues Manages the direction and risks in relation to the anddelivery of ITVs programme compliance responsibility strategy framework, the interactive includingin relation to diversity business and regulation.
and inclusion, environment, communities and social causes.
66 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Corporate Governance Board and Committee meetings The number of meetings held during the year and attendance of Directors is set out in the table on page 68.
The Board agrees an annual schedule of matters it wishes to consider at each of its meetings and those of its Committees.
The schedule ensures that all relevant matters are considered and receive appropriate attention.
Meetings are normally held at one of the London sites or one of the regional orinternational ofces.
Board meetings are structured around the following areas: Operational and functional updates Financial updates Strategy Progress against strategy Business plan and performance against plan Risk management framework, key risk areas and risk appetite Other reporting and items for approval Senior executives are regularly invited to attend meetings for specic items.
In addition to formal Board andCommittee meetings, meetings take place between: Board members and Management Board members Chairman and Non-executive Directors Individual Non-executive Directors meeting with members of senior managers management Senior Independent Director and Non-executive Directors without the Chairman present Key matters discussed in 2017 and focus for 2018: Operational matters Developments ITV brand Risk Plans for redevelopment of The ITV Hub and ITV Hub Changing viewers perception Cyber security London site Targeted advertising of ITV Data protection and GDPR Cost savings Airtime sales modernisation Marketing for lighter viewers Technology resilience Mergers and acquisitions International production 1634 year old viewing Daytime studio migration Budget Other important matters Areas of focus for 2018 Britbox US launch Strategic refresh Succession planning Consumer data Integrated producer broadcaster Future of advertising Acquisition integration Impact of the EU referendum vote Gender pay gap reporting SVOD Drama development 67 Governance Corporate Governance continued Board and Committee membership and attendance Board and Committee membership and attendance at scheduled meetings in 2017 are set out below.
Attendance at meetings Date of Date appointment elected by Nomination Remuneration Audit and Risk Status Notes to the Board shareholders Board Committee Committee Committee Peter Bazalgette Chairman 1 1 June 2013 14 May 2014 9 9 1 1 6 6 Salman Amin Independent 2 9 January 2017 10 May 2017 9 9 1 1 Adam Crozier Executive 3,6 26 April 2010 7 May 2010 3 9 Margaret Ewing Independent 4 31 October 2017 10 May 2018 2 9 1 1 1 6 Roger Faxon Independent 5 31 October 2012 15 May 2013 9 9 1 1 4 6 Ian Grifths Executive 6 9 September 2008 14 May 2009 9 9 Mary Harris Independent 28 July 2014 14 May 2015 9 9 1 1 6 6 6 6 Andy Haste Independent SID 7 11 August 2008 14 May 2009 9 9 1 1 2 6 6 6 Anna Manz Independent 5 1 February 2016 12 May 2016 9 9 1 1 4 6 6 6 John Ormerod Independent 8 18 January 2008 15 May 2008 8 9 1 1 6 6 6 6 1.
Peter Bazalgette was appointed as Executive Chairman with effect from 1 July 2017 until 8 January 2018.
Salman Amin was appointed to the Board and Nomination Committee on 9 January 2017.
Adam Crozier stepped down as Chief Executive on 3 May 2017.
Margaret Ewing was appointed to the Board, Audit and Risk Committee and Nomination Committee with effect from 31 October 2017.
Roger Faxon and Anna Manz were appointed to the Remuneration Committee with effect from 1 May 2017.
Executive Directors have rolling service contracts that provide for 12 months notice by either party.
Andy Haste stepped down as a member of the Remuneration Committee with effect from 10 May 2017.
John Ormerod was unable to attend the Board meeting in September due to a prior commitment.
Succession planning and diversity Succession planning The Board recognises that effective succession planning is key to the Companys ability toachieve its strategic objectives and is also integral to maintaining an effective Board.
TheBoard has in place a framework which it reviews regularly to ensure that: The Board is refreshed appropriately in order to encourage new ideas There is a diverse Board with a wide range of skills and experience Board tenure is appropriate and Board members remain independent During the year the Board has undergone some changes as set out below: Chief Executive: In May 2017 we announced that Adam Crozier would leave ITV in June 2017.
Following this, we commenced therecruitment process for a successor.
As part of its succession planning process, the Board had already discussed the key skills, experience and other requirements of the role.
They established asmall committee comprised of Peter Bazalgette, Andy Haste, RogerFaxon and Mary Harris to manage the process.
The Board engaged Spencer Stuart to assist and provided them withaclear brief.
Throughout the process, the Committee met regularly and gave careful consideration to the candidates proposed.
Face to face interviews were held and after muchdebate a strong shortlist was agreed who wereasked to meet with all members of the Board.
The Board unanimously agreed that Carolyn McCall should be asked to join ITV asChiefExecutive, which we announced in July 2017.
Carolyn joined thebusiness on 8 January 2018 and in the interim period the Board agreed that Sir Peter Bazalgette should take the role of Executive Chairman and Ian Grifths was promoted toCOO & CFO.
Non-executive Directors: During the year, we welcomed two new Non-executive Directors: Salman Amin with effect from 9 January 2017 and Margaret Ewing with effect from 31 October 2017.
Details of the recruitment process for Salman Amin are set out in the Annual Report and Accounts for 2016.
When considering the recruitment of Margaret Ewing, the Board was mindful of the need to ensure succession planning for the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee as John Ormerod, the current Chairman of that Committee, is stepping down from the Board in May 2018, and wanted to ensure an appropriate handover period.
The Board engaged Zygos to assist with the recruitment of Margaret Ewing following a similar process as that set out above for the Chief Executive.
Both John Ormerod and Andy Haste will step down from the Board following the AGM in May 2018 and the Board is considering the current diversity of the Board with a view to considering further appointments if appropriate.
Committees: The Board also reviewed Committee membership and during 2017 Mary Harris succeeded Andy Haste as Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
In addition, Anna Manz and Roger Faxon joined the Remuneration Committee.
68 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Corporate Governance Diversity Board tenure It is our policy to retain a talented and diverse but relatively small board bringing a balance of as at date ofpublication in-depth commercial and creative experience.
The Board does not have a separate diversity policy but instead relies on the ITV Equal Opportunities policy.
ITV encourages diversity 02 years 3 throughout the business and recognises a range of characteristics.
More information on this 25 years 3 can be found on pages 20 and 99.
We believe that the ITV Board is a diverse group in terms of 59 years 3 experience, age, gender and educational and professional background.
We consider diversity More than as part of our succession planning process but recognise it is important toensure that the 9 years 1 most appropriate person is chosen for the relevant position.
Induction, training and development All Directors who join ITV receive a comprehensive induction.
It is intended to provide Board gender diversity theDirector with an overview of the industry and important key themes for the Company.
as at date ofpublication Itis also used to familiarise each Director with the different areas of the business and employees within the Company.
During the year, Margaret Ewing and Salman Amin were appointed as Non-executive Directors and Carolyn McCall as ChiefExecutive.
Margaret joined as a successor to the Audit and Risk Committee Chair and as such her induction 40% 60% wastailored accordingly.
More details can be found below.
During a Directors period of appointment, they are continually updated on the Groups different business areas and the competitive and regulatory environment in which they operate.
This is done through: Updates and papers which cover changes affecting the Group and the market in which itoperates and meetings with senior executives across the Group and key advisers: Regular updates on changes to the legal and governance requirements of the Group andin relation to their own position as Directors Presentations given at Board and Committee meetings on business matters and technical update sessions from external advisors where appropriate Executive Directors may accept external appointments as Non-executive Directors of other companies and retain any fees paid to them.
Further details of external positions held by Directors can be found on page 96.
General Board Induction All Directors Executive Non-executive Operational overview Visits to key sites Meetings with shareholders Financial review Build relationship with Chairman as appropriate Strategic overview and Management Board members including Meetings with internal and external Directors duties and responsibilities the Senior Leadership Team advisers as appropriate Governance structure Meetings with senior executives Review of previous minutes and Meetings with shareholders meeting papers Other key documents including strategyand budget Meetings with other Board members Customised Executive Directorinduction Customised Non-executive Directorinduction Carolyn McCall Margaret Ewing Visits to main hub sites, studios sets and regional news teams.
Health and safety Meetings with shareholders Tax and Treasury Committee and Operational Risk Steering Group Meetings with Management Board membersand divisional Data Protection and GDPRs impact on ITV boardmembers Visit to the shared service centre Site visit to the new London ofce London property strategy update 69 Governance Corporate Governance continued Board evaluation Terms of engagement for the External  and job The Board undertakes an external evaluation every three years to review its effectiveness.
descriptions for the Chairman, Chief The last external Board evaluation took place in 2016.
Executive and Senior Independent Director are available on our website.
Internal The work of the Board and its committees is reviewed annually.
The evaluation takes the www.
com investors form of a detailed questionnaire and interviews with the Board and Committee members governance eliciting feedback on a wide range of topics.
In addition, input is sought from theExecutive Directors, other relevant senior executives and external advisers.
Results arethen passed tothe relevant Committee Chairman and a report of actions is submitted to the Board and Committees and actioned as appropriate.
The table below indicates the important themes that were identied for the Board from the exercise for2017.
Committee actions are set out on pages 73 and 85.
Actions for 2018 Composition Ensure there is a broad range of experience and perspective on the Board, in particular recent media, technology and digital experience Consider the successor for the Senior Independent Director when Andy Haste steps downfrom the Board.
Effectiveness Review meeting structure to enhance productivity and efficiency and allow for greater indepth discussions Stakeholder engagement Engage more regularly on wider stakeholder engagement Spend more time understanding and visiting UK and international acquisitions Board visit During 2017 a Board meeting was held inManchester which included a visit to the Coronation Street set and a lunch with employees.
70 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Corporate Governance Stakeholder engagement Investor prole The Board has a responsibility to create value for all its stakeholders and we believe it is vital The percentage of issued capital by type toengage and listen to their views.
As one of the biggest national broadcasters in the UK, ofholder is as follows: ITVhas a wide range of stakeholders and more on how we engage with some of these different groups isdetailed below: Investors: The Board attaches a high priority to effective communication with investors andhas regular open dialogue with them.
During the year meetings were routinely held with institutional investors to keep them updated on the Companys performance against our strategy.
The Board is kept informed of any feedback from these meetings.
Further details can be found in our investor calendar below.
Our AGM provides a forum for private shareholders toraise questions with the Board directly should they wish.
They have ample opportunity to ask questions during the meeting and before and after the event.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director are always available to all shareholders.
Employees: Engagement with employees is facilitated in a number of ways.
We have Institutional shareholders 97.26% engagement surveys and Carolyn McCall has introduced weekly podcasts to keep employees Private shareholders 2.72% up to date with what she has been doing and to communicate important issues for ITV in an Other 0.02% effective and engaging way.
In addition, a separate email has been set up for employees to askCarolyn any questions they may have.
Further details of what else we do around employee engagement can be found on page 100, including information on our annual roadshows.
Viewers: ITV reaches a vast audience across the UK and the Board recognises the important role it plays for viewers.
Viewers are able to tell us their thoughts directly via email or telephone with contact details provided on our website.
They are also able to use our regulator Ofcom, to raise any concerns they may have.
The Board has delegated the review of such issues to the Broadcast Board where a compliance report is received monthly detailing viewer or regulator concerns.
Our dedicated viewer services team was awarded the Best Customer Services in Telecoms & Media for the seventh year running in 2017 and is on hand to resolve anytechnical issues or other questions our viewers may have.
We now also provide bespoke support for all of our live Daytime shows, ITV Box Ofce events, and the ITV Hub to enhance our viewer experience.
Our investor calendar March May July September November Full year results Q1 Trading Update Interim results Interim results Q3 Trading Update published and roadshow published published and roadshow in London published in London JP Morgan conference roadshow in London Barclays conference Morgan Stanley Citi Annual Media Roadshow in the US inLondon TMTconference conference in London European roadshows inBarcelona in Frankfurt and Milan US roadshow April June August October Full year results Bank of America Merrill Interim results roadshow US roadshow roadshow in London Lynch conference in inLondon andUS London 71
