Governance Board of Directors 1 Ian Griffiths 3 Sir Peter Bazalgette 5 John Ormerod 7 Andy Haste Chief Operating officer and Chairman Non-executive Director, Chairman Senior Independent Director GroupFinance Director N R ofthe Audit and Risk Committee N A G N A R Appointed: June 2013 Appointed: August 2008 Appointed: September 2008 Key areas of prior experience: Appointed: January 2008 Key areas of prior experience: Key areas of prior experience: Media consultant, digital media Key areas of prior experience: International and emerging Corporate finance and financial investor and former television Finance, developing strategy markets, change management, restructuring.
restructuring and business Current external appointments: Current external appointments: Current external appointments: turnaround.
Non-executive Director of Member of Advisory Board for Non-executive Director, Current external appointments: DS Smith Plc.
YouGov plc and Bartle Bogle Hegarty.
Chairman, Wonga Group Limited: Previous experience: Group Finance Previous experience: President, Previous experience: Non-executive Senior Independent Deputy Chairman Director and other senior finance theRoyal Television Society: Chairman, First Names Group of the Council of Lloyds.
roles within Emap plc: Manager Chairman, the Arts Council Limited, Tribal Group plc, Merlin Previous experience: Group Chief inaudit and corporate finance ofEngland: Non-executive Director of Claims Service Holdings Limited: Executive, RSA Insurance Group plc: atErnst&Young.
Nutopia: Non-executive Director and Senior Independent Director, Misys Chief Executive, AXA Sun Life plc: Chairman of the Remuneration plc: Trustee, TheDesign Museum, Director, AXA UK plc life and 2 Carolyn McCall Committee and member of the Audit TheRoundhouse Trust: Non-executive pensions : President and Chief Chief Executive Committee of YouGov plc: NonDirector and Chairman of Audit Executive officer of GE Capital G executive Director of Mirriad Ltd, Committee of Computacenter plc: GlobalConsumer Finance UK, Appointed: January 2018 DCMS, Rightster, Critical Information Non-executive Director, Negative Western Europe and Eastern Europe: Key areas of prior experience: Group plc and Channel Four Television Equity Protection Holdings Limited, President, the US Consumer Credit Strategy and change management, Corp: Trustee of DebateMate: Millen Group Limited, BMS Associated Business and Senior Vice President media, retail and airlineindustries.
Chairman of the ENO and Endemol Limited: Member of Audit and Retail and Head of the US Consumer Current external appointments: UK: Deputy Chairman and Director of Risk Control Committees of HBOS plc: LoanProducts Division of National Non-executive Director, Burberry the National Film and Television Chairman, Wallbrook Group: Westminster Bank.
Group plc and Department of School: Adviser to Sony Musics Chairman of the Audit Committee for 8 Mary Harris Business, Energy and Industrial television division: Chairman of the Transport for London: Practice Senior Non-executive Director, Strategy.
Director, Corporate Board UK production business of Sony Partner, Deloitte & Touche: Regional Chair of the Remuneration ofRoyal Academy of Arts.
Pictures Television Inc. : Chief Creative Managing Partner, Arthur Andersen.
Committee Previous experience: Chief officer at Endemol Group BV and 6 Salman Amin N A R Executive of easyJet plc, Guardian Endemol Entertainment UK Limited.
Non-executive Director Media Group plc, Guardian News and Appointed: July 2014 4 Margaret Ewing N Media plc: Non-executive Director Key areas of prior experience: Non-executive Director ofLloyds TSB Limited, Tesco plc, Appointed: January 2017 Business management consulting, N A NewLook plc: Director of French Key areas of prior experience: sales and marketing, mergers and Appointed: October 2017 Chamber of Commerce: Chair, General management, marketing, acquisitions, media, television and Key areas of prior experience: Opportunity Now: President, advertising and media planning.
interactive media investments Financial accounting, corporate Womenin Advertising and Current external appointments: anddigital rights management.
finance, mergers and integration, Communications London.
Current external appointments: strategic and corporate planning.
Previous experience: Chief Non-executive Director and Chair Current external appointments: Operating officer, Global Commercial ofthe Remuneration Committee, Non-executive Director and member Division and Chief Operating officer, Reckitt Benckiser Group PLC: Member of the Audit and Risk Committee of North America of SC Johnson and Son of the supervisory board of Unibail ConvaTec Group plc: Trustee, the Inc: various positions at Pepsico Rodamco SE.
Board of Great Ormond Street including: Chief Operating officer, Previous experience: Non-executive Hospital Childrens Charity: External Purchase: President, PepsiCo UK and Director, J. Sainsbury plc: Member of member of the Audit Committee, Ireland: other marketing and various the supervisory board, TNT Express The Lawn Tennis Association.
positions within brand management, NV, TNT NV, Scotch and Soda NV Previous experience: Executive personal care, paper products and andIrdeto BV: Partner, McKinsey & member of the Board, Executive food in the US, Saudi Arabia, Germany Company, Amsterdam: various Committee member, Managing and Switzerland at Procter & Gamble.
positions worldwide with McKinsey Partner, Vice Chairman and Partner &Company, Maxwell Entertainment of Deloitte LLP.
External member of Group, Pepsi Cola Beverages and the Audit and Risk Committee John Goldman Sachs&Co.
Non-executive Director, Standard Chartered plc: Member of the Financial Reporting Review Panel: Chairman of theAudit Committee, Confederation of British Industry: Non-executive Director and Committee membership G Chair of the Audit Committee, General Purpose A Whitbread plc: Group Chief Financial Audit and Risk N officer, BAA plc: Group Finance Nomination R Director, Trinity Mirror.
Remuneration Full biographies can be found on our website: www.
com about board-of-directors 62 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Board of Directors 9 Anna Manz Non-executive Director N A R Appointed: February 2016 Key areas of prior experience: Strategy and finance and nancialplanning.
Current external appointments: Chief Financial officer, JohnsonMatthey plc.
Previous experience: Various appointments at Diageo plc including: Group Strategy Director, Regional Finance Director Asia Pacic, Group Treasurer, Finance Director Global Marketing, Sales and Innovation: other finance roles at Quest International, Unilever and ICI.
1 2 3 10 Roger Faxon Non-executive Director N R Appointed: October 2012 Key areas of prior experience: Broad commercial, digital and media rights experience, development ofbusiness strategy and finance.
Current external appointments: Chairman, Mirriad Advertising Ltd: Non-executive Director, Pandora Media Inc: Director, The John Hopkins University.
Previous experience: Director, EMI Group Global Limited and EMI Group plc: Chief Executive officer of EMI Group Limited: Chairman and CEO ofEMI Music Publishing: Director, theSongwriters Hall of Fame: otherappointments at theAmerican Society of Composers and Authors and Lancit Media Entertainment Ltd in the US: Chairman of VIVA Television in Germany and Channel V Networks 4 inAsia.
