Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 71 71 NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT NOMINATION COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES IN 2017 Appointment of David Nussbaum as a non-executive director Appointment of the Group Chief Executive Officer Appointment of an Interim Group Chief Financial Officer Appointment of Nicola Hodson as a non-executive director Considered the effectiveness and performance of the Board and its committees Review of management development and succession planning THE COMMITTEES ROLE IS TO ENSURE THE RIGHT LEADERSHIP IS ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE The Committees principal responsibilities IN PLACE TO STEER THE COMPANY are to: keep under review the Boards structure, PHILIP COX CBE size and composition including requisite CHAIRMAN skills, diversity, knowledge and experience it requires : conduct the search and selection process for new directors, taking advice from COMMITTEE MEMBERS NUMBER OF MEETINGS independent search consultants as Tim Cobbold HELD IN 2017 appropriate: and David Lindsell ensure a rigorous succession David Nussbaum planningprocess for the directors and Tony Thorne 4 other senior managers, including the Nicola Hodson identicationof candidates from both appointed 12 January 2018 The Group Company Secretary is within and outside the Group.
ATTENDING BY INVITATION TERMS OF REFERENCE Group Chief Executive officer The Committees terms of reference are Head of Corporate HR reviewed annually by the Committee and then by the Board.
The terms of reference are available on the Groups website at www.
ATTENDANCE IN 2017 Date Maximum No.
of % of Committee appointed possible meetings meetings member a member meetings attended attended Tim Cobbold 27 September 2010 4 4 100% Philip Cox 22 April 2015 4 4 100% David Lindsell 1 December 2008 4 4 100% David Nussbaum 1 August 2017 1 1 100% Tony Thorne 29 June 2010 4 4 100% 7 72 2 Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED The Chairman of the Committee reports on the Committees BOARD AND COMMITTEE EVALUATION proceedings to the following Board meeting.
The Board continually strives to improve its effectiveness and recognises that the performance evaluation process represents an annual opportunity to enhance overall Board effectiveness.
In 2016 The Committee has had a busy year as following Dorothy Thompsons decision to stand down as Group Chief Executive officer the Board conducted an externally facilitated Board evaluation CEO.
it led the process of the search for a replacement.
Will which resulted in some important recommendations for improving Gardiner, formerly Group Chief Financial officer CFO was appointed the Boards effectiveness which have subsequently been as the new Group CEO, effective 1 January 2018 with Den Jones implemented, including inviting advisers and external experts to appointed as Interim Group CFO until the process for appointing selectively attend Board meetings to share their perspective on the apermanent Group CFO has been completed.
business and the markets in which we operate.
In 2017 the Board received presentations from external consultants on: energy, During the year an additional non-executive director, David marketing and branding, and from the Companys brokers.
Nussbaum, was appointed and the announcement of another Inaddition, presentations from Group senior management were non-executive director, Nicola Hodson, to be appointed in January received on a wide range of issues such as safety, operational 2018, was made.
integrity, risk analysis, IT and cyber security, people development, innovation and development.
There has also been some DIRECTORATE CHANGES restructuring of how the Board conducts its meetings in order to The past year has been a significant year for the Board with the increase the effectiveness of meetings, by the introduction of announcement in September 2017 that Will Gardiner, Group CFO was pre-meetings for the Chairman and non-executive directors before to succeed Dorothy Thompson as Group CEO with effect from the Board meeting.
1 January 2018 following Dorothy Thompsons decision to step down after 12 years as Group CEO.
This year, in view of the externally facilitated evaluation carried out in2016, it was agreed that an internal Board performance evaluation Wills appointment is a natural progression after two years would be most beneficial to the Company.
The Chairman and the workingalongside Dorothy developing the new strategy.
The Company Secretary discussed how best to facilitate this and it was Boardis progressing the process to appoint a permanent Group decided that the Company Secretary should prepare a questionnaire CFOas soon as practicable, but in the meantime Den Jones was for this purpose.
appointed on 1 November 2017 as Interim Group CFO.
Den is highly experienced, having previously been the CFO at Johnson Matthey The questionnaire was approved by the Chairman and was andBG Group.
subsequently completed by all directors to evaluate the performance of the Board, each of its committees and individual On behalf of the Board I would like to thank Dorothy for her Board members.
Following completion of the questionnaires, the enormous contribution to Drax.
She has led the transformation of Chairman held a series of one-to-one meetings with each of the the business during her tenure and leaves the Group in a strong directors in order to discuss the outcomes of the evaluation.
position with a clear strategy that lays the foundations for further success in a changing energy sector.
I am pleased to welcome two new non-executive directors to the Board, David Nussbaum and Nicola Hodson.
David, who was appointed on 1 August 2017, has a strong background in sustainability, environmental, ethical and social responsibility, and Nicola, who was appointed on 12 January 2018, has significant experience in the technology, business transformation, IT, sales and marketing and energy sectors.
I am confident that with their breadth of experience and expertise, they will be valuable additions to the Board.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS It is the Boards policy that each non-executive director will be appointed for a term of three years which, subject to the Board being satisfied as to the directors performance and commitment, and a resolution to re-elect at the appropriate AGM, may be renewed by mutual agreement.
The Board will not normally extend the aggregate period of service of any independent non-executive director beyond nine years, and any proposal made to extend a non-executive directors aggregate period of ofce beyond six years is subject to rigorous review.
All directors are subject to annual re-election at our Annual General Meeting.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 73 73 The main points arising from the 2017 performance evaluation SKILLS AND KNOWLEDGE OF THE BOARD include the following: A key responsibility of the Committee is to ensure that the Board maintains a balance of skills, knowledge and experience appropriate to the operation of the business and required to deliver the strategy.
Key strengths As in past years, the Nomination Committee has reviewed the Board meetings are conducted in a way that ensures open and composition of the Board and as part of this review the Committee meaningful participation.
Non-executive directors are given considered whether the: fulltransparency and are actively included on all matters.
The Board also has regular engagement with management levels Board contains the right mix of skills, experience and diversity: below the executive, through presentations and visits to all Board has an appropriate balance of executive directors and business units.
non-executive directors: and non-executive directors are able to commit sufficient time to the The Board is very aware of the risk of political and regulatory Company in order to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
There is strong engagement with policy makers.
The executives keep the non-executives well informed of political Following the review, the Committee was satisfied that the Board and regulatory developments, and key milestones.
continues to have an appropriate mix of skills and experience to operate effectively.
All the directors have many years of experience, The Board has an appropriate variety of skills and experience all gained from a broad range of businesses and they collectively which is aligned to the strategy.
bring a range of expertise and knowledge of different business sectors to Board deliberations, which encourage constructive, The Board is very effective in managing change within the challenging and innovative discussions.
The organisation has managed a significant scale change over the last few years which has gone well.
In addition to the specic focus for 2017, there is an annual programme of work which is designed to full its principal duties.
The duties and responsibilities of the Board and its committees This programme reviews: have been clearly dened and are carried out well.
Re-election and appointment of directors The ethics and corporate responsibility processes are highly The Committee met on 15 February 2018, following the effective.
completion of the 2017 Board evaluation and performance review process, described above and determined that all of the directors Principal areas of focus for 2018 who are the subject of annual re-election will retire at the forthcoming AGM and, being eligible, offer themselves for Improving diversity, as it was recognised that additional focus is re-election.
The Board evaluation and performance review needed to further widen the composition oftheBoard.
concluded that the directors offering themselves for re-election continue to demonstrate commitment to their particular role and The Board has developed a clear and coherent strategy.
focus is now on the successful implementation ofthis strategy.
Size, structure and composition of the Board At its meeting in February 2017, the Chairman provided the Risk increased discussion onrisk and the Boards appetite Committee with an update in the search for and recruitment of forrisk.
two additional non-executive director roles.
The Committee concluded that the Board, constituted with three executive More focus on assessing thenon-financial, qualitative and directors, five independent non-executive directors and a quantitative measures when assessing company performance.
Chairman who was independent on appointment, was appropriate for the Company.
Further examination of new technologies in the energy sector, Membership of Board committees and continued focus on cyber security risk.
It is the Boards policy to inviteall independent non-executive directors to join the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Implementation of the new employee performance and committees.
The Committee reviewed this policy, and also the appraisal process to drive forward talent development.
composition of the Board committees.
It was noted that the committees remained compliant with the provisions of the Code SUCCESSION PLANNING AND DIVERSITY and thus no changes tomembership of the committees were Maintaining and improving the effectiveness of the Groups recommended.
succession planning process is key to the success of the business inthe future.
Selecting and supporting the right individuals are essential in leading the delivery of the new strategy.
We will be assisted in this by the implementation of the new people strategy which will help to create opportunities for talented individuals to develop and to lead the Group in the future.
Diversity is one aspect of the succession planning process and includes: gender, age, race, religion, background and experience.
TheBoard is committed to expanding the diversity of the workforce across the Group, including its top management.
This ongoing commitment is reflected in the recent appointments of David Nussbaum and Nicola Hodson to the Board.
7 74 4 Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 Succession planning Board diversity The Committee reviews the succession plan at least annually.
In addition to the regular programme of work andthe evaluation TheGroup has a well-established and robust succession planning mentioned below, the Committee recognises the diversity process, which covers all Executive Committee members and their challenge and considers the question of Board diversity in its direct reports, as well as other individuals within the Group who widest sense, and gender diversity in particular.
The Committee have been identied as having longer-term potential for senior identied a number of additional capabilities in its non-executive roles.
In the Committees opinion, the plan is well prepared and director search specication which were used in the successful appropriate for the size of the Groups business and management recruitment of David Nussbaum, who has a background in the structure, and there is a range of strong candidates for most charity and sustainability sectors, and Nicola Hodson who has senior roles.
Any potential gaps are the subject of both internal extensive experience in technology, business transformation, IT development plans and or selected external recruitment.
sales and marketing, and energy.
The Committee recognises the Appointment of new Group CEO strength that can be achieved through diversity in the Groups The Committee led the process for the search of a new Group CEO management and this is an important consideration in the to replace Dorothy Thompson.
The Committee engaged an recruitment, promotion and training of the senior management external recruitment agency, Russell Reynolds, to assist in the team.
The Company participated in the Hampton Alexander search.
Russell Reynolds does not have any other connection with review into increasing the number of women in senior positions in the Company.
A suitable list of external candidates was drawn up FTSE 350 companies.
The Board fully supports the findings of this and an assessment of both the external and internal candidates review.
Looking forward we have further opportunities to address was carried out.
A shortlist of candidates then met the Committee our diversity agenda.
We have already started in 2018 the search and it was decided to appoint Will Gardiner.
to recruit a non-executive director who will shadow David Lindsell Appointment of two new non-executive directors as Chair of the Audit Committee, and in 2019 the scheduled The Committee continued its search to broaden non-executive retirements of Tim Cobbold and Tony Thorne from the Board will strength and diversify the Boards skills and experience base, provide further planned opportunities.
To assist in this process the leading to the appointments of David Nussbaum in August 2017 Board plans to only use executive search agencies which have and Nicola Hodson in January 2018.
External recruitment signed up to the Hampton Alexander voluntary code of conduct agencies, Acre and Heidrick & Struggles, were used to assist in the on gender diversity.
Further details of our commitment to diversity recruitment process for David Nussbaum and Nicola Hodson can be found on page40.
Aside from assisting with recruitment, Acre and Heidrick & Struggles have no other connection with the Company.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 75 75 STRATEGY IN PROGRESS Induction of DavidNussbaum All new directors receive a comprehensive senior management team as well as the and tailored induction programme including Group Company Secretary who provided wider background briengs on the Groups anoverview of the Board procedures and activities, meetings with key managers and governance framework.
David was provided visits to the Groups operational sites.
In with a comprehensive induction pack August 2017 David Nussbaum joined the whichcontained a wide range of material Board as an independent non-executive including: Board papers and minutes of director, bringing with him valuable previous meetings: schedule of matters experience and expertise particularly in reserved for the Board: schedule of dates for Board and committee meetings: terms thecharity and sustainability sectors.
Davids induction programme included a of reference for all Board committees: visit to our US operations, and the Drax Group company structure chart and senior Power Station site in Selby which included management structure chart.
asite tour and meetings with some of the RENEWAL AND RE-ELECTION The Company may however, remove a director by ordinary resolution The Companys Articles provide that, unless otherwise determined before the expiration of the directors period of ofce without by the Company, the Board must consist of at least two, and no more prejudice to any claim the director may have for breach of any than 15 directors.
The shareholders and the Board have the power to service contract and may appoint another person who is willing to appoint any person who is willing to act as a director.
If the Board act to be a director in their place.
The replacement director is appoints a director, that director must retire at the first AGM regarded as a director from the outgoing directors date of last following their appointment.
That director may, if they so wish, put appointment re-appointment.
Nicola Hodson and David Nussbaum were appointed by the Board subsequent to the 2017 The executive directors service contracts and non-executive AGM and therefore they will retire and offer themselves for redirectors letters of appointment are available for inspection by election by shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
priorarrangement during normal business hours at the Companys registered ofce.
They will also be available for inspection at the The Articles provide that, one-third of directors shall retire by venue of the AGM, prior to the meeting, details of which are rotation each year and are eligible for re-election by shareholders at contained in the Notice of Meeting.
In accordance with the Code, the Company will continue its practice to propose all directors forannual re-election.
During the year, the Chairman held meetings with the non-executive Accordingly, each of Tim Cobbold, Philip Cox, WillGardiner, Andy directors in the absence of the executive directors, and, separately, Koss, David Lindsell and Tony Thorne will retire atthe forthcoming the Senior Independent Director held a meeting with the nonAGM and, being eligible, offer themselves up for re-election.
executive directors without the Chairman being present, as required by provision A.
Following the evaluation and review of the Board described above, Iconcluded that the directors offering themselves for re-election This report was reviewed and approved by the Nomination continue to demonstrate commitment, management and industry Committee on 26 February 2018. expertise in their particular role and continue to perform effectively.
The re-election of each director is recommended by the Board.
Details of the service contracts for the executive directors and letters of appointment for the non-executive directors are set out ina table on page 103.
PHILIP COX CBE CHAIRMAN OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE
