The Weir Group PLC 88 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Corporate Governance Report Audit Committee Report Introduction As Chairman of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to present our report to shareholders for the year ended 31 December 2017.
This report will outline how the Committee has fulfilled its key objective of providing effective governance over the appropriateness of the Groups financial reporting.
Alan Ferguson Committee Chairman Areas of focus Membership Committee membership in 2017 Our key objective is achieved by focusing After six years this will be my final report Alan Ferguson, Committee Chairman on, amongst other things: as the Chairman of the Committee.
Sir Jim McDonald the adequacy of accounting The members of the Committee, John Mogford policies and disclosures, as well other than myself, are Sir Jim McDonald, Barbara Jeremiah as the areas requiring significant John Mogford and Barbara Jeremiah, all estimates or judgements: of whom are independent Non-Executive Melanie Gee to 30 Sept 2017 the performance of both the Directors.
With the exception of Barbara internal audit function and the Jeremiah, all have been members of the Other regular Audit Committee externalauditor: and Committee for the full year and to the attendees by invitation oversight of the Groups systems date of this report.
Melanie Gee served of internal control, and the during the year prior to standing down Charles Berry, Chairman framework for identification and from the Board in September.
Stephen Jon Stanton, Chief Executive Officer management of business risks Young, who will take over as Chair when and related assurance activities.
I step down, joined the Committee in John Heasley, Chief Financial Officer January 2018.
Christopher Morgan, Company Secretary and General Counsel, The Committee members have, attends as secretary to the Committee through their other business activities, Steven Wallace, significant experience in financial Group Financial Controller matters.
They have been selected with David Kyles, Head of Internal Audit the aim of providing the wide range of financial and commercial expertise Lindsay Gardiner necessary to fulfil our responsibilities.
 Summary biographies have been Group Audit Partner presented on pages 70 and 71.
Attendance table Percentage of eligible Committee members meetings attended Member since 18 January 15 February 21 July 23 October Alan Ferguson, Chairman 13 Dec 2011 100% Sir Jim McDonald 1 Jan 2015 75% John Mogford 1 Aug 2008 100% Melanie Gee to 30 Sept 2017 4 May 2011 100% Barbara Jeremiah 1 Aug 2017 100% Terms of Reference are available on the Companys website at www.
weir Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Weir Group PLC 89 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Meetings the clarity of the disclosures and Ethics Helpline programme which We met four times during the year compliance with accounting standards provides a mechanism for employees and have met twice since the year end.
and relevant financial and governance with serious concerns about the conduct Each Committee meeting normally takes reporting requirements, including an of the Group or its employees to report place prior to a Board meeting, during assessment of adoption of the going their concerns.
The Committee ensures which I provide a report on our activities.
concern basis of accounting and a that appropriate arrangements are in review of the process and financial place to receive and act proportionately There is at least one meeting each modelling underpinning the Groups upon a complaint about malpractice.
year when we meet with each of Viability Statement: and The Committee takes a particular interest the Head of Internal Audit and the the processes surrounding the in any reports of possible improprieties external auditors separately, without compilation of the Annual Report in financial reporting.
and Financial Statements with regard This provides us with the opportunity to presenting a fair, balanced and Since the last Annual Report and for any issues of concern to be raised understandable assessment of the Financial Statements, there have been by, or with, the auditors.
presentations from the three Divisional Finance Directors DFDs which included We have the ability to call on Group We received formal reports from a review of the divisional risk dashboards, employees to assist in our work and the Chief Financial Officer and the the significant findings from the internal to obtain any information required from external auditor, summarising the main audit visits and the Compliance Scorecard Executive Directors in order to carry out discussion points for both the Interim process over the last 12 months, as well our roles and duties.
We are also able Report in our July 2017 meeting and as an overview of their divisional finance to obtain outside legal or independent Annual Report during our January teams.
Focus is given to: professional advice if required.
1. the strength and depth of the finance The table above details the Board The financial reporting matters discussed teams capability: members and members of senior in the current year and recurring agenda management who were invited items are summarised in the table on 2. the quality and efficiency of responses to attend meetings as appropriate pages 90 to 92. to findings of internal audit visits, during the calendar year.
In addition, including whether learning has been  LLP PwC ii Internal control and shared more widely across the Group attended the meetings by invitation risk management to mitigate the risk of recurrence and asauditors to the Group.
Overall responsibility for the Groups share good practice to: and risk management and internal control Main activities frameworks rests with the Board.
3. the quality of the discussion around Over the course of the year since Further details on accountability divisional risk dashboards.
the last Annual Report, our work was for Risk Management are provided focused in the following areas: intheCorporate Governance Report In addition, we received a presentation on onpage 82. the progress of the Minerals SAP rollout i financial reporting: and related controls.
ii internal control and risk management: Our role with regard to risk management iii internal audit: and has been delegated by the Board and is The Compliance Scorecard is a control iv external audit.
to review the effectiveness of the Groups mechanism whereby each operating risk and internal control frameworks.
company undertakes self-assessments, The following sections provide more every six months, of their compliance detail on our specific items of focus Our work in this area was supported with Group policies and procedures, under each of these headings, explaining by reporting from the Head of Internal including key internal controls across a the work we, as a Committee, have Audit on the results of the programme range of categories including finance, undertaken and the results of that work.
of internal audits completed: the overall anti-bribery and corruption, tax, treasury, assessment of the internal control trade and customs, HR, IT and legal.
As i Financial reporting environment: and in addition, reporting, far as the elements relating to finance Our principal responsibility in this area is either verbal or written, from senior are concerned, these cover but are not the review and challenge of the actions management covering any investigations limited to management accounts and and judgements of management in into known or suspected fraudulent financial reporting, balance sheet controls, relation to the interim and annual financial activities.
We also noted the additional employee costs and other financial policies.
statements before submission to the work undertaken for the Board on a Each operating company is expected Board, paying particular attention to: review of the sources of assurance which to prepare and execute action plans to were mapped against the principal risks address any weaknesses identified as critical accounting policies and see iii Internal audit below.
part of the self-assessment process.
practices, and any changes therein: decisions requiring significant The Committee also receives regular judgements, areas of significant reporting on the Groups complianceestimate, or where there has been related activities from the Group General discussion with the external auditor: Counsel and Company Secretary and the existence of any errors, adjusted Head of Internal Audit.
This includes or unadjusted, resulting from the audit: reviewing compliance with the Groups The Weir Group PLC 90 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Corporate Governance Report Audit Committee Report continued Current year matters Area of focus Issue Role of the Committee Conclusion Exceptional items Management We have received detailed reporting from the Chief The Committee agrees restructuring costs exercises judgement Financial Officer covering the following aspects of with the accounting and related provisions on the classification the exceptional charges: treatment and disclosure of certain items as of these items in the i charge credit by Division, including the nature exceptional.
see notes 5 and 22 of of the items: the financial statements ii accounting treatment adopted in relation to recognition of provisions and impairments: and iii disclosure of the amounts and related narrative reporting.
Our work has focused on ensuring that these items were exceptional due to their size, nature and or frequency, taking cognisance where appropriate of multi-year restructuring programmes.
We also received confirmation from PwC that managements treatment was acceptable.
Consideration was also given to the classification of the one-off charges incurred within the Flow Control Division during the year as trading items rather than exceptional.
Finally, consideration was given to the current balance sheet position of the remaining restructuring provisions, with a specific focus on the China provision created in 2016, with management providing details of the remaining liabilities.
Acquisition Management We received a summary report from management The Committee agrees accounting for KOP exercises judgement which outlined: with the acquisition on the type of accounting treatment i the purchase price allocation exercise which identified see note 13 of the intangible assets and disclosure of the and valued separately identifiable intangible assets: financial statements acquired and KOP acquisition in the ii the assessment of acquisition fair values, with a estimates are made Annual Report.
particular focus on inventory carrying values: and of the fair value of all assets and liabilities.
iii the related disclosures in the financial statements displayed in note 13 We reviewed the resulting valuations, understood thereasons behind the changes made and looked atacomparison to other recent acquisitions where appropriate.
We also received confirmation from PwCthatmanagements assumptions and calculation methodology were acceptable.
US Tax Reform Management An assessment of the transitional impact of the recently The Committee exercises judgement enacted US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was presented by agrees with see notes 7 and 23 of on the potential the Group Head of Tax to the Committee, summarising Managements the financial statements impact on the the key judgements underpinning the estimated financial judgements and Group tax assets, impact on the Group tax assets, liabilities and corporate related disclosures.
liabilities and tax rate for the current year and potential tax implications corporate tax rate.
on future years, recognising that the practical application and impact of parts of the Act remain unclear.
We reviewed this in light of input from both Deloitte and EY.
PwC also provided confirmation that managements assumptions, calculation methodology and treatment of transitional credits as exceptional items were acceptable.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Weir Group PLC 91 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Recurring agenda items Area of focus Issue Role of the Committee Conclusion Impairment Management The most significant estimates are in setting the assumptions We are satisfied that undertakes an underpinning the calculation of the value in use of the Cash the impairment analysis see note 14 annual detailed, Generating Units CGUs.
We specifically reviewed: supports the carrying ofthefinancial formal impairment value of the underlying i the achievability of the long-term business plan numbers statements review of goodwill assets in each CGU.
and macroeconomic assumptions underlying the valuation and other intangible process: assets, with judgements made ii long-term growth rates and discount rates used in the on the relevant Cash cash flow models for all of the CGUs: and Generating Units iii the rationale for the allocation of KOP to the Oil and Gas and estimates of EMEA Cash Generating Unit.
Business plans and budgets were Board-approved and underpin the cash flow forecasts.
We have considered the sensitivity analysis supplied by management.
We have reviewed the relevant disclosures in the financial statements and the related narrative.
Provisions Significant balance The focus of the Audit Committee was on the restructuring We are satisfied that sheet provisions provisions including the linkage to the exceptional charges the current provisioning see note 22 are underpinned recorded in the Income Statement, and the employee-related levels and approach ofthefinancial by managements provisions, specifically the element in respect of US asbestosare appropriate, as is statements key judgements related claims.
the recognition of a on obligating events matching insurance The Committees work in relation to exceptional items is and timeframes asset in relation to the discussed in the previous section.
over which a US asbestos provision.
With regard to the US asbestos-related provision, the reliable estimate Committee noted the updated external advice in respect for provision values of the actuarial assumptions underpinning the provision can be made.
Our review and challenge was centred on gaining an understanding of: i the claims and settlement assumptions that underpin the discounted cash flow model and their relation to recent historic experience: ii the period over which the liability can be reasonably estimated, iii the position with regard to availability of insurance cover: and iv the adequacy and transparency of the disclosures in note 22.
We challenged management on the assumptions underpinning the liability assessment and the recording of a matching receivable on the basis of the insurance asset.
PwC also provided confirmation that managements assumptions werereasonable.
With regard to other provisions other than inventory see below, we examined the key movements between the opening and closing provision balances and challenged management onthe commercial drivers which caused them.
Pensions The valuation of We challenged management on the key assumptions The Committee was pension liabilities underpinning the valuation, taking assurance from the satisfied with the see note 24 can be materially fact that external advice had been taken by the Company assumptions and related ofthefinancial affected by the and that PwC had benchmarked these assumptions to their pension disclosures.
statements assumptions utilised own internal ranges.
by management on areas such as discount and inflation rates.
The Weir Group PLC 92 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Corporate Governance Report Audit Committee Report continued Area of focus Issue Role of the Committee Conclusion Tax charge and The tax position The Audit Committee receives a detailed report from the Based on the work we provisioning is complex, with Chief Financial Officer every six months, which covers the have undertaken, we are a number of following key areas: satisfied that the position see notes 7 international presented in these financial i status of ongoing enquiries and tax audits with local and 23 of jurisdictions statements, including the tax authorities: the financial requiring disclosures, is appropriate.
statements managements ii the Groups effective tax rate for the current year: and judgement with iii the level of provisioning for known and potential liabilities, regards to effective including significant movements on the prior period.
tax rates, tax In addition, the Committee takes comfort from the annual compliance and presentation to the main Board on tax strategy and risk, tax provisioning.
givenbythe Group Head of Tax, and the work done by, andconclusions of, PwC in this area.
Inventory Management applies Given the significant investment in inventory within both the Based on the information valuation estimates on Minerals and Oil & Gas Divisions, both of which are impacted provided, the Committee inventory valuation by commodity cycles, this remains a judgement for specific concluded that see note 16 and provisioning.
Reporting has been received from management management action had ofthefinancial on the business drivers behind movements in both gross been effective and that statements inventory and the related slow-moving and obsolete provision.
the level of provisioning Specific consideration was given to a review of the accuracy appeared adequate.
Fair, balanced and The Board is The Committee received a report from management The successful completion understandable required to state summarising the detailed approach that had been taken to of this work has been that the Groups ensure that the Groups external reporting is fair, balanced reported to the Board.
This covered, but was not limited to, is fair, balanced and the following: understandable.
i involvement of a cross section of management across The Audit the organisation during the preparation of the external Committee is reporting, including the Group Executive, Divisional Finance requested by the Directors, Group Communications, Group Finance including Board to provide Group Tax and Group Treasury and Company Secretariat: advice to support ii i nput and advice from appropriate external advisers, including theassertion.
the Companys brokers and public relations agency: iii use of available disclosure checklists for both corporate governance and financial statement reporting: iv regular research to identify emerging practice and guidance from relevant regulatory bodies: v regular weekly meetings from December to February inclusive involving the key contributors to the document, during which specific consideration was given to the fair, balanced and understandable assertion: and vi use of three cold readers: two employees independent ofthe preparation process one a member of the senior management group and an external, independent proofreader.
Viability The Committees We fulfilled our responsibilities in this area through the review The successful completion Statement role, as delegated and discussion of reporting received from management, which of this work has been by the Board, covered the following areas: reported to the Board.
is to review The Groups viability i o verview of the construct of the financial model and base the underlying statement is reported case data underpinning the sensitivity and stress-test processes and on page 56. scenarios: key assumptions ii results of financial modelling which reflected the underpinning the crystallisation of those principal risks identified by the Viability Statement Board as having the greatest potential impact on the and report to the Groups viability, both individually and when taken Board accordingly.
together in a severe but plausible stress-test scenario: iii extent of mitigating actions included in the financial modelling, relative to the population of such actions that had been identified as within the control of management and the Board: and iv banking covenant calculations and assessment of facility headroom in each of the downside and stress-test scenarios.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Weir Group PLC 93 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Operating companies are required to and in addition internal audits scope Our assessment of the effectiveness retain evidence of their testing in support and remit has been increased to allow and quality of the audit process covers of their self-assessment responses.
for the provision of additional assurance a number of other matters, including a Internal audit has responsibility for over some non-financial areas.
review of the reporting from the auditors confirming the self-assessment during to the Committee, a review of the latest planned visits.
Any significant variances The factors considered when deciding FRC Audit Quality Inspection report on are reported to local, divisional and which businesses to audit and the scope PwC and also by seeking feedback from Group management.
Any companies of each audit, including consideration of management on the effectiveness of the reporting low levels of compliance are the number of visits to each operating audit process.
Overall, management were required to prepare improvement plans to company in the Group on a cyclical basis satisfied that there had been appropriate demonstrate how they will improve over are, amongst other things, the volatility focus and challenge on the primary areas a reasonable period of time.
The overall of end markets, critical system or senior of audit risk and assessed the quality of compliance scores as a percentage are management changes in the year, financial the audit process to be satisfactory.
tracked over time and reported to the results, the timing of the most recent Audit Committee twice a year, with the internal audit visit, assessments from The Committee holds private Committee paying particular attention other assurance reviews undertaken and meetings with the external auditor to the variances between self-assessed whether the business is a recent acquisition.
each year to provide additional and internal audit assessed scores as opportunity for open dialogue and well as trends and the performance of In addition, the emergence of any feedback from the Committee and newly acquired companies.
common themes or trends in the findings the auditor without management being of recent internal audits or compliance present.
Matters typically discussed iii Internal audit scorecard submissions see previous include the auditors assessment of Twice annually, the Head of Internal section is taken into consideration.
business risks and management activity Audit reports to the Committee on audit thereon, the transparency and openness activities, progress against the internal An information technology risk profiling of interactions with management, audit plan and the results of audit visits, exercise was also undertaking during confirmation that there has been no with particular focus on high priority the year and forms the basis of the restriction in scope placed on them findings and the action plans, including IT risk assurance programme for the by management and how they have management responses, to address 2018 Annual Plan.
This includes the exercised professional scepticism.
further development and utilisation I also meet with the lead audit partner of data analytics techniques.
outside the formal committee process Private discussions between myself as necessary throughout the year.
and the Head of Internal Audit are held Also as part of the Annual Plan, These interactions are also important during the year and once a year with reviews are to be undertaken to assess in our assessment of audit quality.
I also receive compliance with Weirs Code of Conduct copies of all internal audit reports procedures, including anti-bribery and Based on the work carried out, we issued during the year.
This includes areas such as are of the view that the quality of the policy and procedures, employee training, audit process is satisfactory and that This gives us broad coverage of the relationships with agents, accounting our expectations set, when awarding activities of the function and a good for employee expenses and corporate the audit to PwC in 2016, have been sense of the control environment.
Finally, an element of largely met.
This also allows us to ensure the the Annual Plan is reserved for assurance function is effective which includes coverage of any emerging risk areas.
assessing the independence of the function, adequately resourced and has The Committee considered and approved appropriate standing within the Company.
the 2018 Internal Audit Annual Plan including the resource model, which One of the main duties of the Committee shows a significant increase over that is to review the annual internal audit plan for2017, in line with the broader and to ensure that internal audit remains scopeagreed.
focused on providing effective assurance.
We undertook a deeper review of the iv External audit proposed scope and approach for the Auditor effectiveness 2018 Annual Plan.
This was helped by The effectiveness of the external an exercise which was conducted during audit process is highly dependent on the year to map the key sources of appropriate audit risk identification at assurance against the Groups core the start of the audit cycle and the quality processes.
Whilst this demonstrated of planning.
PwC present their detailed good coverage, it was concluded that audit plan to the Committee each years there could be stronger linkage between identifying their assessment of the key the conclusions from these assurance risks, amongst other matters, and this outputs and the scope of work for internal gets the appropriate degree of attention.
The 2018 Internal Audit Annual Plan has been developed considering these wider internal assurance risk indicators The Weir Group PLC 94 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Corporate Governance Report Audit Committee Report continued Independence policy and Committee evaluation Our focus for 2018 non-audit services The Committee was subject to an In addition to our routine business in The Audit Committee is responsible evaluation process in 2017, as part 2018, we will focus on two main areas.
for the appointment and role of the of the Boards triennial review process The first will be to manage the significant auditor.
This includes keeping under conducted externally by Independent change in the members of the Committee review the auditors independence Audit Board Review.
since September, including John Mogford by issuing guidelines on any non-audit and my impending departures.
I will hand services that are to be provided by The evaluation concluded that the over the Chair to Stephen Young at the them.
A formal policy exists see Committee was performing well, with conclusion of the AGM.
weir which ensures a particular strength being the quality be to review how the broadened internal that the nature of the advice to be and frequency of the Committees audit approach has bedded down within provided cannot impair the objectivity interaction with the DFDs.
of the auditors opinion on the Groups areas of concern were noted.
The policy makes with the impending change in the it clear that only certain types of service Committees chair and other Board are permitted to be carried out by changes, managing change should the auditors.
All permitted non-audit beafocus for the Committee.
services require the approval of the Chief Financial Officer and, where the Our focus for 2017 expected cost of the service is in excess In last years report we said that, in Alan Ferguson of 75,000, the approval of myself, the addition to our routine business, we Chairman of the Audit Committee Audit Committee Chairman.
If non-audit would increase our focus on three areas: 28 February 2018 fees approach 0.5m during a calendar year, the Committee will consider 1.
Following the exceptional item arising imposing additional restrictions on from issues in China, we will review non-audit services.
The auditor confirms with management what we can do their independence at least annually.
to minimise the risk of a reoccurrence of such exposures in the future: Fees payable to PwC in respect of audit and assurance services for 2017 2.
We will increase our focus on the of 2.6m 2016: 2.2m were approved IT control environment given that by the Committee after a review of the rollout of SAP in Minerals is the level and nature of work to be underway: and performed and after being satisfied by PwC that the fees were appropriate 3.
In conjunction with the Board, we will for the scope of the work required.
increase our focus on the matching of our overall assurance structure against Non-audit fee work conducted by PwC our principal risks.
in the year of 0.3m represented 10% of the audit fee.
We are of the view that We have made good progress.
With the level and nature of non-audit work regard to China, for example, we ensured does not compromise the independence that internal audit will be involved with the of the external auditor.
KOP acquisition at a much earlier stage and we focused on management actions Having considered the relationship to assess the control environment straight with PwC, their qualifications, after completion.
The other two points expertise, resources and effectiveness, were covered by our work with internal the Committee concluded that they audit in the year and are discussed above remainedindependent and effective in sections ii and iii.
forthe purposes of the 2017 year end.
Asa result, the Committee recommended to the Board that PwC should be reappointed as auditor at thenext AGM.
