"Introduction Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Audit Committee Statement to Shareholders from the Chairman of the Audit Committee "" Im pleased to provide an update on the main activities of Admirals Audit Committee in 2017. """
Last year was Deloittes first as the Groups Dear Shareholder, auditor and therefore the Committee During the year, the key areas of focus of the undertook an evaluation of their Committee have been to provide support performance.
The conclusion was that to the Board in its oversight of financial Deloitte was working effectively as external reporting and the control environment auditor, although a number of actions were across the Group.
The setting of insurance agreed to help deliver all of the potential claims reserves continues to be a key benefits.
The audit fee for 2017 also had accounting judgement in the Groups focus from the Committee with details of financial statements, and the Committee the year-on-year increase given later in placed considerable focus on this subject.
The proposal from management to enhance the Groups reserving methodology was The Internal Audit team underwent an considered by the Committee to ensure external quality assessment which resulted that it was consistent with the Groups in a strong endorsement of the internal stated reserving approach and appropriate audit function.
A number of helpful in the context of the Group setting claims recommendations were made which have reserves at a prudent level.
The analysis of been accepted by the Head of Internal Audit.
outstanding claims by management was During the year the group published its first reviewed alongside that of the Groups Group Solvency and Financial Condition independent actuaries and external auditor.
Report and the Committee spent time on The impact of last years change in the this, along with other Solvency II issues, to Ogden discount rate continued to be tracked ensure robust processes and controls existed by the Committee, along with the potential for its production.
impact of legislative changes to the way in In addition, the Committee continued to which the rate is set in the future.
monitor the appropriateness of the Groups system of risk management and internal control.
The Committee maintained a close focus on the UK motor business but also reviewed overseas subsidiaries and the newly established UK loans business.
I hope you find the above summary, and the more detailed report, both useful and informative.
Colin Holmes Chairman of the Audit Committee 27 February 2018 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 51 Corporate Governance: The Audit Committee The Audit Committee continued Summary of key activities during 2017 The agendas for the meetings taking place during the year are agreed by the Committee Chairman and detail the matters to be discussed and considered at each meeting.
The agendas are updated regularly to allow for new items to be included.
Reports from the external auditor on the principal findings from their review of the Groups systems and controls, and on their key accounting and audit issues and conclusions on A continued review of the Groups the half and full year reporting Reserving methodology so as to ensure an appropriately prudent claims reserve is booked The Annual Report and interim results, including key accounting judgements and disclosures Review of Deloitte first year as external auditor Updates on the impact of the Ogden rate and the potential legislative changes to the method of setting the rate in the future Presentations from independent actuaries to assist the Committee in concluding on the adequacy The Groups Solvency of the Groups reserves and Financial Condition report During the year the Committee reviewed the following: All reports from Internal Performance and effectiveness Audit including management of the Internal Audit department responses to the conclusions including an external quality set out in the reports Reports on the controls in assessment led by KPMG place in respect of overseas subsidiaries and cyber security 52 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Introduction Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Membership Membership of the Committee at the end of the year was: Colin Holmes Chair, and Owen Clarke.
As stated earlier in this report, Confirmation of the external Penny James stepped down from the Board auditors independence in 8 September 2017 following a change in her Executive role.
For the period from September 2017 to 27 February 2018 the Committee did not have three Independent Non-Executive members as required under Reports from the Internal Audit the Code.
Andy Crossley has now joined departments within the Group on Reports from the Chair of the Board as a Non-Executive Director and the effectiveness of the Groups risk the Group Risk Committee member of the Audit Committee.
Given management and internal control on the principal risks faced Andys insurance and financial services procedures, approval of the audit plans, by the Group and the experience, the Board considers that details of key audit findings, and actions work undertaken by the Committee members have a broad range taken by management to manage and Committee to ensure risk of skills, experience and knowledge of the reduce the impact of the risks identified is appropriately managed insurance sector such that they are able to effectively analyse, challenge and debate the issues that fall within the Committees remit and are satisfied that the Committee as a whole has competence relevant to the sector in which the company operates.
The Board further considers that Colin Holmes Committee Chair, as a Chartered Its own effectiveness Proposed external audit fee Management Accountant, has appropriate and the drivers of the year on recent and relevant financial experience year increase having previously been the UK Finance Director for Tesco plc.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to Reports from the the Committee.
The Committee meets at Deloitte, the external least four times per year and has an agenda auditor, on their proposed linked to events in the Companys financial audit scope, plan and calendar and other important issues that findings arise throughout the year which fall for consideration by the Committee under its remit.
The Committee is kept up to date with changes to Accounting Standards and relevant developments in financial reporting, company law, and the various regulatory frameworks through presentations from The Committee also had presentations and The effectiveness of the the Groups external auditor, Chief Financial discussions on a range of important issues Groups Whistleblowing Officer and Company Secretary.
In addition, including: Forthcoming IFRS accounting changes, Policy which sets out the members attend relevant seminars controls in overseas subsidiaries, Group Minimum arrangements for raising and and conferences provided by external Standards and Solvency II Technical Provision and handling allegations from bodies.
The Terms of Reference of the other Solvency II preparatory phase reporting whistle blowers Audit Committee include all the matters requirements required under the Code.
Its own Terms of Reference A Ad dm mi ir ra al G l Gr ro ou up p p pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 17 7 53 Corporate Governance: The Audit Committee The Audit Committee continued Other individuals such as the Chairman of using the current discount rate, the value Significant Issues considered the Board, Chief Executive Officer, Chief contained in the balance sheet for future by the Committee Financial Officer, the Chief Risk Officer, claims remains appropriate and prudent.
After discussion with both management Heads of Compliance and Internal Audit, and and the external auditor, the Audit Whilst acknowledging that the setting of representatives of different parts of the Committee determined that the key risks reserves to cover future claims is a complex Group may be invited to attend all or part of misstatement of the Groups financial and judgemental area and having had the of any meeting as and when appropriate.
statements related to insurance liabilities opportunity at the separate meetings The Chair of the Audit Committee meets and profit commissions.
referred to above to consider and question the privately with the Head of Internal Audit recommended best estimates, the Committee on a regular basis.
The external auditor was These issues were discussed with is satisfied that an appropriate process has invited to attend all of the Committees management during the year and with the been followed and that there has been scrutiny, meetings held in 2017, excepting those auditor at the time the Committee reviewed challenge and debate to give confidence that agenda items when its own performance and agreed the auditors Group audit plan: the reserving levels set provide an appropriate appointment was to be reviewed and when the auditor reviewed the interim margin above best estimates, though note the provision of non-audit services discussed.
financial statements in August 2017 and also continued high level of prudence that remains In addition, a number of private meetings at the conclusion of the audit of these full within the reserves.
were held between members of the year financial statements.
The Committee also received an update from Valuation of Insurance the auditor regarding the procedures they The Audit Committees primary Claims Reserves had used to test managements methodology responsibilities are to: Given the important judgements involved in setting best estimates and considered the Monitor the integrity of the Groups in estimating outstanding claims the auditors assertion that they had challenged financial statements and any formal Committee continued to spend significant the reserving approach taken by management announcement relating to the Groups time reviewing and challenging the approach and were satisfied with managements financial performance, reviewing any and methodology adopted by management assumptions and that the Groups approach significant financial reporting judgements in setting reserves for insurance liabilities to setting reserves was in compliance with which they contain in the financial statements.
The Committee current accounting standards.
noted the proposals of management to Keep under review the effectiveness of Profit commission continue to enhance the methodology the Companys internal financial controls, applied and were supportive of these The Committee considered the impact on internal control and risk management plans.
The Committee spent time with profit commission income of future changes systems management during the year to understand in claims reserves as the recognition of Review the Groups procedures for the rationale behind the enhanced this income is dependent on the loss ratio handling allegations from whistleblowers methodology that was being proposed and booked in the financial statements and and for detecting fraud process by which it would be reflected in cash receivable is dependent on actuarial Monitor and assess the role and the financial statements reserves at the full projections of ultimate loss ratios.
The effectiveness of the Groups Internal and half year.
The Committee was satisfied Committee remained satisfied that profit Audit functions in the context of the that the methodology was consistent with commission was correctly accounted for by Groups overall internal control and risk the Groups stated reserving approach and the Group and was in accordance with the management systems appropriate in the context of the Group contractual arrangements that were in place.
Consider and make recommendations to setting claims reserves at a prudent level.
The Audit Committee considered the auditors the Board, to be put to shareholders for The Committee held separate meetings with overall findings on this area which indicated their approval at the AGM, in relation to the external actuaries at which there was that the profit commission recognised was the appointment, reappointment and challenge and debate on the best estimates considered appropriate in the context of the removal of the Groups external auditor developed by the external actuaries.
At these financial statements as a whole.
Review the external auditors meetings management provided further independence and objectivity and the Misstatements information on the reserving levels proposed effectiveness of the audit process and were challenged by the Committee as to No material unadjusted audit differences Review the policy on the engagement of their adequacy and level of inherent prudence.
were reported by the external auditor.
The the external auditor to provide nonCommittee confirms that it is satisfied that Given the material impact of changes to the audit services, considering the relevant the auditor has fulfilled its responsibilities Ogden rate, the Committee has continued regulatory guidance regarding the with diligence and professional scepticism.
to monitor developments in this area to provision of non-audit services by the ensure that it was well prepared to manage After reviewing the presentations and external auditor.
any impact on its reserves.
The Committee reports from management and consulting is satisfied that in accounting for reserves where necessary with the auditor, the 54 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Introduction Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Committee is satisfied that the financial the agreed audit plan, and the competence overseas locations.
In the year under statements appropriately address the with which the auditor handled the key review an external quality assessment of critical judgements and key estimates both accounting and audit judgments.
Following Internal Audit was carried out, results of in respect to the amounts reported and the this review the Committee concluded that the which were considered and discussed by disclosures.
The Committee is also satisfied auditor, Deloitte LLP, remained independent the Committee at the meeting in August that the significant assumptions used for and provided a service that was robust and fit 2017.
The Committee had noted that the determining the value of assets and liabilities for purpose.
review indicated that there was a strong have been appropriately scrutinised, endorsement of the Internal Audit function Audit fee challenged and are sufficiently robust.
but noted that there were some suggested During 2017, the Committee reviewed and recommendations to further enhance the Non-Audit fees approved the audit fee proposal for the 2017 efficiency and effectiveness of the Internal The Committee reviewed and approved its year-end Group audit.
The agreed fee for the Audit function that should be considered policy on non-audit services in April 2017, audit and other assurance related services further.
The recommendations are in the and were satisfied that it was aligned with for 2017 is 490,000, an increase on the fee process of being implemented.
Under the initially agreed for 2016 of 420,000.
The Members of the Committee also receive policy, the Groups statutory auditor would main reasons for the increase were: all issued audit reports, enabling them to only be engaged to carry out non-audit work Additional costs incurred during the challenge the reports content and related in exceptional circumstances or where there course of the 2016 audit which are recommendations.
The Committee approves was a regulatory or tax authority request and recurring in 2017, primarily reflecting the Internal Audit programmes at the start of where agreed by the Committee.
areas where an increased level of each calendar year whilst the effectiveness Unless required by law, regulatory or tax substantive audit testing was employed and workload of the Internal Audit functions authority and non-audit services will: a be than had been initially planned: and the adequacy of available resources are subject to prior approval from the Committee monitored throughout the year.
An increased audit scope in areas of and b in aggregate, shall not cost more than the Group outside of UK Car Insurance, In accordance with agreed parameters, the 70% of the average statutory audit fee for reflecting the increased growth, overseas operations in Spain, Italy and the the past three financial years.
In considering complexity and materiality of these US have their own locally based internal whether to approve such non-audit services, businesses to the Group as a whole: and auditors, who report to their respective the Committee shall ensure that: The impact of changes to the regulatory country heads.
All reports are evaluated by environment, including the introduction of There is no direct effect, or in the view the Group Head of Internal Audit to ensure EU rules in relation to Public Interest Entities of an objective, reasonable and informed the quality and effectiveness of the reported and the update to Auditing Standards.
third party, would have an inconsequential findings.
In addition, the UK Internal effect, on the audit services on the Groups Audit department carries out high level The Committee approved the fee increase financial statements governance reviews of all foreign operations, having provided robust challenge to assessing the internal control frameworks the auditor on the elimination of first The estimation of the effect on the and system of risk management.
The year transition costs and any potential financial statements is comprehensively overseas internal auditors attend Committee inefficiencies within the audit process.
documented and explained in a report to meetings periodically.
the Committee Internal Audit The non-audit services provided comply Committee effectiveness review The Group Head of Internal Audit attends with the principle of independence As part of the Committees detailed annual all Audit Committee meetings and provides The audit firm must not place significant review of its performance and processes, a range of presentations and papers to the reliance on the output of the non-audit each Committee member completed a Committee, through which the Committee services for the audit work.
comprehensive questionnaire designed monitors the effectiveness of the Groups The Committee will continue to monitor to provide objective assessment of the internal controls.
The Committee reviewed regulatory developments in this area to Committees performance, including its and approved the Group Internal Audit ensure that its policy on non-audit fees effectiveness in monitoring internal and Terms of Reference which set out the adheres to current guidance.
The Committee discussed the role: objectives: reporting lines and results of the review and it was concluded accountability: authority: independence: Effectiveness of the External that, overall, the Committee and the audit and objectivity of the Internal Audit Audit Process process were effective: that the Committee function.
The role and competence of each had full access to all the information it The Committee undertakes an annual review Internal Audit function across the Group required: that the Committee had appropriate to assess the independence and objectivity of was also assessed and considered by the Terms of Reference: and that it was the external auditor and the effectiveness of Committee.
As agreed last year, the Group adequately discharging its responsibilities.
the audit process, taking into consideration Head of Internal Audit continues to have relevant professional and regulatory responsibility to ensure the quality of the requirements, the progress achieved against Internal Audit activities in the Groups Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 55
