Corporate Governance: The Nomination Committee The Nomination and Governance Committee Statement from Annette Court, Chairman of the Nomination and Governance Committee As Chairman of the Nomination and Governance Committee, I am pleased to report on the activities of the Committee during the year.
Dear Shareholder, In addition, the Committee now also has The Committee continued the development In October 2017, the Committee expanded responsibility for addressing any conflict of of a structured succession plan that would its remit to include reviewing the interest issues in respect of appointments to ensure appropriate action was taken well in governance arrangements for the Group these Boards and will advise the Group Board advance of dates by which Non-Executive and its principal and material regulated on whether the conflict should be authorised Directors approach their ninth year of entities to ensure they remain appropriate and whether any conditions should be applied service in order to achieve their replacement, by reference to best practice in corporate to the authorisation.
if appropriate, with individuals of the governance.
In addition, the Committee appropriate skills, experience and fit to the has taken on responsibility for review and An external review of the Groups governance Board.
External recruitment consultants have approval of appointments to these regulated arrangements was carried out during been engaged to lead the search for further entities to ensure that the overall balance of the year and the completed report was Non-Executive appointments, particularly skills, knowledge, experience and diversity considered by the Board at the January 2018 those with marketing and digital expertise.
on the relevant Board remains appropriate.
The recommendations, contained in the report, to strengthen the In accordance with the requirements of Groups existing governance arrangements Solvency II and the Senior Insurance Manager so they remain fit for purpose in the future Regime, the Committee also reviewed and will be an area of focus for the Committee approved the Groups Fit and Proper Policy in 2018 as new entities are established and which sets out the process of assessment for Board constituents change.
every person who performs a key function to ensure that they meet the requirements in Succession planning has again been a key terms of qualifications, capability, honesty area of focus for the Committee during the and integrity.
Non-Executive Director, Penny James left the Board in September 2017 due to change in her Executive role and the focus had been both on finding a replacement for Penny as well implementing the Groups strategy of progressively refreshing the skills on the Board.
In this context and in Annette Court keeping with its remit to review regularly Chairman of the Nomination and Governance the composition and experience of the Committee Board, the Committee led the process of 27 February 2018 Non-Executive Board appointments during the year.
The Committee carried out a robust recruitment process resulting in the appointment of Andy Crossley on 27 February 2018, further enhancing the range of skills, breadth of experience and diversity around the Board table.
60 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Introduction Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information He spent 14 years at Prudential Plc from 2000 Hampton Alexander Review target of 33% Membership as Director, Group Finance: Group Chief Risk womens representation across executive The membership of the Committee at the Officer: and CFO and Deputy Chief Executive committees below Board level and direct year end was: Annette Court Chairman, of Prudential UK.
He previously held senior reports to those committees, as shown by Colin Holmes and Owen Clarke.
The manager roles at Legal & General Group Plc, the gender diversity table on page 82.
In Company Secretary acts as Secretary to where he was Group Financial Controller, addition, the Committee will review, during the Committee.
The Committee invites the and Lloyds Bank Plc.
Andy is a Fellow of the 2018, the Parker Reviews final report on Chief Executive and or the Chief Financial Institute of Chartered Accountants.
ethnic diversity and will focus on its Beyond Officer to attend meetings when it deems One by 21 recommendation.
As part of their appropriate.
The Committee met formally Given Andys background, experience and review, the Committee will focus on how the on seven occasions in 2017.
In addition, competence and the external references Group should develop a process to identify, members of the Committee corresponded that were obtained, the Committee did not develop and promote ethnic diversity such and met informally on a number of occasions consider it either necessary or appropriate that a pipeline of suitable candidates is to consider and meet with individuals that to undertake a full search led by an external available for consideration for future Board the Committee had identified as possible recruitment consultancy.
However, the candidates to join the Board.
Group remains strongly supportive of the Each Committee member met separately principle of boardroom diversity, of which Board composition and changes with Andy and agreed that he would gender and ethnicity are important, but bring invaluable experience to the Board.
The Committee leads the process for not the only, aspects.
What is important The Board approved the Committees making appointments to the Board or where is diversity of thought, experience and recommendations and following regulatory the appointee is likely to become a Board approach and each new appointment must approval Andy was formally appointed to the member.
The Committee ensures there is complement what already exists at the Board with effect from 27 February 2018. a formal, rigorous and transparent process Board table.
Accordingly, appointments will for the appointment of new Directors to Succession planning and talent always be made on merit against objective the Board embracing a full evaluation of the criteria, including diversity, and not just to management skills, knowledge and experience required achieve an externally prescribed number.
Talent management continues to be a key of Directors.
The Committee also ensures area of focus and the Board, at its meeting plans are in place for orderly succession The Group remains committed to in June 2017, considered talent management for appointments to the Board and reviews providing equal opportunities, eliminating within the Group and identified where the succession plans for other senior discrimination, and encouraging diversity there were individuals who, with further management positions.
Responsibility for amongst its workforce both in the UK and experience and guidance, might be capable making senior management appointments overseas.
A breakdown of the gender of of moving into particular senior management rests with the Chief Executive.
Company Directors and senior employees at roles.
The Committee remains satisfied that the end of the financial year together with The Group has in place a policy of recruiting succession plans for Directors and senior details of the Groups Equality, Diversity well ahead of impending retirements in management are in place to ensure the and Dignity at Work Policy are set out in the order to ensure continuity of knowledge and continued ability of the Group to implement Directors Report on pages 82 to 85.
In 2017 the Board initiated strategy and compete effectively in the a search for a new Non-Executive Director.
markets in which it operates.
The Committee developed an appropriate specification for the new Non-Executive Gender and diversity Director and identified the required skills Given women constitute 33% of our plc and experience.
Following this process, the Board, the Group has already met the target Committee identified Andy Crossley as best set by both Lord Davies in his report.
Women placed to fill the role identified.
on Boards, and the Hampton Alexander Review that builds on the Davies Review Andy has 31 years experience within the which encourages FTSE 350 companies to financial services sector, most recently achieve at least 33% women on Boards by as Chief Financial Officer at Domestic & 2020.
The Group also already meets the General Group from 2014 to 2017.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 61
