Introduction Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information AC Audit Committee member RC Remuneration Committee member Board of Directors GRC Group Risk Committee member Committee Chair Nomination and Governance NGC Senior Independent Director Committee member Geraint Jones 41 Annette Court 55 Chief Financial Officer Chairman GRC RC NGC Background and experience: Geraints responsibilities include finance, actuarial, Current Appointments: Non-Executive Director investments and investor relations.
He joined of Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc.
Admiral in 2002 and held a number of senior finance positions including Head of Finance, Background and experience: Between 2007 before being promoted to Deputy Chief and 2010 Annette was CEO of Europe General 25 years ago Financial Officer in January 2012 and Chief Insurance for Zurich Financial Services and a Financial Officer in August 2014. member of the Group Executive Committee.
as Admirals marketing manager, A Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Annette is former CEO of the Direct Line Group with two dozen hungry Accountants in England and Wales, Geraint formerly known as RBS Insurance.
In this role spent the early part of his career as an external Annette was also a member of the RBS Group salesmen to feed, I auditor at Ernst & Young and KPMG.
was worrying whether Admirals first ad, a half Annette has previously served as a member Appointed in 2014 page in the Western on the Board of the Association of British Insurers ABI.
Mail, would set the phones on fire It Appointed in 2012 didnt, but fortunately originally appointed to the Board others did.
in 2012, subsequently appointed as Chairman in 2017 David Stevens, CBE 56 25 years ago Chief Executive Officer aside from being GRC in lower sixth I was 25 years ago, I was Current Appointments: playing guitar in a Trustee of the Waterloo Foundation working as an punk heavy metal account manager Background and experience: David is a founder band.
Director of Admiral and was recruited in 1991 to dreaming of big set up the Admiral business.
things, though sadly it wasnt to be.
Prior to joining Admiral David worked at McKinsey & Company, in the Financial Interest Group, and Cadbury Schweppes in the UK and the USA.
David has an MBA from INSEAD and he was awarded a CBE in 2010 for services to business and the community in Wales.
O riginally appointed to the Board in 1999, subsequently appointed as CEO in 2016 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 43 Corporate Governance: Board of Directors Board of Directors continued Justine Roberts, CBE 50 Non-Executive Director RC Current Appointments: CEO & Founder, Mumsnet.
com Advisory board member of Britain Thinks and Portland Communications.
Background and experience: Justine founded Mumsnet in 2000 and is responsible for creation, strategic direction and overall 25 years ago, I was 25 years ago, I was management.
In May 2011, Justine founded Gransnet, a sister site to Mumsnet, for the overwatching my now eagerly awaiting the 50s.
Before that Justine was a freelance football grown up son take his imminent arrival of our and cricket journalist for the Times and Daily first steps.
Telegraph, after working for Deutsche Bank, managing the South African equity operation in US.
Appointed in 2016 Colin Holmes 52 Owen Clarke 54 Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Director AC NGC AC RC NGC Current Appointments: Current Appointments: Chair of the British Heart Foundation Retail Chief Investment Officer of Equistone Partners 25 years ago, I was Committee Europe formerly Barclays Private Equity, BPE a Global Economist Member of the Chartered Institute of Background and experience: Previous Director at S. G. Warburg.
Management Accountants Advisory Panel of Admiral 1999-2004.
Led BPEs participation in the Management Buy Out.
Background and experience: Previous roles include Chairman of GoOutdoors and NonAppointed in 2015 Executive Director at Bovis Homes Group plc.
Until 2010 Colin was a member of the Executive Committee of Tesco plc and during a 22 year career at Tesco held a wide range of positions, including UK Finance Director and CEO of Tesco Express.
He is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
Appointed in 2010 44 44 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Introduction Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information AC Audit Committee member RC Remuneration Committee member GRC Group Risk Committee member Committee Chair Nomination and Governance NGC Senior Independent Director Committee member Jean Park 63 Non-Executive Director Andy Crossley 61 Non-Executive Director GRC RC AC Current Appointments: Non-Executive Director of Murray Income Current Appointments: Trust plc Non-Executive Director of Vitality Health & Life Non-Executive Director of the National House Background and experience: Andy has 31 years Building Council experience within the financial services sector, most recently as Chief Financial Officer at Background and experience: Jean was Group Domestic & General Group from 2014 to 2017.
Chief Risk Officer at the Phoenix Group from He spent 14 years at Prudential Plc from 2000 2009 until June 2013, during which time she as Director, Group Finance: Group Chief Risk held responsibility for the Groups relationship Officer: and CFO and Deputy Chief Executive with the regulator and founded the Board of Prudential UK.
He previously held senior 25 years ago, I was Risk Committee.
Previously, she was Risk manager roles at Legal & General Group Plc, Management Director of the Insurance and doing my junior year where he was Group Financial Controller, and Investments division of Lloyds TSB and, abroad in Venice, Italy.
Andy is a Fellow of the Institute before that, Head of Compliance and Audit of Chartered Accountants.
Appointed in 2018 Jean is a Member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
Appointed in 2014 Manning Rountree 45 Non-Executive Director 25 years ago, I was GRC 25 years ago, I was working for Scottish the Finance Director Current Appointments: Life a life insurer and Chief Executive Officer and Director of White of the Agricultural asset manager, now Mountains Insurance Group, Ltd. Mortgage Corporation, part of Royal London which provided Director of Build America Mutual as Assistant General Assurance Company.
Background and experience: Manning joined White Mountains in 2004 and is the former President of White Mountains Advisors and White Mountains Capital.
Prior to joining White Mountains, Manning spent two years with Putnam Investments and three years with McKinsey & Company.
Appointed in 2015 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 45
