Governance & Remuneration Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Governance & Remuneration CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 2017 has seen a significant change in the composition of the Board.
On 6 November 2017 we said farewell to Robert Walker, after eight years of dedicated service to our Company, of which he served more than seven years as Chairman.
During his tenure Robert led the Board in overseeing the business make several major acquisitions including the BSS Group and Toolstation and saw Group revenues double.
It is now four months since I took over the role of Chairman and The Board plays an important role in setting the Groups I am pleased to have the opportunity to report on our approach culture and, in my initial months, it is clear that the Board and to corporate governance, and our key activities in this area.
colleagues across the Group demonstrate the Groups core values, the Cornerstones.
Throughout the year, the Board has Good governance is essential to the way in which our business worked effectively and guided the Group forward in the face of operates on a day-to-day basis, and the Board remains some challenging market conditions.
The Board is visible within committed to ensuring the highest standards.
As your new the business and visited a number of the Group's sites during Chairman, I am responsible for leading the Board in promoting the year.
As part of my induction, I have also spent time in the effective governance across the Group, an activity which I believe Group's businesses and have found this a very useful way of is critical in underpinning our ability to deliver our strategy and developing my understanding of the Group.
to create long-term value for our shareholders.
Details of the principal activities of the Board and its committees throughout The AGM this year will be held on 27 April 2018 at the Saints 2017, and how the Company has complied with the UK Corporate Rugby Football Club in Northampton.
I look forward to meeting Governance Code can be found on pages 54 to 57. shareholders at the AGM, where your Board and I will be available to answer any questions.
Although we were due to carry out an external Board evaluation in 2017, due to the timing of my appointment, we decided to defer this Stuart Chambers to 2018 when I will have greater knowledge of the requirements for Chairman the Board and the attributes of each of the members.
An internal 27 February 2018 evaluation of the Boards performance was conducted this year, in a fully open and transparent process.
The conclusions and recommended actions from the review are summarised on page 56.
"53 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Governance & Remuneration Governance & Remuneration Simon King Managing Director, Wickes UK Corporate Governance Code This part of the Annual Report describes the principal activities Martin Meech Group Property Director of the Board and its committees throughout the year and how the Cheryl Millington Chief Digital Officer Company has complied with the UK Corporate Governance Code the ""Code"" by reference to its five main sections."
A copy of the Paul Tallentire CEO, General Merchanting Division Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Council's website Alan Williams Chief Financial Officer www.
uk Throughout the year ended 31 December 2017, the Company was Other colleagues are invited to attend Executive Committee in full compliance with the provisions set out in the Code with the meetings from time to time in relation to specific matters.
6.2, which requires that the Board The main purpose of the Executive Committee is to assist the undertakes an external evaluation every three years, as explained Executive Directors in the performance of their duties, particularly in the Chairman's introduction.
Leadership Development and implementation of strategy, operational plans, policies, procedures and budgets Structure of the Board and Committees The Board is responsible for the long-term success of the The monitoring of operational and financial performance Company and is accountable to shareholders for ensuring that The assessment and control of risk the Group is appropriately managed and governed.
Principally this is achieved through: The prioritisation and allocation of resources Setting the overall Group strategy All Directors have direct access to the Company Secretary and General Counsel and may take independent professional advice Setting the the tone and approach to corporate governance in the furtherance of their duties if required.
The Company Approval of expansion plans and major capital expenditure maintains director's & officer's insurance in respect of the risk of claims against directors which is reviewed annually.
Consideration of significant financial and operational matters and the Groups exposure to key risks Board meetings The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are split and the The Board held nine scheduled meetings in 2017.
Regular Board has approved a written statement of the division of key items at Board meetings included detailed updates on health responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive and safety, reports on progress towards strategic objectives, and a statement of the role of the Senior Independent Director.
reviews of the Companys financial position and performance These are reviewed annually and are available on the Group's against KPIs.
Other topics considered included strategic reviews corporate website www.
of business divisions, funding, capital expenditure, investor feedback, risk and governance.
During the year, the Board visited The Board also has a schedule of matters reserved to it, which a number of operational sites and held a strategy offsite meeting.
Revisions were made in December 2016 to reflect latest best practice and the operations of the Group.
The agenda for meetings is agreed by the Chairman in The schedule of matters reserved to the Board is available on conjunction with the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary the Group's corporate website www.
Agendas are based on an annual plan, and also include topical items and matters of particular interest or In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, certain Board concern to the Board.
responsibilities are delegated to the Boards Committees, which play an important role in supporting the Board.
The Board has four Key financial and other relevant information is circulated to the Committees: Audit, Nominations, Remuneration and Stay Safe.
Directors outside of formal meetings.
The Chairman monitors All committees operate within defined terms of reference which the information provided to the Board both at, and outside of are reviewed annually and these are available on the Companys meetings to ensure it is sufficient, timely and clear.
The minutes of all committee Between board meetings the Chairman maintains frequent direct meetings are circulated to all Directors.
contact with the Executive Directors and keeps the Non-executive The Board has delegated responsibility for the execution of Directors informed of material developments.
At the meetings the Groups strategy and the day-to-day management and the Chairman ensures that each Director is able to make an operation of the Groups business to the Executive Committee.
effective contribution within an atmosphere of transparency and The Executive Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive and constructive debate.
its members are: The Company liaises closely with the Non-executive Directors to ensure as far as possible that clashes with external appointments John Carter Chief Executive Officer are avoided.
Directors are able to attend meetings by video or Tony Buffin Group Chief Operating Officer telephone conference if there is an issue with location or travel.
The number of Board and Committee meetings attended by each Divisional CEO, Frank Elkins Director during the year is detailed in the following table.
Contract Merchanting Division Deborah Grimason Company Secretary and General Counsel Andrew Harrison Deputy CEO, Plumbing and Heating Division Carol Kavanagh Group Human Resources Director 54 Governance & Remuneration Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Governance & Remuneration Plc Audit Nominations Remuneration Stay Safe Overall Board Committee Committee Committee Committee attendance % Number of meetings 9 5 5 4 3 97 Attendance: Ruth Anderson 9 9 5 5 5 5 - 3 3 100 Tony Buffin 9 9 - - - - 100 John Carter 9 9 - - - 3 3 100 Stuart Chambers 3 3 - 1 1 1 1 - 100 Coline McConville 9 9 4 5 5 5 4 4 - 96 Pete Redfern 7 9 - 5 5 4 4 3 3 90 Christopher Rogers 9 9 5 5 1 1 2 2 - 100 John Rogers 9 9 5 5 4 5 2 2 - 95 Robert Walker 8 8 - - 3 3 2 3 93 Alan Williams 9 9 - - - - 100 John Rogers served on the Remuneration Committee until 25 May 2017 and Christopher Rogers joined the Remuneration Committee on 26 May 2017.
Six out of ten Directors had full attendance and the average that any term beyond this should be subject to a rigorous review.
attendance for the Board and Committees combined was 97%.
This review takes into account the need for progressive refreshing Robert Walker and Christopher Rogers were not invited to the of the Board, maintenance of a balance of skills and experience Nominations Committee meetings in February, March and April and the particular requirements of the Company at the time of as the meetings were primarily concerned with the Chairmans the possible extension.
Coline McConville missed the July Audit Committee The tenure of each director is shown below: meeting due to a prior commitment with another company.
PeteRedfern missed the Board meetings in August and Expiry Date Length of service September due to prior commitments with the Taylor Wimpey plc at expiry date Board.
John Rogers missed the March Nominations Committee Ruth Anderson 2018 AGM 6 years 6 months meeting due to a travel problem getting to the venue.
Stuart Chambers 2021 AGM 3 years 7 months 2.
Effectiveness Coline McConville 2018 AGM 3 years 3 months As at 31 December 2017 the Board comprised six Non-executive Pete Redfern 2018 AGM 3 years 6 months Directors and three executive Directors.
Stuart Chambers replaced Christopher Rogers 2020 AGM 6 years 8 months Robert Walker as Chairman on 7 November 2017.
Christopher Rogers is the Senior Independent Non-executive Director.
John Rogers 2018 AGM 3 years 6 months The biographies for the Board are listed on pages 50 to 52.
All Non-executive Directors are required to allocate sufficient Appointment of directors time to the Company to discharge their responsibilities effectively The composition of the Board is kept under regular review by and the time commitment expected is set out in their letter of the Nominations Committee and the Committee considers that appointment.
The letters of appointment will be available for the Board has the appropriate balance of skills, experience, inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
independence and knowledge to meet the needs of the business.
Appointments of new Directors are made by the Board on Induction and development the recommendation of the Nominations Committee.
The The Group has an induction process for new Directors, which is Chairman normally chairs the Nominations Committee and facilitated by the Company Secretary and General Counsel.
all other members are independent Non-executive Directors.
This includes a programme of meetings with senior management TheCommittees report can be found on page 82. in both operations and central functions, and visits to a range of branches and stores.
The Chairman ensures that all Directors receive The Group's policy is to recruit people of the highest calibre, with an appropriate induction on appointment and then subsequent a breadth of skills and experience appropriate for the business.
development and training as required, taking into account the need The Group supports the principles of the Davies Review and to update their skills and their knowledge of the Companys business.
the Hampton Alexander Review and the need for a diverse board, although it does not intend to commit to specific quotas.
The Board as a whole is also regularly provided with information The Board diversity policy is summarised in the Nominations on forthcoming legal and regulatory changes, corporate Committee Report.
governance developments and briefings on the key risks facing the Company, including those identified in the Statement of Non-executive Directors have letters of appointment and are Principal Risks and Uncertainties on pages 33 to 39. appointed for a period until the third AGM following their election, at the end of which the appointment may be renewed by mutual TheDirectors may take independent professional advice at the agreement.
It is the Boards policy that Non-executive Directors Companys expense at any time.
should generally serve for six years two three-year terms and 55 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Governance & Remuneration Governance & Remuneration Evaluation of Board performance In arriving at their opinion the Directors considered: The Board considers on an annual basis the time commitments The Groups cash flow forecasts and revenue projections of each Non-executive Director and whether each remains independent in character and judgement in light of any Reasonably possible changes in trading performance relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect each The committed facilities available to the Group and the Directors judgement.
None of the circumstances set out in Code covenants thereon provision B.
1.1. apply and the Board is satisfied that all Directors remain independent and have sufficient time available to fulfil The Groups robust policy towards liquidity and cash their duties.
flow management Each year, the Board undertakes an evaluation of its performance The Group managements ability to successfully manage the and the performance of its Committees and individual Directors.
principal risks and uncertainties outlined on pages 33 to 39 during periods of uncertain economic outlook and challenging The Boards policy is to engage an external facilitator to assist macroeconomic conditions this process every three years.
In 2017, due to the timing of the appointment of the Group's new Chairman, the Board carried out Risk management and internal control an internal evaluation which included each Director completing The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal a questionnaire about the performance of the Board and its control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In the design of the Committees followed by individual discussions with the outgoing system of internal control, consideration has been given to the Chairman and an independent review of the findings by an external significant risks to the business, the probability of these risks party.
There was generally a high level of satisfaction with the manifesting themselves and the most cost effective means Board's effectiveness and performance with transparency and of controlling them.
The threat posed by those risks, and any openness, independence and freedom to contribute, relationships perceived change in that threat, is reviewed half yearly by both and standards of governance all highly rated.
Looking forward, the Executive Committee and the Board.
The system manages the Board agreed the following priorities: rather than eliminates risk and therefore can only provide Increasing focus on the articulation and delivery of strategy and reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material value creation misstatement or loss.
Understanding and shaping strategy to adapt to the changing The day-to-day operation of the system of internal control is customer landscape delegated to Executive Directors and senior management, but the Audit Committee review and discuss internal controls on a Future proofing the Board and growing diversity of thought regular basis.
The system of internal controls is reviewed by the through the ongoing Board refreshment programme Board in a process that accords with the Financial Reporting Council guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and The evaluation of the outgoing Chairmans performance was led Related Financial and Business Reporting.
by the Senior Independent Director.
It is the responsibility of the Board to establish the risk framework Each Director has confirmed that they are willing to stand for within which the Group operates.
The Board and the Executive re-election at the next AGM.
In light of the Boards assessment Committee review the risk register and risk appetite at least that all Directors continue to perform and provide a valuable once each year.
Members of the Audit Committee also receive contribution to the Board and its Committees, all Directors will reports of Internal Audit reviews.
If appropriate, these reports submit themselves for re-election at the 2018 AGM.
include recommendations for improvement in controls or for the management of those risks.
Measures to integrate risk An externally facilitated evaluation will be undertaken in 2018. management processes into the Groups operations, to extend awareness of the importance of risk management and to ensure 3.
Accountability that recommended improvements are implemented, are regularly A review of the performance of the Groups businesses and the reviewed and refreshed.
financial position of the Group is included in the Strategic Report As part of its viability review, the outcome of which is set on pages 4 to 48.
The Board uses it to present a full assessment out on page 31, the Board considered the principal risks and of the Groups position and prospects, its business model, and its uncertainties and mitigating factors set out on pages 33 to 39. strategy for delivering that model.
The Directors responsibilities for the financial statements are described on page 87.
In conjunction with the Audit Committee, the Board has carried out an annual review of the overall effectiveness of the system Going concern of internal control and risk management, during the year and up After reviewing the Groups forecasts and risk assessments and until the date of approval of this Annual Report.
making other enquiries, the Board has formed a judgement at Audit Committee and Auditors the time of approving the financial statements, that there is a The Board has established an Audit Committee consisting of four reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company have independent Non-executive Directors.
Its key responsibilities and adequate resources to continue in operational existence for a description of its work in 2017 are contained in its report, which the 12months from the date of signing this Annual Report and is set out on pages 58 to 63.
For this reason, the Board continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
"56 Governance & Remuneration Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Governance & Remuneration The Boards fair, balanced and understandable declaration Annual General Meeting At the Board meeting during which the Groups results for Shareholders receive more than twenty working days notice of the year were presented by the Chief Executive and the Chief the Annual General Meeting ""AGM"" at which all Directors are Financial Officer, the Board also considered whether the annual available for questions and a short business presentation takes report and accounts, when taken as a whole, present a fair, place."
Each substantive issue considered at the AGM is the balanced and understandable overview of the Group and its subject of a separate resolution.
The numbers of proxy votes for performance.
After: and against each resolution are announced at the meeting and hearing from the Executive Directors the final votes are subsequently published on the Companys website.
Last year the majority of resolutions were passed with receiving a report from the Chairman of the Audit Committee over 90% in favour, with only the disapplication of pre-emption on that Committees meeting to discuss the preparation and rights in limited circumstances below this level at 88.5%.
content of the year-end financial statements and the audit conducted upon them The Governance Report has been approved by the Board of Directors and is signed on its behalf by: discussing the contents of the Annual Report and Accounts, the Board concluded that the Annual Report and Accounts are Stuart Chambers fair, balanced and understandable and accordingly the Directors Chairman declaration to that effect can be found in the Statement of 27 February 2018 Director's Responsibilities on page 87.
Remuneration The Board has established a Remuneration Committee consisting of three independent Non-executive Directors and the Chairman of the Board.
Its responsibilities include setting the Companys remuneration policy, approving the remuneration of Executives and reviewing the performance against targets prior to determining the pay-outs on incentive arrangements.
The remuneration of the Non-executive Directors other than the Chairman is determined by the Chairman and the Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee determines the Chairmans fee.
No Director plays a part in the discussion about his or her own remuneration.
The Committees key responsibilities and a description of its work in 2017 are contained in its report, which is set out on pages64to 81.
Relations with shareholders The Company encourages two-way communication with both its institutional and private investors and responds promptly to all enquiries received.
The Board receives regular updates on the shareholder register and the views of shareholders.
At least once each year, the Company reviews its strategy for engaging with shareholders to ensure that their needs are being met.
The Board also reviews reports discussing governance matters and engages with governance bodies to contribute to the debate and development of good governance practices.
In 2017 the Executive Directors attended a large number of meetings.
The Group held two briefings on results which were attended by shareholders, equity analysts and debt holders.
Copies of these presentations are available on the investor relations section of the Groups corporate website at www.
co. uk The Chairman is always available to the Group's shareholders if they have any issues they wish to discuss and the Senior Independent Director is also available as a direct contact for investors and shareholders, if they wish.
During the year the former Chairman, Robert Walker, met with a number of shareholders to discuss governance matters and the Senior Independent Director, Christopher Rogers, joined a number of these meetings.
