Corporate Governance: Governance Report Governance Report Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code During the year under review and up to the date of this report, the Group complied with all the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 the Code other than the exception noted below.
Provision C. 3.1 regarding having at least three independent Non-Executive Directors serving on the Audit Committee Penny James, who served as an independent Non-Executive member of the Audit Committee, stepped down as a Non-Executive Director on 8 September 2017 following a change in her Executive role.
From this date up to the appointment of Andy Crossley as an independent Non-Executive member of the Board and Audit Committee on 27 February 2018 the Audit Committee only had two independent Non-Executive members and did not meet the Code requirements to have at least three independent Non-Executive members.
The Group fully complied with this requirement apart from this period from 8 September 2017 to 27 February 2018 and held three meetings during the period, two of which Andy Crossley attended.
The Board has adopted a formal schedule Leadership Board Activity During 2017 of matters reserved for the Boards The Board met on seven occasions in 2017 The Role of the Board consideration.
This is monitored by the with all these meetings being held over The Board is the principal decisionCompany Secretary and reviewed by the two days and one of the meetings being a making forum for the Group providing Board on an annual basis.
Specific matters separate strategy meeting held off-site.
In entrepreneurial leadership, both directly reserved to the Board include the approval of: addition to the seven scheduled meetings, and through its Committees, and delegating there were five additional unscheduled The Groups long-term objectives and authority to the Executive team.
The telephone meetings that were called at corporate strategy Board is responsible for organising and short notice.
The majority of these meetings directing the affairs of the Group in a Operating and capital budgets, financial were called in relation to consideration manner that is most likely to promote its results, and any significant changes to of the change to the Ogden discount rate success for the benefit of its members accounting practices or policies announced in February 2017 and the impact as a whole.
The Board is accountable to The Groups capital structure this would have on the Group.
shareholders for setting and achieving Results and financial reporting the Groups strategic objectives: for the At each scheduled meeting the Board The system of internal control and risk creation and delivery of strong sustainable receives updates from the Chief Executive management financial and operational performance: for and Chief Financial Officer as to the financial ensuring that in carrying out its duties the The Groups overall risk appetite and operational performance of the Group Groups legal and regulatory obligations and any specific developments in the areas Changes to the structure, size and are being met: and for ensuring that it of the business for which they are directly composition of the Board, including new operates within appropriately established responsible and of which the Board should be appointments risk parameters.
The Groups UK regulated aware.
Items that are considered on an annual Succession plans for the Board and senior entities are responsible to the Financial basis are included in an annual schedule of management Conduct Authority FCA and the Prudential rolling agenda items to ensure that they are Dividend policy and proposals for dividend Regulatory Authority PRA for ensuring considered at the appropriate point in the payments compliance with the Groups UK regulatory financial and regulatory cycle.
Meetings are obligations and that dealings with the FCA Major acquisitions, disposals, and other structured so as to allow for consideration and and PRA are handled in a constructive, cotransactions outside delegated limits debate of all matters.
The Head of the Groups operative and transparent manner.
Similar European insurance businesses and the CEO The annual review of its own performance provisions apply in respect of the Groups of UK Motor respectively Milena Mondini and and that of its Board Committees international businesses with regard to the Cristina Nestares together with the Chief Annual review of the Groups Board policies relevant regulatory authorities in those Risk Officer James Armstrong are invited The review of the Groups overall corporate overseas jurisdictions in which the Group to attend every Board meeting and regular governance arrangements also operates.
This has proved an effective means of ensuring that senior managers below Board level have exposure to and gain experience of the operation of the Board.
46 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Introduction Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information In addition to the regular consideration of financial and operating performance and risk management and compliance, the Board received presentations on a variety of topics including updates from the management teams of each of the Groups businesses and regular reviews of Solvency II related activities such as progress of the Internal Model Application Process IMAP.
In addition to her visits to the Groups UK operations, the Chairman has sought to visit each of the Groups overseas operations this year and Non-Executive Directors are invited to join either her or the Chief Executive on one or more of their overseas visits each year.
In addition, the Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman met during the year without the Executive Directors being present.
Non-Executive Directors also attended briefing sessions in Cardiff on different aspects of the Groups UK business.
In order to increase their understanding of the depth and breadth of management across the Group below Board level, the Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman also attended a dinner with members of the Groups senior management team without the Executive Directors being present.
When management teams present to the Board on their operations they are invited to join the Board for dinner which gives the opportunity for informal interaction between directors and management.
Meetings and Attendance Directors are expected to attend all meetings of the Board and the Committees on which they serve and to devote sufficient time to the Group to perform their duties.
Where Directors are unable to attend meetings they receive papers for that meeting giving them the opportunity to raise any issues with the Chairman in advance of the meeting.
The number of scheduled Board meetings and Committee meetings, of which they are a member, attended by each Director during 2017 is provided in the table below.
Audit Group Risk Nomination Remuneration Scheduled Committee Committee Committee Committee Board meetings meetings meetings meetings meetings Total meetings held 7 7 5 7 5 1 Alastair Lyons Chairman 3 3 2 2 2 4 Annette Court Chairman 7 3 3 5 5 5 4 5 David Stevens Chief Executive Officer 7 4 Geraint Jones Chief Financial Officer 7 Owen Clarke 7 6 7 2 2 5 5 Colin Holmes 7 7 6 7 3 Penny James 5 5 6 6 5 5 Jean Park 7 5 5 Manning Rountree 7 4 5 Justine Roberts 7 3 3 1 Alastair Lyons stepped down from the Board with effect from 26 April 2017.
2 Annette Court was appointed Chairman of the Board with effect from 26 April 2017 and stepped down form the Audit Committee from that date.
3 Penny James stepped down from the Board with effect from 8 September 2017.
4 Annette Court did not attend the Remuneration Committee meeting at which her remuneration as Group Chairman was discussed.
5 Justine Roberts joined the Remuneration Committee on 26 April 2017.
Agendas and papers are circulated to the Board electronically in a timely and secure manner in preparation for Board and Committee meetings.
The Board agenda is structured by the Chairman in consultation with the Company Secretary and Chief Executive.
Routine Board papers are supplemented by information specifically requested by the directors from time to time.
All Board and Committee meetings during the year were held in an open atmosphere conducive to robust and constructive challenge and debate.
All Directors have, therefore, been able to bring independent judgement to bear on issues such as strategy, risk management, performance, and resources.
Additional meetings are called when required and there is contact between meetings, where necessary, to progress the Groups business.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 47 Corporate Governance: Governance Report Governance Report continued matters affecting the Group.
The review also The Company Secretary The roles of the Chairman identified good awareness by the Board of and Chief Executive All the Directors have access to the advice the governance and regulatory environment and services of the Company Secretary.
He The Board has approved a statement in which the Group operates and the main has responsibility for ensuring that Board that sets out the clear division of risks impacting the Group and how they procedures are followed and for advising the responsibilities between the Chairman should be managed and mitigated.
Board, through the Chairman, on governance and the Chief Executive.
The Company Secretary provides primarily responsible for the leadership Following last years feedback, the Board updates to the Board on regulatory and and workings of the Board, setting its has spent more time on considering corporate governance issues, new legislation, agenda, and monitoring its effectiveness.
succession plans and senior management and Directors duties and obligations.
The The Chairman is not involved in the day-toevaluation and development.
A number appointment and removal of the Company day management of the business.
Save for of recommendations were identified in Secretary is one of the matters reserved for matters reserved for decision by the Board, the review as areas for the Board to give the Board.
the Chief Executive, with the support of particular focus in 2018 in order to enhance the other Executive Director and the senior the Boards effectiveness.
These included: Board effectiveness executives, is responsible for proposing the greater understanding of the views of Following the external Board evaluation strategy to be adopted by the Group: running customers of today and tomorrow: major that was carried out last year, this year the business in accordance with the strategy investors and focus on the technological sought to focus on the recommendations agreed by the Board: and implementing issues facing the Group, particularly coming out of that evaluation together specific Board decisions relating to the around cyber security: consideration of the with a review of the Boards effectiveness operation of the Group.
The statements composition of the Board in the context of and particular areas of focus.
The Board of division of responsibilities and matters there being appropriate Board experience as evaluation, consisted of the Chairman, reserved for decision by the Board are the Group looks to explore opportunities in supported by the Company Secretary, reviewed annually.
other product and geographical areas: Board compiling a comprehensive questionnaire dynamics and improving the content and Board balance and independence that was circulated by the Company quality of information provided to the Board Secretary for completion by all Directors In the context of recent and forthcoming so that the Board could focus more easily on and Board attendees.
Board changes, careful consideration the key areas for discussion and decision: and continues to be given to the composition Board oversight of company processes for The questionnaire considered: and balance of the Board.
As a result the managing, developing and retaining talent Group continues to monitor the need to was highlighted as an important area that Time management of Board meetings refresh Board and Committee membership would need continued Board focus in the Board composition and dynamics in an orderly manner so as to maintain the coming year.
The effectiveness of the Board in continuity of Board process and the strength considering the Groups risk management The Chief Executive, to whom he reports, of personal interaction which underlies the framework and internal controls appraises annually the performance of effectiveness of the Board as a team.
As a the Chief Financial Officer.
The Chairman, The Boards strategic and operational result of recent appointments, the Board taking into account the views of the other oversight remains satisfied that it has the appropriate Directors, reviews the performance of balance of skills, experience, independence Succession planning including the the Chief Executive.
The performance of and knowledge of the Group to enable it and oversight of the Groups processes for the Chairman is reviewed by the Board its Committees to discharge their duties and Managing, developing and retaining talent: led by the Senior Independent Director responsibilities effectively, as required by Management of group subsidiaries SID.
Following the latest review, the SID the Code.
Content of discussion and focus at Board considered and discussed with the Chairman The Board currently comprises nine meetings the comments and feedback that had been Directors, the Chairman who was received from the Directors as part of the Priorities for change that would improve independent on appointment, two Executive Chairmans evaluation questionnaire, and Board performance.
Directors, and six independent Nonwas able to confirm that the performance The results of the review were discussed Executive Directors.
As can be seen from of the Chairman is effective and that she by the Board in January 2018.
Overall the the Directors biographies on pages 43 to demonstrates appropriate commitment to review found that the Board continued to 45, the Directors have a broad range of skills her role.
work effectively and that each Director and experience and can bring independent demonstrates full commitment to his judgement to bear on issues of strategy, her duties and contributes in an open and performance, risk management, resources transparent way, enabling a detailed level and standards of conduct which are integral of debate and discussion around material to the success of the Group.
48 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Introduction Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The table below details the length of service of the Chairman and each of the Non-Executive Directors and illustrates the balance of experience and fresh perspectives.
Director Date of Appointment Current length of service as a Non-Executive Director at 31 December 2017 Colin Holmes 3 December 2010 7 years 1 month Annette Court 21 March 2012 5 years 9 months Jean Park 17 January 2014 3 years 11 months Manning Rountree 16 June 2015 2 years 6 months Owen Clarke 19 August 2015 2 years 4 months Justine Roberts 17 June 2016 1 years 6 months Andy Crossley 27 February 2018 Appointments to the Board are the assumptions and viewpoints presented by channels of Chairman, Chief Executive, or responsibility of the Board as a whole, acting management and the Board.
A process for Chief Financial Officer have failed to resolve on the advice and recommendations of the managing any potential conflicts has been or for which such contact is inappropriate.
agreed by the Board such that Manning He is also responsible for leading the Boards The Nomination and Governance Committee Rountree will recuse himself from any discussion on the Chairmans performance seeks to balance the retirement and Group Board discussions where a potential and the appointment of a new Chairman, as recruitment of Non-Executive Directors conflict of interest with his role with White and when appropriate.
ahead of their replacement so as to avoid Mountains has been identified.
In accordance with the requirement under dislocation of Board process by losing The Board, having given thorough the Code for annual election of Directors, experience and skills.
Appointments are consideration to the matter, considers the six all Directors will be submitting themselves made on merit and against objective Non-Executive Directors to be independent for re-election by shareholders at the criteria, having due regard to the benefits and is not aware of any relationships or forthcoming AGM.
The Board is satisfied of diversity, including gender, with a view circumstances, other than the above, which that all are properly qualified for their to ensuring the Board has the appropriate are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, reappointment by virtue of their skills and mix of personality, skills, and experience.
the judgement of any of them.
It is the view experience and their contribution to the Following a formal, rigorous and transparent of the Board that the independent NonBoard and its Committees.
process led by the Nomination and Executive Directors are of sufficient calibre Governance Committee, the Board was The Directors are given access to and number that their views carry significant pleased to appoint Andy Crossley as an independent professional advice at the weight in the Boards decision making.
independent Non-Executive Director with Groups expense, should they deem it effect from 27 February 2018.
Andy will be Independent Non-Executive Directors necessary to carry out their responsibilities.
subject to election by shareholders at the are currently appointed for fixed periods forthcoming AGM.
Professional development of three years, subject to election by shareholders.
The initial three-year period On appointment, Directors take part in Manning Rountree is the Chief Executive may be extended for two further threea comprehensive induction programme Officer for White Mountains Insurance year periods subject to re-election by whereby they receive financial and Group Limited White Mountains and acts shareholders.
Their letters of appointment operational information about the Group: as Board Observer for White Mountains on may be inspected at the Companys details concerning their responsibilities the Board of the Groups US price comparison registered office or can be obtained on and duties: as well as an introduction to subsidiary, in which White Mountains has a request from the Company Secretary.
the Groups governance, regulatory and minority shareholding.
Given the relatively control environment.
small size of White Mountains shareholding Colin Holmes is the Senior Independent Nonin an overseas Group subsidiary company, Executive Director SID.
He has the requisite This induction is supplemented by visits to the Board has determined that Manning knowledge and experience gained through the Groups head office in Cardiff and certain Rountree remains independent in character his Board position, his Chairmanship of the overseas offices, and meetings with members and judgement and that his attendance at Audit Committee, and his appointments of the senior management team and their Inspop USA LLC Board meetings does not to the Boards of other companies.
Development and training of affect his ability to present an objective, is available to shareholders if they have Directors is an ongoing process.
Throughout rigorous and constructive challenge to the concerns that contact through the normal their period in office the Directors are Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 49 Corporate Governance: Governance Report Governance Report continued regularly updated on the Groups business: reports received during the month and Any current directorships that they, or their legal matters concerning their role and duties: of meetings that have been held with connected persons hold, any advisory roles the competitive environments in which the investors and analysts: together with or trusteeships held, together with any Group operates: and any other significant details of any significant changes to the companies in which they hold more than 1% changes affecting the Group and the industry shareholders register.
of the issued share capital are also disclosed.
These procedures were reviewed by the The Senior Independent Director has specific Board in April 2017 and it was concluded that The Board receives presentations from responsibility to be available to investors they continued to operate effectively.
senior managers within the Group on a who have any issues or concerns, and in cases regular basis and Non-Executive Directors where contact with the Chairman, Chief Board Committees are encouraged to make informal visits to Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer The Board has delegated authority to a different parts of the Group to meet with has either failed to resolve their concerns, number of permanent Committees to local management.
or where such contact is inappropriate.
No deal with matters in accordance with such concerns have been raised in the year written Terms of Reference.
The principal Engagement with shareholders under review.
Committees of the Board are: Audit, The Company attaches considerable Remuneration, Group Risk and Nomination All shareholders are invited to attend the importance to communications with and Governance.
Subject to the exceptions Companys Annual General Meeting AGM.
shareholders and engages with them listed above, all comply fully with the The Chairs of the Audit, Remuneration, regularly.
Open and frequent dialogue with requirements of the Code.
Nomination and Governance and Group Risk investors enables them to understand Committees attend the AGM along with the fully the Groups strategy, objectives and All Committees are chaired by an other Directors and are available to answer governance.
The Investor Relations team independent Non-Executive Director shareholders questions on the activities of has day-to-day primary responsibility except, the Nomination and Governance the Committees they chair.
Shareholders for managing communications with Committee which is chaired by the Chairman are also invited to ask questions during the institutional shareholders through a of the Board, and comprise a majority of meeting and have an opportunity to meet combination of briefings to analysts and independent Non-Executive Directors.
with Directors after the formal business of institutional shareholders, both at the Appointments to the Committees are made the meeting has been concluded.
Details of half-year and full-year results.
A number on the recommendation of the Nomination proxy voting by shareholders, including votes of analysts and investors visited the and Governance Committee and are for a withheld, are made available on request Groups Cardiff office during the year to period of up to three years, which may be and are placed on the Companys website meet with the Executive Directors and extended for two further three year periods, following the meeting.
senior management in order to get a provided the Director remains independent.
better understanding of how the Group The Committees are constituted with The Group maintains a corporate website operates and how it intends to achieve written Terms of Reference that are www.
co. uk containing a its strategic and operational objectives.
reviewed annually to ensure that they remain wide range of information of interest to Senior executives from the Groups overseas appropriate and reflect any changes in good institutional and private investors.
The major businesses also visit the UK in order practice and governance.
These Terms of shareholders of the Company are listed on to present to, and meet with, analysts Reference are available on request from the page 83. and investors.
Site visits and individual Company Secretary and can also be found on discussions with the Executive Directors Conflicts of interest the Companys website: www.
are also arranged throughout the year co. uk.
Directors are fully informed of all In compliance with the requirements of the with individual shareholders.
Committee matters by the Committee Companies Act 2006 regarding Directors Chairmen reporting on the proceedings of duties in relation to conflicts of interest, In addition the Chairman had individual their Committee at the subsequent Board the Groups Articles of Association allow the meetings during the year with major meeting.
Copies of Committee minutes are Board to authorise potential conflicts of shareholders and reported to the Board also distributed to the Board.
Committees interest that may arise and to impose such on issues raised with her.
are authorised to obtain outside legal or limits as it thinks fit.
The Company has put other independent professional advice if This is supplemented by feedback to the in place a Conflicts of Interest Policy to deal they consider it necessary.
The Chairman of Board on meetings between management with conflicts of interest.
These procedures each Committee attends the Annual General and investors.
In addition, the Investor include each Board member completing, Meeting to respond to any shareholder Relations team produces a quarterly annually, a conflicts of interest questionnaire questions that might be raised on the Investor Relations Report that is circulated that sets out any situation in which they, Committees activities.
to the Board for their consideration.
or their connected persons have, or could The Report contains an analysis of share have, a direct or indirect interest that could price performance: a summary of analyst conflict with the interests of the Company.
50 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
