Introduction Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Summary of key activities in 2017 Received regular monitoring reports on customer outcome Reviewed the USP risk and complaint handling and and VA applications Reviewed the Groups reviewed updates to the Group submitted to the proposed dividend minimum compliance standards regulators level, capital plan and and Policy Framework capital buffer in line with the capital policy Reviewed the Groups Reviewed the Groups regulatory capital addupdated risk strategy, risk Reviewed a number on application as part appetite and associated of new product of Solvency II capital triggers and limits in propositions requirements the context of the including Travel Groups agreed strategic objectives During the year the Committee: Through stress and scenario Considered the adequacy Recommended to the testing and reverse stress testing, of risk mitigation Board approval of the considered in-depth analysis of measures and contingency 2017 ORSA Report prior a number of the Groups most plans including a review to submission to the significant risk areas, including the of the Groups reinsurance regulator and approved default of a re-insurer provisions the ORSA policy Received regular Received regular risk Received updates on the updates in relation to monitoring reports on impact of a number of key programmes of work performance of Key Risk risk events throughout including IT Security, GDPR Indicators within the 2017 including Ogden, and Brexit as part of the overall risk management Last Years Premium, the Groups enhanced project framework triggering of article 50 governance framework and Hurricane Harvey Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 57 Corporate Governance: The Group Risk Committee The Group Risk Committee continued Approving the annual plans for the insurance, operational, market, credit and Composition of the Group Risk and Compliance functions group risks is designed to manage rather Group Risk Committee which include reviewing regulatory than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve Membership at the end of the year developments and regular meetings with business objectives and breaches of risk was: Annette Court, Jean Park Chair, the PRA and FCA appetites and can only provide reasonable Manning Rountree and David Stevens.
The and not absolute assurance against material Review the ORSA report each year with Company Secretary acts as Secretary to misstatement or loss.
recommendations being provided to the the Committee.
Group Board for approval The Board is of the view that there is an The Committee met five times during the year.
Review and approve the Solvency II ongoing process for identifying, evaluating actuarial function reports on reinsurance and managing the Groups risks and internal Duties and responsibilities of and underwriting each year controls: that it has been in place for the the Group Risk Committee year ended 31 December 2017: and that, up Review and approve the remuneration The duties and responsibilities of the to the date of approval of the Annual Report report from the Chief Risk Officer prior to Committee are set out in Terms of Reference and Accounts, it is regularly reviewed by the Remuneration Committee sign off.
that were reviewed during the year and Board and accords with the internal control The Committee Chairperson reports approved by the Board in December 2017. guidance for Directors provided in the UK formally to the Board on its proceedings Corporate Governance Code.
The responsibilities of the Committee can after each meeting on all matters within be summarised as: its duties and responsibilities, as set out in The Board confirms that it has performed a previously circulated minutes to the Board.
robust assessment of the Groups principal Oversee the development, The Committee Chairperson also reports on risks.
These risks, along with explanations of implementation and maintenance of the activities of the Committee in a formal how they are being managed and mitigated, the Groups overall Risk Management written report that is submitted to and are included in the strategic report on Framework and ensure that it is in line discussed by the Board every six months.
page 33. with emerging regulatory, corporate governance and best practice guidelines The work of the Committee is supported The Board is responsible for determining by more detailed work undertaken by Monitoring the Groups prudential risk the nature and extent of the principal risks executive Risk Management Committees exposure, which includes ensuring that it is willing to take in achieving its strategic in each of the Groups operational entities.
the Groups capital resources and liquidity objectives.
The Board meets at least seven At each meeting, the Risk Management profile are appropriate to its needs times a year to discuss the direction of Committees consider significant movements whilst meeting minimum regulatory the company and provide oversight of the in the operations risk profile, any risks that requirements, including overseeing and Groups risk management and internal control have arisen and any emerging risks.
Risk challenging the design and execution of systems.
The role and responsibilities of the Management Committees also assess and the Groups stress and scenario testing Board are documented within their Terms of monitor any regulatory issues, ensuring Reference and these are reviewed annually.
Monitoring the Groups current and that their resolution and the action taken future conduct risk exposure A key element of the control system is are appropriately recorded.
In the UK, the Ensuring the adequacy and effectiveness that the Board meets regularly with a Risk Management Committee receives of the Groups systems and controls for formal schedule of matters reserved to regular information on conduct risk, such as the prevention of financial crime, data it for decision and has put in place an complaint handling reports and other related protection systems and controls organisational structure with clearly defined management information.
The Group Risk Monitoring the adequacy and lines of responsibility.
As described above, Management function reviews and collates effectiveness of the Groups in order to ensure these responsibilities information from across the group for Compliance functions are properly discharged, the Board has consideration by the Committee.
delegated to the Audit Committee to Reviewing the Groups progress towards Internal Control and Risk keep under review the adequacy and achieving Solvency II compliance Management Statement effectiveness of the Companys internal Reviewing compliance with Group financial controls, internal control and risk The Board is ultimately responsible for the policies, including the established management systems.
Groups system of risk management and Reserving Policy and process internal control including that relating to The Board has delegated the development, Considering, and recommending to financial reporting processes and, through implementation and maintenance of the the Board for approval, the Groups risk the Audit Committee, has reviewed the Groups overall risk management framework appetite, including any changes to the effectiveness of this system.
The system of to the Group Risk Committee GRC.
The appetite for each material type of risk risk management and internal control over GRC reports on its activities to the Board faced by the Group 58 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Introduction Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information and the Audit Committee, supporting the There is compliance resource assigned to Viability overall assurance provided by the Audit each operation who review and report on In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Committee that the Groups internal control, the first line of defences compliance with 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code, the risk management and compliance systems designated control activities.
The Group Directors have assessed the prospect of continue to operate effectively.
compliance function consolidates these the Company over a longer period than the reviews and provides reports to the Group 12 months required by the Going Concern The Group has a three lines of defence Risk Committee.
The Board conducted this review for approach to internal control, including those a period of three years to December 2020.
This controls that relate to the financial reporting The third line of defence describes the assessment has been made taking into account process.
The Board recognises that the independent assurance provided by the the current financial position of the Group, the day-to-day responsibility for implementing Audit Committee and the Group Internal Groups business plans, the Groups Own Risk policies lies with the senior management, Audit function that reports to that and Solvency Assessment ORSA process, and the first line of defence, whose operational Committee.
Internal Audit undertakes a the principal risks and uncertainties faced by decisions must take into account risk and programme of risk based audits covering all the Group, which are disclosed on pages 39 to how this can be controlled effectively.
aspects of both the first and second lines of 44 of the strategic report.
The findings from these audits are The second line of defence describes the reported to all three lines, i. e. management, The ORSA is performed in line with Solvency Committees and functions that are in place the executive and oversight Committees, II regulations and requires the Group to provide an oversight of the effective and the Audit Committee.
to demonstrate that it has a detailed operation of the internal control framework.
understanding of the risks facing the The Group Risk department and the The Group and subsidiary Risk Committees, business over a three-year time horizon.
compliance functions are part of the second receive reports setting out key performance In addition to this the Group Risk line of defence.
and risk indicators and consider possible Committee and the Group Board review control issues brought to their attention The Group Risk department defines and regular updates to the Groups capital and by early warning mechanisms that are prescribes the insurance, operational, solvency projections.
embedded within the operational units.
market, credit and group risk assessment They, together with the Audit Committee, Quantitative and qualitative assessments processes for the business.
It performs also receive regular reports from the of risks are performed as part of the ORSA second line reviews, including of the Internal Audit function, which include process.
The quantitative assessment in reserving, capital modelling and business recommendations for improvement of the line with the Groups capital and solvency planning processes, and undertakes regular control and operational environment.
The projections considers how the regulatory reviews of all risks in conjunction with Chair of the Group Risk Committee provides capital requirements, economic capital management, with the results of these a comprehensive written report to the needs, own funds and the solvency position reviews recorded in risk registers collated Board of the activities carried out by the of the Company is projected to change over centrally on the Group risk management Committee on an annual basis.
In addition, the three year time horizon.
Furthermore, Group Risk records any the Board receives reports from the Chair a series of stress tests, linked to the Groups actual losses or near misses that occur as a of the Audit Committee as to its activities, principal risks and reports the impact of consequence of the crystallisation of risk and together with copies of the minutes of the these stresses alongside any mitigating analyses the sufficiency of the action taken GRC and Audit Committee.
factors that reduce the impact.
The Chief Risk Officer has responsibility for ensuring that managers The Audit Committees ability to provide The results of the stress tests form part are aware of their risk management the appropriate assurance to the Board of the process to set the Groups capital obligations, providing them with support and depends on the provision of periodic and risk appetite, which ensures that a buffer advice, and ensuring that risk management independent confirmation, primarily on top of the Groups regulatory capital strategies are properly communicated.
by Internal Audit, that the controls requirement is held to protect its capital Reports are produced showing the most established by management are operating position against shocks and stresses.
Refer significant risks identified and the controls effectively and where necessary provides to the Strategic report for information on in place.
Internal Audit uses the risk registers a high-level challenge to the steps being sensitivities to the reported 2017 solvency to plan and inform their programme of audits taken by the GRC to implement the risk ratio position.
around the most significant risks to the management strategy.
Group to ensure that the prescribed controls Based on the results of this analysis, the are in place and are operating effectively.
Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over this three year period.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 59
