Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Governance & Remuneration Governance & Remuneration AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 Dear Shareholders, The AQR's final report was released earlier this month, with findings of four key areas for improvement, which KPMG As Chairman of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to present has accepted and implemented during its audit of the 2017 the Audit Committees report for 2017.
continued to play a key role within the Groups governance framework in respect of internal financial control, risk In 2017, the Committee continued to focus on internal financial management, financial reporting and significant estimates and controls, particularly in respect of the significant systems judgements, as well as overseeing the internal and external programmes under development across the Group.
The external auditor, KPMG, has now completed its third audit I will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer of the Companys accounts and the audit process is running anyquestions.
"During the year the Audit Quality Review team ""AQR"" Ruth Anderson from the Financial Reporting Council undertook an inspection of Chairman, Audit Committee KPMGs audit of the Groups 2016 financialstatements."
27 February 2018 58 Governance & Remuneration Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Governance & Remuneration During the year, the Committee reviewed: Role of the Audit Committee The key responsibilities of the Committee are to: The Groups systems of internal control, the effectiveness of financial controls and managements continuing control Monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company improvement programme and any formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance, reviewing significant financial reporting The Groups key risks and the effectiveness of the risk judgements contained in them management framework Review the Companys internal financial controls and the systems Accounting policies and the managements response of internal control and risk management to accounting developments including the impact of IFRS9, IFRS 15 and IFRS 16 and the Groups readiness for Monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys internal theirimplementation audit function The external audit plan, audit conduct and audit findings Maintain an appropriate relationship with the Companys external auditors and review the independence, objectivity and effectiveness The internal audit plan and internal audit resourcing of the audit process, taking account of relevant professional, The Groups tax strategy and compliance regulatory and ethical guidance The effectiveness of Internal Audit, the external auditors and of The Committee's terms of reference are reviewed annually, were the Committee itself.
last updated in December 2017 and are available on the Group's corporate website www.
co. uk In addition, a number of standing agenda items were considered at each of the Committees meetings: Committee membership and Internal Audit activity and findings meeting attendance Reports on criminal activity investigations, bribery, Ruth Anderson, who chaired the Committee, Coline McConville, whistleblowing, and cyber security Christopher Rogers and John Rogers were members of the Progress on implementing recommendations arising from Committee throughout 2017. internal and external audit work All members are independent Non-executive Directors.
Three Non-audit fees paid to the auditor and other accountancy firms.
of the members have recent and relevant financial experience and all members have expertise relevant to the Companys In carrying out these activities, the Committee places reliance sector, gained through a variety of corporate and professional on regular reports from management, Internal Audit and the appointments as required by the UK Corporate Governance Code external auditors.
The Committee is satisfied that it received see biographies on pages 51 and 52. sufficient, reliable and timely information to enable it to fulfil its responsibilities during the year.
The Deputy Company Secretary was Secretary to the Committee throughout 2017.
The Board is updated on key matters and recommendations following each Audit Committee meeting.
The Committee held five formal meetings during 2017.
The Group Chairman, Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer, Committee effectiveness review General Counsel & Company Secretary, Group Financial Controller, Head of Internal Audit and external auditors also The effectiveness of the Audit Committee was evaluated this attended the Committees meetings at the invitation of the year as part of the Board evaluation process.
Separate meetings with the Head of Internal can be found on pages 60 and 61.
The review found that the Audit and with the external auditors without the presence of Committee was operating effectively and that its role and remit management were also held with the Committee Chairman and remained appropriate for the current needs of the business.
Committee discussed the findings of the evaluation process to identify opportunities for further improvement.
As well as attending the Audit Committee meetings, the Committee members met with operational and finance team Significant issues related to the members during the year.
financial statements Work of the Committee The Audit Committee has assessed whether suitable accounting The Audit Committee adheres to an annual work plan which policies have been adopted by the Group and has reviewed the is regularly reviewed by the Committee to ensure that it key judgements and estimates made by management.
encompasses all matters the Committee needs to consider to The following table sets out the key judgements associated fulfil its corporate governance responsibilities.
with the Groups financial statements for the year-ended The Committee gives due consideration to the annual report 31December2017 that were considered by the Audit Committee.
and accounts, and the results announcements prepared by It does not contain a list of all accounting issues, estimates and management and issued at the half-year and year-end.
In policies, just those the Audit Committee believes are the most discharging its financial reporting responsibilities, the Committee significant ones.
reviewed accounting policies and compliance with accounting In reaching its conclusions about the reasonableness of the standards, going concern and viability assumptions, significant assumptions and judgements underlying the accounting issues financial reporting estimates and areas of judgement made during the Committee considered papers and explanations provided the preparation of the Groups interim and annual accounts.
59 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Governance & Remuneration Governance & Remuneration by management, discussed each matter in detail, challenged implementation of which is due to commence in 2018 and then assumptions and judgements made and sought clarification continue through to 2020. where necessary.
It also held in depth discussions with the Accounting for a number of the matters discussed below external auditors about their report to the Committee on the is impacted by these ageing systems and the surrounding work undertaken to arrive at the conclusions set out in their environment which were initially developed many years ago when auditreport on pages 90 to 95. the business was significantly smaller, less complicated and the The Group is currently in the process of replacing the ageing quantum and nature of transactions considerably fewer and simpler.
systems in its major businesses with new core systems, the Impact on Financial Issue and Nature Factors Considered and Information and Disclosure Area of Judgement Conclusions Reached in the Financial Statements Accounting for To meet customer During the year management regularly Further information is given in the inventory and expectations the Group reported on stock valuation and balance sheet on pages 98 and inventory valuation carries a wide range of stock provisioning to the Committee and did 99, and in the financial statements: in over 2,000 locations.
so again at its meeting to discuss the note 2 covering significant Stock should be included year-end annual report and accounts.
accounting policies, in the balance sheet at the The Committee reviewed and discussed lower of cost or net realisable note 3 detailing critical the information presented about gross value.
At 31December stock judgements and estimates stock values and the adjustments was valued at 0.8bn.
made by management to reduce stock carrying values to allow for rebates The determination of cost is and fixed price discounts attributable complicated by the ageing to inventory and provisions to reflect accounting systems and obsolescence or slow moving inventory.
also by material rebate and fixed price discount The Committee assessed the agreements, so requiring judgements made by management regular reconciliations in areas and concluded from the information it such as goods received not had received and its discussions with invoiced accruals.
management and the Auditors that stock was fairly stated in the balancesheet.
Accounting for The terms of supplier During the year the Committee discussed Further information is given in rebate income and agreements result in a reports presented by management about the financial review on pages 29 fixed price discounts significant value of Supplier the progress of improvements to systems, and 30, note 2 to the financial SupplierIncome Income being received by controls and processes which included statements covering significant the Group.
The calculation the implementation of a new deal tracking accounting policies and note 3 of the value receivable and and rebate management system.
It also detailing critical judgements and the value deferred into received reports that enabled it to monitor estimates.
stock is complicated due Supplier Income collection rates and to the number, nature and compare them with the prior year and it structure of the agreements discussed the Groups adherence to its in place and the age of accounting policies and procedures.
However, A summary of supplier income received only two agreements are during the year and amounts included not co-terminous with the in the balance sheet at 31 December Groups accounting year end.
2017 was given to the Committee at Furthermore, approximately the meeting held to consider the year- 80% of amounts due to end results.
The Committee reviewed the Group are received managements judgements regarding during the course of the the estimates of supplier income and year.
Therefore the key amounts included in the balance sheet.
judgements relate to the calculation of the total value The Committee concluded that the of rebates and fixed price controls over recognising and recovering discounts still to be received Supplier Income were appropriate, that at the year-end and the value the 344m of supplier income included of fixed price discounts and in debtors or offset against creditors was rebates to be set against the recoverable and that the amount set gross value of inventory in against the gross carrying value of stock the balancesheet.
60 Governance & Remuneration Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Governance & Remuneration Impact on Financial Issue and Nature Factors Considered and Information and Disclosure Area of Judgement Conclusions Reached in the Financial Statements The carrying value The Group balance sheet The cash flow forecasts used for Further information is given in of goodwill and other contains 1.7bn of goodwill impairment considerations are the financial statements: intangibles and tangible and other intangible assets prepared from the strategic business note 2 covering significant fixed assets with indefinite useful lives plans presented to, and approved by, accounting policies, that arose from historical theBoard of Directors annually.
acquisitions and 0.9bn of note 3 detailing critical Management presented the Committee tangible fixed assets.
judgements and estimates, with papers setting out the results of the work done, the assumptions made and The Directors are required notes 13 and 14 set out details the conclusions reached.
They explained to determine annually of intangible assets and goodwill to the Committee how the cash flow and whether those assets have and outline the results of the discount rate calculations were prepared, suffered any impairment.
the key assumptions and judgements They do so by comparing that were made and how sensitive those the present value of future cash flows for each cash cash flows were to changes in the key generating unit with the assumptions.
After reviewing managements papers, In addition, the Company and obtaining further explanation balance sheet contains where necessary, the Committee 3.8bn of investments in concluded that management had taken subsidiaries.
The directors a consistent, balanced and reasoned compare the net present approach to preparing its calculations values of future cash flows and that the judgements made were from each investment acceptable.
It noted that the value in use to the carrying value of model used by management showed all the investment in the material cash generating units except for balancesheet.
Wickes had significant headroom, but concluded that, whilst the headroom was The calculations undertaken limited for the Wickes cash generating to help arrive at a conclusion unit, there was no impairment.
incorporate a consideration of the risks associated The Committee also discussed the with each cash generating calculations supporting the carrying unit and are based upon value of investments in the parent forecasts of their long Company and concurred with term future cash flows, managements conclusions.
which by their nature require judgement to be exercised and are subject to considerable uncertainty.
61 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Governance & Remuneration Governance & Remuneration Internal audit Risk management and internal controls During 2017, Internal Audit continued to focus on reviewing The risk management process facilitates the identification financial controls in areas which the Audit Committee considered and control of risks.
Details of risks faced by the Group are higher risk as well as in other areas of high risk included in the maintained in Group and business unit risk registers.
Those risks Group risk register or highlighted by Internal Audit evaluation or are regularly reviewed by the Executive Committee and the Board from consultation with the Executive Committee.
All core key to assess the likelihood of occurrence and potential impact, after financial control areas are audited regularly including balance sheet taking into account the operation of key controls and mitigating control accounts, statements by the divisions on their compliance factors.
Additional mitigating actions are identified where with internal financial controls and key controls in the rebates and necessary and agreed with relevant business owners.
Risks are managed at a Group level or within the business Audits were undertaken both by the in-house Internal Audit units.
The principal risks and uncertainties are set out on team and the Groups co-source partners.
The allocation of work pages 33to39, together with information on how those risks was dependent on the specialist skills required, particularly in aremitigated.
areas such as IT, data protection, tax and treasury, as well as on The Audit Committee monitors the key elements of the available resource.
Companys internal control framework throughout the year and The Committee reviewed and approved the 2017 internal audit has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the Companys plan and at each Committee meeting considered reports from risk management and internal controls.
The internal control Internal Audit setting out the findings from the audits which framework is intended to manage rather than eliminate the it had carried out.
It also continued to review the effective risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only implementation of recommendations agreed by management, provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material through an Internal Audit system which tracks activity on all misstatement or loss.
active recommendations by age and level of risk to the business.
The Groups control framework has developed over many years Following the successful trial in 2016 to move branch and store and there are a significant number of IT systems upgrades compliance teams from within the Internal Audit function to the and replacements underway.
The changes will improve control control of Contract Division management, the approach was processes and ensure greater consistency across the control rolled out to the other divisions in 2017. environment but, in the meantime, manual controls are put in place to supplement existing systems controls.
An effectiveness review of the Internal Audit function was carried out by an independent assessor in February 2017 which Management continued its programme of work to improve included considering the teams conformance to the Institute of the control environment throughout 2017 and this will carry Internal Audits International Professional Practice Framework, on through 2018.
The Audit Committee will monitor progress comparing the functions activities against best practice and during the year and, given the level of change, reviewing these assessing the impact of internal audit on the organisation.
The programmes will also be an area of focus for Internal Audit.
review concluded that the Internal Audit function generally conforms to the Standards of the Institute of Internal Auditors.
A number of actions were agreed as a result of the review and are in the process of being implemented.
Taking this, along with the performance of the Internal Audit team into account, the Committee was satisfied with the overall effectiveness of the Internal Audit function during the year.
62 Governance & Remuneration Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Governance & Remuneration The Committee oversees the process for approving all External auditor non-audit work undertaken by the external auditor in order to KPMG LLP has been the external auditor since 2015.
There safeguard the auditors objectivity and independence.
Prior to are no contractual restrictions on the Group with regard to this approval, consideration is given to whether it is in the interests appointment.
In accordance with current professional standards, of the Company that the services are purchased from KPMG the partner responsible for the audit will change every 5 years.
When KPMG is chosen, it is due In future, the Company will re-tender the external audit in to their detailed knowledge of the Groups business and them accordance with the timescales set out in Financial Reporting demonstrating that they have the necessary expertise and Council guidance.
capability to undertake the work cost effectively.
Audit scope and effectiveness Value of work The scope of the external audit of the 2017 Annual Report Non-audit fees require approval and the amount payable to the and Accounts was presented by the external auditor to the external auditor in any particular year cannot exceed 70% of the Committee in September 2017 so the Committee had the average of the current and prior two years audit fee.
opportunity to discuss and challenge the audit plan in order to gain a good understanding of the key elements.
Reporting The Committee considers the effectiveness of the external The Chief Financial Officer reports to the Committee on fees auditor during the year and, with input from management, carries for non-audit services payable to the external auditor at every out a formal review of its performance after the year end audit meeting.
As shown in note 5 to the accounts, during the year has been completed.
the Auditors were paid 935,000 2016: 900,000 for auditIn undertaking this assessment, the Committee considers: related work, and 120,000 2016: 242,000 for non-audit work.
The principal items of non-audit fees paid to the external the experience and expertise of the auditor: auditors relate to the interim announcement review and the the completion of the agreed external audit plan: provision and maintenance of the Groups employee benefits system, MyPerks.
In addition, 3.7m 2016: 3.0m of fees were the content, quality of insights and added value of paid to other accounting firms for non-audit work.
The total fees external audit reports: paid by the Group to KPMG LLP in 2017 amount to less than the robustness and perceptiveness of the external auditor in 0.05% of KPMGs UK fee income.
their handling of key accounting and audit judgements: Assessment of the external auditor the interaction between management and the auditor: and Having considered the external auditors performance, the the provision of non-audit services.
report from the Audit Quality Review Team into KPMGs 2016 This year, the Committee also considered the findings of the audit, and representations from the auditors about their internal Financial Reporting Council's Audit Quality Review team and the independence processes, the Committee concluded that it was actions being taken by KPMG to address the mattersraised.
satisfied with the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the external auditor and recommended to the Board that it Independence and objectivity recommend KPMG to be reappointed by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 27 April 2018.
One of the Committees responsibilities is to ensure compliance with the Boards policy in respect of services provided by, and The Audit Committee Report has been approved by the fees paid to, the external auditor.
The policy, which was reviewed Board of Directors and is signed on its behalf by: by the Committee during the year, sets out the work that is permitted to be performed by the external auditor and the work Ruth Anderson which is prohibited.
