Ascential plc Annual Report 2017 REPORT OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE The Board evaluation process confirmed that the Board has worked effectively during the year, with a committed, skilled and gender-diverse Board who are very engaged with Ascentials business, its challenges and opportunities.
As a Committee, we continued to focus on succession planning and talent development programmes during 2017.
2017 Highlights Scott Forbes Considered the succession planning Chairman requirements for the Board and senior management team Dear Shareholder, Reviewed and confirmed the independence of the Non-Executive Directors I am pleased to introduce the Report of the Nomination Committee for 2017.
Agreed the design of the Board evaluation process Despite there being no changes to Board appointments during the year, the Committee has been active in a number of areas focusing primarily on organisation and succession planning review.
This included a detailed review of the succession plans in place for the Executive Role of the Nomination Committee Directors and members of the senior management team, across both the brand and central teams.
Formal development plans are being Evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge and established as part of succession planning and progress with these experience, and size, structure and composition plans will be an area of focus for the Committee in 2018. of the Board and Board Committees Changes to the structure of the Executive team were agreed, with the Considers retirements and appointments of augmentation of the Executive Committee through the addition of two additional and replacement Directors and additional roles as well as improving CEO bandwidth through a Committee members restructuring of reporting lines below Executive Director level.
Approves the design of the Board evaluation The Committee also received updates from the Chief People Officer on process other strategic people matters including diversity, engagement levels, Assists the Board in the consideration and retention levels, and strategic skills and capability planning.
We have development of appropriate corporate four female Board members, representing 57%, which exceeds the one-third recommended by the Hampton-Alexander review.
We will governance principles continue to focus efforts on increasing a more diverse representation throughout the senior management and senior leaders population.
As all of the Non-Executive Directors have a broadly similar tenure Confirmation of independence following the Companys IPO in February 2016, the Committee will develop plans to ensure an orderly refreshment of skills and experience The UK Corporate Governance Code on the Board during 2018.
It will also review the composition of the recommends that a majority of the members Board to ensure that the balance remains appropriate to fully support should be independent Non-Executive Directors the Companys strategy.
and that it is chaired by the Board Chairman or a Non-Executive Director The Nomination Committee is chaired by the Board Chairman, Scott Forbes, and the other members are Rita Clifton and Judy Vezmar, both independent Non-Executive Directors 48 Ascential plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements The Committees policy towards Board appointments The most important priority of the Committee has been, and will continue to be, ensuring that members of the Board should collectively possess the broad range of skills, expertise and industry knowledge, and business and other experience, necessary for the effective oversight of the Group.
The Committee takes account of a number of factors before recommending any new appointments to the Board, including relevant skills to perform the role, experience, knowledge and diversity.
The Committee has historically engaged external recruitment consultants with whom the Group has no other relationship to assist with the identification of suitable candidates, based on a comprehensive candidate search brief.
The shortlisted candidates met with members of the Board on a one-one-one basis before the Committee made its recommendation of the preferred candidate to the Board.
It is the Committees intention to continue with this policy.
Non-Executive Director appointments to the Board are for an initial term of up to three years.
Non-Executive Directors are typically expected to serve two three-year terms, although the Board may invite the Director to serve for an additional period on the recommendation of the Committee.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed under a formal appointment letter which are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during normal business hours and at the AGM.
External Directorships The Committee keeps under review the number of external directorships held by each Director and performance evaluation is used to assess whether the Non-Executive Directors are spending enough time to fulfil their duties.
Any external appointments or other significant commitments of the Directors require the prior approval of the Chairman, or, in the case of the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director.
Board effectiveness The policy on Board effectiveness reviews is that an externally led evaluation of the Board, Committees and individual Directors will be conducted every third year.
An internal Board effectiveness evaluation was conducted during 2017 and the Committee approved the design of this process in advance.
The results of the evaluation were very positive and more detail on this is set out on page 37.
Attendance at Committee meetings The Committee meets at least annually.
During 2017, the Committee met twice and all members were in attendance at both meetings: Committee meetings Members 1 Nov 29 Nov Attendance Scott Forbes 100% Rita Clifton 100% Judy Vezmar 100% In addition to Committee members and the Company Secretary, the Chief Executive and Chief People Officer often attend meetings at the invitation of the Committee.
Scott Forbes Chairman of the Nomination Committee 23 February 2017 49
