Ascential plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The Audit Committee fulfils an important role on behalf of the Board in monitoring the quality of our external reporting and audit as well as assessing the effectiveness of internal controls and the Groups risk management framework.
Paul Harrison Chairman of the Audit Committee Committee Chairmans Introduction Dear Shareholder, 2017 Key activities I am pleased to introduce the Report of the Audit Reviewed the significant financial judgements Committee for 2017 which describes our activities and made during the year areas of focus during the year.
Considered the accounting treatment of Significant financial judgements and financial reporting acquisitions made during the year We conducted a review of the significant financial judgements made Considered the implications of IFRS 15 Revenue during the year as well as key financial reporting matters and these are from Contracts with Customers described in more detail on page 45 of this report.
In addition to our routine consideration of the potential for fraud in revenue recognition Reviewed and approved the financial controls and management override of controls, we also considered the following manual key reporting judgements: Oversight of the Risk Management Framework Carrying value of goodwill and acquired intangible assets Conducted a review of the Annual Report and Acquisition accounting Accounts to confirm that it was fair, balanced Recognition of deferred tax assets and disclosure Adjusted performance measures and capable of being readily understood by shareholders We assessed the prospects and viability of the Group, based on the Reviewed the Viability Statement and the key Groups strategic planning, long-range financial forecast and the judgements included therein potential impact of the business should certain risks to the business materialise.
We confirmed that a three-year timeframe continued to be Approved the establishment of the Internal Audit appropriate for this assessment and reported to the Board that, based function, the Internal Audit Charter and Internal on this assessment, there was a reasonable expectation that the Group Audit Plan for 2017 will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to 31 December 2020.
We also recommended Reviewed the effectiveness of internal controls that the Board should continue to adopt the going concern basis for and risk management preparation of the financial statements.
Reviewed external and Internal Audit findings Risk management Approved a revised non-audit services policy The principal risks facing the Company are robustly assessed by the Board as a whole.
More detail on these risks and the risk management framework is set out on page 22.
The ongoing monitoring and Confirmation of independence effectiveness review of the Groups risk management and internal control systems are described on page 46.
The assessment of risk and The Committee comprises only independent the review of the risk management systems feeds into the process for Non-Executive Directors.
The Head of Internal assessing the longer-term viability of the Company, which is described further on page 23.
Audit and the KPMG Audit Partner are standing attendees.
Internal Audit We have appointed EY as our partner in our co-sourced Internal Audit The Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial model, enabling us to benefit from access to specialist subject matter Controller and the Chief Executive are invited to expertise and leveraging of technologies for deeper intelligence on attend on request.
We approved the 2017 18 Internal Audit Plan and received Internal Audit reports on findings from reviews.
More detail on internal audit is given on page 47.
More information on membership and attendance can be found on page 42.
Paul Harrison Chairman of the Audit Committee 23 February 2018 43 Ascential plc Annual Report 2017 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED Role and composition Committee activity in 2017 Role of the Audit Committee Financial reporting The Audit Committee helps the Board ensure sound governance and The main responsibility the Committee has in respect of financial has specific oversight of internal controls and financial management, reporting is to review with the management team and our external review of financial reporting and assessment of the effectiveness of auditors KPMG whether the interim and full year financial statements internal and external audit.
In particular, this means reviewing, assessing and challenging where required: Membership and meetings In addition to its members, other individuals and external advisers accounting policies and principles applied: may attend each Committee meeting at the request of the Chairman.
evaluating new accounting standards for example, IFRS 15 : The Committee Chairman has regular meetings with KPMG without accounting treatment for acquisitions: management present, and at least once a year, the Committee meets material accounting judgements and assumptions made by with KPMG and the Head of Internal Audit without management management, or significant issues or audit risks identified by KPMG: present.
The Committee also meets with the Chief Financial Officer whether the Annual Report and Financial Statements are fair: without other management or KPMG in attendance.
balanced and understandable and provide the necessary information for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, Paul Harrison is a Chartered Accountant and has more than 15 years business model and strategy: and experience as Chief Financial Officer of listed companies, most recently compliance with relevant accounting standards and other legal or as the current CFO of Just Eat plc, a FTSE 100 online marketplace regulatory financial reporting requirements, including the UK business.
Paul chaired the audit committee of Hays plc for four years Corporate Governance Code.
until 2011, when he became the Senior Independent Director.
The Board considers that Paul has sufficient recent and relevant experience Viability Statement to discharge his duties as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The other We reviewed the process undertaken and conclusions reached to members of the Audit Committee, Rita Clifton and Gillian Kent, both support the Companys Viability Statement which can be found in full have previous experience of acting as a member of audit committees.
Our review included: The Committee meets at least three times a year.
During 2017, the challenging management on whether the three-year time period Committee met four times and all members were in attendance at adopted remained appropriate and aligned with the long-term all meetings: forecasting of the Group: challenging whether managements assessment of the principal risks Committee meetings facing the Group and their potential impact was appropriate: Members 22 Feb 10 Jul 21 Jul 29 Nov Attendance considering whether there were any additional risks which could Paul Harrison 100% impair solvency or which, whilst not necessarily principal risks in Rita Clifton 100% themselves, could become severe if they occur in conjunction with other risks: Gillian Kent 100% considering the likelihood of the risks occurring in the time period selected and the impact severity in the event that they did occur: and challenging management as to the appropriateness of the assumptions used in stress testing and modelling scenarios.
44 Ascential plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Significant financial judgements in 2017 The key reporting judgements considered by the Committee and discussed with the external auditor during the year were: Issue Judgement Carrying value of goodwill and The Committee reviewed the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment, including a acquired intangible assets detailed review of the assumptions underlying the value in use calculations for businesses identified as cash generating units CGU.
The key assumptions underlying the calculations are primarily the achievability of the long-term business plan, CGU specific discount rates, anticipated revenue growth in the short-term and long-term growth assumptions.
For further information, please see Note 14 of the consolidated financial statements on pages 93 and 94.
The Committee reviewed managements analysis and underlying assumptions, and were satisfied with the conclusions which demonstrated that no impairment or revision to useful economic life is needed.
Acquisition accounting Acquired businesses give rise to material assets and liabilities at the point of acquisition that are based on estimates and judgements about future performance.
The provisional recognition of goodwill, intangible assets, other assets and liabilities and estimates of the fair value of consideration transferred were based on a number of assumptions.
Often, significant elements of consideration are deferred, contingent on future performance, and may be subject to other conditions such as continued employment of key management personnel.
Significant judgement is involved in assessing the relevant forecast, and selecting the appropriate discount rates.
The Committee reviewed the acquisition accounting calculations and underlying estimates and assumptions for Clavis Insight and MediaLink, which were both acquired during 2017.
In respect of acquisitions in earlier years such as Money 20 20 and One Click Retail, the Committee reviewed the calculations in respect of deferred consideration and acquisition-related contingent employment costs in light of changes in forecast, in order to ensure these continued to be appropriate.
Value of recoverable tax losses The determination of profits subject to tax is calculated according to complex laws and regulations, the interpretation and application of which can be uncertain.
In addition, deferred tax assets and liabilities require judgement in determining the amounts to be recognised, with consideration given to the timing and level of future taxable income over multiple years.
The main area of judgement is the recognition of the US deferred tax asset.
The Committee reviewed a report on the background to the Groups historic US net operating losses, the extensive period over which they will be recovered in cash and other significant judgements and rigorously challenged.
The Committee also considered reports presented by KPMG before determining that the amount recognised as deferred tax asset is appropriate.
The Committee reviewed the proposed disclosures on taxation in Note 9 and agreed that the presentation of taxation, including deferred taxes, appropriately addresses the significant change in the international tax environment and that sufficient and appropriately transparent disclosures are provided.
Adjusted performance measures The Group uses certain non-GAAP measures of performance, as, in the opinion of the Directors this provides a better understanding of the underlying performance of the business, and provides better comparability with other peer group companies.
The use and definition of these measures is a matter of judgement.
The Committee ensures that there is equal prominence given to adjusted and statutory performance measures, and that there are full reconciliations between the two where appropriate.
The Committee discussed these measures with both management and advisers, including KPMG, to ensure that the measures were reasonable, and reviewed their use in the context of the overall Annual Report to ensure that this was consistent with the Code requirement to be fair, balanced and understandable.
Fair, balanced and understandable The Board asked the Committee to consider whether the 2017 Annual Report is fair, balanced and provides the necessary information for shareholders to assess the Companys position and prospects, business model and strategy.
In performing this review, the Committee considered the following questions: Is the Annual Report open and honest with the whole story being presented?
Have any sensitive material areas been omitted?
Is there consistency between different sections of the Annual Report, including between the narrative and the financial statements, and does the reader get the same message from reading the two sections independently?
Is there a clear explanation of key performance indicators and their linkage to strategy?
Is there a clear and cohesive framework for the Annual Report with key messages drawn out and written in accessible language?
Following this review, and the incorporation of the Committees comments, we were pleased to advise the Board that, in our view, the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable in accordance with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
45 Ascential plc Annual Report 2017 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED Financial Reporting Council FRC Thematic Review the year to identify a new lead audit partner to ensure a smooth During the year the FRC communicated with the Company regarding transition for 2018. its Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2016 in relation to the FRCs thematic review of significant accounting judgements and For the financial year ending 31 December 2017, we have sources of estimation uncertainty.
Some additional disclosure items recommended to the Board that KPMG be reappointed under the have been included within the Annual Report to provide the reader current external audit contract and the Directors will be proposing with a better understanding.
KPMGs reappointment at the Annual General Meeting on 9 May 2018.
The FRCs review only covered the specific disclosures relating to Effectiveness this thematic review and provides no assurance that the report and KPMG attend each scheduled meeting of the Committee and present accounts are correct in all material respects: the FRCs role is not to their reports on our half-year and full-year financial results, as well as verify the information provided but to consider compliance with their planning reports in advance of each audit.
We meet with KPMG reporting requirements.
without management present at least once a year.
These sessions provide an opportunity for open dialogue and we typically discuss Internal controls KPMGs relationship with executive management and particular audit The Board, with the assistance of the Audit Committee, regularly risks identified.
We also challenge KPMG on the independence of their monitors and reviews the policies and procedures making up the audit.
In addition, I meet with the audit engagement partner outside of Groups internal control and risk management system.
To support this the formal Committee environment at least once per year.
We also monitoring, the Audit Committee reviewed reports from senior meet with management without KPMG present to discuss their view management, Internal Audit and KPMG.
of KPMGs effectiveness and quality of work delivered, as well as reviewing the results of a survey of finance staff throughout the Group.
The major components of the internal controls systems include: Independence clearly defined operational structure, accountabilities and As part of our work to manage the external auditor relationship, and the authority limits: annual effectiveness review, we consider whether there are adequate detailed operational planning and forecasting: safeguards to protect auditor objectivity and independence.
In thorough monitoring of performance and changes in outlook: and conducting our annual assessment, we consider feedback from the established risk management processes.
Chief Financial Officer, the level and nature of non-audit fees accruing to the external auditor, KPMGs formal letter of independence, and the Specific matters considered in relation to controls effectiveness length and tenure of the external auditor and of the audit engagement included: partner.
cyber security procedures: Non-audit services legal regulatory compliance update: The purpose of the non-audit services policy is to mitigate any risks review of tax risks and compliance issues: threatening, or appearing to threaten, the external audit firms treasury policy review: independence and objectivity arising through the provision of non-audit fraud, ethical issues and whistleblowing occurrence: and services which either create conflicts of interest between the external legal claims.
audit firm and the Group or place the external audit firm in the position of auditing its own work.
A formal control self-assessment process has been established during the year in relation to financial controls.
This process describes each During 2017, we reviewed our non-audit services policy to ensure control objective, the controls required to meet the objective, the compliance with the new EU Statutory Audit regime and included an frequency of operating the control and the evidence to be retained by overall cap on fees for non-audit services to the external auditor of management to demonstrate the control exists.
Management teams 70% of the average statutory audit fee for the Group.
The policy sets across the Group then self-assess their compliance with this out which services are prohibited and cannot be provided by the framework.
It is planned that Internal Audit will perform a review in external auditor.
The auditor is generally only engaged for audit and 2018 of the control self-assessment performed by management to related activities such as annual covenant compliance audits.
However, ensure that it is in line with the expected standards outlined in the if there is a case to use the external auditor to provide non-audit framework.
services, permission is required prior to the engagement of the external auditor in accordance with the following table: Progress towards completion of actions identified to improve internal control is regularly monitored by management and the Audit Value of non-audit services Approver Committee, who provide assurance to the Board.
The Board considers Group Financial Controller or that none of the areas of improvement identified constitute a significant 25,000 Chief Financial Officer weakness.
Chairman of the Audit External audit 25,000 50,000 Committee The Committee is responsible for ensuring that the external auditor 50,000 previously 100,000 Audit Committee provides an effective source of assurance for the Groups financial reporting and controls, including that the necessary independence and objectivity is maintained.
We also are responsible for recommending When considering whether permission should be granted, the approver the appointment, reappointment or removal of the external auditor, and will assess whether the provision of such services impairs the auditors negotiating and agreeing the external audit fees.
independence or objectivity, whether the skills and experience make the auditor the most suitable supplier of the non-audit service, the fee Audit tender to be incurred and the criteria which govern the compensation of the KPMG was appointed as the Groups auditor in 2010 and we intend to individuals performing the audit.
conduct a competitive audit tender process before the end of 2020, in accordance with the EU Statutory Audit regime and the Competition A breakdown of total audit and non-audit fees paid to KPMG during and Markets Authority Order CMA Order.
The 2017 audit will be the 2017 is set out in Note 90 to the financial statements.
These fifth consecutive year for the current audit engagement partner who non-audit services were pre-approved in accordance with the will, in accordance with KPMGs independence rules, rotate off the non-audit services policy.
We have worked with KPMG and management during 46 Ascential plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Internal Audit An Internal Audit function was established during the year, utilising a co-source model with EY as our co-source partner.
The purpose of the Internal Audit function is to consider whether the system of internal control is adequately designed and operating effectively to respond to the Groups principal risks, and to provide independent objective assurance to senior management and to the Board through its committees.
Internal Audit accomplishes its objectives by bringing a systematic, disciplined approach to evaluate and improve the effectiveness of risk management, control and governance processes.
To provide for the independence of Internal Audit, its personnel as well as the co-sourced party report to the Group Financial Controller, who also acts as Director of Internal Audit and is accountable to the Committee in respect of that role.
The Group Financial Controller attends all Audit Committee meetings and has the opportunity to meet independently with the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Committee approves the annual Internal Audit Plan, and receives a report on Internal Audit activity and progress against that Plan.
We monitor the status of internal audit recommendations and managements responsiveness to their implementation.
We also challenge management where appropriate to provide us with assurance that our control environment is robust and effective.
Whistleblowing The Committee has approved a whistleblowing policy which encourages all staff to report suspected wrongdoing, in the knowledge that their concerns will be taken seriously and investigated appropriately, and that their confidentiality will be respected.
The policy also aims to reassure staff that they should be able to raise genuine concerns without fear of reprisals, even if they turn out to be mistaken.
We provide details of a confidential helpline operated by an independent third party, as well as my own contact details within the policy.
The Committee receives reports on any whistleblowing incidents that are reported during the year.
Any significant issues relating to potential fraud would be escalated to the Audit Committee Chairman immediately.
Paul Harrison Chairman of the Audit Committee 23 February 2018 47
