The Weir Group PLC 68 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Corporate Governance Report Contents Leadership Effectiveness Relations with Shareholders and Stakeholders The Board sets the tone of the Company The Board operates effectively for with regards to corporate governance the long-term success of the Company.
The Board maintains an open dialogue and ensures the application of the The Board members demonstrate the with shareholders and Board members Companys values and behaviours.
correct balance of skills, experience, attend investor events globally.
It demonstrates the clear division of independence and knowledge and responsibilities and the constructive are able to commit sufficient time Engagement With Stakeholders challenge and development of strategy.
to undertake the duties and During 2017 84 responsibilities appropriately.
Chairmans Introduction Board Skills and Experience 86 to Governance 69 Board Effectiveness Review 78 Remuneration Board of Directors 70 Board Appointment and Tenure 87 Group Executive 72 The Board ensures an open and transparent remuneration policy Induction and Ongoing Training 79 Leadership 73 for the effective recruitment Directors and Their Other Interests 80 Board Composition 75 and retention of Board members and Company employees.
Board Site Visit 81 Roles and Responsibilities of Directors 75 Remuneration Committee Report 110 Board and Committee structure 76 Directors Remuneration Policy 102 Accountability Management Committees 77 The Board maintains sound risk Board Meetings 77 management and internal control systems and has well-established committees to Board Meeting Attendance 77 assist it in the undertaking of its duties.
Matters Reserved for the Board 77 The Audit Committee and Auditors 82 Board Activities During 2017 77 Internal Control and Risk Management 82 Nomination Committee Report 85 Audit Committee Report 88 The UK Corporate Governance Code Report, together with the Nomination, securities carrying special rights with The UK Corporate Governance Code Audit and Remuneration Committee regard to the control of the Company, the Code is published by the Financial Reports, details how the Company has restrictions on voting rights, rules Reporting Council and sets out the applied the main principles of the Code regarding the appointment and standards of good practice in relation in 2017.
For the year ended 31 December replacement of Directors, rules regarding to matters such as Board composition 2017 to the date of this Annual Report, changes to the Companys Articles of and effectiveness, the role of Board the Board considers that the Company Association and the Directors powers in Committees, risk management, has complied fully with the Code.
relation to the issuing or buying back by remuneration and relations with the Company of its shares.
The Code can be The Financial Conduct Authoritys information can be found in within the obtained from the Financial Reporting Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.2.
6 Directors Report on pages 116 to 118.
Council via its website at frc.
6 requires the corporate governance statement to contain certain The following Corporate Governance As a listed company, we are required information required by Schedule 7 to Report, including the Committee Reports to explain how we have complied with the Large and Medium sized Companies and the Directors Report, sets out how the Code and applied its principles and and Groups Accounts and Reports we apply these governance standards provisions.
We must also provide an Regulations 2008 SI 2008 410.
This inpractice and demonstrates our explanation of any instances where we information relates to significant interests compliance with the Code.
This Corporate Governance in the securities of the Company, Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Weir Group PLC 69 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Corporate Governance Report Chairmans introduction to governance Driving performance through culture As Chairman, what is your view The Board is accountable for Qon the role of governance?
Qthe Groups management of risk.
As Chairman, I focus on ensuring that How does the Board monitor this?
the Board delivers effective leadership The Board reviews the Group Risk in order to ensure the long-term success Dashboard at each Board meeting and of the Company.
The Board sets the tone receives presentations from Executive from the top by defining and demonstrating Directors, Divisional Presidents, Group the Companys values and standards.
The Executive members and functional Board recognises that a robust corporate leaders which include aspects of the governance framework is essential to Groups principal and other risks together deliver the strategy of the Group and with how they are being controlled or ensure the highest standards of integrity.
The Risk Committee reports bi-annually to the Board with a What role does the Board play in detailed assessment of each principal Charles Berry Qsetting the culture of the business?
risk, internal audit and compliance Chairman The Board leads by example and works scorecard results, developments in diligently to ensure that the Weir values, risk management approaches and corporate strategy and business model any significant matters for the Boards are embedded within our culture and at all consideration.
On an annual basis, levels and aspects of our business.
This the Board will also review the Groups Dear Shareholders, approach allows us to establish a culture Risk Appetite Statement.
I am pleased to present the Corporate which is resilient and adaptive to change.
As The Board remains committed to driving What engagement with Chairman, I continue to focus on the culture of the business and ensuring Qshareholders has the Board ensuring our governance structure that this is reflected in our Code of had during the year?
remains appropriate, whilst supporting Conduct and commitment to our people.
The Board is responsible for ensuring our strategy and culture and ensuring that satisfactory dialogue with shareholders that the Board delivers prudent and Sustainability is integral takes places throughout the year.
In order effective leadership in order to discharge Qto the business.
What role to establish and maintain good relationships its duties responsibly and effectively.
does the Board play in managing this?
with the shareholders of the Company, Every member of the Board views the Directors meet with major shareholders Good corporate governance is critical themselves as stewards of the business in order to keep them informed of to building a successful and sustainable with a clear responsibility to ensure its longsignificant developments and to listen business and enabling us to create term success.
That long-term approach to their views.
You can read more about long-term value more effectively.
The defines how we develop the strategic how the Board members engaged with focus on corporate governance is forever direction of the Group, assess risks and shareholders during 2017 on page 83. increasing and the Board is committed opportunities and ultimately deliver to maintaining the highest standards of sustainable value for all our stakeholders.
corporate governance as this is the key to the continued long-term success of The Board Effectiveness your Company.
QReview was led externally this year.
Charles Berry In the Corporate Governance Report, It identified that further enhancement of Chairman I describe our governance structure, the Non-Executive Directors engagement 28 February 2018 how the Board works and areas that with various levels of the business and your Board has focused on during a more structured schedule of informal the year as well as the work of the site visits would be valuable.
and possible refinement of the annual programme and schedule of meetings Statement of Compliance with the was also recommended.
UK Corporate Governance Code I am pleased to report that the Company has fully complied with all the principles of the Code for the year ended 31December 2017, and from that date to the date of approval of this Annual Report.
