Corporate Governance: The Group Risk Committee The Group Risk Committee Statement to Shareholders from the Chairman of the Group Risk Committee The Committee continues to focus on key operational risks that affect the Group.
Group continues to maintain a regulatory Good progress has also been made Dear Shareholder, capital add-on to cover risks not captured on enhancing the project governance The year began with focus on the Ogden within the standard formula.
The Committee framework and the Committee looks forward rate change.
The Committee spent time has also reviewed the Groups proposed to seeing the increased reporting to support reviewing the impact on solvency ratio as dividend level, capital plan and capital some of the material projects ongoing across well as the customer and pricing impacts.
buffer in line with the capital policy.
There were also a number of updates Group continues to make use of Undertaking on the future Ogden developments and The focus on monitoring and reporting Specific Parameters USPs and the Volatility consideration was given to numerous customer outcome risks continued during Adjustment VA across a number of its scenarios as part of the annual stress and the year and included reports showing entities, where appropriate.
progress against the Group minimum During the year the Committee reviewed the compliance standards, which builds on A significant amount of time has also been Boards risk strategy and risk appetite across the levels of compliance resources and dedicated to developing the Groups Partial the Group.
This included further updates in monitoring that all Group firms must apply Internal Model for Solvency II.
Whilst the the UK business as well as the international to their respective regulatory obligations.
committee considered and approved the businesses, established as a key part of recommendation of a change in scope of the In terms of new products and businesses the the Groups Enterprise Risk Management model good progress has been made on the Committee oversaw the development of Framework ERMF.
A further refresh to the IMAP programme.
In the interim period the the new Loans business and the successful suite of Key Risk Indicators with associated regulatory application for the new company.
triggers and limits was completed.
These The Committee also oversaw the launch of updates have improved the effectiveness of the new travel insurance product which will the Committee by placing greater focus on be embedded within the existing reporting the main risks affecting the business.
templates to support future oversight.
The Committee continues to focus on key Finally, the Committee has devoted time to operational risks that affect the Group.
the work on Brexit to help set up appropriate The risk event process for identifying, EU based entities to enable the smooth reporting and remediating events has transition of European business written developed further and the Committee within the Group.
This work will no doubt has spent time reviewing any major risk continue throughout the next 12 months events reported during the year including and regular reporting will be provided at key consideration of the work required to milestones on the project lifecycle.
remediate the issues arising from the work on the prior year renewal notification.
I look forward to continuing the good work In addition, the full programme of work, this year.
agreed last year, to reduce cyber risk has been progressed.
This programme will also support the data protection work as the Group seeks to comply with the upcoming GDPR requirements.
Jean Park Chair of the Group Risk Committee The Committee challenged and reviewed the setting of and outputs 27 February 2018 from the regular stress and scenario testing and reverse stress testing.
The output was incorporated into the Own Risk and Solvency Assessment ORSA report for 2017, which the Committee also reviewed.
56 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
