Ascential plc Annual Report 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Governance Framework Board responsibilities Matters reserved for the Boards decision Collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Group Strategy, annual budgets and medium-term plans Setting strategy and being accountable to shareholders for Approval of the annual and interim results, material acquisitions, delivery of value disposals and contracts Monitoring management activity and performance against Approval of risk appetite and review of principal risks targets Ensuring that a sound system of internal control and risk Providing constructive challenge to management management is maintained Changes relating to the Companys capital structure For more details on the Boards activities during the year please go Approval of dividend policy to page 40.
Changes to Board composition The management and day-to-day running of the Group, including the development and implementation of strategy, monitoring the operating and financial performance, and the prioritisation and allocation of resources, has been delegated to executive management.
Certain Board responsibilities are delegated to formal Board Committees, which play an important governance role through the work they carry out.
More information on the workings of the Committees is given in their respective reports on pages 43 to 57.
The Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Reviews the Groups financial Sets the Remuneration Policy Reviews the composition of the reporting and recommends to the for the Group Board and its Committees Board that the Report and Sets the individual remuneration Ensures that appropriate Accounts should be approved of the Executive Directors and procedures are in place for the Reviews and reports to the Board senior management nomination, selection, training and on the effectiveness of internal Engages and consults with evaluation of Directors controls shareholders on proposed Ensures that the organisation is Assesses the independence and material changes to Remuneration satisfactorily able to achieve the effectiveness of the internal and Policy strategic targets of the business external auditors Approves awards under the and there is an effective programme Groups share based incentive of succession planning plans Committee composition: Committee composition: Committee composition: Judy Vezmar Chair Paul Harrison Chair Scott Forbes Chair Gillian Kent Rita Clifton Rita Clifton Paul Harrison Gillian Kent Judy Vezmar 38 Ascential plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Board composition and roles Our Board comprises the Chairman, two Executive Directors and four independent Non-Executive Directors.
Their key responsibilities are: Provides leadership to the Board, setting its agenda, style and tone to promote Chairman constructive debate and challenge between the Executive and Non-Executive Scott Forbes Directors Ensures good information flows from the Executive to the Board, and from the Board to its key stakeholders Supports and advises the Chief Executive, particularly in the development of strategy Chairs the Nomination Committee and builds an effective and complementary Board, regularly considering its composition and balance, diversity and succession planning Ensures that the induction and training programme for Non-Executive Directors are implemented and effective Leads the development of Ascentials objectives and strategic direction Chief Executive Works with the CFO to develop budgets and medium-term plans to support the Duncan Painter agreed strategy Ensures that Ascentials business and strategic plans are successfully executed Implements decisions of the Board and its Committees Reviews the Groups structure on an ongoing basis and recommends changes when appropriate Ensures effective and ongoing communication with shareholders Builds and manages the senior management team Ensures that the Board is fully informed of all key matters Supports the CEO in developing and implementing strategy Chief Financial Officer Oversees the financial performance of the Group Mandy Gradden Leads the development of the finance function to provide insightful financial analysis that informs key decision making Leads treasury activities Leads investor relations activities and communication with investors alongside the CEO Works with the CEO to develop budgets and medium-term plans to support the agreed strategy Meets with the other Non-Executive Directors at least annually without the Senior Independent Director Chairman present Rita Clifton Supports the Chairman and acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and intermediary for other Directors when necessary Available to shareholders if they have concerns which the normal channels through the Chairman or CEO have failed to resolve or would be inappropriate Scrutinise and monitor the performance of management Independent Non-Executive Directors Constructively challenge the Executive Directors Gillian Kent, Paul Harrison, Judy Vezmar Bring independence and a different perspective to the Board Support management in delivering the Groups strategy Oversee the integrity of financial information, financial controls and systems of risk management Supports the Chairman Company Secretary Available to all Directors to provide governance advice and assistance Louise Meads Ensures the Board receives sufficient, pertinent, timely and clear information Ensures compliance with the Boards procedures, and with applicable rules and regulation Facilitates induction and development programmes Acts as Secretary to the Board and all Committees 39 Ascential plc Annual Report 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Board activity during the year Received presentations from our COO, Strategy Director and business segment Strategy leaders to facilitate a healthy debate about business strategy: held a two-day strategy offsite to explore and refine the business strategy: approved updated budget and medium-term plans in the context of the agreed strategy: reviewed progress with implementation of strategy at every board meeting from the Chief Executive, the Strategy Director and senior leadership: and approved the acquisition of MediaLink and Clavis, and the disposal of the Heritage Brands.
For more information on our strategy see page 10.
Our Directors visited various Ascential offices and met with a wide range of People senior management across the business: the September Board meeting was held in New York with presentations from the management teams of our MediaLink, WGSN and Money20 20 businesses: and received updates from the Chief People Officer on people risk and people strategy.
For more information on people and values see page 28 Approved an updated risk management framework, including an updated risk Risk management scoring methodology: reviewed and approved the principal risk register: agreed during the year to add a deep dive into at least one principal risk at each Board agenda topics reviewed in 2017 included people and cyber risks: reviewed recession dashboards to monitor likelihood of macro-economic downturn: and reviewed the effectiveness of internal controls, including but not limited to a report from the Audit Committee.
For more information on risk management see page 22 Reviewed reports from the Companys brokers and advisers on shareholder and Shareholder engagement analyst feedback following investor and analyst meetings after the interim and full year results: Board and Remuneration Chairman held formal meetings with current investors: reviewed regular investor relations reports relating to share price, trading activity and movements in institutional investor shareholders: and received reports from the Executive Directors following meetings with investors.
Reviewed regular reports from the CEO on operating performance Performance monitoring against plans: reviewed regular reports from the CFO on the Groups financial performance: reviewed the year-end and interim results: reviewed new product and capability development against agreed plans: and conducted deep dive reviews of different brands across the Group.
For more information on performance, see the Chief Executives Review on pages 4 to 5 and the KPIs on page 11 Approved the 2016 Annual Report and notice of 2017 AGM: Other approved the 2016 final and 2017 interim dividends: approved the treasury policy: approved the capital allocation policy: approved the Groups tax strategy: reviewed the Groups annual insurance programme: and approved the Modern Slavery Act policy and statement.
40 Ascential plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Board attendance during the year Independent Feb May June July Sept Oct Nov Executive Directors Duncan Painter No Mandy Gradden No Non-Executive Directors Scott Forbes Chairman Yes Rita Clifton Yes Gillian Kent Yes Paul Harrison Yes Judy Vezmar Yes There were two additional ad hoc meetings in 2017 called at short notice in relation to the final approval of a proposed acquisition.
Judy Vezmar and Rita Clifton were each unable to attend one of these meetings.
The acquisition had been thoroughly discussed by the full Board in previous meetings and the Chairman obtained the views of the director unable to attend before the meeting.
The Company policy is for all Directors to attend every meeting in All Board Committees operate on a similar cycle, planning forward person except in extraordinary circumstances.
If a Director is unable to agendas for the year to ensure that all important issues are addressed attend a meeting, he or she is provided with the same information as as part of the annual cycle.
The Chairperson of each Committee agrees the other Directors in advance of the meeting and given the every agenda with the Company Secretary and relevant members of opportunity to express views to the Chairman, CEO, CFO or other senior management.
Any Committee member can call for reports on Directors, which will then be shared at the meeting.
In addition to the schedule of formal Board meetings, the Chairman and Induction and development the Non-Executive Directors meet periodically without the Executive All new Directors participate in a full induction programme that takes Directors present, and the Senior Independent Director meets with the into account any previous experience they may already have as other Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman present.
directors of a public limited company.
The induction programme for new Directors typically includes meetings with senior executives across the Group as well as information on the Groups structure, business Information flow at Board and Committee meetings sectors and operations, and policies to develop each Directors The Board and its Committees use an electronic board portal to gain quick and easy access to meeting papers and other reference materials.
understanding of the Group, its strategy, key risks and challenges.
The Directors indicated as part of the Board evaluation process that the The Boards forward agenda is designed to include deep dive papers received in advance of meetings are of a high standard, which reviews on all material aspects of the Group to develop Directors contributes to the quality of discussion and decision-making.
The chart understanding of the business and meet with senior management.
on this page describes the information flow before and after Board meetings.
Directors conflict of interests The Board has a procedure in place for Directors to declare conflicts of interests and for such conflicts to be considered for authorisation.
A Director may be required to leave a Board meeting if a matter upon An annual forward which a conflict has been declared is discussed.
External appointments agenda is agreed to or other significant commitments of the Directors require prior approval ensure all important of the Board.
The current external appointments of the Directors are issues will be set out on pages 34 to 35. addressed Chairman Internal control statement Company agrees each The Board acknowledges its responsibility for establishing and Secretary ensures meeting agenda with maintaining the Groups system of internal controls and it receives actions are tracked input from the Chief regular reports identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks and completion Executive and the reported to the within the business.
The system of internal control is designed to Company Board manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business Secretary objectives and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board, assisted by the Audit Committee, has carried out a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal controls during the year Agenda and ended 31 December 2017 and for the period up to the date of approval papers are of the consolidated financial statements contained in the Annual Board meetings held distributed at least five Report.
The Board confirms that no significant weaknesses or failings at least six per year days ahead of were identified as a result of this review.
the meeting 41 Ascential plc Annual Report 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Investor relations As well as the activities explained on page 37, there is an ongoing investor relations programme of meetings with institutional investors, fund managers and analysts and participation in conferences, covering a wide range of issues within the constraints of publicly available information including strategy, performance and governance.
The Company holds an annual Capital Markets Day.
In 2017, it was held in London in November, giving investors the opportunity to meet with the senior management team and to gain a more in-depth understanding of Money20 20, MediaLink and Cannes Lions.
The presentations are web cast and available for viewing on the Ascential website.
Institutional shareholders and analysts have regular contact with the Executive Directors.
All shareholders are kept informed of significant developments by announcements and other publications on the Companys website Ascential.
There are defined procedures in place to ensure that the requirements of the Market Abuse Regulations are met.
The Board receives regular reports on issues relating to share price, trading activity and movements in the holdings of institutional investor shareholders.
The Board is also provided with current analyst opinions, forecasts and feedback from FTI and from its joint corporate brokers, Goldman Sachs International and Numis Securities Limited, and the views of institutional investors on a non-attributed basis.
Besides the Chairman Scott Forbes, the Senior Independent Director Rita Clifton and other Non-Executive Directors are available to meet with shareholders.
Annual General Meeting AGM The AGM of the Company will take place at 9am on 9 May 2018 at Coworth Park Hotel, Blacknest Road, Ascot, Berkshire SL5 7SE, United Kingdom.
All shareholders have the opportunity to attend and vote, in person or by proxy, at the AGM.
All proxy votes received in respect of each resolution at the AGM are counted and the balance for and against, and any votes withheld, are indicated.
At the meeting itself, voting on all the proposed resolutions is conducted on a poll rather than a show of hands, in line with recommended best practice.
All Directors will be in attendance at the AGM and available to answer shareholders questions.
We look forward to meeting with our shareholders to hear their views and answer the questions about the Group and its business.
The Notice of the AGM can be found in a separate booklet which is being mailed out at the same time as this report and is available on the Companys website.
The Notice of the AGM sets out the business of the meeting and an explanatory note on all resolutions.
Separate resolutions are proposed in respect of each substantive issue.
Results of resolutions proposed at the AGM will be published on the Companys website Ascential.
UK Corporate Governance Code Compliance Statement We have complied with all principles and provisions of the 2016 Code the Code throughout the financial year ended 31 December 2017.
The Corporate Governance Statement and the cross-referenced reports within set out our approach to applying the Code.
Louise Meads Company Secretary 23 February 2018 42
