Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Governance & Remuneration Governance & Remuneration NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 Dear Shareholders, Nominations Committee highlights In 2017, the Committee was mainly focussed on the succession of the former Chairman, Robert Walker, which led to my own appointment.
I joined the Group on 1September2017 and took over as Chairman on 7 November 2017.
The Nomination Committees purpose is to ensure that the Board and its Committees comprise individuals with the skills, knowledge and experience to maximise the effectiveness with which they discharge their duties.
Reviewing the composition of the Board and ensuring appropriate succession plans are in place to meet the needs of the business will be a key focus for me and the Committee over the coming year.
Stuart Chambers Chairman 27 February 2018 82 Governance & Remuneration Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Governance & Remuneration Interviews of those candidates by a selection of members of Role of the Committee the Board The Committee's principal responsibility is to ensure that the Board comprises individuals with the most appropriate balance Following selection of the proposed candidate, interviews with of experience, skills and knowledge to help develop and support the remaining members of the Board and the taking up of the Company strategy.
In order to achieve this, the Committee detailed references requires procedures to be in place that enable the nomination, 2018 objectives selection and succession of the most capable directors and senior executives.
In 2018 the Committee will be focussed on: The Committee is also responsible for considering, and making Reviewing the skills and experience needed on the Board and recommendations to the Board on succession planning making plans to fill any gaps for Directors and other Senior Executives: in this sense the Nominations Committee undertakes a broader role.
Continuing to review the pipeline of executive talent below theBoard The Nominations Committee comprises all the Non-executive Directors and is chaired by Stuart Chambers, the Chairman of the Planning for the succession for the Chairman of the Board, other than when it is dealing with matters in relation to the AuditCommittee chairmanship of the Company.
The Chief Executive and Group Planning for the succession of the CEO HR Director are invited to attend when appropriate.
The Committee operates under formal terms of reference Board diversity which are available on the Group's corporate website: It is the Groups firm belief that having Executives and www.
co. uk Non-executives on the Board who are diverse in experience, nationality and gender provides us with different perspectives, Activities in 2017 which promotes a healthy culture with a good balance between The Committee held five formal meetings and a number challenge and support and minimises the risk of group-thinking.
of adhoc meetings and conference calls during the year.
This does not just make good commercial and business sense, Theprincipal matters discussed were: but it is positive for the Groups colleagues and its customers aswell.
The appointment of a new Chairman Job specifications, search processes and selection criteria are Current and future Board composition and senior management also focused on appointing candidates that meet the criteria for requirements in light of the business strategy the role and who offer different perspectives.
Therefore, diversity, including gender diversity, is actively considered, and will continue Process for appointments to be so.
The Board is committed to appointing the best people The Committee guides the Board in regularly assessing whether and ensuring all employees are able to develop their careers there is an appropriate balance of expertise and skills on the within the Group regardless of their background, gender, age or Board.
A rigorous selection process precedes the appointment ethnicity.
The Group believes that diversity should be considered of all Directors by the Board, ensuring that appointments to the broadly and not just focusing on one element such as gender Board are made on merit and assessed against objective criteria.
and the Group therefore does not believe it is appropriate to set targets in this area.
A description of how appointments are typically made to the Board is set out below.
This process was followed in connection The Group currently has two female Board directors 22% and with the appointment of Stuart Chambers as Chairman of the three women on its operating executive 27%.
Further details Board of Directors.
of the Groups workforce diversity are set out in the Our People section on pages 41 to 43.
The Committee oversees on behalf of the Board, and advises the Board on, the identification, assessment and selection The Nominations Committee Report has been approved by the of candidates for appointment to the Board.
The process of Board of Directors and is signed on its behalf by: appointment includes: The preparation of a role description in light of existing and Stuart Chambers required capabilities for the role and the Board Chairman 27 February 2018 The engagement of independent recruitment consultants who have no other connection to the Company.
Spencer Stuart was used in the selection process for Stuart Chambers during theyear The preparation of a long list of potential candidates which takes into account diversity considerations and the outcome of the Committees latest review of the composition and skill sets of the Board The selection of a shortlist of suitable candidates meeting the Committees criteria 83
