Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Weir Group PLC 73 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Corporate Governance Report Leadership Board statements Where to find Requirement Board statement further information Compliance with the UK The Company has fully complied with all the principles of the Code Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance for the year ended 31 December 2017, and from that date to the date on page 68.
Code theCode of approval of this Annual Report.
Going concern basis The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has Directors Report on page 116. adequate resources to continue to operate for a period of at least 12months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
In forming this view, the Directors have reviewed the Groups budgets, plans and cash flow forecasts, including market downturn sensitivities.
In addition, the Directors have considered the potential impact of credit risk and liquidity risk detailed in note 30 to the Group financial statements on pages 177 to 183.
Each of these items has been considered in relation to the Groups banking facilities described in note 20 on pages 160 and 161.
Viability statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Risk review: How We Manage Code 2016, the Directors have assessed the viability of the Group over Risk on page 46. a three-year period, taking into account the Groups current position and the potential impact of the principal risks documented on pages 50 to 55 of the Annual Report.
Based on this assessment, the Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to 31 December 2020.
Robust assessment During the year, the Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Risk review: How We Manage of the principal risks systems of risk management and internal control and conducted a Risk on page 46. facing the Group and robust assessment of the principal risks affecting the Group in line annual review of systems with the Risk Appetite Statement.
These activities meet the Boards of risk management responsibilities in connection with Risk Management and Internal and internal control Control set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Fair, balanced and The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Financial Statements, Statement of Directors understandable taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide responsibilities on page 119. the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
Modern Slavery Statement As a Company, we understand our role in eradicating modern slavery.
A copy of this statement Following an extensive review of our existing policies and practices can be found on our website in light of the introduction of the Modern Slavery Act, the Company www.
weir sustainability prepared an annual Modern Slavery Statement and has subsequently ethics developed a training programme.
The Weir Group PLC 74 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Corporate Governance Report Leadership continued What do you feel your role You serve on both the A view from the Qas a Non-Executive Director QRemuneration and Nomination is at the Weir Group?
Committees: what does membership Boardroom table It can best be described as a mixture of these Committees entail?
of counsel and constructive challenge.
The Board has several committees As a Non-Executive Director, my job is dedicated to aspects of the Company, to bring my experience, objectivity and and they require the same approach independence to the Board and use it in terms of scrutiny and support.
The to offer unbiased scrutiny and guidance, Remuneration Committee seeks to particularly on matters such as strategy, determine and recommend to the risk, remuneration, succession and Board the framework for the rewards assessing the overall performance of and incentives to Executives to the business.
To do that you need a encourage them to enhance the good understanding of the Group and, Companys performance and ensure in a very global business such as Weir, delivery of sustainable value over the that means getting out to operations long term.
We do this by assessing and meeting employees, customers Weir against its peers, ensuring legal and other stakeholders.
Ultimately, each and regulatory compliance, analysing of us has a responsibility to contribute to risk and consulting with shareholders building a stronger Weir, just as previous and other stakeholders to be sure there Mary Jo Jacobi generations did for over a hundred years.
are stretching targets for Executives Non-Executive Director I know every member of the Board, to meet.
The Nomination Committee Non-Executive and Executive, takes consists of only Non-Executive that responsibility very seriously.
Directors and considers the structure and composition of the Board and The composition of the Board ensures that the processes of Qhas changed in the past year, succession planning and nomination, what difference has that made?
evaluation and selection for both Naturally you miss colleagues who have Board and senior management roles stepped down, but change opens the are robust and inclusive, something door to new perspectives and input from Weir has always taken very seriously.
different experiences, which is beneficial and refreshing.
Melanie Gee, who left in You have Board and corporate September, was a great Board member Qgovernance experience and made very positive contributions in both the UK and USA.
How to our discussions, particularly on do the two regimes compare?
Traditionally, the US model has been Since they joined late in 2017, both more regulator led while the UK Clare Chapman and Barbara Jeremiah has been more shareholder led.
have already made a significant impact.
The financial crisis generated an array Ultimately, a successful Board depends of legislative and regulatory changes on a balance of experienced points of in the US to make companies more view.
I think Weir has a good mix of accountable and transparent.
In the skills and abilities and, most importantly, UK, the Financial Reporting Council a shared understanding of responsibility is considering major changes to the and purpose.
Corporate Governance Code to improve the quality of governance of the UKs There is an increasing focus largest companies.
The hallmark of both Qon diversity and inclusion approaches is the recognition of the on UK Boards.
How important important impact that companies have an issue do you think this is?
on the full array of stakeholders and on I am passionate about equality of society.
I think that Weir is well placed opportunity and about the benefits with its UK headquarters and extensive to businesses and society of diverse US operations to build long-term value and inclusive workplaces.
This doesnt for its stakeholders in both countries.
mean gender alone, but ethnicity, race, age, personality, nationality and experience.
A well-functioning Board and company is a blend of different skills and perspectives operating in an inclusive environment.
Thats why Im delighted to see that building greater diversity at all levels of the business is a priority for the Group.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Weir Group PLC 75 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Board composition The Board of Directors has a collective the collective vision of the Groups During 2017, the Board comprised of duty to promote the long-term success purpose, culture, values and behaviours.
the Chairman, two Executive Directors of the Company for its shareholders.
and up to eight Non-Executive Directors.
The Board sets the strategic aims of Each Director brings different skills, the Group and provides leadership and experience and knowledge to the Barbara Jeremiah and Clare Chapman guidance to senior management to Company, with the Non-Executive were appointed to the Board in ensure that the necessary resources Directors bringing additional independent August2017.
Melanie Gee stepped are in place to achieve the agreed thought and judgement.
The roles of the down from the Board and as Chair strategy.
In determining the long-term Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Remuneration Committee in strategy and objectives of the Group, are separate, with each having clearly September2017.
the Board is mindful of its duties and defined duties and responsibilities which responsibilities not just to shareholders are set out in writing and approved by Biographical information on the Board but also to customers, employees and the Board.
The roles and responsibilities of Directors, including Directors relevant other stakeholders.
of the Senior Independent Director experience and significant appointments, are also set out in writing and both can be found on pages 70 and 71.
The Board reviews management and documents are available to view financial performance and monitors the on the Companys website at Roles and responsibilities delivery of strategy and the achievement www.
of Directors of business objectives.
At all times, the The key responsibilities of the Board operates within a robust framework members of the Board of Directors of internal controls and risk management.
The Board also develops and promotes Directors Responsibility Charles Berry Leading the Board in an ethical manner and promoting effective Board relationships.
Chairman Building a well-balanced Board, considering succession planning and the Boards composition.
Ensuring the effectiveness of the Board and individual Directors.
Overseeing the Board evaluation and acting on its results.
Ensuring appropriate induction and development programmes.
Setting the Board agenda and chairing Board meetings.
Ensuring effective communication with shareholders and other stakeholders.
Jon Stanton Planning the Group objectives and strategy for Board approval.
Chief Executive Officer Ensuring the effective delivery of Group strategies.
Providing leadership to the Group and communicating the Companys culture, values and behaviours.
Day-to-day management of the Company.
Building Group Executive Leadership team and succession planning Communications with external stakeholders: investors: governments: academia John Heasley Ensuring an effective financial control environment which is compliant with regulations.
Chief Financial Officer Ensuring effective management of Group capital structure and financing needs.
Provision of timely and accurate financial reporting.
Assisting in formulating the Group objectives and strategy.
Delivery of the Group Value Chain Excellence and IT strategies.
Rick Menell Supporting the Chairman in his duties, where necessary.
Senior Independent Director Leading the annual review of the performance of the Chairman.
Being available to Directors and shareholders who have concerns that cannot be addressed through the normal channels.
Non-Executive Directors Contributing independent challenge and rigour.
Clare Chapman Assisting in the development of the Companys strategy.
Ensuring the integrity of the financial information, controls and risk management processes.
Alan Ferguson Monitoring the performance of the Executive Directors against agreed goals and objectives.
Melanie Gee Advising senior management.
Mary Jo Jacobi Barbara Jeremiah Professor Sir Jim McDonald John Mogford Christopher Morgan Advising the Board on governance, legislation and regulatory requirements.
Company Secretary Ensuring the presentation of high-quality information to the Board and its Committees.
Ensuring best practice in Board procedures.
Facilitating inductions and development programmes.
Facilitating the Board effectiveness review process.
The Weir Group PLC 76 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Corporate Governance Report Leadership continued Board Committees comprises the Chief Executive Officer, annually to ensure its continuing The Board has a number of committees Chief Financial Officer and the Company appropriateness.
Minutes of meetings to assist in discharging its responsibilities.
The of the General Administration Committee The principal committees are the Disclosure Committee was established are made available to all Directors at Nomination, Audit and Remuneration to ensure compliance with the Market Board meetings.
The responsibilities of Abuse Regulation.
The Committee these committees are set out in the provides information to the Board in Group Executive individual Terms of Reference, which order to assist with the identification The Group Executive comprises the are available on the Companys website of inside information.
The Committee Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial at www.
makes recommendations as to how Officer, Chief People Officer, Chief The roles and responsibilities of the and when the Company should disclose Technology Officer and Divisional Board Committees, along with the such information, in accordance with Presidents.
Biographical details of the activities undertaken during the year, all applicable legal and regulatory members of the Group Executive are outlined in each of their respective requirements.
The Terms of Reference can be found on page 72. reports found on pages 85 to 118.
The of the Disclosure Committee are Company Secretary is the Secretary availableon the Companys website at In the year ended 31 December 2017, to the Board Committees and ensures www.
weir set out the Group Executive met 13 times.
that the Committees adhere to the in writing and approved by the Board.
The Group Executive is responsible highest standards of Corporate for ensuring that each of the Groups Governance and apply the provisions General Administration Committee businesses is managed effectively and and principles of the Code.
The General Administration Committee that the key performance indicators of is a sub-committee of the Board which the Group, as approved by the Board, Only Committee members are entitled comprises two Executive Directors are achieved.
to attend meetings, however, other of the Company.
Board members may attend at any time The Group Executives role includes if they choose to do so.
Professional The Committee is responsible to the the preparation of the Group budget advisers and members of the senior Board as a whole and meets as required.
for approval by the Board, management management team attend Committee The principal duties of the Committee of business performance to achieve meetings when they are invited to do so.
include attending to routine procedural the Group budget, establishing and and administrative matters in relation maintaining reporting systems which The Board may also set up separate to existing banking and finance facilities, provide clear and consistent information committees to consider specific issues, the issue and allotment of shares and on all aspects of business performance, when the need arises.
matters relating to the Companys share managing and minimising corporate capital, including the administration of risk and ensuring that the necessary Disclosure Committee unclaimed dividends and the Scrip mechanisms are in place to achieve The Disclosure Committee is a Dividend Scheme.
The Committees effective inter-divisional co-ordination sub-committee of the Board which Terms of Reference are reviewed in areas such as purchasing, branding Board and Committee structure Board of Directors Audit Remuneration Nomination Disclosure General Administration Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee You can read You can read You can read You can read You can read more on page 88. more on page 95. more on page 85. more above.
Chief Executive Officer CEO Safety Committee Risk Committee You can read more on page 49.
Group Executive Finance Excellence Committee Engineering Excellence Committee Value Chain Excellence Committee You can read more on page 49.
SHE Excellence Committee Group Information Services HR Excellence Committee Excellence Committee You can read more on page 49.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Weir Group PLC 77 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 and career development planning.
fulldetails can be found on page 81.
In decisions are formally recorded in a It also approves major items of capital addition to the formal Board meetings, document entitled Matters Reserved to expenditure within limits authorised by the Board maintains an open dialogue the Board for Approval.
throughout the year and contact by is reviewed annually to ensure that telephone occurs whenever necessary.
it remains appropriate and that there Management Committees As encouraged by the Code, the Nonis an effective framework in place to In addition to the Board Committees, Executive Directors, including the support the Boards decision-making there are several management Chairman, met once during the year process.
The document is available committees, known as Excellence without Executive Directors present.
on the Companys website at Committees.
have clearly defined remits and work The table below details the attendance across the Group to promote best at Board meetings of each of the Board activities during 2017 practice and information sharing.
The Directors during their term of office During the year, the Chairman, supported Executive Directors and members of for the year to 31 December 2017. by the Chief Executive Officer and the Group Executive can delegate their the Company Secretary, maintained a responsibilities to these committees The Boards annual timetable is rolling 12-month agenda for Board and and utilise the areas of expertise discussed at least 12 months prior to Committee meetings.
At each meeting, contained within them.
The Excellence its commencement to allow the Directors the Board received reports from the Chief Committees report to the Group to plan their time accordingly.
The 2018 Executive Officer and other members Executive and to the Board as required.
annual timetable was discussed at the of the Group Executive.
This included Board meeting in April 2016 and January updates and information on safety, The composition of the various committees 2017 and circulated as soon as it was strategy, legal and financial matters.
The along with their accompanying Terms finalised.
This process ensures that the Board also receives updates from each of Reference, the matters reserved to Chairman is comfortable that each Committee Chairman on items from the the Board for approval and delegated Director is able to devote the time and most recent committee meeting as well authority matrices combine to create a resources required.
The Board agenda as periodic updates as required.
Standing clear authority matrix across the Group process ensures that the Board has the items also included reviewing the Groups for timely and effective decision-making.
confidence that all items are scheduled risk dashboard and internal controls, This structure provides the Board with atthe most appropriate time of the year safety, strategy and succession planning.
confidence that important decisions are and there is sufficient time for discussion being taken at the appropriate levels, and by the Board, allowing the Directors to In order to effectively discharge their ensures that information flows both up discharge their duties effectively.
duties, the Non-Executive Directors met and down the reporting lines.
regularly with senior management and Matters reserved to the Board received presentations by members of Board meetings The Board recognises that in order to the Groups senior management team The Board meets regularly in order ensure the long-term success of the and other external advisers as required.
to effectively discharge its duties.
Company, certain matters should be The Board also received an annual review Board meetings are held in person reserved for the consideration and on the following matters: asbestos, or by video-conferencing.
During 2017, decision of the Board alone.
Other insurance and risk management, the there were eight scheduled meetings matters may be delegated by the Ethics Hotline, Value Chain Excellence, and two additional unscheduled Board Board to its Committees or executive HR, tax, treasury and agents.
In October 2017, the Board management.
In accordance with the meeting was held in South Africa and UK Corporate Governance Code, these Board meeting attendance % of meetings Director Board meetings attended 1 1 18 January 21 February 27 April 26 May 22 June 9 July 21 July 5 September 25 October 12 December Charles Berry 100% Jon Stanton 100% John Heasley 100% Alan Ferguson 100% Mary Jo Jacobi 100% Sir Jim McDonald 90% Rick Menell 100% John Mogford 90% 2 Barbara Jeremiah 100% 3 Clare Chapman 100% 4 Melanie Gee 100% Notes 1.
Barbara Jeremiah was appointed to the Board on 1 August 2017.
Clare Chapman was appointed to the Board on 1 August 2017.
Melanie Gee stepped down from the Board on 30 September 2017.
