Report of the Nomination Committee Chairman succession As announced in November 2017 following the requisition of the General Meeting I said I would not stand for re-election in 2019 as I and the Board believe that at that point it will be in shareholders best interests to have a new team at the helm to steer the future progress of the Company.
The Nomination Committee, which I will not chair for these purposes, will initiate the process to identify a successor later in 2018.
Donald Brydon Diversity CBE The Board remains committed to diversity in the Board room and throughout Chairman of the the Group.
Nomination Committee The Boards diversity policy states that the Board will seek to make appointments The Nomination Committee members as at 31 December 2017 were on merit against objective criteria with due regard for the benefits of diversity, Donald Brydon Chairman, Paul Heiden, Stephen OConnor and Mary including gender and the Committee can confirm that the policy was adhered to Schapiro.
The Company Secretary is the Secretary to the Committee during the year.
The Board also recognises the benefit in having access to the and attends all meetings.
The Head of Human Resources, CEO and diversity of input from people with a wide range of backgrounds, skills, experience appropriate external advisers attend as required.
This is reflected in the composition of the Board.
role is to review the size, structure and skills of the Board, consider succession planning and make recommendations to the Board on The Board remains aligned with the proposals of the Hampton Alexander Review potential candidates for Board membership.
to ensure talented women at the top of business and indeed throughout the Group as a whole are recognised, promoted and rewarded and the value in investing in a In 2017 the Committee focused on: pipeline of talent by encouraging a broad range of senior individuals within the business to take on additional roles.
Succession planning for the CEO and Non-Executive Directors 2.
Refreshing Board composition Implementation The Board is committed to building on existing programmes including WIN and the As the Board set out in the Circular to shareholders dated 30 November 2017, one Group wide mentoring scheme to develop strong talent across the business.
LSEG is of the most important roles vested in Non-Executive Directors under the Code a signatory to the UK Treasury Women in Finance Charter, signalling the Groups through the proper operation of the Nomination Committee and the Board itself ongoing commitment to equality in the workplace and to actively challenge both is Board and CEO succession planning.
ourselves and others in the financial sector to keep addressing these issues.
The Group continues to make progress against the stretch target it set itself in 2016 of CEO Succession Planning 40% female representation for senior management and our overall population by In 2017 the Board undertook succession planning for the CEO.
See page 35 for further detail.
the Board and Nomination Committee was to achieve an orderly, consensual succession plan for the CEO in the best interests of LSEG.
The Board has increased its gender diversity during the year by the appointment of an additional female director, Val Rahmani.
The Board recognises it has more to During 2016 and into the first part of 2017, Xavier Rolet had indicated he would step do and remains committed to further restoring the gender diversity of the Board, down as CEO to smooth the path for the planned merger with Deutsche Brse.
a process that was paused ahead of the possible merger with Deutsche Brse and the disruption during the last quarter of 2017.
At Board level, this will include Following the end of the proposed merger the Nomination Committee reviewed continuing to request head hunters to ensure that as far as practicable a the Boards composition again and agreed to focus on the increased need for significant proportion of long lists of candidates are female and only using firms succession planning for the CEO.
This ultimately led to the announcement on that have signed up to the voluntary code of conduct for Executive Search firms.
19 October 2017, confirming Xavier Rolets agreed departure from the Group by the end of 2018 and both parties commitment to an orderly transition.
Following the Further details of the Companys approach to diversity and the LSEG Boards requisition of a General Meeting by a shareholder, Xavier Rolet agreed to step down diversity policy can be found at www.
com  the Board on 29 November 2017.
The Board agreed that the Chief Financial group  .
Officer, David Warren, would be appointed as Interim CEO.
Nomination Committee priorities for 2018 are to: The Committee engaged Egon Zehnder to assist with compiling a CEO role profile Identify a new CEO for recommendation to the Board and carrying out a global search against the agreed profile.
Commence Chairman succession planning Non-Executive Directors Review succession plans for the Executive team and Board As part of the Committees ongoing focus on Board composition, the Committee supported the Boards search for another Non-Executive Director to further extend the Boards knowledge and experience in technology and technical risk.
Egon Zehnder was engaged to conduct the search against an agreed role profile and the successful candidate, Val Rahmani joined the Board on 20 December 2017.
Donald Brydon In reaching its decision to appoint Val to the Board, the Committee and other Chairman Non-Executive Directors considered a long list of candidates and then as with 2 March 2018 previous Board appointments narrowed the selection list to a short list of candidates for interviews.
The Committee and the Board considered that Vals considerable technology knowledge and expertise will be of significant benefit as the Group builds on its position as a global financial markets infrastructure provider.
64 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017
