Governance AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT programmes by reviewing the progress amendments included the requirement of each against the planned timetable, for a member of the Committee to be a ensuring that they met regulatory member of the Remuneration Committee, requirements and that implementation a practice which has been followed for risks were managed appropriately.
programmes were of critical importance The Committees terms of reference are to the Group and I am pleased with the published on the Companys website at Committees oversight role.
com The Committee also reviewed and LOOKING FORWARD challenged managements use of It is anticipated that key areas of focus alternative performance measures and for the Committee throughout 2018, in ensured that these were relevant and addition to its core functions, will be to: only used where they would provide a better understanding of the Groups ll continue to monitor the implementation performance.
of the Governance Risks & Controls Programme, including preparation for THE COMMITTEES MEMBERS compliance with the FCAs Senior Lorraine Trainer, Jonathon Bond and DEAR SHAREHOLDER Managers Certification Regime and Karl Sternberg served with me on the The Audit and Risk Committee is integral enhancements to the overall Committee throughout the year.
Every to helping ensure good governance governance regime: member has fully engaged in the throughout the Group.
The Committee is Committees work and their contributions ll review the processes and controls in responsible for overseeing and advising to Committee discussions have been place to ensure compliance with the the Board on the integrity and positive, well informed and demonstrate General Data Protection Regulation effectiveness of the Groups financial sufficient challenge.
As previously GDPR and ensure any improvements reporting, the effectiveness of the disclosed Lorraine Trainer will be to such controls are duly implemented: Groups risk management framework stepping down at the conclusion of the and and internal control procedures.
We 2018 AGM and I would like to thank her also oversee the relationships with ll undertake an indepth review of the for her valuable contribution to the controls in place to mitigate the the Groups External Auditor and the Committees work during her tenure.
Groups exposure to financial crime.
COMMITTEE EFFECTIVENESS As Chairman of the Audit and Risk I am looking forward to meeting our REVIEW shareholders at our AGM on 16 May Committee, I report to the Board after In June, a review of the effectiveness of each meeting on the items reviewed and 2018, to answer questions about the the Committee was facilitated externally Committees work.
debated, how the Committee has by Independent Board Evaluation.
discharged its responsibilities and, where appropriate, any recommendations to In addition to observing the May the Board resulting from the meetings.
Committee meeting, detailed interviews POLLY WILLIAMS I am pleased to present our report for were held with every Committee member, Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee 2017, which provides you with an members of executive management and 26 February 2018 overview of the Committee and insight the lead external and internal audit to the Committees work during the year.
AREAS OF FOCUS IN 2017 I am pleased to say that the results A full review of the Committees activities of this review were very positive.
The during 2017 can be found on pages Committee was found to be diligent, 54 58. rigorous in its reviews and operating effectively.
A number of helpful In addition to the regular agenda items suggestions were made in relation to the Committee focused on a number of future areas of focus for the Committee.
One of the In addition, recommendations on further key items was the review of the improvements to the Committees papers, significant change programmes being which are circulated in advance of each implemented by the Group.
These meeting, were also made and these will included the work streams to ensure be progressed during 2018. compliance with MiFID II, the investments in the Groups operating platform and TERMS OF REFERENCE the Governance, Risk and Controls In our December meeting, we reviewed Programme which includes corporate the Committees Terms of Reference governance enhancements as detailed TOR and an updated version was in the Governance section on page 40, approved by the Board for adoption.
developments in business process These revisions further clarified the roles management and the risk control and responsibilities of the Committee but selfassessment process.
The Committee have not changed the duties or practices monitored the implementation of these followed.
For instance, one of the 52 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE COMMITTEE The Committees roles and responsibilities ongoing basis, including the adequacy function and considering its work are set out in its terms of reference, and effectiveness of the framework plans and reports: which were reviewed and updated during used to monitor the Groups significant ll overseeing the appointment, the year.
In particular, the Committee outsourced relationships: performance, remuneration and encourages and safeguards the highest ll examining the controls in place for independence of the External Auditor, standards of integrity, financial reporting, the prevention and detection of fraud: including the provision of nonaudit risk management and internal controls in services to the Group: ll assessing the principal risks that could the Group, with reference to the impact the Groups business model, ll reviewing the Groups ICAAP process: provisions of the Code, the FRCs future performance, liquidity and ll reviewing all whistleblowing Guidance on Audit Committees and solvency: arrangements and ensuring the other applicable regulations.
The ll reviewing and monitoring the proportionate and independent Committee is responsible for: effectiveness and adequacy of the investigation of the matters reported: ll overseeing the Groups financial process for identifying, assessing, and reporting processes, including mitigating and managing significant ll reviewing how the controls culture is reviewing statements, announcements strategic, operational and liquidity set by management, understood by and judgements concerning its risks, appetites and tolerances: employees and implemented financial performance: ll reviewing and monitoring the throughout the Group.
ll reviewing the Groups internal controls effectiveness of the Internal Audit and risk management systems on an THE EXPERIENCE OF THE COMMITTEES MEMBERS All of the Committees members who Bond and Lorraine Trainer are also The Committee members profiles are served during the year are considered members of the Remuneration set out in full in the Board members by the Board to be appropriately Committee.
In the Boards view the experienced and qualified to fulfil their seminars on relevant topics during the Committee has competence relevant to duties.
The Board considers Polly year and updates are provided by the the asset sector in which the Group is Williams to have recent and relevant Company Secretary on relevant operating.
COMMITTEE MEMBERS AND REGULAR ATTENDEES Members Appointment Date Attendance by invitation Secretary 1 Adam Westley Polly Williams March 2015 Liz Airey Chairman PwC External Auditor Jonathon Bond July 2014 EY Internal Auditor Karl Sternberg July 2016 Maarten Slendebroek CEO Lorraine Trainer May 2010 Charlotte Jones CFO Robert Parker Director of Compliance Jasveer Singh General Counsel Rupert Corfield Chief Risk Officer Andrew Bailey Head of Enterprise Risk Alex Sargent Head of Finance 1 Chairman of the Committee The attendance record table set out on page 45 of the Governance report shows the attendance record of the Committees members.
COMMITTEE MEETINGS The Committee met six times during meetings in order to support and assist In preparation for every Committee 2017: five were scheduled meetings and the Committees discussions.
Outside of meeting, the Committee Chairman an additional meeting was convened in its usual meetings, the Committee also meets individually with both audit lead January.
The meetings were scheduled meets in private with the Head of Risk partners and the CFO.
at key times in the audit and financial and the Compliance Director.
those meetings took place in May.
Only Committee members have the In February and July, the Committee right to attend its meetings.
The table met with internal and external auditors above shows the members of the senior lead partners, without management management team and others who being present.
are invited to attend the Committees 53 Governance AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED STANDING AGENDA ITEMS 2017 During the year, the Audit and Risk Committee completed its full annual cycle of regular agenda items.
These are set in advance each year, to ensure its work fulfils the requirements of the Code and other relevant regulations.
Financial Reporting Feb May July Oct Dec Fullyear results and announcements Halfyear results and announcements Review of judgements and estimates in financial reports Assessment of true and fair accounts Assessment of report to be fair, balanced and understandable Going concern and viability statements Tax strategy and internal controls Review of ICAAP process and submission External Audit Management representation letter Evaluation of external audit Recommendation and reappointment of External Auditors Nonaudit fees External audit independence External audit plan and fees Internal Audit Summary of current work and audit reports Role and effectiveness of Internal Auditor Internal audit plan Risk Management and Internal Controls Risk management, compliance with risk appetite Effectiveness of internal controls AAF annual controls report Compliance with corporate governance requirements Regulatory compliance Reviewing Groups procedures on detecting fraud Reviewing and updating Groups whistleblowing procedure The Committee holds five scheduled Financial reporting processes ALLOCATION OF TIME meetings per year, as noted above and The Committee receives updates on a meeting was also held in January 2017 future accounting developments under 2016 Governance 10% specifically to consider the AAF Report, IFRS and how these will impact the Internal audit 12% review the governance framework in Group.
The Committee agreed with Compliance 24% place to ensure appropriate oversight of managements assessment that the Risk 19% third party suppliers and consider the changes, effective from 1 January 2018, Internal controls 21% Groups bonus pool.
would have minimal impact on the Finance and financial position and public disclosures external audit 14% In addition to its regular meetings, the of the Group.
Committee Chairman maintains a close and open dialogue with executive The Committee considered the 2017 management and the Groups assurance accounting issues and significant matters Governance 27% functions throughout the year.
of judgement impacting the preparation Internal audit 8% of the 2017 accounts.
As a matter of Compliance 8% Detailed below is an overview of the key good practice, the External Auditor was Risk 20% areas considered by the Committee asked for its view of the judgements Internal controls 15% under each of the Committees core made by management and all relevant Finance and areas of responsibility.
external audit 22% issues were scrutinised and challenged by the Committee.
The table below FINANCE details the reporting issues, the role of The Governance section included oversight of the Review of the Annual Report Groups major change programmes including MiFID II the Committee and the conclusion of the and Governance, Risk and Controls and Accounts judgement.
The Committee reviewed the halfyear financial statements in July.
The financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 were reviewed in February 2018.
54 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Judgement area Reporting issue Role of the Committee Conclusion Share based Certain assumptions are required to The Committee reviewed the The Committee confirmed the payments be made in order to calculate the assumptions in leaver rates, assumptions suggested by the Finance accounting charge for share the likely vesting levels function, based on historical data, the awards.
These include anticipated following performance Companys business plan and factoring levels of vesting, once leaver rates condition testing and timings in known changes such as forfeitures and performance conditions are of exercises factored in, and for the option plans, the timings of exercises Goodwill The Company has 341.2m of The Committee was asked to A full impairment test was undertaken goodwill on its balance sheet, consider if the level of and demonstrated that there was relating to the acquisition of goodwill remained significant headroom available.
The Knightsbridge Asset Management appropriate Committee agreed with managements Limited view that no impairment of the goodwill was required Trade and other Deferred income The Committee considered the The Committee agreed the assumptions receivables The Company receives upfront historical average period of for the periods of deferral recognition payables payments for initial charges on investment services provided of revenue and expenses in line with sales of unit trusts and associated to clients and any historical averages distribution costs.
However, under developments which may accounting standards, these impact these trends payments are deferred and recognised over the anticipated life of the investment management services Bonus payments The Committee tested the The Committee confirmed that the use Bonus payments to employees are model for calculating of the previous years actual deferral not made until after the financial accounting charges for the rates was appropriate for the yearend but before the finalisation bonus deferral schemes and assumptions and the model for of the Annual Report and therefore assessed the deferral calculating accounting charges was an accrual is made in accordance assumptions used appropriate with the calculated bonus pool and amounts approved by the Remuneration Committee.
Certain assumptions, mainly surrounding employees ability to opt to defer into fund units or shares, were required to be assessed Input VAT The Committee challenged The Committee noted that some As disclosed in previous Annual management on the current elements of the dispute had been Reports, in 2013 HMRC issued a level of receivable as held in settled and that the remaining revised assessment in relation to the accounts receivable was appropriate input VAT recovered by Jupiter Asset Management Group Limited since September 2009, which has yet to be fully settled.
It is anticipated this will result in monies being returned to the Group and an appropriate receivable is in the accounts Consolidation of The Group is required to The Committee considered the It was agreed that any investment for funds consolidate entities under the requirements of the which the Group holds an interest control of Jupiter Fund accounting standard, amounting to 30% or more, should be Management plc into the Group particularly relating to the consolidated unless this can be accounts.
In addition to Group definition of control rebutted based on specific owned companies, this includes circumstances for instance another certain funds whereby the Group investor in the Fund holding a greater acts as the fund manager and percentage owns a significant proportion of the fund for example funds that have been seeded by the Group 55 Governance AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Judgement area Reporting issue Role of the Committee Conclusion Long-term viability The directors are required to make The Committee reviewed the The Committee considered the Groups a statement in the Annual Report proposed viability statement strategic plan, its financial plan, the regarding the longterm viability of considering if the period of ICAAP, the Groups business and cash the Company.
This can be found in three years remained the most flow projections and the current net the Financial Review section of the appropriate period over which cash balance and loan facilities Strategic Report Jupiters viability should be available to the Group.
The Committee considered challenged management on forecasts and projections and reviewed the levels of surplus capital and cash liquidity.
The Committee recommended to the Board that the viability statement be approved Fair, balanced and The Directors are required to The Committee first reviewed The Committee advised the Board that, understandable ensure that the Annual Report is the Strategic Report and in its view, the Annual Report and fair, balanced and understandable considered that the Accounts taken as a whole was fair, information being balanced and understandable and communicated relating to the provided shareholders with the business model, strategy and necessary information to assess the risks was understandable and Companys position and performance, clear.
It then reviewed the business model and strategy whole of the report, including the notes to the accounts and disclosures to ensure it was fair, balanced and understandable Going concern The Directors are required to The Committee reviewed a The Committee considered it decide whether to adopt the going number of factors such as appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in liquidity management and concern basis of accounting in preparing the halfyear and annual cash generation from preparing the halfyear and annual financial statements for the operations, contingent financial statements for the year ended year ended 31 December 2017 liabilities, unfavourable market 31 December 2017, and did not identify scenarios versus the Groups any material uncertainties or notify the core forecasts and other risks Board of any qualifications or to the Groups operations or assumptions as to the Companys balance sheet position ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approving such financial statements RISK MANAGEMENT AND DURING THE YEAR, ll evaluated the progress made by INTERNAL CONTROLS THE COMMITTEE: management in developing and The Head of Risk provides reports to the ll received quarterly reports on the embedding a control culture Committee, at each meeting on the work progress of the Groups ICAAP throughout the organisation: of the firms Risk Committee including process, which enabled it to provide ll considered the Groups tax framework any updates to the Groups risk profile, feedback throughout the process on and associated internal processes and the effectiveness of the Groups various scenarios and assumptions controls: enterprise risk framework and internal utilised.
The Committee reviewed and ll reviewed the Groups Audit & controls, with applicable risk dashboards.
recommended that the Board adopt Assurance Facility AAF report and This includes the Groups emerging, the Group ICAAP at the July meeting: confirmed that the Groups control strategic and operational risk areas and ll reviewed the activities undertaken by structure was clearly communicated in conduct and regulatory risks.
the Group in support of the CASS the report: Compliance Programme, including the The General Counsel also regularly ll reviewed the governance controls and oversight of third party suppliers: attends the Committees meetings, to processes in place within the Groups ll focused on the implementation of the advise on current legal and regulatory overseas operations: Groups Governance Risk and Controls matters including any litigation and ll received a presentation on Jupiters Programme, and in particular the intellectual property issues affecting any business continuity planning implementation of the Groups new Group company.
arrangements: and operating platform: ll reviewed enhancements to the risk, ll oversaw the Groups workstream to control and selfassessment project.
ensure compliance with MiFID II: ll examined the risks posed to the Group by reliance on third party providers: 56 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 EXTERNAL AUDITOR The Committee reviewed and approved more efficiently and cost effectively by PwC is the Groups External Auditor, PwCs terms of engagement and the the auditor.
We continue to look at these having been reappointed following a proposed fee for the 2017 audit.
The items on a case by case basis, to formal tender in 2014.
Jeremy Jensen was Committee has reviewed and satisfied determine whether PwC is the the lead audit Partner throughout 2017. itself with respect to the External appropriate supplier.
A different supplier Auditors qualifications, expertise, would be considered where it would not The Statutory Audit Services for resources and independence.
It continues be detrimental to the Group.
Large Companies Market Investigation to believe that PwC conducts its audit Mandatory Use of Competitive An analysis of fees paid in respect of work with objectivity and to a high Tender Processes and Audit PwCs audit and nonaudit services is standard.
This was reviewed and Committee Responsibilities Order included within Note 1.3 of the Financial discussed by the Committee.
It 2014 statement of compliance Statements.
The Board has considered the External Auditors The Company confirms that it has recommended the reappointment of PwC proposed audit scope and plan at the complied with the provisions of the CMA as External Auditor, which will be put to October meeting and found it to be Order 2014 for the financial year under shareholders at the AGM on 16 May effective.
There are no contractual review.
The Company intends to retender 2018. obligations restricting Jupiters choice of the external audit contract no later than External Auditor, other than in respect of 2024.
EYs appointment as Internal Auditor.
AUDITORS REMUNERATION Audit fee Each year the External Auditor presents The Committee has a primary 2017 0.2m to the Committee the proposed scope of responsibility to safeguard the External 2016 0.1m its fullyear audit plan, together with a Auditors objectivity and independence.
review plan for the halfyear.
This A nonaudit services policy, which was Audit fee for subsidiaries includes its assessment of the material approved by the Board in December 2017 0.3m risks to the Groups financial statements 2016 and implemented from 1 January 2016 0.3m and its proposed materiality levels, for 2017 assures compliance with the EU the Committees discussion and Audit-related assurance services Audit Regulation by 2020 as required by agreement.
In 2017, PwC attended all of the Regulation.
It confirms a list of 2017 0.2m the Committees regular meetings and services which the External Auditor is not 2016 0.3m also provided reports on specific topics permitted to provide to the Group, Tax advisory services requested by the Committee, which including advice in relation to its tax included the CASS audit and associated 2017 affairs.
The policy caps the value of audit opinions.
nonaudit services that can be spent in 2016 0.1m any one year to 70% of the average Other assurance services The Audit and Risk Committee has statutory audit fee in the previous three primary responsibility for the Groups 2017 0.2m year rolling period and prescribes the relationship with the External Auditor.
2016 0.1m activities for which PwC may be retained A review of the effectiveness of the to assist Jupiter outside the audit.
The Other non-audit services External Auditor was undertaken by policy requires that all nonaudit spend, 2017 means of a questionnaire, which was for services which are permissible under completed by members of the 2016 0.2m the policy, amounting to 50,000 or Committee, one member of the Board, more must by preapproved by the and the Finance and Compliance teams.
For permissible services The questionnaire consisted of questions amounting to between 30,000 and on a variety of sections including the 50,000 prior approval from the CFO quality of people and service, robustness must be sought.
For all amounts below of audit, quality of delivery and audit this threshold the Head of Finance can fees.
PwC was found to have performed approve.
effectively during the audit and was responding constructively to new Regular reports are circulated to the challenges.
A summary of the Committee setting out the nonaudit questionnaires findings was discussed at services provided by the External Auditor the Committees meeting in July and the throughout the year to date and the Committee Chairman then discussed the fees charged.
These services mainly action points with Jeremy Jensen.
The related to the review of the interim Jupiter audit for the year ended results, audit of the assurance controls 31 December 2016 was chosen by the report, CASS audits, remuneration Financial Reporting Council FRC for an advisory services and advice relating to Audit Quality Review AQR as part of the provision of professional services to their routine quality monitoring process.
the Luxembourg based management The AQR team engaged with the company.
There are areas of assurance Committee during the inspection process where the work being done is, in the and the Committee were satisfied that view of the Group, similar in type and no matters arose which required action.
scope to the work performed during the audit and as such, can be provided 57 Governance COMPLIANCE The 2017 audit plan was reviewed and The effectiveness of Internal Audit was The Head of Compliance reports to the approved by the Committee, with audit reviewed by the Committee in the Committee at each meeting which fieldwork completed during the year.
The October and December meetings.
A includes a compliance risk dashboard, plan was designed and assessed against twostage evaluation process comprising comprehensive updates on regulatory the Enterprise Risk Management a survey and analysis of key Internal developments, an update on staff Framework of the Group and focused on Audit Metrics was undertaken.
The compliance training and departmental aspects of Jupiters strategic risks.
survey was distributed to the Chairman, resourcing.
members of the Committee, senior Seventeen audits were conducted in the management and other senior During the year, the Committee reviewed: period.
The audits included: employees who had been involved in Internal Audits work throughout the year.
ll the Groups ongoing compliance with ll CASS governance: The key performance metrics were split the Market Abuse regulation and ll investment Risk Framework review: into three categories: people and recommended to the Board the process: coverage: and value.
Although ll cyber security review: adoption of revised policies and a good level of satisfaction was reported ll ICAAP: and procedures: in most of the responses received, ll a Market Abuse regulation review.
ll reviewed the implementation of the certain areas of possible improvement plan to ensure compliance with MiFID were identified.
In addition, the These reviews have helped the Group to II: Committee received a third party implement more robust control assessment of the Internal Audit function.
ll considered the Groups preparedness procedures.
Internal Audit continues to The review examined the key attributes for the enforcement of the GDPR and work closely with the firms Risk and of the existing service and suggested the Senior Managers Certification Compliance teams to ensure a holistic changes for the future.
The effectiveness Regime: approach to the provision of assurance of the existing Internal Audit approach ll approved the annual compliance plan: in the Group.
was considered and alternative models ll monitored various change programmes were examined.
The Committee has agreed seven audits designed to ensure compliance with will follow in H1 2018.
The basis of the H1 the evolving regulatory framework: Having considered the findings of this 2018 audit plan will be the enterprise assessment, the Committee remains of ll reviewed the updated whistleblowing strategic risks, with particular emphasis the view that outsourcing the function to policy and procedures, which provide on the implementation of new operating a specialist independent provider is improved facilities for employees to platforms and adherence to new appropriate and allows for the provision report any concerns and confirmed regulatory requirements.
of subject experts as required.
It was the appointment of Polly Williams as noted that the lead partner would be the Groups whistleblowing champion: 2017 REVIEW OF THE rotated in 2018.
Following a and EFFECTIVENESS OF INTERNAL comprehensive interview process AUDIT ll reviewed reports regarding the involving the Chairman, Chief Executive As part of good governance it is vital adoption and integration of a new Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Risk that the independence of the Internal compliance system.
Officer and General Counsel, Amarjit Audit function is maintained.
The Singh was approved as the new lead Committee reviewed and confirmed the Internal Audit partner.
INTERNAL AUDIT continued independence of EY.
In order EY has provided the Groups Internal to further improve governance, the Audit function since 2008.
The Internal Committee agreed to introduce guidance Auditor reports directly to the Chairman and procedures to monitor the services of the Audit and Risk Committee and, in EY are utilised for, outside of the scope addition to submitting status reports for of Internal Audit.
These were adopted each Committee meeting, provides and implemented during the year.
The Committee members with copies of any guidance details the types of services EY internal audit reports completed between should not supply and places restrictions meetings.
The status reports tabled at on the amount of fees, outside of the meetings include findings and Internal Audit fees, payable to EY in any recommendations, as well as the Groups one year.
In addition, all services progress with implementing previous proposed to be supplied by EY, must be recommendations.
These help inform the approved by either the Head of Finance Committees discussion of any required or the Chief Financial Officer.
The Committee works with the Internal Auditor to ensure that its work is embedded in the business and is coordinated with that of the External Auditor.
