Governance Report to the Audit Committee Report of the Audit Committee Discussed a letter from the Financial Reporting Council FRC following its review of the annual report and accounts for December 2016.
The Audit Committee agreed to update certain disclosures in the 2017 Annual Report disclosures to address the comments from the FRC, in particular the change of definition from non-recurring items to non-underlying items Discussed a number of internal audit reports during the year and satisfied itself that management action plans were in place to address the recommended improvements within reasonable deadlines Paul Heiden Approved the 2018 internal audit universe, internal audit plan and resources for Chairman of the the Internal Audit function.
The Committee also approved the updated internal Audit Committee audit charter Continued to monitor the alignment of the control environment of recent The Audit Committee members as at 31 December 2017 were: Paul acquisitions with the Group internal control framework.
It satisfied itself that Heiden Senior Independent Director, Jacques Aigrain, David Nish these acquisitions were being integrated according to plan and were meeting and Stephen OConnor.
the financial objectives of the Group.
Where gaps were identified, the Committee requested remediation plans to be put in place This report is intended to give an overview of the role of the Audit Committee in assisting the Board to fulfil its oversight responsibilities Continued to monitor the status of the implementation of the new Group-wide relating to the monitoring of the system of internal control, the financial system throughout the year and satisfied itself that the project is independence of the external auditor and the integrity of the Groups delivering a more robust process for financial reporting financial statements.
It details the activities, discussions and Discussed the implications of the implementation of the new accounting decisions that enabled the Audit Committee to fulfil its objectives standards: IFRS 15 on revenue recognition and IFRS 9 on the recognition and effectively during 2017. impairment of financial assets IFRS 15 and IFRS 9 became effective starting 1 January 2018 During the year, as part of its key priorities, the Committee: Reviewed the whistleblowing arrangements of the Group and its own Terms Monitored the tax and accounting implications of the acquisition of Mergent Inc. of Reference and The Yield Book and Citi Fixed Income Indices divisions of Citigroup.
The Committee satisfied itself that the Executives in charge were managing all the Priorities in the forthcoming year will include: aspects of the transactions effectively Receiving assurance that the control environment remains robust to support Received and discussed the external audit management letter from Ernst & the continued growth and diversification of the Groups activities: including all Young LLP EY.
The letter highlighted a number of areas for improvement, major projects, as well as key processes such as business continuity planning in particular regarding the formalisation and better documentation of some and disaster recovery control activities.
These were noted by the Committee for follow-up Monitoring the progress of the integration of newly acquired businesses Reviewed the effectiveness of the external auditor based on their qualifications, expertise, resources, level of independence, execution of their audit plan and the Monitoring the progress of management actions recommended within quality of their conclusions and recommendations.
On the basis of their own the external audit management letter from EY interaction with EY and that of management, the Audit Committee confirmed Receiving early and continuous understanding of the impact of the Groups that the services provided by EY were appropriate and in compliance with acquisitions and divestitures on financial and tax accounting relevant auditor independence and integrity rules Continuing to assess the impact of IFRS 15, IFRS 9 and other developments in Reviewed and discussed the financial disclosures and assurance work to support accounting standards, particularly on the Groups revenue recognition policies, the prospectus disclosures in relation to the proposed merger with Deutsche and the related implementation by Finance Brse AG the merger was terminated after the European Commissions prohibition decision in March 2017 Continuing to monitor progress on the key IT and infrastructure projects of the Group Received and discussed reports from Executives on the key infrastructure initiatives of the Group including IT operations, the project management framework and the cybersecurity programme Discussed the internal processes and controls to ensure that the Group is compliant with the new UK legislation on the failure to prevent the criminal Paul Heiden facilitation of tax evasion which became effective on 1 September 2017 Chairman of the Audit Committee Discussed the Group financing proposal from Corporate Treasury for 2 March 2018 recommendation to the Board.
This included the replacement of the 600 million revolving credit facility and the establishment of a 1 billion euro commercial paper programme London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 65 Report of the Audit Committee continued Role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee Composition and meetings 1.
Financial reporting The Committee meets the requirements of the Code.
It is comprised of 4 The Committee recommends the financial statements of the Group to the Board, Independent Non-Executive Directors who all bring recent and relevant financial including the annual and half-yearly reports, preliminary results announcements experience.
It is chaired by Paul Heiden who is a qualified chartered accountant and any other formal announcement relating to its financial performance, with a career in a variety of senior finance roles.
The skills and experience of each reviewing the significant financial reporting judgements that they contain.
Committee member are provided in the Board of Directors section on pages 5455.
Internal controls and Risk Management systems The Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial Controller, Group Head of Internal Audit, The Committee keeps under review the effectiveness of the Groups system Group Chief Risk Officer and the external auditor are standing invitees to all Audit of Internal Control and Risk Management.
The Audit Committee makes Committee meetings.
In addition, various other members of management are recommendations to the Board regarding the effectiveness of the Groups internal invited from time to time to present specific matters relevant to the Committees control and Risk Management systems and recommends to the Board the remit.
The Chairman of the Board also attends the Committee on a regular basis.
statements to be included in the Annual Report concerning internal controls and Risk Management in collaboration with the Risk Committee.
The Committee also Further details on the functions and responsibilities of the Audit Committee can monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the Groups Internal Audit function, be found in the Committees Terms of Reference which are reviewed annually and ensuring that it has adequate resources and appropriate access to information available from the Group Company Secretary or in the corporate governance to perform its function independently from Executive Management.
section of the Groups website at: www.
External auditor The Committee oversees the relationship with the external auditor.
The Committee Activities in 2017 reviews and approves the annual audit plan, ensures that it is consistent with the The Committee met 5 times during the year.
The Committee maintains a formal Committees view of the scope of the audit engagement and reviews the findings agenda which ensures that all matters for which the Committee is responsible of the audit with the external auditor.
The Committee monitors and reviews the are considered at the appropriate meeting.
The agenda for each meeting was objectivity and independence of the external auditors including the non-audit determined by the key events of the annual financial reporting cycle, the risks activities performed by the auditors for the Group see the external auditors fees identified by the Committee and the standing items under its Terms of Reference.
section below for more details.
The Committee ensures that the external audit The following provides details on how the Committee discharged its services contract is put out to tender on a periodic basis in line with existing best responsibilities during the year as set out in its Terms of Reference: practices the current external auditor was appointed in 2014 following a tender process overseen by the Audit Committee.
The Committee oversees the selection Financial matters: process for new auditors and if an auditor resigns the Committee investigates the With regards to financial matters, the Committee reviewed, discussed and issues leading to this and decides whether any action is required.
approved the half-year and full-year financial results.
It reviewed, discussed and approved key accounting judgements, the annual review for goodwill impairment 4.
Other matters and assessment of indicators of impairment on purchased intangible assets, Treasury managements view of commitments and contingencies and the adequacy of the The Committee approves the taking of any actions which fall outside the Group proposed disclosures.
For more details on the main discussions and decisions Treasury Policy and considers material financing and treasury transactions reached by the Committee on financial matters, see the section below entitled reserved for the Board ahead of review by the Board.
Significant matters impacting the financial statements and Other topics of discussion in respect to the financial statements.
Whistleblowing and fraud The Committee reviews the Groups arrangements for its employees to raise concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters.
The Committee ensures that these arrangements allow proportionate and independent investigation of such matters and appropriate follow up action.
The Committee also reviews the Groups procedures for detecting fraud and for the prevention of bribery.
66 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 Governance Report to the Audit Committee Internal controls: Evidence of matters referred for specialist review, technical review, second The Committee continued to exercise disciplined oversight of the effectiveness of partner review and quality control the Groups internal controls throughout the year.
It fulfilled its responsibilities by The Committee also held separate meetings with EY at each Committee reviewing and discussing regular reports from the external auditor, the Internal meeting without management being present Audit and Risk Management functions as well as from external experts, including: Reports on compliance with the Code internal controls including Based on all evidence presented, the Audit Committee satisfied itself that the whistleblowing at half year and year end external audit has been conducted independently and effectively with the appropriate rigor and level of testing.
Quarterly updates on internal audit plans including internal control issues raised and management actions to remedy the deficiencies The Committee approved the EY audit plan, the methodology used, the scope of the Annual report on the performance of the Internal Audit function audit by location, the risks and areas of focus as well as the materiality threshold for the Group and the threshold for reporting unadjusted audit differences.
The Committee obtained additional comfort by meeting with the Group Head of Internal Audit at each Audit Committee meeting without Executive The Committee has complied with the relevant parts of the Competition and Management present.
Markets Authority Final Order on the statutory audit market for the year ended 31 December 2017.
The activities of the Committee related to internal controls enabled it to satisfy itself that the Internal Audit function is independent, objective and adequately The lead audit partner is required to rotate every 5 years and other key audit staffed to perform its duties.
In addition, the Committee assessed the effectiveness partners are required to rotate every 7 years.
David Canning-Jones took over as of the Internal Audit function throughout the year using qualitative and lead audit partner in 2014.
Having considered the performance of EY for the past quantitative indicators including: 3 years, the Audit Committee recommended to the Board that a resolution for the reappointment of EY as the Companys external auditor for the year ending Completeness of the audit universe and the audit plan 31 December 2018 be proposed to shareholders at the AGM in April 2018.
Quality of the methodology updated at least once a year Report on external auditors fees and safeguards on non-audit services Quality of the audit reports and the issues raised The Committee has a formal policy governing the engagement of the auditors to Consistency of the audit issues raised and their ratings provide non-audit services which is reviewed on an annual basis.
Feedback from Executive Management on specific audits This policy prohibits certain activities from being undertaken by the auditors such Key performance indicators such as percentage of the audit plan completed, as: accounting bookkeeping services, internal auditing, tax and payroll services, duration of audits, distribution of audit ratings, percentage of past due actions executive recruitment and remuneration services and more generally any work and percentage of self identified issues where a mutuality of interest could compromise the independence of the auditors.
The policy also places restrictions on the employment of former employees of the The Committee relied on the assurance process throughout the year to auditors.
Recognising however that the auditors are best placed to undertake certain recommend to the full Board that it could report to shareholders on the work of a non-audit nature, the policy permits the provision of audit-related services effectiveness of the Groups internal control system.
The Board statement and permitted non-audit services with the prior approval of the Committee.
A breakdown of audit and non-audit service fees paid and payable to the external Oversight of the external auditor: auditor for the year ended 31 December 2017 and prior year is provided below and The Committee assessed the effectiveness of the external audit process in Note 35 to the financial statements.
including the independence and quality of the Groups external auditor EY Year ended Year ended throughout the year.
The Committee relied on its own judgment supported 31 December 31 December by the following evidence: 2017 2016 m m The Committee received a report from management on their own evaluation Audit services of the effectiveness of the external auditor Audit of parent company and consolidated financial statements 1 1 It received reports from EY on the status of their 2017 plan and the results of their Audit of subsidiary companies 2 2 work.
The external auditors reports were discussed at each Committee meeting and their views and opinions used to challenge decisions by Group Finance Non-audit services 1 Total 4 3 Note: Ernst and Young LLP provided non-audit services of 640,201: 15% of total fees 2016: 823,056: 27% of total fees.
This comprised of audit related assurance services of 463,602 2016: 422,238 and other non-audit services of 176,599 2016: 400,818.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 67 Report of the Audit Committee continued The Committee reviewed each of these individual appointments on their merits.
Other matters: Prior to EY being engaged, the review process involved considering managements The annual Board Effectiveness Review included a review of the Committee.
assessment of: There were no major modifications to the functioning of the Committee resulting from this.
the threats to independence and objectivity resulting from the provision of such services Significant matters impacting the financial statements which accounting firms had the appropriate experience and expertise Significant matters How the Committee reviewed toundertake the work for January these matters and what December 2017 decisions were taken whether there were any conflicts of interest for EY Revenue recognition The Audit Committee reviewed the external auditors whether the conflicts of interest that existed for other potential firms, who were and links to comments on the recognition of revenues in the either advising other parties to the transactions or were auditors of the other managements secondary capital markets trading area, fees or company, could be appropriately managed incentives revenue share clearing arrangements and information services revenue accruals see EY audit opinion on the quantum of non-audit fees in the context of the overall audit fee and relative pages 100108.
The Audit Committee was satisfied that sufficient analysis had been performed in this significance to EY in the context of its total client fees area to demonstrate that there was no evidence that any manipulation of revenues had taken place.
In each case, the Audit Committee concluded, on the balance of risks, that the appointment of EY to perform certain non-audit services represented the most Acquisition of In 2017 the Group completed the acquisition of Mergent Inc. Mergent Inc. and for a total consideration of US$147 million and The Yield effective, secure and efficient way of obtaining the necessary advice and services, The Yield Book Book and Citi Fixed Income Indices from Citigroup for given their knowledge of our business and the Groups structure and accounting and Citi Fixed US$679 million.
The activities of the businesses are being and tax affairs, together with their wider knowledge of our industry sector.
Income Indices incorporated Into the Information Services segment ISD.
The Audit Committee reviewed the methodology and the preliminary conclusions for the purchase price allocation The policy on audit and non-audit services supplied by the auditors of the Group and to identify the appropriate intangible assets created as part of its subsidiaries is available from the Group Company Secretary or in the corporate of the acquisitions and fair value the acquisition balance governance section of the Groups website at: www.
See Note 30 to the financial statements.
Goodwill and The Audit Committee considered the approach and acquired intangibles methodology applied to performing the detailed annual impairment assessment goodwill impairment assessment as well as the assessment for indicators of impairment of other purchased intangible assets as required under IAS 36, including the key assumptions for short and long-term growth rates, cash flow expectations and the discount rates used for the Groups cost of capital.
The impairment review was also an area of focus for the external auditors, who reported their findings to the Committee.
Details of the impairment review can be found in Note 1 to the financial statements on pages 115119.
Implementation The Audit Committee reviewed reports from the of the new Finance function on the progress of the on-going finance system implementation of the new Group-wide finance system throughout 2017.
The Committee satisfied itself that the implementation of the new finance system has delivered a more robust process for financial reporting, and has not impaired data integrity, or the accounting of financial reporting in any way.
68 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 Governance Report to the Audit Committee Other topics of discussion in respect to the financial statements: The Audit Committee satisfied itself that the Board of Directors was in a position Disposal of non controlling interest in LCH S. A. to make the statement using the Group Stress testing methodology.
LCH Group Holdings Ltd has completed a transaction with Euronext N. V. involving a share swap transaction.
LCH Group Holdings Ltd has repurchased Euronexts The Financial viability statement can be found within the Directors Report on 2.3% holding in LCH Group in exchange for a 11.1% holding in LCH S. A..
Audit Committee reviewed the accounting entries to satisfy itself that with the exception of the reallocation of profit between equity shareholders and non Fair, balanced and understandable Annual Report controlling interests, there is no impact to the Groups income statement other The Audit Committee satisfied itself that the Annual Report is fair, balanced and than the charges from the advisor and contractor associated with negotiating understandable and has presented its conclusions to the Board.
In order to reach the agreement.
The movement in the respective shareholdings occurs in the its conclusions, the Committee examined the following criteria: equity account as there is no change in control.
See Consolidated statement Fair: of changes in equity in the financial statements.
The Annual Report does not omit important or sensitive elements necessary Commitments and contingencies: to understand the strategy, performance and business model of the Group The Audit Committee considered the facts and circumstances surrounding Segmental reporting accurately describes the various activities of the Group commitments and contingencies for the Group.
The Committee agreed that and their relative contributions to the strategy, performance and business no provision is needed to be recorded in the financial statements.
See Note 29 model of the Group to the financial statements on page 151.
The messages in the Strategic Report and the CEO and Chairmans reports are Non-underlying items: consistent with the financial reporting section The Committee discussed and agreed on the classification of non-underlying Balanced: items in the financial statements for the year.
These are presented in Note 7 to the financial statements on pages 128129.
There is an appropriate balance between the required statutory accounting metrics and Group-specific adjusted measures M&A related insurance: The messages in all sections appropriately balance the favourable and less The Group often enters into certain insurance policies when executing on M&A favourable events and trends affecting the strategy and performance of opportunities.
The payments for such policies are often made up front but are the Group then recognised as a prepayment and released over the period of the policy.
As these costs are directly linked to a one-off event and insure against breaches The principal risks presented in the Strategic Report on pages 4653 of representation pre-dating our ownership, the Committee has agreed that they accurately reflect the risk registers which are used to set the risk appetite should be recognised as non-underlying items in the income statement.
and the strategy of the Group, including those risks which would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity Financial viability statement Understandable: In order to meet the requirements of the Code, the Board needs to explain how it has assessed the prospects of the Group taking into account the current position There is a clear and comprehensive framework for the Annual Report and principal risks, and over what period they have done so along with why they The key messages are adequately highlighted in simple language avoiding consider that period to be appropriate.
specialised terms and acronyms wherever possible The Audit Committee discussed the key elements required to make the There is a glossary of technical terms and acronyms used frequently across statement, i. e. the report Deciding on the appropriate period to cover The relevant information for shareholders is easy to find and appropriately cross-referenced where necessary without additional clutter the 2017 Annual Identifying and describing the relevant evidence and assumptions and ensuring Report comprises 170 pages compared to the 176 pages of the 2016 report that the various planning scenarios were realistic, taking into account the business, industry and macro-economic factors The various sections taken together present a consistent and easy to comprehend overview of the strategy, performance and business model Making an assessment that is appropriate to the Companys circumstances of the Group Applying appropriate stress testing and reverse stress testing London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 69
