58 MEGGITT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 f gO Inan ver c nan Ial S ct eatementS Board of directors Committee membership Audit A Nominations N Remuneration R Ethics and Trade Compliance ET Sir Nigel Rudd DL Tony Wood Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive F Finance Appointed: 2015 | Nationality: British Appointed as COO: 2016 Appointed as CEO: 2018 | Nationality: British N ET D Disclosure ET F D Skills and experience Chartered accountant with extensive Board Skills and experience experience spanning multiple sectors including Extensive aerospace industry experience gained aerospace, retail and financial services.
with Rolls-Royce plc where he held a number of senior management positions, latterly as President, Current appointments Aerospace.
Previously spent sixteen years at Non-Executive Chairman of BBA Aviation plc and Messier-Dowty, now part of Safran Group.
Non-Executive Chairman of Sappi Limited.
No other current or previous appointments to Appointments in unlisted companies disclose.
Non-Executive Chairman of Business Growth Fund Plc.
Previous appointments Chairman of Williams Holdings plc, Kidde plc, Heathrow Airport Holdings Limited formerly BAA Limited, The Boots Company, Pilkington PLC, Pendragon PLC, Invensys plc and Aquarius Platinum Limited.
Deputy Chairman of Barclays PLC and Non-Executive Director of BAE Systems plc.
Doug Webb Guy Berruyer Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Director Appointed: 2013 | Nationality: British Appointed: 2012 | Nationality: French A N R ET F D Skills and experience Skills and experience Trained as an electrical engineer at the cole Chartered accountant who has held senior international financial positions in defence, Polytechnique Fdrale fide Lausanne and holds a aerospace, engineering, technology and financial Harvard Business School MBA.
experience to the Board as a former FTSE-100 Chief Executive.
Current appointments Non-Executive Director of SEGRO Plc, Chairman Appointments in unlisted companies of their Audit Committee and member of their Chairman of software engineering company Linaro Nominations Committee.
Limited and director of the French software and services company Berger Levrault.
Organisations Member of the Hundred Group of Finance Directors Organisations and the Investment Advisory Committee of Member of the Council of the University of Fitzwilliam College, Cambridge University.
Previous appointments Previous appointments Chief Financial Officer of London Stock Exchange Group Chief Executive of The Sage Group plc and Group plc and QinetiQ Group Plc and various senior Chief Executive of Sage Group plcs Europe and financial roles in both the UK and US for Logica Asia division.
Early career spent with software and now CGI.
hardware vendors in French and other European management roles.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 59 STRATEGIC REPORT G gO Ove VEr Rnan NANc Ce E FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Colin Day Nancy Gioia Alison Goligher OBE Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed: 2015 | Nationality: British Appointed: 2017 | Nationality: American Appointed: 2014 | Nationality: British A N R A N R A N R ET Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Trained engineer and holds a MEng Petroleum Chartered certified accountant with significant Electrical engineer who has held senior engineering experience in senior operational and financial and operational roles with a strong background in Engineering from Heriot-Watt University.
Brings roles gained across a variety of sectors including manufacturing.
specific oil and gas experience to the Board, including engineering and technology, pharmaceuticals, oil technology management expertise and experience and gas and aerospace.
Current appointments running diverse functions and businesses within globally significant energy corporations.
Non-Executive Director of Exelon Corporation and Appointments in unlisted companies Brady Corporation and Chair of their Technology Non-Executive Director of FM Global.
Current appointments Non-Executive Director of United Utilities Group PLC.
Organisations Appointments in unlisted companies Appointments in unlisted companies Independent member of the Advisory Council of Principal of Gioia Consulting Services, LLC.
Executive Chair of Silixa Limited, a provider of distributed fibre optic monitoring solutions.
Previous appointments Organisations Chief Executive of Essentra PLC, Chief Financial Member of the University of Michigan Electrical Organisations Trustee of Edinburgh Business School, part of Officer of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc, Group and Computer Engineering Advisory Council and Finance Director of Aegis Group plc, Non-Executive Dearborn Engineering Deans Advisory Board.
Director of WPP plc, Easyjet plc, Imperial Tobacco Group plc, Cadbury plc and Senior Independent Previous appointments Previous appointments Director of Amec Foster Wheeler plc.
Held several key executive positions at Ford Motor Various roles at Royal Dutch Shell from 2006 to 2015, most recently, Executive Vice President, Company during a thirty three year career.
Chair of AutomotiveNEXT and Stanford University Alliance Upstream International Unconventionals.
spent seventeen years at Schlumberger, a supplier of technology, integrated project management and information solutions to oil and gas customers worldwide.
Philip Green Paul Heiden Executive Director, Non-Executive Director Commercial and Corporate Affairs Senior Independent Director Appointed: 2001 | Nationality: British Appointed: 2010 | Nationality: British ET F D A N R Skills and experience Skills and experience Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries Chartered accountant, with considerable experience and Administrators and Fellow of the Institute of in senior executive and financial roles in aerospace.
Directors with significant legal and compliance experience.
Current appointments Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Organisations Audit Committee of London Stock Exchange Group Non-Executive Director and Vice Chairman of plc.
Non-Executive Chairman of Lb-shell plc.
Poole Hospital NHS Foundation Trust since 25 April 2015 and Chairman of their Audit and Governance Previous appointments Committee since 1 December 2015.
Member of the Chief Executive of FKI Plc, senior positions, including GC100, the Dorset Employment and Skills Board Director, Industrial Business and Finance Director and the Research and Innovation Advisory Board of of Rolls-Royce plc and senior financial positions Leeds University Business School.
with Peat Marwick, Mitchell and Co, Hanson Plc and Mercury Communications.
Non-Executive Director Previous appointments of United Utilities Group PLC, Bunzl plc, Essentra Meggitts Company Secretary from 1994 to PLC and Chairman of Talaris Topco Limited and 2006, after fourteen years at British Aerospace in Chairman of A-Gas Orb Limited.
