EDWARD BONHAM CARTER Chairman Chief Executive Officer Vice Chairman Appointed Appointed Appointed NonExecutive Director in May 2010 Distribution and Strategy Director in Group Chief Executive in 2007 Chairman in September 2014 September 2012 Vice Chairman in March 2014 Chief Executive Officer in March 2014 Skills and experience Skills and experience Liz brings a wealth of relevant financial skills and Skills and experience With 35 years experience in the investment experience in financial governance and executive Maarten has more than 25 years of asset market and 23 years working at Jupiter, Edward leadership.
management and financial services experience.
has extensive knowledge of the fund management business.
His role as Vice Chairman Previous appointments Previous appointments focuses on engaging with the Companys key Lizs previous roles have included NonExecutive Before joining Jupiter in 2012 as Distribution stakeholders, including clients, prospective clients Director of Tate & Lyle plc 20072017 where she and Strategy Director, Maarten spent 18 years and industry bodies.
served as Senior Independent Director and at BlackRock and its predecessor companies.
Chairman of the Audit Committee, NonExecutive He was a member of the global operating Previous appointments Director of Dunedin Investment Enterprise Trust plc committee and the European executive Edward joined Jupiter in 1994 as a UK fund where she held the roles of Senior Independent committee at BlackRock.
Earlier in his career, manager, after working at Schroders 19821986 Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee Maarten gained extensive experience as a and Electra Investment Trust 19861994.
He was 20052016, Chairman of the Unilever UK Pension sellside European equity analyst.
appointed Chief Investment Officer in 1999 and Fund 20082014, NonExecutive Chairman of JP Joint Chief Executive in May 2000.
He became Morgan European Smaller Companies Trust plc Group Chief Executive in 2007 and led Jupiter 20062011 and NonExecutive Chairman of Zetex through its management buyout that year and its plc 20032007, a formerly listed manufacturer subsequent IPO in June 2010.
Edward relinquished of specialist semiconductors.
In 1999 she was his role as Group Chief Executive in March 2014, appointed a NonExecutive Director of AMEC on Maarten Slendebroeks appointment.
plc, and served as Senior Independent Director Current external appointments 20042009.
Prior to this in her executive career Edward joined the Board of Land Securities she was Finance Director of Monument Oil and Group plc as a NonExecutive Director in Gas plc, a post she held from 1990 until the sale January 2014 and was subsequently appointed of the company to Lasmo plc in 1999.
Senior Independent Director in July 2016.
Edward Current external appointments is also a Board member of The Investor Forum, Liz is currently a member of the Corporate a Trustee of the Esme Fairbairn Foundation Governance Committee of the ICAEW and Chair and a member of the Strategic Advisory Board of Trustees of the RollsRoyce UK Pension Fund.
42 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 4.
CHARLOTTE JONES Equity in India 19942000, Electra Private Equity 9.
KARL STERNBERG Chief Financial Officer Partners in London and Paris 19881994 and Independent NonExecutive Director Bain & Co in London 19851988.
Appointed Appointed Chief Financial Officer in September 2016 NonExecutive Director in July 2016 Current external appointments Jonathon is Executive Chairman of the Skagen Skills and experience Skills and experience Group, based in London.
The Skagen Group is Charlotte has extensive experience in the global Karl brings some 30 years international a familyowned group of companies operating financial services sector gained in senior financial experience in the investment industry, gained in the UK, Europe and the USA.
roles and is a chartered accountant.
through both executive and nonexecutive roles.
POLLY WILLIAMS Previous appointments Previous appointments Independent NonExecutive Director Charlotte commenced her career at Ernst & Young Karl was a founding Partner of institutional asset where she progressed to be an audit Partner in manager Oxford Investment Partners, which Appointed the Financial Services Practice.
She subsequently was bought by Towers Watson in 2013.
Prior to NonExecutive Director in March 2015 worked at Deutsche Bank for nine years in that he held a number of positions at Morgan various roles, latterly as Deputy CFO and was Skills and experience Grenfell Deutsche Asset Management between appointed as Head of Group Finance and Chief Polly has a wealth of relevant experience, 1992 and 2004, including Chief Investment Officer Accounting Officer at Credit Suisse in 2013. including roles with particular responsibility for for London, Australia, Europe and the Asia audit and risk oversight, and is a chartered Pacific.
Since 2006 he has developed his 5.
Previously, Polly was a Partner with nonexecutive career, with a focus on investment Independent NonExecutive Director KPMG, with responsibility for the Group Audit management and the investment trust sector of HSBC Group plc.
From 2010 to 2015, he was a Appointed NonExecutive Director of Friends Life Group plc, NonExecutive Director in May 2010 Previous appointments where he was Chairman of the Investment Pollys previous nonexecutive directorships Oversight Committee.
Karl was Chairman of Skills and experience include Worldspreads Group plc, APS Financial JPMorgan Income & Growth Investment Trust plc Lorraine brings substantial experience in human Limited, Z Group plc, National Counties Building until November 2016. resource leadership, in the areas of cultural Society as Chairman, Scotiabank Ireland Limited development, team performance and reward, and Daiwa Capital Markets Europe Limited.
Current external appointments both from her executive career and her work Karl is the Senior Independent Director of on director development.
Current external appointments Alliance Trust plc, and a NonExecutive Director Polly is a NonExecutive Director of TSB Banking of Herald Investment Trust plc, The Monks Previous appointments Group plc, where she is Chairman of the Audit Investment Trust plc, Clipstone Logistics Reit plc, In her executive career, Lorraine has had a Committee.
She is also a NonExecutive Director Lowland Investment Company plc and JPMorgan number of HR leadership roles in international of XP Power Limited and RBC Europe Limited.
organisations, focusing on performance Polly serves as a trustee of the Guide Dogs for development.
These included Citibank NA, the the Blind Association and is Chairman of the 10.
ROGER YATES London Stock Exchange and Coutts, part of the Trustees for the Westminster Almshouses Independent NonExecutive Director NatWest Group.
Her previous roles have included Foundation.
NonExecutive Director of Aegis Group plc Appointed 20052013, and NonExecutive Director of 8.
BRIDGET MACASKILL NonExecutive Director in October 2017 Colt Group S. A.
Lorraine has served Independent NonExecutive Director as Chairman of Jupiters Remuneration Committee Skills and experience and Senior Independent Director.
Appointed Roger has considerable knowledge of the She relinquished both positions in July and August NonExecutive Director in May 2015 asset management business with over 30 years 2017 respectively.
experience in the industry having served as a Skills and experience fund manager, senior executive, nonexecutive Current external appointments Bridget brings substantive knowledge and deep director and chairman.
Having led two global She is a NonExecutive Director of Essentra plc, understanding of the investment management asset managers, Roger also brings significant where she chairs the Remuneration Committee, industry and extensive experience at board level.
understanding of international business and of Sonae SGPS S. A. where she chairs the She has 25 years experience in the investment management to the Board.
management industry and has held several senior board appointments in the UK and USA.
JONATHON BOND Roger started his career at GT Management in Previous appointments Senior Independent Director 1981 and subsequently held positions at Morgan Bridget joined First Eagle Investment LLC in 2009 Grenfell and Invesco as Chief Investment Officer.
Appointed where she held the position of President and He was appointed Chief Executive Officer of NonExecutive Director in July 2014 Chief Executive of First Eagle Investment LLC until Henderson Group plc in 1999 and led the Senior Independent Director in August 2017 March 2016.
Prior to joining First Eagle, she was company for a decade.
Most recently Roger President and Chief Executive at Oppenheimer was a NonExecutive Director of IG Group Ltd, Skills and experience Funds, Incorporated.
Bridget has also served Chairman of Electra Private Equity plc and Jonathon spent 25 years in the private equity as a NonExecutive Director of Prudential plc, Chairman of Pioneer Global Asset industry with a particular focus on raising J. Sainsbury plc, Scottish & Newcastle plc and Management S. p. A. standards of governance and performance.
He has extensive international and general Current external appointments management experience, having founded and Current external appointments Roger is a NonExecutive Director of St Jamess served on the board of several significant Bridget is currently Chairman of First Eagle Place plc where he chairs the Remuneration businesses.
Holdings LLC, the parent company of First Eagle Committee.
He is also a NonExecutive Director Investment Management LLC.
Bridget is also a of JPMorgan Elect plc and has been appointed a Previous appointments NonExecutive Director of Jones Lang LaSalle NonExecutive Director of Mitie Group plc with Jonathon was a founding Partner of Actis LLP, Incorporated and Close Brothers Group plc, effect from 1 March 2018. the emerging markets specialist alternatives fund where she also Chairs the Remuneration manager, where he spent over ten years.
During Committee and is a trustee of TIAACREF funds.
that time he was a member of the Supervisory Member Chairman of Nomination Committee Board, Investment and Executive Committees, as Member Chairman of Remuneration Committee well as setting up and running the inhouse fund Member Chairman of Audit and Risk Committee raising team.
For a number of years, Jonathon was a NonExecutive Director of Celtel, the first panAfrican mobile company.
Jonathon previously worked as a founding Director of HSBC Private 43 Governance BOARD OF DIRECTORS CONTINUED MATTERS RESERVED risk management and controls.
He also The Board requires all Directors to TO THE BOARD keeps succession management under devote sufficient time to their duties The Board has a formal schedule review, making recommendations to the and to use their best endeavours to of matters reserved for its decision, Nomination Committee on the role and attend meetings.
During the year, the which it reviews and updates annually, capabilities required in respect of the NonExecutive Directors letters of to incorporate governance changes appointment of Executive Directors.
Non and developments within the Group.
Executive Directors are expected to At the beginning of 2017, the Board spend up to 30 days a year in their comprised: Liz Airey Chairman, Jonathon The key issues reserved for its roles as Directors.
Committee chairmen Bond independent NonExecutive are expected to commit up to 18 further decision are: Director, Edward Bonham Carter Vice days a year.
ll establishing the Groups commercial Chairman, Charlotte Jones Chief Financial objectives and strategy: Officer, Bridget Macaskill independent In 2017, the Chairman met with the ll approving the dividend policy: NonExecutive Director, Maarten NonExecutive Directors on a regular Slendebroek Chief Executive Officer, basis and also with the Chief Executive ll overseeing financial reporting, Lorraine Trainer Senior Independent Officer.
A meeting is held once a year including approving the annual report Director, Karl Sternberg independent when the Senior Independent Director and interim financial statements: NonExecutive Director and Polly Williams meets the NonExecutive Directors, with ll setting the annual budget: independent NonExecutive Director.
neither the Chairman nor Executive ll approving significant capital Directors being present.
NonExecutive projects, expenditure and DURING 2017 THE FOLLOWING Directors also met regularly with senior borrowings: CHANGES TO THE BOARD HAVE management.
TAKEN PLACE: ll deciding major acquisitions, ll Lorraine Trainer stepped down as OPERATION OF THE BOARD disposals and investments: Remuneration Committee Chairman The Board has a rolling agenda which ll overseeing the Groups operations and Senior Independent Director in ensures that the key issues set out and management, and maintaining July and August respectively: above, including items relating to an effective system of internal strategy, risk, finance, operations, ll Bridget Macaskill was appointed as controls and risk management: and corporate governance and compliance, Remuneration Committee Chairman ll ensuring adequate succession are appropriately reviewed at its in July: planning, including agreeing Board meetings.
Six scheduled Board meetings ll Jonathon Bond was appointed as and other senior appointments and took place during the year, with an Senior Independent Director in the appointment or removal of the additional meeting offsite in June for August: and Company Secretary.
a two day discussion of strategy related ll Roger Yates was appointed as an matters.
Progress on action points independent NonExecutive Director agreed at previous strategy days on THE BOARD MEMBERS and joined the Board in October.
fund management and distribution was Maarten Slendebroek was appointed also reviewed.
A summary of the BOARD BALANCE AND CEO in March 2014.
His role, and that agenda items for the scheduled Board INDEPENDENCE of the Chairman, Liz Airey, are meetings and details of attendance by The Board now has 10 members, separate and there is a clear division Directors is set out on the following comprising the Chairman, three Executive of responsibilities which is documented page.
Directors and six NonExecutive Directors.
and examined annually by the Board.
The Board considers each of its Non A comprehensive set of papers is The Chairman is primarily responsible Executive Directors Jonathon Bond, circulated approximately one week for leading the Board, setting its agenda, Bridget Macaskill, Karl Sternberg, before Board and committee meetings.
ensuring its effectiveness and that Lorraine Trainer, Polly Williams and These include regular business progress enough time is allocated for open Roger Yates to be independent in both reports, investment performance data, debate and discussion, particularly of character and judgement and free of distribution activity reports, financial strategy and complex or contentious any relationship which could materially statements and shareholder information.
She facilitates the contribution interfere with exercising their independent Full minutes of previous meetings are of all NonExecutive Directors and judgement.
The Board considered the also circulated promptly and any maintains appropriate contact with major Chairman to be independent within the concerns which are raised regarding shareholders, in order to understand terms of the Code at the time of her the running of the Company are noted.
their issues and concerns relating to appointment.
The biographies of all Adam Westley the Company Secretary governance, strategy and remuneration, Directors are set out earlier in this section.
manages the timely circulation of among other key issues.
information to the Board and ensures No individual or group of individuals Board procedures are complied with The Chief Executive Officer is responsible dominates the Board or its decision and that applicable rules and regulations for implementing the strategy that the making.
The NonExecutive Directors are followed.
The Company Secretary Board has agreed and for the dayto constructively challenge and help reports to the Chairman on corporate day management of the Groups develop proposals on strategy and governance matters.
business, while optimising the adequacy bring strong, independent judgement, and use of the Groups resources.
He knowledge and experience to the keeps the evolving culture in Jupiter Boards deliberations.
under review, particularly its impact on 44 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 EFFECTIVENESS INDUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT Directors either directly or by the and agrees training and development New Directors are given a full, formal Company through legal and regulatory needs with each Director.
and tailored induction to the business, updates.
NonExecutive Directors also Directors have access to independent organised by the Company Secretary, have access to external programmes.
professional advice at the Companys including meetings with senior Jupiter expects Directors to identify their expense, where they judge this necessary management and advisers.
The own training needs and to ensure they to discharge their responsibilities as Chairman, working with the Company are adequately informed about Jupiters Directors.
All Directors have access to the Secretary, is responsible for ensuring that business and their responsibilities as a Company Secretarys advice and services.
training programmes are provided to Director.
The Chairman regularly reviews BOARD AGENDAS IN 2017 January February May July October December ll Product pricing ll Approval of the ll Marketing ll Approval of interim ll Enterprise Risk ll Budget and plan review Annual Report strategy review results and interim Framework approval and Accounts dividend approval ll Review of ll ESG report and ll Noting fund Enterprise Risk ll Review of the FCAs ll Technology briefing management ll Approval of Framework final report into asset platform review structure and AGM notice ll Talent management performance ll Approval of full ll Fund manager ll Product review management, ll Discussing risk year and special presentation ll Developments in update succession and appetite dividends corporate governance diversity review ll Vice Chairmans ll Review of review ll Remuneration ll Approval of Report business activities ll Brexit review Policy review Remuneration ll Strategy day in Hong Kong ll Approval of Policy follow up and Singapore ll Fund manager modern slavery presentation ll Strategy review ll Consideration and ll Board and statement approval of Group committee ll Compliance ll Regulatory ICAAP effectiveness with the Code compliance and review action review ll Review of corporate financial crime plan structure update ll Trading update ll Fund manager ll Fund manager approval presentation presentation In addition to the above the Board held a two day Strategy Review offsite meeting in June 2017.
ATTENDANCE RECORD The following table details the number of scheduled Board and Committee meetings held during 2017 and the attendance record of each Director: Scheduled Board and Committee Meetings Year 2017 Board Meetings Audit and Risk Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee 2 Jan Feb May July Oct Dec Jan Feb May Jul Oct Dec Feb Jun Jul Sep Oct Dec Feb May Jul Dec Liz Airey Jonathon Bond Edward Bonham Carter Charlotte Jones Bridget Macaskill Maarten Slendebroek Karl Sternberg Lorraine Trainer Polly Williams 1 Roger Yates Board member Committee member 1 Appointed to the Board, Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee on 10 October 2 Remuneration Committee meetings held on 6 February and 9 February 45 Governance BOARD OF DIRECTORS CONTINUED CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The key recommendation was to DIRECTOR ELECTION The Companys Articles of Association consider establishing annual Board AND RE-ELECTION permit the Board to consider and strategic objectives to be reviewed at All Directors appointed by the Board authorise situations where a Director has the end of each meeting and cascaded are required by the Companys Articles an actual or potential conflict of interest down to Board Committees as of Association and the Code to be in relation to the Group.
This has now been done elected by shareholders at the first AGM has a formal system to record conflicts and the Executive Committee is following their appointment by the Board.
and, if appropriate, to authorise them.
Accordingly, Roger Yates will be seeking Conflicts of interest are included as an In addition there were a number of election and his biographical details can agenda item at each Board meeting.
governance related actions as follows: be found earlier in this section.
When authorising conflicts or potential ll Improving Board and Committee Also in accordance with the Code, all conflicts of interest, the Director materials and information flows: serving Directors with the exception of concerned may not take part in the Lorraine Trainer, will seek reelection at Boards decisionmaking.
Nonconflicted ll Introducing training for key senior the 2018 AGM.
The Chairman believes Directors are required to act in a way managers on board functions and that each Director continues to perform they consider would be in the best requirements to assist them in effectively, demonstrating commitment interests of the Company and most preparing for Board and Committee to their roles, and that their skills likely to promote its success.
These meetings: complement each other to enhance the procedures on conflicts of interest have ll Enhancing Director induction and Boards overall operation.
Full details of been followed throughout the year, onboarding: the skills and experience of all Directors are overseen by the Nomination ll Reviewing the Board skills matrix and can be found in their biographies earlier Committee and are considered to succession plans to ensure the Boards in this section.
composition remains appropriate and identify any skills gaps: and BOARD AND BOARD ACCOUNTABILITY COMMITTEE EVALUATIONS ll Undertaking deep dive reviews of The statement of Directors responsibility In accordance with the Code, specific risk areas which could Independent Board Evaluation IBE, for preparing the Annual Report and potentially impact the Groups strategy.
Accounts is set out at the end of this an external consultancy with no other Further details of the 2017 Audit and connection to the Company, conducted Governance section.
Within this, the Risk, Nomination and Remuneration Directors have included a statement that an external evaluation exercise during Committee evaluations are provided in the summer of 2017, the results of which the Annual Report and Accounts present the respective committee reports.
a fair, balanced and understandable are shown below.
assessment of the Groups position and As part of the Board effectiveness A comprehensive brief was provided to prospects.
To help the Board discharge review, and following conversations IBE, together with supporting materials, its responsibilities in this area, the Board between the Chairman and each prior to their attending Board and consulted the Audit and Risk Committee, Director, the Nomination Committee committee meetings.
Detailed interviews which advised on the key considerations reviewed the performance of all were conducted with each of the to comply with best practice and the Directors except the Chairman, whose Directors, certain senior executives and Codes requirements.
Following the performance review was led by the the lead partners of the Groups External Committees advice, the Board Senior Independent Director, without the Auditor, PwC and Internal Auditor, EY.
considered and concluded that: Chairman being present.
The Committee Feedback was provided to the Chairman has recommended to the Board that all and the committee chairs and a report ll the business model and strategy were serving Directors with the exception of clearly described: on the Chairman was presented to the Lorraine Trainer who is not standing for Senior Independent Director.
The overall ll the assessment of performance was reelection should be proposed by the findings of the evaluation were presented balanced: Board for election or reelection as to the Board.
Specific reports were also appropriate, at the forthcoming AGM.
ll KPIs were used consistently: provided to each Board Committee.
ll the language used was concise, with SUCCESSION PLANNING good linkages to different parts of the Overall, the evaluation found the Board The Nomination Committee is responsible to be operating effectively.
Governance document: and for both Executive and NonExecutive and compliance were areas rated ll an appropriate forwardlooking Director succession planning and particularly highly, with a strong orientation had been adopted.
recommends new appointments to the performance recorded in the areas of Board.
When making Board appointments, strategy, shareholder accountability and The Directors report on viability and the Board seeks to ensure that there is a relations, risk management, Board culture the going concern basis of accounting, diverse range of skills, backgrounds and and focus and the relationship with which the Directors have determined to experience, including relevant industry senior management.
be appropriate, can be found in the experience.
Further information is included Strategic report, which also describes the in the Nomination Committee report.
Groups performance during the year.
46 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK The Board believes that the ongoing ASSURANCE PROCESS MANAGEMENT process for identifying, evaluating and The Groups control environment is The Board is responsible for the managing the principal risks to achieving reviewed during the course of each year Groups system of internal control and the Groups strategic objectives works by one or more of the three assurance for reviewing its effectiveness.
The process was in place functions Compliance, Enterprise Risk system can provide only a reasonable for the year ended 31 December 2017 and Internal Audit.
Assurance reports assurance against material financial and up to the date of approval of the are provided to senior management, the misstatement or loss and is designed to Annual Report and Accounts.
This Board and the Audit and Risk Committee mitigate, not eliminate, risk.
process is regularly reviewed by the as appropriate.
Board and complies with the guidance, The Board, assisted by the Audit and Each year Jupiter commissions the Internal Controls Revised Guidance Risk Committee, periodically assesses External Auditor to test the integrity for Directors.
the effectiveness of the internal controls.
of aspects of the control environment.
This review covered all material controls SUPPLIER OVERSIGHT AND The results of this testing, including any including the following compliance, SIGNIFICANT CONTRACTS exceptions identified, are made available operational and financial aspects: Jupiter has five significant oversight to the Groups institutional and relationships: DST Financial Services investment trust clients, as Jupiter has ll Operational Reviewing the method DST previously International Financial adopted the International Standard on by which the Executive Committee Data Services, HSBC Securities Services Assurance Engagement ISAE 3402, gains assurance that the business HSBC, JP Morgan Luxembourg JPML, together with AAF 01 06 as operates within the risk appetite set National Westminster Bank Plc NatWest recommended by the Institute of by the Board and examining the whole and Northern Trust Northern.
Chartered Accountants in England and of the Groups control environment.
Wales in the November 2010 technical In support of the unit trust fund range, release of AAF 01 06. ll Operational Reviewing the Risk DSTs services include dealing and Committees Enterprise Risk registration processing, the distribution of RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK Management Dashboard methodology income, record keeping and responding The Board has ultimate responsibility and overseeing the roles of various to customer enquiries.
HSBC provides for the Groups risk strategy and for committees in overseeing risk within the fund accounting services and passive determining an appropriate risk appetite, business.
NatWest directly as well as the tolerance levels within which ll Financial Receiving regular reports provides trustee services and delegates the Group must operate.
By defining on the Groups financial position, its custody services to Northern.
these, the Board demonstrates that it is progress against budget and ongoing aware of, and, where appropriate, has forecast of its results.
Through these JPML provides a range of services taken steps to mitigate the risks that may regular updates, as well as the annual in support of the SICAVs, including have a material impact on the Group.
ICAAP process, the Board regularly depositary, custody, company secretarial, reviews the Groups balance sheet fund accounting, dealing and registration To assist with its oversight of risk, the levels and capital requirements.
The processing, the distribution of income, Executive Committee has formed an Audit and Risk Committee assists the record keeping and responding to Executive Risk Committee chaired by the Board in this area, reviewing the customer enquiries.
All members of halfyear and annual results, the the Executive Committee attend the Risk ICAAP process and the Annual Report, These organisations activities are Committee, together with the Director of before recommending these to the defined in service level agreements that Compliance and Head of Risk.
The Audit and are closely monitored to ensure that Committee is responsible for overseeing Risk Committee regularly receives service delivery standards are met.
all risk categories, within a coherent and reports in relation to the key aspects Jupiters Supplier Management function manageable structure.
of the financial reporting process.
oversees a suite of agreed activities, Reports on financial controls are also including: formal meeting governance: issued by Internal and External Audit.
the review of key performance indicators: reviews by Jupiters assurance functions ll Compliance Overseeing the including Service Delivery, Business compliance framework operating Continuity, IT security, Enterprise Risk, throughout the Group and reviewing Compliance and internal Audit where an annual report from the Money appropriate : site visits: and the review of Laundering Reporting Officer on key reports including controls assurance the Groups antimoney laundering reports and the financial report and and fraud prevention financial accounts.
Any risks or issues arising are crime measures.
progressed through to resolution and, where appropriate, escalated to Senior Management and reported to the Board.
47 Governance BOARD OF DIRECTORS CONTINUED APPROACH TO RISK reliable, in accordance with the The Board determines the appropriate approach to risks, within which the Group applicable laws and regulations and must operate.
Risk tolerances are the Groups actual boundaries and limits, through distributed both internally and externally which the business monitors and, if appropriate, escalates concerns to the Board.
Risks and the Groups attitude to them are considered and monitored in the Management reviews the consolidation following categories: and financial statements to ensure that the Groups financial position and results Strategic risk are appropriately recorded, circulated The risk that the Group is unable to meet its strategic objectives, as a 1 to members of the Board and published result of matters inherent in the nature of its business or the markets in where appropriate.
All financial which it operates information published by the Group is Investment risk subject to the Boards approval on the Underperformance of Jupiter funds relative to benchmarks, objectives or 2 recommendation of the Audit and competition or other failure to meet investors objectives Risk Committee.
Operational risk The risk of loss caused by weaknesses or failures in the Groups systems MONITORING FUNCTIONS and controls, related to people, systems or processes.
These include risks 3 The Groups monitoring functions arising from failing to properly manage key outsourced relationships and comprise the Compliance, Enterprise Risk cyber security and Internal Audit departments.
Capital adequacy risk The risk that the Group has insufficient capital in relation to its risk profile to The Compliance department oversees 4 comply with regulatory requirements the Groups compliance with the relevant regulations.
The Group maintains Liquidity risk comprehensive procedures and The risk that the Group does not have sufficient financial resources to 5 compliance manuals, covering all meet its obligations as they fall due or can only secure such resources at excessive cost business operations.
The Compliance department also maintains detailed Counterparty credit risk monitoring programmes for all regulated The risk of loss caused by the corporate failure of one of the trade, prime 6 activities, to monitor the perceived brokerage or treasury counterparties to which the Group may be exposed, regulatory risk within the business.
The or of a custodial institution with which the Group has a relationship findings of the monitoring programmes Market risk are circulated to the responsible Director The risk of loss arising from changes in the price of financial assets, interest 7 and Executive Committee member.
This includes the risk that any market risk mitigation techniques used by the Group prove less effective than expected The Internal Audit function is currently outsourced to EY and is focused on RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS operating environment to ensure they ensuring that operations comply with The departmental risk selfassessment pose a minimal or acceptable level of the Groups policies and procedures, process is the foundation of the Groups risk to the Group.
including in relation to efficient risk framework.
Each functional business operations, financial reporting, fraud, Identified risks that have a sufficiently area completes a risk assessment at safeguarding assets and compliance high likelihood of potential impact on the least annually, and more frequently with laws and regulations.
The Internal Group are reflected in the Enterprise Risk when required which, when taken in Audit team is independent of business Management Dashboard, to ensure they conjunction with the ongoing control operations and has a reporting line to receive an appropriately high level of performance assessments, is considered the Audit and Risk Committee.
In senior management and Board attention.
to be adequate for capturing any addition, the Group periodically uses The Board takes action where these risks ongoing and emerging risks to external parties to review counterparty are deemed to be outside the Groups the business.
This includes reviewing legal risk tolerance.
documentation as well as testing the The departmental risk selfassessments The Groups risk management assurance operations of external service providers.
are conducted by the senior managers programme is closely linked with its of each functional area and are Further details of the Internal Audit compliance monitoring programme.
facilitated by the Enterprise Risk team.
function can be found in the Audit and Any breaches found by the Compliance This involves all material risks being Risk Committee report.
department are recorded in the inhouse reviewed with the risk owners against error database and allocated to a failed agreed key risk indicators and control and the associated risk category.
The risk owners also consider The business therefore considers any any relevant operational losses that have breaches as part of the risk and control occurred, as well as any current system, assessment process.
process or staffing changes within the department, together with the integrity of Management, with the assistance of existing processes and controls.
Where the Finance function, is responsible processes or controls are seen to be for maintaining appropriate financial insufficiently robust, line management is records and processes that ensure required to define improvements to the all financial information is relevant, 48 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 major shareholders during the latter half REMUNERATION RELATIONS WITH of the year since his appointment to SHAREHOLDERS Executive Directors remuneration is the role.
He is also available to meet shareholders on request, if they have structured to promote the longterm Communication with shareholders is success of the business, with variable concerns that contact through the a high priority and is conducted to Chairman has failed to resolve, or for remuneration paid to Executive Directors promote a common understanding of the based on stretching performance which such contact is not appropriate.
Groups strategic objectives and current conditions which are aligned with the performance.
The Group has an Investor Shareholders are encouraged to attend business strategy.
No Executive Director Relations function within the Finance the AGM and to put their questions to the is involved in deciding his or her own team, which supports the Chief Executive Directors and to the Chairmen of the remuneration.
Further information on Officer and the Chief Financial Officer in Board committees in person.
In order to Jupiters proposed new remuneration their relations with shareholders and sell support shareholders prior to the policy and Executive Director side analysts.
Through the Investor Relations consideration of the Companys resolutions remuneration outcomes for 2017 is function, Jupiter maintains a regular at the AGM, the Company Secretary set out in the Remuneration Report.
dialogue with interested shareholders, maintains contact with a number of potential investors and industry analysts, CORPORATE VALUES wellknown voting bodies including ISS, as well as ensuring that the Group IVIS, and Glass Lewis, to ensure all relevant AND CULTURE adheres to both regulatory changes and Jupiters corporate values have information concerning the Company and best practice issuance from other bodies.
its strategy is made available.
underpinned its strategy for success, During 2017, the Chief Executive Officer, based on seeking longterm Chief Financial Officer and Head of The Company communicates outperformance for clients.
These values Finance held over 100 shareholder and electronically with its shareholders have long been deeply embedded investor meetings, using the materials whenever possible.
To reduce wasted in Jupiters culture and are clearly published at the time of the most recent resources and pollution associated with documented.
These meetings were separate to paper printing, shareholders are midyear and annual reviews, staff are the AGM and the briefings provided at the encouraged to accept electronic access encouraged to review their performance time of the announcement of the halfyear to the Notice of Meeting and Annual against these values, to ensure our and fullyear results.
Presentations to Report and Accounts, which will be clients remain the key focus of their analysts and investors are simultaneously made available at least 20 working days performance.
posted on the Companys website, prior to the AGM on the Companys to ensure they are available to all website at www.
com The Board communicates through the interested parties.
All Directors are Executive and Management Committees invited to attend these presentations.
KEY INVESTOR RELATIONS to all our staff to ensure Jupiters culture ACTIVITIES IN 2017 is preserved, with a focus on high As part of the process of ensuring that performance, individual responsibility good channels of communication are January and putting clients first.
This culture in place, and in order to maintain an ll Fourth quarter 2016 trading update has helped retain and attract talented understanding of the view of the major individuals.
The Board seeks to ensure February shareholders about the Company and its that its culture is reflected in all areas of ll Fullyear results presentation for strategy, meetings are arranged with the the business and it is a vital lens through 2016 Chairman following which a full briefing which the Board and its Committees look March is provided to the Board.
The following at elements of Jupiters business activities.
ll Fullyear results London and issues were discussed: Scotland roadshows PEOPLE AND TALENT ll investment and development strategy April MANAGEMENT and performance: ll First quarter 2017 trading update Jupiter is a people business and the ll Board and management structure and May Board is focused on ensuring that it succession: ll AGM understands how the Group develops existing talent and brings new talent into ll regulation and the FCAs market study: June the organisation.
2017 saw considerable ll Investor roadshow, USA ll corporate culture and gender diversity developments in talent management, July at Jupiter: as detailed in the Strategic report.
ll Halfyear results presentation for ll AGM resolutions: and The Nomination Committee was involved 2017 ll executive remuneration.
in the recruitment of the more senior September hires, with the Remuneration Committee ll Halfyear results London roadshow During the latter part of the year, integrally involved in ensuring that Jupiter those larger shareholders were also ll JPMorgan Small Mid Cap has the right reward structure to enable Conference, London invited to meet with the Chairman and it to recruit and retain talent.
At every Bridget Macaskill, the Chairman of the October meeting, the Board receives an update Remuneration Committee, to consult ll Third quarter 2017 trading update on key people issues, including the on the proposed changes to the broad themes affecting the management November remuneration policy.
Representatives of talent in the asset management ll Best of British Conference, London of the Companys largest shareholders industry and succession planning for December attended these meetings.
Jonathon Bond, the efficient execution of the Groups ll Citis European Diversified Financials in his capacity as Senior Independent growth strategy.
Conference, London Director, has attended meetings with some 49
