Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 69 STRATEGIC REPORT G gO Ove VEr Rnan NANc Ce E FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION The Nominations Committee plays a leading NOMINATIONS role in assessing the balance of skills and experience on the Board and the Groups principal committees.
The Committee identifies the roles and capabilities required COMMITTEE REPORT to meet the demands of the business and ensures that a succession plan is in place.
Candidates continue to be considered on merit against specific criteria determined by the Committee.
The Committee is comprised of the Non-Executive Chairman and the non-executive directors.
During the year, the Committee had a detailed session on succession planning for executive management and reviewed and approved a skills matrix for the Board.
All Board level appointment decisions were made following a search process using executive search firm The Zygos Partnership.
The Zygos Partnership assists with other senior executive searches below Board level, but has no other connection with the Group.
Responsibilities The Committee reviews the structure, size and composition including the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of the Board and, in consultation with the Sir Nigel Rudd directors, makes recommendations to the Chairman of the Nominations Committee Board on any proposed changes.
Decisions on Board changes are taken by the Board as a whole.
In performing its duties, the Committee has access to the services of the The Board is committed to creating and sustaining a Company Secretary and may seek external professional advice at the Groups expense.
positive, supportive, inclusive and diverse environment for all colleagues working within Meggitt.
Committee membership and attendance in 2017 Attended Sir Nigel Rudd Ms A J P Goligher Absent Committee Chairman Mr G S Berruyer Mr P Heiden 2 1 Ms B L Reichelderfer Mr C R Day 3 Mrs N L Gioia 1 On medical leave of absence during one of the scheduled Committee meetings.
70 MEGGITT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 f gO Inan ver c nan Ial S ct eatementS Nominations Committee report continued 2017 Board changes CHIEF EXECUTIVE SUCCESSION Who?
Key facts Relevant experience for Meggitt Nancy Gioia Non-executive A number of senior roles across In 2017, after a long career director engineering and manufacturing at Meggitt, Stephen Young operations most recently at Ford expressed his desire to retire but US citizen Motor Company during a 30-year committed to continue his role Electrical career.
until his replacement had been engineer identified.
Joined the Enables the Board to retain critical Board on US and engineering experience and The search to recruit and 27 April 2017 gain the benefit of experience from appoint a new Chief Executive the fast-moving automotive industry was undertaken by the Nominations Committee, supported by as we accelerate the pace on our key Zygos and led by myself as Committee Chairman.
timetable was agreed for the process which included regular discussions and support from the Remuneration Committee.
The Committee reviewed and approved a job specification for Effectiveness the role to ensure it captured the key skills, experience and The Committee reviewed its own effectiveness and were satisfied requirements.
A short list of external candidates was reviewed with the outcome.
The only action related to the continued need to by the Committee.
After significant discussion, and taking into improve succession planning discussions, for the Chairman, account his progress at Meggitt since his appointment as Chief non-executive and executive directors.
Operating Officer in November 2016, Tony Wood was identified as the preferred candidate.
Succession The Group operates a succession planning process which enables The Committee believed Tonys extensive industry knowledge, the identification and development of employees with the potential skills and operational experience: gained during a thirty one to fill key business leadership positions in the Group.
In July 2017, year career with Rolls-Royce plc and Messier-Dowty would be the Board reviewed the succession planning process.
In November, crucial as the Group continued to support customers during an the Board reviewed detailed executive succession plans for each unprecedented period of ramp-ups on their new programmes.
division and function with the Group HR Director, including plans The Committee considered his vision and proven track record in for the executive directors and each member of the Executive the aerospace sector were important to further accelerate the Committee and other high potential individuals around the Group.
Meggitt growth story and strategic initiatives already underway.
Each individual on the succession plan has regular performance reviews and individual development plans.
The Committee unanimously recommended to the Board the final selection of Tony and on 14 November 2017 we were Board composition and succession for the Chairman and pleased to announce Tonys appointment as Chief Executive non-executive directors is regularly discussed by the Committee.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 71 STRATEGIC REPORT G gO Ove VEr Rnan NANc Ce E FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Diversity policy BOARD DIVERSITY The Board confirms a strong commitment to diversity including, By age average but not limited to, gender diversity at all levels of the Group.
The Boards policy on diversity commits Meggitt to creating and sustaining a positive and supportive environment for all colleagues yrs working within Meggitt.
The environment should be one where all colleagues are equally valued and respected and within which 60 individuals can thrive.
The environment should be fair, equitable and mutually supportive.
The objectives of this policy are to: create an inclusive and diverse environment reflective of our core values, in particular acting with integrity: ensure we always value, respect and promote the rights, responsibilities and dignity of employees within all our activities 51-60 61-71 and relationships and equality of opportunity based on merit: ensure we have policies and processes which reflect a diverse and inclusive working environment: ensure the selection and appointment process for employees By gender ratio and directors includes a diverse range of candidates from diverse backgrounds: and ensure all employees, regardless of age, gender, or educational and professional backgrounds, can reach executive leadership 8:2 positions based on merit.
We are also committed to disclosing statistics on gender diversity annually and disclosing our overall approach to inclusion and diversity in the Annual Report.
Male Female Based on the current size and composition of the Board and taking into account current succession plans, the Board has determined that there should be a minimum of two female directors, which is currently the case.
The Board remains committed to ensuring that By nationality ratio the directors bring a diverse range of skills, knowledge, experience, backgrounds and perspectives.
Our directors are from the UK, US and France, and have a range of different skills and experience.
There are currently no specific targets for the number of diverse 8:2 candidates on our Executive Committee, but we do have a detailed strategy to improve diversity at all levels of the Company which is disclosed in the Corporate responsibility report.
In terms of policy outcomes, the Corporate responsibility report also provides details of our 2017 gender diversity metrics.
British Other By tenure average Sir Nigel Rudd yrs Chairman of the Nominations Committee 26 February 2018 6 0-5 6-10 10
