60 MEGGITT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 f gO Inan ver c nan Ial S ct eatementS Corporate governance report Leadership | Our governance framework: Chairman Executive Directors Board of directors Sir Nigel Rudd Tony Wood, Doug Webb & Philip Green Leads the Board and sets the agenda: Responsible for successful delivery of the Membership Groups objectives and strategy: and Ensures the Board is effective: Sir Nigel Rudd Managing various functions and operations Facilitates the contribution of non-executive across the Group.
directors and oversees the relationship between Chairman, them and the executive directors: and executive and Ensures there is an effective system for independent communication with shareholders.
non-executive directors Senior Independent Director Independent Non-Executive Directors Paul Heiden Guy Berruyer, Colin Day, Nancy Gioia, Creating and delivering Makes himself available to shareholders Alison Goligher & Paul Heiden sustainable shareholder if they have concerns which cannot be Constructively challenge management and resolved through the normal channels: value scrutinise their performance: Chairman of the Nominations Committee Contribute to the development of the Groups when it is considering the Chairman of the Retains full and effective strategy: Boards succession: control of the Group and Monitor the Groups performance: Appraises the Chairmans performance collectively responsible Satisfy themselves on the integrity of financial annually with the non-executive directors: information and the effectiveness of financial for its success: and controls and risk management: and Sets the Groups Acts, if necessary, as a focal point and Determine appropriate levels of remuneration strategy, ensures intermediary for the other directors.
for executive directors and participate in the appropriate resources selection and recruitment of new directors and are in place to achieve succession planning.
the Groups objectives: Reviews performance Chief Executive Company Secretary regularly: Tony Wood Marina Thomas Sets the Groups values Leads executive directors and the senior Acts as secretary to the Board and its and standards: and executive team in the day to day running of Committees: the Groups business: Ensures obligations Ensures compliance with Board procedures and Ensures effective implementation of Board to shareholders, advises on governance issues: decisions: employees and other Facilitates the induction process for new Regularly reviews the strategic direction directors: and stakeholders are met.
and operational performance of the Groups Ensures good information flow within the Board business: and and between non-executive directors and Keeps the Chairman informed on all senior management.
Board committees Remuneration Nominations Audit The independent non-executive directors Chairman and the independent non-executive The independent non-executive directors directors Determines the reward strategy for the Monitors the integrity of the Groups financial executive directors and senior management, Ensures the Board and senior management statements, the effectiveness of the external to align their interests with those of the team have the appropriate skills, knowledge and and internal auditors, risk and internal control shareholders.
experience to operate effectively and to deliver processes, tax and treasury.
Ethics and trade compliance Finance Disclosure Chairman, one independent non-executive The executive directors The executive directors, Company Secretary, director and the executive directors and Vice President, Strategy & Investor Approves treasury-related activity, insurance and Relations Ensures the implementation and application other matters delegated by the Board.
of the Ethics and Business Conduct and Trade Discusses and approves all matters related to Compliance policies and programmes.
inside information under the market abuse regime.
Management committees Executive Committee Commercial Committee Technology Advisory Board Chief Executive and his direct reports Executive directors, Group Head of Group Director, Engineering & Strategy, Sales & Marketing and Group Director, Chief Technology Officer, between two and The most senior decision-making and supervisory Engineering & Strategy four external members with backgrounds in group, responsible for overall management of the technology or academia, Meggitt engineering Group, driving its vision and strategy and ensuring Reviews and approves bids and proposals of fellows and other appropriate employees.
the organisational culture leverages diversity, Group significance and any other significant industry knowledge, global perspective and commercial activity.
Providing advice on the direction and pace of customer insight of all colleagues.
technology road maps, increasing awareness of disruptive technologies, business models or business trends and providing guidance on new areas and opportunities.
You can find details of our latest governance related documents on the governance section of our website.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 61 STRATEGIC REPORT G gO Ove VEr Rnan NANc Ce E FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 2017 Board membership, attendance and governance 1 3 2 Sir Nigel Rudd Mr A Wood Mr S G Young Chairman Chief Executive Chief Operating Officer 4 Mr D R Webb Mr G S Berruyer Mr C R Day Chief Financial Officer Non-executive director Non-executive director 5 Mr P E Green Mrs N L Gioia Ms A J P Goligher Executive Director, Non-executive director Non-executive director Commercial and Corporate Affairs 6 Mr P Heiden Ms B L Reichelderfer Non-executive director Non-executive director Attended 1 Met the independence criteria on appointment as Chairman on 23 April 2015.
Absent 3 Retired as Chief Executive and from the Board with effect from 31 December 2017.
4 On medical leave of absence during one of the scheduled Board meetings.
5 Appointed to the Board on 27 April 2017.
6 Retired from the Board on 27 April 2017.
BOARD ACTIVITIES Approved Planning Reviewed The appointment of Tony Wood as Chief In 2017, the Senior Independent Director Detailed sessions on succession planning process and the output of Executive effective from 1 January met with the non-executive directors to 2018. that process covered by Nominations assess the performance of the Chairman and the Chairman held regular meetings Committee.
The sale of non-core businesses Piher with non-executive directors without the Sensors & Controls, Piezotech, Meggitt Detailed strategy session, including executive directors present where the Maryland and Thomson Aerospace & external input on market trends and performance of executive management Defense based in Spain, Germany and review of the Groups strategic plan.
Regular reports from executive The acquisition of Elite Aerospace, a US management on operations, financial based aftermarket business.
performance, risk, legal, commercial, Capital expenditure requests relating to ethics and compliance activity.
investments in property, including the Targets Detailed post-acquisition report for the Agreed the operating targets proposed Ansty super site in the UK.
composites businesses acquired in 2015. announced to investors in April 2017 as The 2018 budget.
Regular updates on tax, IT including IT a result of the operating review carried The 2016 Annual Report and Accounts, out by TonyWood.
2016 full-year results and 2017 interim Reports on internal control, viability Regular review of key business results announcement.
and going concern and reports from its The April and November 2017 trading committees.
Governance updates including Modern Recommendations to shareholders on Slavery, General Data Protection the final dividend payment for the year Regulation, supplier payment practices, ended 31 December 2016 and approvalof Hampton Alexander-Review and gender the interim dividend payment for the pay.
Visited the Manufacturing Technology Recommendation to shareholders Centre at Ansty Park the location for that  LLP be the proposed UK super site.
reappointed as auditors of the Group for the 2018 financial year.
The Groups risk appetite statement and Presentation and discussions risk register.
Customer Services & Support, Meggitt Equipment Group and Meggitt Aircraft The conflicts of interest register for the Braking Systems.
The Health and Safety Policy.
Engineering, technology and Terms of Reference for the Disclosure programme management.
and Remuneration Committees of the Board: and resolutions to be put to Diversity and high performance culture.
Footprint reduction plans and health, Since the year-end, up to the date of the safety and environment.
Annual Report, the Board has approved IT including cyber security.
the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts, the 2017 full-year results announcement and the proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2017.
During the year, no unresolved concerns were recorded in the Boards minutes.
62 MEGGITT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 f gO Inan ver c nan Ial S ct eatementS Corporate governance report continued Directors are encouraged to update their skills regularly and Effectiveness their training needs are assessed as part of the Board evaluation Composition process.
Their knowledge and familiarity with the Group is The Board considers it has a good balance of executive and facilitated by access to senior management, reports on the non-executive directors, is of an appropriate size and has the business and site visits.
Resources are available to all directors to independence, skills, experience and knowledge to enable the develop and update their knowledge and capabilities.
directors to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively.
All non-executive directors are considered independent under NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR the Code.
INDUCTION PROCESS Board Committee disclosures: All non-executive directors are members of the Audit, Since Nancy Gioia joined the Remuneration and Nominations Committees on appointment.
Board she has been through a Chairmanship of Committees is considered during discussions comprehensive formal induction on composition and succession.
No one other than Committee chairs and members are entitled to attend the meetings, although others can be invited.
The Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees written Stage 1 terms of reference were reviewed and updated in 2016 and 2017 Understand the Group: by the Board and are available on the investor section of our Meetings with Chairman and non-executive directors.
Meeting with executive directors covering their specific areas All Committee chairs report orally on the proceedings of their of functional responsibility in detail.
Committee at the next meeting of the Board when members Meeting with the Company Secretary covering UK corporate of the Board are present who were not in attendance at the governance and Board procedures.
Where appropriate, the Committee chairs make recommendations to the Board on appropriate matters.
Stage 2 Further details of the composition and activities of these Meet key advisors: Committees are set out in the separate Committee reports.
Briefing from brokers and external auditors.
Appointments and time commitment Stage 3 There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for Meet the teams: the appointment of new directors which was reviewed by the Meetings and presentations with other senior executives, Nominations Committee after the 2016 Board evaluation.
Full including strategy, investor relations, internal audit and risk, details of the process for appointments made during the year are human resources, operations and IT.
available in the Nominations Committee report set out on pages 69 Briefings from divisional management teams.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board.
Stage 4 The letters of appointment for the Chairman and non-executive Site visit: directors set out the time they are expected to commit An extensive tour of a UK site with a particular focus on the The Chairman and non-executive directors may undertake Meggitt Production System.
several appointments, which require approval of the Board and are reported on pages 58 and 59.
The Board is aware of over-boarding guidelines set out by institutional shareholder advisory organisations, and considers these when discussing new appointments.
Information and support The Chairman is responsible for ensuring directors receive During 2017, except as indicated on page 61, the Chairman and accurate, timely and clear information and is satisfied that effective communication, principally by the Chief Executive and Chief non-executive directors attended all scheduled Board and Financial Officer, is undertaken with shareholders.
Committee meetings and visited a number of Meggitt sites.
The Chairman had regular meetings with the Chief Executive and The Board is supplied with the information it needs to discharge its attended shareholder meetings about governance and represented Meggitt and our interests at other events.
The Chairman and Senior duties.
The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring good information flows within the Board and Committees and between Independent Director have reviewed the time commitment of the senior management and non-executive directors.
The Board Chairman and non-executive directors in 2017 and consider they have devoted an appropriate amount of time to Meggitt for the members have regular discussions about their information and support requirements and discuss the effectiveness of the annual activities and issues that arose during the year.
There were no changes to the Chairmans significant commitments during the year.
Board schedule during the Board evaluation.
All directors have had access to the advice and services of the Development Company Secretary who is responsible to the Board for advising on The Chairman agrees a personalised approach to the training all governance matters.
and development of each director and reviews this regularly.
The Company Secretary, who facilitates the induction of new directors The Board allows all directors to take external independent and assists with professional development where required, professional advice at the Groups expense.
continues to enhance the induction process following feedback from directors.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 63 STRATEGIC REPORT G gO Ove VEr Rnan NANc Ce E FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Board performance evaluation Board evaluation in 2017 In order to evaluate its own effectiveness, the Board undertakes Following the successful conclusion of the 2016 externally annual effectiveness reviews using a combination of independent facilitated evaluation, several improvement activities were externally facilitated and internally run evaluations over a three-year undertaken as described in the introduction to this report.
In 2017, the Board evaluated its own effectiveness, together with the effectiveness of the Chairman, individual directors, its Committees, auditors and remuneration advisers.
The effectiveness November 2017 reviews covered strategy, risk management, the annual Board schedule, composition, succession, appointment process, diversity, Internal Board evaluation planning by the Chairman and remuneration, audit and open channels of communications.
The questionnaires are designed and cover evaluation was carried out by way of questionnaire with open new areas annually as appropriate.
and closed questions, with follow up questions asked for clarity if needed.
December 2017 January 2018 The Board reviewed its own effectiveness in 2017 through an internal process, and were satisfied with the outcome.
There Questionnaires issued to the Board members.
The Board were discussions about succession and Board composition and effectiveness questionnaire posed questions in the following the Board also reflected on the importance of ensuring the areas ranked on a scale of 1 to 3 with space for comments : Chief Executive succession process was a success.
There were also How well the strategy process works and the Boards some requests relating to the annual Board schedule, for example, understanding of the core business and markets for external aerospace market experts to attend the Board annually.
To what extent Board meetings are engaging with high quality discussion and open debate and whether all Board members Relations with shareholders contribute to discussions and work together well The Board communicates with private investors via direct Whether the skills and experience on the Board are communication with the Company Secretary and the Vice appropriate President, Strategy & Investor Relations and content distributed or made available on the investor relations section of our website and How the Board responds to challenges at the AGM see below.
Whether the Chairmans leadership style and tone is effective and how he works with the Chief Executive Effective communication with fund managers, institutional Whether the Company Secretary is performing effectively investors and analysts about the Groups strategy, performance Whether the Board schedule and papers are appropriate and policies is promoted by meetings involving, principally, the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer.
The Board receives If the recruitment and induction processes are working well and discusses reports from the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Whether risk management is undertaken appropriately Officer and the Vice President, Strategy & Investor Relations on If succession planning is working well the views of shareholders.
The Chairman and other non-executive directors are available to attend meetings with shareholders.
Directors understanding of major shareholders views is enhanced by reports from the Vice President, Strategy & Investor Relations, February 2018 our brokers and attending analysts briefings.
Analysts notes on the A detailed discussion is held by the Board on their responses to Group are made available to all directors.
the questionnaire and resulting actions are agreed.
Shareholder documents We provide annual reports and other documents to shareholders in their elected format under the electronic communications provisions approved by shareholders at our AGM in 2007.
Electronic copies of this Annual Report and Accounts 2017 and the Notice of AGM will be posted on our website, with announcements, press releases and other investor information, including an analysis of ordinary shareholders by size of holdings and shareholder type.
64 MEGGITT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 f gO Inan ver c nan Ial S ct eatementS Corporate governance report continued Annual General Meeting At the AGM to be held on 26 April 2018, in addition to the routine INVESTOR RELATIONS ACTIVITY, business, shareholder consent will be sought for resolutions which give 2017 HIGHLIGHTS the Company authority to: convene general meetings on 14 clear days notice in accordance The Preliminary results presentation took place with the Articles on the terms set out in the Notice of Meeting.
on 28 February 2017 and included an overview The shorter notice period would not be used as a matter of routine of the 2016 full year financial performance of the for such meetings, but only where time-sensitive matters are to Feb 2017 business.
This was presented by Stephen Young, be discussed and where merited in the interests of shareholders Doug Webb and Tony Wood.
The directors also intend to follow other best practice recommendations as regards this authoritys use.
At this presentation we provided guidance on to dis-apply pre-emption rights for up to 10% of issued share the outlook for the business in 2017 and covered capital in accordance with the latest guidance from the UK progress made against strategy in 2016 and the Pre-Emption Group.
The first resolution will seek authorisation medium-term goals for the Group.
for 5% of the issued share capital to be issued without application of pre-emption rights.
The second resolution seeks authority for We engaged with ISS Institutional Shareholder an additional 5% of the issued share capital to be used for an Services, IVIS Institutional Voting Information acquisition or a specified capital investment of a kind contemplated Service of the Investment Association and Glass by the Statement of Principles most recently published by the UK Lewis before and after the AGM.
The latter resolution received a vote against in excess of 20% at the 2017 AGM.
The Board have considered shareholder feedback on this topic but continue to believe that, A capital markets day was held covering the in order for the Board to have full strategic flexibility where detailed operational review undertaken by Tony acquisitions and capital investments are concerned, it continues Wood including commentary on outlook and to be appropriate to request this authority from shareholders.
The day also covered updates May 2017 In asking shareholders to approve this additional authority, the from Customer Services & Support and on directors confirm that they intend to adhere to the requirements the Meggitt Production System as well as an set out in the Statement of Principles.
overview of our strategy implementation around portfolio, customers, competitiveness and culture.
The presentation materials are available All directors are subject to election by shareholders at their first on the investor page on our website.
After that, all directors are subject to re-election annually to comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
All directors in office at the date of the AGM will be subject to The Chairman met with a number of major re-election.
shareholders to discuss matters relating to the governance and strategy of the business.
We UK Corporate Governance Code December 2017 continue to offer these meetings annually.
2017 consultation The Board has considered the proposed changes to the UK Corporate Investor Roadshows took place in the UK Governance Code.
Once the changes have been finalised, the Board London and Edinburgh and the US East will review which processes, procedures, approaches and activities and West Coast immediately following the preliminary and interim results presentations need to be changed and will provide a further update in the 2018 Annual Report.
Shareholders had the opportunity to discuss financial performance and future strategy with senior management and Statement of compliance investor relations.
Throughout the year Meggitt Throughout the financial year ended 31 December 2017 and to the also attended numerous sell-side conferences date of this report, we have complied with the provisions set out in and mini-roadshows ensured shareholders and the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 the Code published by investors in regions globally including Japan, the Financial Reporting Council FRC.
The Group has applied all the UAE, Singapore, Switzerland, Germany and main and supporting principles set out in the Code and explanations France had the opportunity to hold meetings.
are included in this report and in the Audit Committee, Nominations Committee and the Directors remuneration reports.
The information required under Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rule 7.2.
6 is located in the Directors report.
By order of the Board M L Thomas Company Secretary 26 February 2018
