Governance THE GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, LEADERSHIP EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND 2017 EXECUTIVE The Board is responsible for the EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE MEMBERS The Chief Executive Officer Maarten leadership of the Group and for its MAARTEN SLENDEBROEK longterm success within an effective risk Slendebroek, Charlotte Jones Chief Chief Executive Officer Financial Officer and the Executive and control framework, as well as setting the Groups strategic aims.
Liz Airey has Committee are responsible for managing CHARLOTTE JONES the Groups daytoday business and for chaired the Board since September 2014.
Chief Financial Officer The Board comprises three Executive implementing the Boards strategy.
ANDREW BOORMAN Directors, six NonExecutive Directors Charlotte Jones was appointed Chief Interim HR Director and the Chairman.
The NonExecutive Financial Officer in September 2016.
Directors constructively challenge the LANCE DELUCA executive management of the Company Joint Chief Operating Officer Edward Bonham Carter was appointed and provide valuable insight to the Vice Chairman in March 2014.
His role development of the Group strategy.
PAULA MOORE focuses on engaging with the Groups Joint Chief Operating Officer They provide a diverse and effective stakeholders including clients, prospective balance of skills, knowledge and clients and industry bodies.
Edward also STEPHEN PEARSON experience, to closely consider Chief Investment Officer has Board responsibility for environmental managements performance in running and social governance matters.
the Groups business and in meeting NICHOLAS RING its goals and objectives.
Global Head of Distribution GOVERNANCE WITHIN THE GROUP Jonathon Bond was appointed Senior JASVEER SINGH The Executive Committee has established General Counsel Independent Director in August 2017. the six management and reporting Jonathon acts as a sounding board for committees shown in the diagram the Chairman, supporting her objectives overleaf, which assist the Executive for the Board.
When appropriate, Committee with managing the Groups Jonathon is also an intermediary for business.
Each of these committees other Directors and meets major operates under defined terms of shareholders, ensuring a good reference.
The diagram also sets out the understanding of their issues and main responsibilities of each committee.
Further details are provided later in this report.
During the year, a review of Jupiters corporate and product governance The Board has established three standing arrangements was undertaken to help Board committees and the Executive ensure that they continued to meet the Committee membership of the Executive evolving regulatory and best practice Committee is noted in the table requirements.
This has led to a number opposite.
The Boards responsibility for of recommendations, primarily relating to overseeing control and disclosure of the Groups reporting committees, which inside information is delegated to the will be implemented during 2018.
Disclosure Committee, which was established in 2016 and is convened as In the UK Jupiter has two regulated required to consider such matters.
In companies Jupiter Asset Management addition, during 2017 there were six Limited JAM and Jupiter Unit Trust committees reporting to the Executive Managers Limited JUTM.
These committees complete activity is providing investment the Boards framework of control.
JUTMs principal activity is to act as the management The Board committees are the Audit company for the unit trusts, SICAVs and and Risk, Nomination and Remuneration investment trusts managed by Jupiter.
Liz Airey chairs the The boards of these companies oversee Nomination Committee and is a member the activities of JAM and JUTM.
The Board considered her to be independent, within the terms of the Code, at the time of her appointment as Chairman of the Board.
All other members of the Board committees are independent Non Executive Directors.
The Board committees operate within defined terms of reference, which are published on the Companys website at www.
40 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 THE BOARD BOARD BOARD ROLE MEMBERS ll Setting and approving strategy ll Chairman ll Overseeing controls framework ll Six NonExecutive Directors ll Overseeing risk and setting risk appetite ll Three Executive Directors ll Overseeing culture and values CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER COMMITTEES ROLE NOMINATION REMUNERATION AUDIT AND RISK ll Responsible for running the Groups business within authority limits ROLE ROLE ROLE delegated to him by the Board focusing on: ll Composition of ll Setting and ll Financial reporting the Board overseeing i Business strategy and management ll Audit management remuneration ll Succession issues and compliance ii Investment and financing policy ll Reviewing policies ll Risk management iii Risk management and controls ll Review of benefits and practice and internal iv Communication within the business and to shareholders and and rewards for talent controls other stakeholders management v Chairing the Executive Committee, communicating its decisions and diversity and recommending actions to the Board MEMBERS MEMBERS MEMBERS vi Developing senior teams within the Group and ensuring ll Chairman ll Chairman ll Chairman succession planning Liz Airey Bridget Macaskill Polly Williams vii Developing policies and procedures for Board approval ll All NonExecutive ll Four NonExecutive ll Three NonExecutive viii Setting values and culture Directors Directors Directors EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE ROLE ll Implementing strategy and objectives set by the Board and ll Receiving proposals from the Management Committee for communicated by CEO improvements in business efficiency and effectiveness and communicating through the CEO to the Board and its Committees ll Managing performance ll Reinforcing culture and values ll Reviewing matters arising from the Reporting Committees REPORTING COMMITTEES PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT OPERATING RISK ROLE ROLE ROLE ll Examining new product proposals ll Running the business and budget ll Managing of risk within tolerances in accordance with Group strategy set by the Board ll Managing and supporting compliance requirements of new products ll Allocating resources and prioritising projects ll Reviewing effectiveness of the risk management process ll Developing the Groups corporate values in all its operations ll Reporting to the Audit and Risk Committee on the status of key risks ll Developing communications and crossfunctional engagement BALANCE SHEET MANAGEMENT TREATING CUSTOMERS FAIRLY PORTFOLIO REVIEW ROLE ROLE ROLE ll Establishing and maintaining balance ll Ensuring funds are managed and operated ll Reviewing investment performance sheet policies within agreed guidelines, to ensure fair of all portfolios treatment of customers ll Reviewing Group procedures from a ll Identifying changes in investment balance sheet perspective ll Working with subcommittees to ensure this approach approach is operated throughout the Group ll Considering portfolio objectives, attributions and risks Key: Delegation of Authority Reporting 41
