Report of the Risk Committee The Committee closely monitored the continued strengthening of the Group Risk Framework during the year including enhancements made to the cyber security framework and the development of an Economic Capital measure to allow for a better quantification of its operational risks.
The monitoring of the Groups risk culture, which represents the foundation of the strong risk management capabilities within the Group, is considered at each meeting.
In order to avoid potential duplication of coverage and, more importantly, to reduce the potential for non-coverage of important risk matters, by either the Stephen OConnor Audit or the Risk Committees, there is a cross membership of both chairmen Chairman of the of the Audit and of the Risk Committees.
Risk Committee Priorities in the forthcoming year will involve the continued monitoring of The Risk Committee members as at 31 December 2017 were Stephen geopolitical risks and the monitoring of the Groups Brexit contingency plans, OConnor, Paul Heiden, David Nish, Val Rahmani and Andrea Sironi.
preparedness and potential rollout, as the UKs negotiations with the EU enter Stuart Lewis Chief Risk Officer, Deutsche Bank AG acts as a special its second phase.
adviser to the Committee and is a standing invitee to meetings of the Risk Committee.
The Committee will continue to review, on a rotational basis, the risk profile and execution risks of each of the Groups main lines of business and key subsidiaries.
This report is intended to give an overview of the role of the Risk Committee in assisting the Board to fulfil its oversight responsibilities The Committee will also continue to oversee the evolution of the Groups risk relating to risk management and the adequacy of the systems of culture across the Group and its subsidiaries to ensure the Board maintains internal controls in place to mitigate key risks.
effective risk management oversight and control.
During the year ended 31 December 2017, the Committee met 4 times.
In addition to its regular reviews of the Groups risk map, risk appetite, and emerging risks, the Committee focused on the integration of the newly acquired Mergent and Yield Book businesses and review of the risk profile of specific divisions as part of its Stephen OConnor regular programme in 2017 the Committee reviewed the risk profile for the Chairman of the Risk Committee Information Services Division.
The Committee also monitored specific geopolitical 2 March 2018 events and the programmes in place to implement MiFID II requirements across all subsidiaries subject to the legislation as well as the framework in place to manage the Groups cyber security risks, including the approval of the Groups cyber security strategy and related policies.
70 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 Governance Report of the Risk Committee Composition and responsibilities Reviewing regulatory compliance reports and the actions in place to ensure The Committee is chaired by Stephen OConnor who provides recent and relevant ongoing compliance financial and risk management experience developed during a career in a variety Reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of the systems of the internal of senior executive roles in the financial services industry.
In addition, the Board controls in place to manage key risks including the review of managements is satisfied that each member of the Committee has the skills and experience assessment of information security, financial crime, cyber crime and data necessary to enable the Committee to discharge its responsibilities effectively.
management risks as well as managements mitigating actions The names, skill and experience of the members of the Risk Committee are provided on pages 5455.
Ensuring the effectiveness of the Groups Enterprise-wide Risk Management Framework and of the Risk function The Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Risk Officer and the Group Head of Internal Reviewing an assessment of the credit risk of the pension plan buy-in provider Audit are standing invitees to all Risk Committee meetings.
The Committees terms of reference, which are approved by the Board and reviewed on an ongoing Overseeing adequacy of the counterparty limits and ad hoc counterparty basis, are available from the Group Company Secretary or in the corporate credit risk analysis performed as required governance section of the Groups website at www.
com  detailed reports of the risk profiles of the Groups material businesses stock-exchange-group  .
including the Information Services Division and LCH The Committee maintains non-executive responsibility for high level risk-related Monitoring compliance with the Group risk management procedures as matters and risk governance.
As part of its mandate, the Committee reviews the described in the section on internal controls on page 60 risk profile of the Group on a regular basis and comments on the adequacy of the Reviewing the adequacy of the Groups Business Continuity Management processes in place to identify and report on key risks.
It also reviews the risk profile plans and management programme of the major Group subsidiaries divisions on an individual basis.
It advises the Board on the Companys overall risk appetite, tolerance and strategy and keeps Approving and recommending for approval key policies relating to risk and under review the adequacy of the Enterprise-wide Risk Management Framework the terms of reference for the Risk Committee and its use in the decision-making process, which includes the review of Monitoring the Executive performance report on risk culture awareness, parameters used in the models and methodology adopted.
It sets the standards transparency and accountability which is also shared with the Remuneration for the accurate and timely reporting of key risks and risks of critical importance, Committee such as risks relating to technology, cyber security, business continuity and disaster recovery, CCP operations, counterparty and reputational risks.
It also Monitoring the roll out of the mandatory training programme on ethics, risks, receives reports on compliance with relevant regulatory requirements for each controls and compliance regulated entity of the Group.
Risk Management function Activities The Risk Management function is headed by the Chief Risk Officer who oversees The Committee maintains a formal agenda which ensures that all matters for all aspects of risk management in the Group.
She reports to the Interim Chief which the Committee is responsible are considered at the appropriate meeting.
Executive Officer and, for independence purposes, to the Chairman of the Risk During the year, the Committee discharged its responsibilities as set out in its Committee.
The Committee approves the remit of the Risk Management function terms of reference by: and ensures it has adequate independence to perform its duty.
The Committee must be consulted on the appointment or the dismissal of the Chief Risk Officer.
Providing robust reviews of principal risks Reviewing risk exposures of the Company and emerging risks Reviewing and recommending to the Board the Group Risk Appetite, including stress tests and challenging the scenario results Approval of a new Economic Capital model for running in parallel throughout the year to monitor stability, consult further and refine model inputs Monitoring the rollout of the MiFID II compliance programme across all our relevant businesses Monitoring of the cyber security framework and enhancement programmes and approval of related policies Monitoring of geopolitical risks including the Groups Spanish exposure following the referendum in Catalonia Monitoring the delivery of actions to manage risks within risk appetite Monitoring the Mergent and The Yield Book business integration within the Information Services Division London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 71
