Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 65 STRATEGIC REPORT G gO Ove VEr Rnan NANc Ce E FINANCIAL STATEMENTS O OT TH HER ER I IN NF FO ORM RMA AT TI IO ON N CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION I am pleased to present the report of the AUDIT COMMITTEE Audit Committee for 2017.
I chair the Audit Committee and as a Fellow of the Association of Chartered Certified REPORT Accountants, and previous Chief Executive Officer of Essentra plc and Chief Financial Officer of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc, I can confirm that I bring recent and relevant financial experience to the Committee.
Committee members throughout 2017 were Guy Berruyer, Alison Goligher and Paul Heiden.
Brenda Reichelderfer retired from the Board and this Committee and Nancy Gioia was appointed in April 2017.
By invitation, there were a number of other regular attendees including the Chief Financial Officer, the Group Financial Controller and the internal and external auditors.
The Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive, Chief Operating Officer and the Executive Director, Commercial & Corporate Affairs also attended meetings by invitation.
The Committees key role is to engender confidence in the integrity of our processes and procedures relating to internal financial control and corporate reporting.
The Board relies on the Committee to review financial Colin Day reporting and to appoint and oversee the Chairman of the Audit Committee work of the internal and external auditors.
In 2017, as well as routine Committee activity, the Committee conducted a rigorous audit tender process, as a result In 2017, the Committee conducted a rigorous audit tender of which the Committee is recommending process, as a result of which we are recommending to to shareholders at the 2018 AGM that PwC be reappointed as external auditors for the shareholders at out 2018 AGM that PwC be reappointed as financial year ending 31 December 2018. external auditors for the 2018 financial year.
There is a detailed commentary on the audit tender process provided in this report, together with a description of the work of the Committee in 2017.
It included advising the Board on whether these accounts are fair, balanced and understandable, reviewing the work carried out by executive management on the viability statement and oversight of the risk management process.
Committee membership and attendance in 2017 Attended Mr C R Day Ms A J P Goligher Absent Committee Chairman Mr G S Berruyer Mr P Heiden 2 1 Ms B L Reichelderfer Mrs N L Gioia 1 Appointed on 27 April 2017.
66 MEGGITT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 f gO Inan ver c nan Ial S ct eatementS Audit Committee report continued COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES EXTERNAL AUDIT TENDER A timetable for the audit tender was agreed in 2016 and in July 2017 there was a detailed discussion: The Committee considered a paper prepared by management setting out legal guidance and best practice Approved relating to an audit tender process.
The process conformed Negotiated and approved the 2017 external audit fees.
to the legal guidance and most areas of best practice.
The The internal audit plan for 2018.
Chairman of the Committee attended all presentations, and a process was designed to allow each Committee member to fully participate in the selection decision.
The Committee agreed to invite Deloitte, EY, KPMG and PwC to participate in the tender process.
Consideration was given to extending the shortlist to include mid-size firms, however Reviewed it was concluded it was not appropriate given the scale and Reviewed the financial information contained in the 2016 complexity of the Group.
Annual Report and Accounts, 2016 full year and 2017 interim Agreed a draft RFP which had been benchmarked against results announcements and recommended them to the other practical examples and best practice guidance.
Agreed a timetable of meetings to allow the tender firms to Reviewed the independence and effectiveness of the external gain an understanding of the Group and its processes.
In auditors, and agreed their terms of engagement.
addition to meeting with the Committee Chairman, meetings Reviewed the adequacy and effectiveness of: i the systems were held with the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, of internal control: ii the risk management process: and Executive Director, Commercial and Corporate Affairs, Group iii the process executive management used to enable the Financial Controller, Chief Information Officer, Group Head of Board to make the viability statement.
Audit & Risk, Head of Treasury & Tax, Head of Finance Shared Reviewed the effectiveness of the Committee and external Service Centre and two of the divisional finance directors.
and internal audit using the process described on page 68.
Given the level of the Groups US operations, agreed that There were no specific actions to take and the Committee each firm must ensure the audit presentations were attended confirmed it was satisfied with the outcome of the evaluation.
by both the UK lead engagement partner and the firms lead Reviewed the results of internal audit activity for 2017.
US partner s. Discussed the external auditors strategy memorandum and interim audit clearance report for 2017.
The RFP was issued to each of the four participating firms in early August 2017.
All four firms: Conducted an external audit tender process and Met with the individuals identified above: recommended PwC be reappointed for the 2018 financial year.
Had access to a data room providing background on the Group: Since the year end, the Committee has discussed the external Provided written responses to two technical questions set by auditors final audit clearance report for 2017: reviewed the management: financial information contained in the 2017 Annual Report and Submitted a formal RFP response to the Committee: and Accounts and full year results announcement and recommended them to the Board for approval: and provided advice to the Board Presented to the Group Selection Committee.
that the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable.
The Committee provided this The Group Selection Committee reviewed and discussed the advice having reviewed managements process and confirmed its strengths and weaknesses of each firm and, at the conclusion of output, and provided confirmation to the Board that this process the process, the Committee recommended its first and second was effective.
The Committee identified PwC as its preferred appointment, supported by clear and compelling The Committee also recommended that the Board approve the reasoning.
PwC has a track record of delivering an audit to a high viability and going concern statements, having overseen the standard, with each partner rotation bringing new insight, and viability and going concern statements process throughout the the proposed lead partner had demonstrated that this would year as described on page 45. continue.
Senior members of the audit team were generally highly regarded.
During the tender process the quality of their written responses had been excellent and performance in meetings with the Committee Chairman and senior management had been strong.
The Committee agreed that the current PwC audit approach was robust and effective and that they had Updates and reports performed consistently well in the tender process.
Received reports from internal audit at each meeting, discussed significant items and the effectiveness of internal audit, and approved the 2018 internal audit plan.
Received a tax update from the Head of Treasury & Tax.
Received technical accounting and governance updates provided by the Group Financial Controller, Company Secretary and the external auditors.
This included a presentation from the Group Financial Controller on IFRS 15, the new revenue accounting standard that becomes effective for the Group in 2018.
The Committee discussed with management its process to date, preliminary conclusions and implementation plan.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 67 STRATEGIC REPORT G gO Ove VEr Rnan NANc Ce E FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION FRC Thematic Review The Committee received feedback from the Financial Reporting Council FRC following inclusion of Meggitt in its thematic review of 2016 disclosures of significant estimates and judgements.
Other than a couple of areas of disclosure which the FRC noted may not be required on materiality grounds, no adverse comments were raised.
Additionally, the FRC included three areas of the Groups disclosures as examples of best practice within its final report.
Significant estimates and judgements relating to the financial statements The table below summarises the significant estimates and judgements reviewed by the Committee in respect of the Groups financial statements.
Area Action Goodwill The principal judgements are managements determination of the level at which impairment testing should be performed, the achievability of business plans and therefore future cash flows, growth rates beyond the period covered by the five-year business plans and the appropriateness of the discount rates applied to future cash flows.
The Committee discussed a report from management setting out the basis for the assumptions, confirmation that the cash flows used were derived from the 2018 budget and strategic plan which in their role as members of the Board, Committee members had previously reviewed, a sensitivity analysis on key assumptions and an analysis of the headroom at each significant level at which testing was performed, with a particular focus on MABS, EDAC Advanced Composites and Meggitt Training Systems as these had the least headroom measured on a percentage basis.
The Committee agreed with the judgements made by management.
Impact of cancellation of the The Committee considered a report from management describing the impairment test performed Dassault Falcon 5X programme following cancellation by the customer of the Falcon 5X programme, and announcement of a new Falcon aircraft.
Discussions with management focused on those areas of the report covering the contractual position with the customer, the extent to which any costs capitalised prior to cancellation related to technologies which potentially were transferrable to the new aircraft and the level of rework that would be expected to be required, noting that this was very dependent on the final design of the new aircraft for which there remains a significant level of uncertainty.
The Committee also discussed the impacts of the delayed entry into service and lack of reliable third party fleet forecasts for the new aircraft.
The Committee agreed with management that it was appropriate to record a full impairment loss against the balances on the programme.
Development costs The Committee discussed a report from management covering exposure to different aircraft platforms and manufacturers and a sensitivity analysis on specific programmes.
The Committee focused in particular on the Bombardier CSeries, Embraer 450 500, Bombardier Global 7000 8000, Gulfstream G500 G600 and Irkut MC-21 in light of the material values capitalised on these platforms.
The Committee concluded that assumptions made by management were reasonable and the carrying value and estimated useful lives of the assets were appropriate.
Provision for environmental The Committee discussed a report from management setting out the basis for the judgements made and matters relating to historic the extent to which these were supported by third party specialist advice.
The Committee discussed with sites and related insurance and management the sensitivity of amounts recorded to increases in cost estimates and delays to the timing other receivables of clean-up activities, including the impact on insurance policy limits and insurance policy periods of cover.
Retirement benefit obligations The Committee considered a report from management setting out the basis on which assumptions on mortality, inflation and the rates at which scheme liabilities are discounted had been determined, how the Groups assumptions used in its 2016 financial statements benchmarked against those disclosed by other large corporate entities in the UK and US and the sensitivity of amounts recorded in the balance sheet and income statement to changes in these assumptions.
The Committee concluded that the assumptions used, which were supported by third party actuarial advice, were appropriate.
Income taxes Judgements have to be made by management on the tax treatment of a number of transactions in advance of the ultimate tax determination being known.
In assessing the appropriateness of the provision recognised in respect of uncertain tax positions, the Committee considered a report from management setting out the basis for the assumptions made.
They discussed the assumptions in light of the current tax environment and the status of tax audits in the main jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
The Committee concluded that the position taken on uncertain tax provisions was appropriate.
Treatment of items excluded The Committee discussed the treatment and disclosure of amounts included within exceptional operating from underlying profit items and merger and acquisition M&A related items.
For 2017, the Committee agreed, given its measures significance, that the impact of the cancellation of the Dassault Falcon 5X programme was appropriately treated as an exceptional operating item.
The Committee also agreed with management that the full impact on deferred tax net liabilities of the reduction in the US federal corporate tax rate should be excluded from underlying profit measures, even though an element related to amounts previously recorded in underlying profit at the higher tax rates.
The Committee noted the items reflected the way in which they, as members of the Board, reviewed the underlying performance of the Group, were treated consistently year on year other than the Dassault Falcon 5X and US tax rate reduction which only related to 2017 and were disclosed appropriately.
68 MEGGITT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 f gO Inan ver c nan Ial S ct eatementS Audit Committee report continued Reasons for this can include adverse prior audit findings, a change Key areas of oversight in IT system, site moves, senior leadership changes or operational External audit performance issues.
The external auditors are PwC who were appointed for the financial year commencing 1 January 2003 after a competitive tender.
There In 2017, internal audits were carried out for 38 Group locations, are no contractual obligations restricting the Committees choice of including the UK and US finance and payroll shared service centres, external auditors.
as part of the rotational audit cycle.
The business unit audit programmes scope includes finance, programme management, HR The lead audit partner is Andrew Paynter whose appointment in payroll, sales agents distributors and commercial bid & proposal this role commenced with the audit for the financial year ended activity.
The scope of internal audit continues to develop with the 31 December 2013.
Mr Paynter has had no previous involvement business, particularly as a result of any acquisition and disposal with the Group in any capacity.
The external audit was subject to a activity.
A key role of the Audit Committee is to monitor the level of rigorous tender process in 2017 as described above, the outcome internal audit resource to ensure it remains appropriate as both the of which is that PwC has been reappointed and the audit partner will Group and function evolve.
rotate to John Ellis for the 2018 year end.
The mandatory rotation of auditor under EU rules does not take place until 2023.
In addition to the site-based business unit reviews, internal audit has a co-source arrangement with Grant Thornton UK LLP to assist with The Committee routinely meets PwC without executive management resourcing specialist audits, such as IT, tax and treasury.
The Audit present and no concerns have been raised.
It was confirmed that the Committee remains cognisant of increasing cyber complexity and external auditors had been able to offer rigorous and constructive associated risks.
The approach for 2017 was to deliver these reviews challenge to executive management during the year.
using subject matter experts based around four core strategic IT areas: programmes, operations, fix-the-fundamentals and security.
As well as considering the outcome of the audit tender process, the Committee also assessed the effectiveness of PwC and the The results of the audits are regularly discussed with the Head of external audit process using a questionnaire and a Committee Internal Audit and Risk by the Chairman of the Audit Committee discussion on responses to the questionnaire.
The Committee between Audit Committee meetings.
At each meeting, the was satisfied with PwCs performance, that PwC had employed Committee receives a status update on the internal audit an appropriate level of professional challenge in fulfilling their programme, discusses and challenges any significant issues arising role and there were no significant findings from the process.
The and monitors implementation by the business of recommendations Committee determined, on the basis of the satisfactory outcome made.
of the evaluation and as a result of the audit tender process during which PwC were reselected, to recommend that the Board submit The Audit Committee routinely meets internal audit without executive the reappointment of PwC to shareholders for approval at the AGM management present.
No concerns have been raised and it was in 2018 for the 2018 financial year.
confirmed that the internal auditors had been able to carry out their work and offer constructive challenge to executive management Non-audit services during the year.
The Audit Committee considered the effectiveness of The Group places great importance on the independence of its internal audit in 2017 and confirmed that they continue to be satisfied.
external auditors and is careful to ensure their objectivity is not For 2018 an independent effectiveness review has been commissioned compromised.
The Committee agrees fees paid to external auditors by the Audit Committee, supported by Group management, as part of for their services as auditors and is required to approve, in advance, their ongoing assessment processes.
any fees to the external auditors for non-audit services in excess of 0.1 million.
Whistleblowing The Ethics and Trade Compliance Committee is responsible for Details of fees paid for audit services, audit-related services and oversight and review of the process for handling allegations from non-audit services can be found in note 7 to the Group consolidated whistleblowers.
Whistleblowing is included in our Ethics and financial statements.
Fees paid for non-audit services in 2017 were Business Conduct Policy and Code of Conduct, which is available less than 0.1 million 3% of the total audit fee and average fees on our website.
The Group sponsors an independently operated paid for non-audit services for the last three years to 2017 were and monitored Ethics Line, enabling employees to report concerns less than 0.1 million 2% of the total audit fee over that period.
about possible misconduct, with proportionate and independent Fees paid for non-audit services related to services allowed to be investigation and appropriate follow-up action.
provided by PwC under the Groups policy on non-audit services.
Compliance with Audit Services Order The Groups policy on non-audit services covers services that We comply with the Competition and Market Authority Order 2014 can be provided and those which are generally prohibited for example internal audit services and tax planning and sets out relating to audit tendering and the provision of non-audit services, as discussed further above.
the procedures for approving non-audit services.
The full policy is available on our website under Audit Committee in the Governance On behalf of the Audit Committee section.
The Committee is satisfied that the overall levels of audit-related and non-audit fees are not material to the PwC office conducting the audit, or PwC as a whole, and therefore the objectivity and independence of the external auditors was not compromised.
Colin Day Internal audit Chairman of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee agrees the annual internal audit plan which 26 February 2018 is developed according to a risk assessment process and ensures adequate resources are available to execute the plan.
The risk assessment process initially divides our business units into three tiers determined by financial measures.
Tier 1 businesses are visited annually, with Tier 2 businesses visited every other year and Tier 3 businesses every third year.
This is then subject to a further discretionary risk based adjustment if there are circumstances which suggest a business unit should have an audit accelerated.
