Corporate governance Good governance is about helping to ensure the Company is well run Donald Brydon CBE Chairman Dear Shareholders, Good corporate governance is not about adhering to codes of practice although The Board of the Group is committed to ensuring that it provides effective adherence may constitute a part of the evidence of good governance but rather leadership and promotes uncompromising ethical standards.
One of the ways in about the exercise of a mind set to do what is right.
One of the challenges facing which the Board achieves this is by requiring that good governance principles and any Board is the way in which the Non-Executive and the Executive Directors practices are adhered to throughout the Company.
The Board has determined interact.
It is clear that they each have the same legal responsibility but it is that the following is a helpful summary of its role.
generally unrealistic to expect Executive Directors to speak individually with the same freedom as the Non-Executive Directors.
Equally, Executive Directors who Good governance is about helping to ensure the Company is well run.
It involves just toe the executive line in contradiction to their own views may not be being satisfied that an effective internal framework of systems and controls is put effectively contributing to good governance.
A well-functioning Board needs to in place which clearly defines authority and accountability and promotes success find the right balance between hearing the collective executive view, being aware while permitting the management of risk to appropriate levels.
of the natural internal tensions in an executive team and allowing independent input from the Non-Executive Directors.
It also involves the exercise of judgement as to the definitions of success for the Group, the levels of risk we are willing to take to achieve that success and the levels One of the consequences of both increasing the watchdog role of the Board and of delegation to the executive.
The exercise of this judgement is the responsibility finding this balance between individuality and team behaviour is driving more of the Board and involves consideration of processes and assumptions as well and more Boards to have fewer and fewer Executive Directors.
circumstances, the consequent Board construction works effectively and an appropriate balance is struck.
It also involves the creation of a sensitive interface for the views of shareholders and other stakeholders to be given appropriate consideration when reaching Notwithstanding the tensions created by many external expectations, which may these judgements.
be wholly or in part unrealistic, a successful Board should, ideally, be composed of a diverse group of respected, experienced and competent people who coalesce The Executive Team is required to provide such information to the Board as the around the common purpose of promoting the long-term success of the Company, Board needs to enable it to exercise its judgement over these matters.
It must also provide a unified vision of the definitions of success and appropriate risk, endeavour evidence appropriate process.
There is a very fine distinction between the approval to support management i. e. honestly criticise at times but encourage all the time of processes and their definition.
Only exceptionally would the Board intervene to and create confidence in all stakeholders in the integrity of the business.
The Board also sets the tone for the Group.
The way in which it conducts itself, its attitude to ethical matters, its definition of success and the assessment of appropriate risk, all define the atmosphere and culture within which the Executive Donald Brydon Team and all employees work.
Chairman 2 March 2018 Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 the Code This report is intended to give shareholders a clear and comprehensive picture of and its statement requirements the Groups governance arrangements and how they operated during the year.
Throughout the financial year ended 31 December 2017 and to the date of this report, London Stock Exchange Group plc has complied with the provisions of the Pages 5661 set out details of the areas of our focus during the year, followed by Code.
The Code is publicly available at the website of the UK Financial Reporting the Committee Reports.
Descriptions of how we complied with the main principles Council at www.
This corporate governance section of the Annual of the Code are set out on pages 6263.
Report and Accounts describes how we have applied the principles of the Code.
56 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 Governance Corporate governance Board and Committee meetings 2017 The Board held 16 Board meetings of which 6 were scheduled meetings and 10 additional meetings principally relating to the proposed merger with Deutsche Brse, and the Shareholder requisitioned General Meeting.
A table of Board and Committee meeting attendance is set out below.
Table shows the number of meetings attended against the number of meetings each Director was eligible to attend 3 Board Audit Nomination Risk Remuneration Other Donald Brydon CBE 16 16 4 4 6 6 6 6 Jacques Aigrain 16 16 5 5 6 6 7 8 Paul Heiden 13 16 5 5 4 4 3 4 5 6 7 8 Lex Hoogduin 16 16 2 2 Raffaele Jerusalmi 15 16 David Nish 16 16 5 5 4 4 6 8 Stephen OConnor 14 16 5 5 4 4 4 4 1 Val Rahmani 0 0 Mary Schapiro 12 16 4 4 6 6 Andrea Sironi 16 16 2 2 David Warren 16 16 2 2 Directors who left during the year 2 Xavier Rolet 14 14 1.
Val Rahmani joined the Board on 20 December 2017 and was not eligible to attend any meetings during the year 2.
Xavier Rolet stepped down from the Board on 29 November 2017 3.
Transaction committee, Circular committee Note: Nearly all meetings which were missed by Directors were additional rather than scheduled meetings which related to the proposed merger of Deutsche Brse or the Shareholder requisitioned General Meeting.
These were often called on exceptionally short notice.
Attendance at Board Meetings governance and corporate policies, Approval of the Group Risk Register and Risk When Directors have not been able to attend meetings, they received and Appetite, Non-Executive Directors Fees and Approval of Annual and Interim reviewed the relevant meeting papers.
Where they had comments or concerns on Dividends and the Annual Report and Accounts.
the matters to be discussed, they provided these to the Chairman of the Board or Committee in advance of the meeting.
The Chairman of the Board engages with 2017 has proven an extremely busy year for the Group and during the year the Directors between Board meetings to discuss business and strategic issues.
Board considered the following matters: the recommended all-share merger between the Company and Deutsche Brse AG, the sale of LCH S. A. the General When arranging meetings at short notice, every attempt is made to Meeting requisitioned by a shareholder and the subsequent Circular, the accommodate Directors diaries: however, inevitably, not all Directors are able to acquisition of The Yield Book businesses, the divestments of the MillenniumIT ESP attend all such meetings.
The majority of meetings where Directors have been and Exactpro businesses, the Companys share buyback programme, the unable to attend were the 10 additional meetings.
acquisition of additional shares in LCH Group Holdings Limited, the risks and opportunities presented by Brexit, the ongoing management of Cyber Risk and As part of its ongoing development the Board visits the Groups overseas sites and Information Security, the Groups Tax Strategy, the Modern Slavery Act and related in 2017 it visited the Groups businesses and met with staff in Milan.
Group policies, the new General Data Protection Regulation GDPR, the Groups Insurance policies, Group strategy including Group corporate responsibility On a number of occasions throughout the year, the Chairman met Non-Executive strategy, Group Debt Refinancing, Investor Relations reports, the review of Directors without Executive Directors present in particular to discuss succession quarterly financial forecasts and funding of acquisitions, the review and approval planning in relation to the Chief Executive Officer and actions arising in relation to of full year and interim results and quarterly Interim Management Statements, the requisition of a General Meeting by a shareholder.
The Board also met without and Executive and Non-Executive succession planning, including the the presence of the Chairman.
Throughout the year, the Chairman also met with commencement of the search for a new Chief Executive Officer and the Non-Executive Directors individually to discuss other business-related matters appointment of a new Non-Executive Director.
including succession planning and refreshment of the Board and its composition.
Comprehensive Board and committee papers, comprising an agenda and formal Other Board Committees reports and briefing papers are sent to Directors in advance of each formal As reported in last years Annual report a transaction committee was appointed meeting.
Directors are continually updated with written and verbal reports, from in 2016 to consider the proposed merger with Deutsche Brse.
Its members were senior executives and external advisors.
Donald Brydon Chairman, Jacques Aigrain, Paul Heiden and David Nish.
Following the end of the merger discussions in March 2017, the Transaction Matters considered by the Board Committee was disbanded.
Each of the regular meetings includes a wide-ranging report from the Chief Executive and a report from the Chief Financial Officer on the Groups financial A board committee consisting of Paul Heiden Senior Independent Director and performance.
Reports from the Committee Chairmen, updates on major projects Chair of the Committee, Lex Hoogduin, Jacques Aigrain and David Warren was and certain administrative matters are also reported at each Board meeting.
appointed between October 2017 December 2017 to assist the Board in preparation of a Circular in respect of the shareholder requisitioned General On an annual basis the Board undertakes reviews of the following: Health and Meeting held on 19 December 2017.
Details of the number meetings held to Safety, the Three Year Business Plan and Annual Budget, Board effectiveness, discuss these matters are outlined in the table above.
Review of independence of Directors pursuant to the Code, Review of key London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 57 Corporate governance continued BOARD EFFECTIVENESS AND LEADERSHIP Presentation of findings 2017 Effectiveness Review Professor Goffee prepared a report setting out the findings including comparison Since 2005 it has been the Boards policy to conduct an effectiveness review on an against a wider set of other Boards.
Separate reviews of the Boards assessment of annual basis and, where appropriate, to act on the results of the review.
The Code each individual director were also prepared for the Chairman to discuss with recommends that an externally facilitated evaluation should take place at least directors individually, and in the case of the Chairman, with the SID.
Professor Goffees report was shared with the Board and a session scheduled for During the Period, the Board engaged Professor Rob Goffee Emeritus Professor, Board directors to discuss the findings with Professor Goffee and agree next steps.
London Business School to facilitate an external review of its effectiveness.
Professor Goffee was appointed following a review of providers in the market Results and is not currently engaged in any other work on behalf of the Company.
The results suggest that Board members are broadly content with various aspects of governance and functioning.
Additionally, the Board sets itself objectives which In the Circular dated 30 November 2017 the Board said it would review the steps were reviewed during the process and at the end of the year the Board judged it which ultimately led to the General Meeting to establish the appropriate lessons had made good progress in meeting those objectives.
The Board engaged Simon Collins a former UK Chairman and Senior Partner of KPMG LLP to carry out a review of the events leading to the General The Review identified a number of positive attributes including management of Meeting.
The Board will share a summary of key conclusions with shareholders in Board meetings, shaping of agendas, functioning of the Audit Committee and due course.
Chairmans leadership of the Board to ensure focus and good practice.
Evaluation Process Next Steps The events leading up to the General Meeting requisitioned by a shareholder, The Board recognised that greater focus needs to be given to the following areas brought Governance, including the proper operation of the Board and its during 2018: Committees, into focus.
Engagement greater engagement with the business outside of board meetings to improve understanding of business activity and depth of executive talent When designing the 2017 Effectiveness Review, the Board and Professor Goffee felt it appropriate to acknowledge the impact of those events, but to focus on how Induction and training induction and trainingto be strengthened the Board has operated throughout the year.
Board composition and interaction: The process was in-depth and involved one-to-one interviews with Board Review of Board membership and balance to ensure it is equipped to meet the members conducted by Professor Goffee and the completion of a very detailed shifting competitive landscape and technological changes faced by the Group questionnaire to provide insight into how the Board functions covering the Further strengthen relationships between directors following areas associated with the effectiveness of the Board: Structural fine tuning improve impact of the Regulatory Advisory Group and 1.
Strategy & Planning Technology Advisory Group.
Governance, Risk & Control The Board will agree actions to address these matters during 2018 and report 3.
Performance Management & monitoring against them in next years Annual Report and Accounts.
Board & Committee working efficiencies The Review also included review of individual director performance based on appropriate criteria.
As part of the Review Professor Goffee reviewed papers and documentation provided to the Board.
The anonymity of all feedback from board members received was ensured throughout the process.
58 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 Governance Corporate governance 2016 Effectiveness Review In the lead up to a  General Meeting, the Chairman The 2016 Effectiveness Review which was conducted internally and Senior Independent Director held 35 shareholder meetings or calls, and by the Group Company Secretary identified a number of issues.
discussions were also held with investor trade organisations and shareholder These are summarised below, together with the resulting actions: proxy advisers as part of the wider shareholder communications around the topic.
As part of the external review undertaken by Simon Collins, shareholder ISSUE ACTION views will be incorporated in the reports findings.
Board Directors to Board members attended dinners, company events The Board receives a report on IR matters at each of its scheduled meetings, have increased and also held discussions outside formal Board including market expectations of financial performance, updates on share register contact outside meetings as a group and on an individual basis composition and feedback from investors.
Sell-side analyst research notes are the Board room circulated to the Board following publication.
The Groups corporate brokers and a specialist IR advisory firm also provide the Board with advice on market sentiment, Increased discussion CEO succession was a key area of focus for the of succession planning Nomination Committee and Board in 2017 input on market communications and share register analysis.
In June 2017 the at Board level Refreshing Board composition continued to be Group hosted a market update event, with senior management from the core a key focus during the year business divisions presenting on growth and development opportunities.
This resulted in the Group setting public financial targets as described on page 41.
Identify further Each Non-Executive Director identified areas of development business interest and the Company Secretary is In addition to information on financial and operational performance, the Group needs for directors facilitating contact with that area of the business Further in depth teach in sessions engages with shareholders and relevant shareholder advisory agencies on have been held outside of Board meetings environmental, social and governance ESG matters.
The Group produces an annual Corporate Sustainability report that details its approach to ESG matters: www.
com  corporateRelations with shareholders responsibility.
The Groups Investor Relations IR function, reporting to the Chief Financial Officer, manages an ongoing shareholder engagement programme throughout The Groups AGM provides the opportunity for all shareholders to meet and to the year.
Executive management and the IR team engage with investors through put questions to the Board Directors.
Procedures for the AGM and any General meetings and presentations to discuss strategy, performance and other matters.
Meeting are compliant with the Code, with voting by way of a poll to ensure all The Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration shareholders views are taken into account.
Committee are also available to meet major investors, typically to discuss corporate governance matters.
The IR section of the Groups website www.
com investor-relations is a primary source of regularly updated information about the Group.
All financial In 2017, Board members, senior executive management and the IR team held over reports and statements, news releases, presentations and other documents 500 meetings and calls with institutional equity and debt investors, including the including regulatory news service disclosures are available on the website together Boards engagement with shareholders to discuss CEO succession.
with a list of analysts producing research on the Company and a summary of analysts forecasts of performance.
Recordings of preliminary and interim results calls are accessible to all shareholders via the Group website.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 59 Corporate governance continued Conflicts of interest Risk Management and Internal Control The Companys Articles of Association allow the Board to authorise conflicts of The Board is responsible for the Groups risk management framework and interest that may arise and to impose such limits or conditions as it thinks fit.
maintaining an appropriate system of internal controls.
A Board approved The Group has established procedures whereby actual and potential conflicts of Enterprise-wide Risk Management Framework and Group Risk Appetite Statement interest are regularly reviewed, appropriate authorisation is sought prior to the are central to the Groups Risk Management process.
The Risk Management appointment of any new Director and new conflicts are addressed appropriately.
Framework is updated on an ongoing basis in response to changes in the Groups The decision to authorise a conflict of interest can only be made by non-conflicted business and associated risks.
The Group Risk Appetite statement is approved Directors and, in making such decisions, the Directors must act in a way they annually as part of the Groups strategic planning process.
consider, in good faith, would be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The Audit Committee and Risk Committee assist the Board in discharging its Lex Hoogduin is Chairman of LCH Group Holdings Limited.
LCH Group Holdings responsibilities by reviewing and assessing the Groups Risk Management Limited is a non-wholly owned subsidiary of the Company and Mr Hoogduin Framework, system of internal controls and risk management process on a regular receives a separate fee for that role.
Any potential conflicts of interest arising as a basis.
Refer to the reports of the Audit Committee on pages 6569 and the Risk result of Mr Hoogduins appointment to the Board have been governed by the Committee on pages 7071 for further detail on their oversight activities during terms of a conflicts memorandum of understanding between LCH Group Holdings the year.
The system of internal controls is designed to facilitate the management of the Indemnities Group and its businesses within the Boards risk appetite rather than eliminate the Directors have the benefit of indemnity arrangements from the Company in risk of failure to achieve the Groups objectives, and can only provide reasonable, respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office and execution of their but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss, fraud or powers, duties and responsibilities.
The Company maintained a Directors and breaches of laws and regulations.
Officers liability insurance policy throughout the year.
This policy covers the Directors for any such liabilities in respect of which they are not indemnified by Executive management is accountable for risk identification, evaluation, mitigation, the Company and, to the extent to which it has indemnified the Directors, also monitoring and reporting in accordance with the framework.
A divisional internal covers the Company.
This insurance cover has been renewed.
Neither the control and Risk Management self-certification process is also performed Companys indemnity nor insurance provides cover for a Director in the event that semi-annually.
Each business unit is required to confirm that it is in compliance the Director is proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
with the Groups policies and governance procedures and managing its risk within appetite: exceptions are reported to the Audit Committee and Risk Committee.
FURTHER INFORMATION Further detail on the Groups Risk Management oversight can be found on pages 4245.
An overview of the Principal Risks and Uncertainties of the Group is provided on pages 4653.
60 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 Governance Corporate governance Internal Controls Internal Audit Management structure The Internal Audit function provides independent assurance to the Board and The Group operates a matrix structure designed to optimise resource allocation other key stakeholders over the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups and organisational capacity.
The day-to-day running of the Group is managed by system of internal controls, the governance model and the Enterprise-wide Risk an Executive Committee, which is chaired by the Interim Chief Executive Officer Management Framework.
The function is the third line of defence in the Groups and Group Chief Financial Officer.
Each Executive Committee member is risk control structure and has no operational responsibilities over the entities or responsible for one of the Groups operating divisions or a major area of strategic processes which it reviews.
The Executive Committee meets regularly to review business and financial performance, risk exposure and to approve key decisions.
Each legal The independence of the Internal Audit function from Executive Management is entity is responsible for engaging with its local regulators and monitoring and ensured through the following measures: ensuring regulatory compliance.
The Group Head of Internal Audit reports directly to the Chairman of the Audit Committee and has direct access to the Chairman of the Board.
For Policies and Procedures administrative matters the Group Head of Internal Audit has a secondary A framework of Group-wide policies establish the principles, minimum standards reporting line to the Chief Financial Officer.
and risk management activities LSEG requires the Groups businesses and functions to follow to manage their business within risk appetite.
All Group-level The Chairman of the Audit Committee and Chief Financial Officer jointly assess policies are approved by the Executive Committee, and may also require approval the performance of the Group Head of Internal Audit.
or ratification from the Audit Committee, the Risk Committee and the Board.
The The Audit Committee approves the Internal Audit annual budget.
Group runs a rolling programme of mandatory online training courses for all employees covering matters including ethical conduct, risk and control Further details on the Internal Audit function can be found in the internal audit management, regulatory requirements and the group policies.
charter which is reviewed annually and available from the Group Company Secretary or the Groups website at www.
The Group has a robust system of financial control which has been enhanced during 2017 by the continued roll-out and implementation of the Group wide Conclusion financial system in response to the increased size and footprint of the group.
The Board confirms that, through the Audit Committee and the Risk Committee, An appropriate framework of delegated authorities is in place.
it has reviewed the operation and effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls throughout 2017 and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report and Comprehensive financial planning, reporting and review procedures are in place, Accounts.
The Board has satisfied itself that a robust assessment of the principal with an annual budget and 3 year business plan approved by the Board.
Financial risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business model, and key performance indicators are reviewed against operational budgets on a future performance and liquidity, have been carried out during the year.
Necessary monthly basis at a group, divisional and business unit level.
The Chief Financial actions have been or are being taken to remedy any significant failings or Officers management reports are shared with the Board and any key issues are weaknesses identified during these reviews.
The Board is satisfied that the Risk reviewed at each Board meeting.
Management process and system of internal controls conform with the FRCs 2014 Risk management, internal control and related financial and business reporting.
The Executive Investment Committee monitors capital expenditures across the Group and helps the Executive Committee approve and prioritise projects.
The Executive Financial Risk Committee oversees risks related to capital, investments, tax, counterparties and through its Treasury Committee the activities of the Groups Treasury function.
The Treasury Committee operates within Board approved policy and meets regularly to review the management of the Groups credit, market and liquidity risks.
Material group counterparty exposures are assessed regularly including through a Group-wide centralised counterparty risk Value at Risk model.
Further details on financial risk management are provided in Note 2 to the accounts.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 61
