JAMES FISHER AND SONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Audit Committee report This year the Committee has continued to focus on reviewing Introduction by Malcolm Paul, Chairman of the Groups systems of risk management and internal the Audit Committee controls, as well as ensuring the integrity of the Groups public I am pleased to introduce the report of the Audit Committee financial reporting.
Whilst we do not believe that the UKs for the year ended 31 December 2017. future departure from the EU will have a material impact on the Group we keep this matter under constant review.
In addition The Committee and the work it performs is of fundamental we have reviewed and endorsed the Groups approach to tax importance to the Board in discharging its responsibility transparency in all the regions of the world in which the Group for oversight and monitoring of financial reporting, risk operates.
I have been chairman of the Committee since 2012 and it is my responsibility to ensure The Group has previously accounted for long-term contracts that the Committee fulfils its responsibilities in a rigorous and by estimating the percentage stage of completion based on effective manner.
The Committees agenda is designed, in costs incurred to date compared to the estimated total contract conjunction with the Boards, to ensure that all significant costs.
For the last 24 months our finance team, led by our areas of risk are covered and to enable it to provide timely Group Finance Director Stuart Kilpatrick, has been considering input to Board deliberations.
the impact of IFRS 15 Revenue Recognition Revenue from Contracts with Customers, effective 1 January 2018, which In line with the Code, this report seeks to focus on specific focuses on when control over the goods or services passes aspects considered by the Committee during the year and to the customer.
Through a series of conferences and working aims to provide assurance to you, our shareholders, that the parties in association with our auditor, KPMG LLP KPMG, key control environment of the Group is being properly supervised issues have been identified, analysis undertaken and regular and monitored.
reports made to the Committee.
Specific details of our work in I am satisfied that the Committee is properly constituted with this regard are set out below.
written terms of reference, which include all matters referred IFRS 16, which becomes effective from 1 January 2019, to in the Code and is provided with good quality information to will in due course impact on the Group accounts.
This new allow proper consideration to be given to topics under review.
standard will bring operating leases onto the Groups balance I am also satisfied that meetings are scheduled to allow sheet for the first time as an asset to be depreciated and a sufficient time for discussion and to ensure that all matters are corresponding liability against which future lease payments will considered fully.
The Committees terms of reference, which be set.
Work is currently underway to establish full details of the are available on our website, were updated in January 2018 leases that will most affect the Group which broadly fall into two in accordance with the FRC Guidance on Audit Committees, categories: bareboat vessel leases, where the Group charters or April 2016. hires a vessel with no crew or provisions included as part of the Of particular importance is the requirement to ensure agreement: and rented property leases.
that the Groups financial reporting is fair, balanced and The Committee operates in an open manner, has clear and understandable.
We therefore review all the Groups financial concise channels of communication with the Board and, should reports before publication, including where necessary it be necessary, I would be available to meet with investors.
alternative performance measures, with this responsibility at the forefront of our minds, and we are satisfied that they Malcolm Paul provide a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of Chairman of the Audit Committee the Groups position and performance.
34 JAMES FISHER AND SONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 review the Groups internal financial controls and systems Audit Committee composition for risk management and internal control: The Committee is chaired by Malcolm Paul and consists monitor and review the effectiveness of the internal audit exclusively of independent Non-Executive Directors whose function: biographical details are set out on page 27.
The Board is satisfied that Malcolm Paul, a chartered accountant who monitor the Companys policies for handling allegations was formerly finance director of a FTSE 250 company, has from whistleblowers: and significant recent and relevant financial experience.
The other hold a broad remit to review and comment upon market members throughout the year were Aedamar Comiskey, communications including public announcements and David Moorhouse and Michael Salter.
Following the Board analysts presentations.
changes announced on 18 January 2018 Justin Atkinson, an independent non-executive director and a chartered Financial reporting accountant, joined the Committee on 1 February 2018 with The Committees primary responsibility in relation to the the intention of becoming chairman of the Audit Committee Groups financial reporting is to review and challenge where with effect from the conclusion of the AGM on 3 May 2018. necessary, with both senior management and the auditor, the The members of the Committee collectively have broad appropriateness of the Groups Interim Statement and Annual financial, commercial, professional and technical experience Report and Accounts with particular focus on: and as a whole are considered to have competence relevant to the sectors in which the Group operates.
Committee whether suitable accounting policies have been adopted attendance is shown on page 30. and properly applied: The Committee had three scheduled meetings during the the clarity of disclosures and compliance with financial year in February, August and November on dates to coincide reporting standards and relevant financial and governance with the financial reporting cycle.
The Group Chairman, Chief reporting requirements: Executive Officer, Group Finance Director, the Company whether management has made appropriate estimates Secretary, the internal auditor and senior members of the and judgements in material areas or where there has been finance team attend each meeting by invitation together with discussion with or issues raised by the auditor: and representatives of the auditor, including the reporting partner.
whether the Annual Report and Accounts taken as a At each scheduled meeting the Committee provides the whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides opportunity to discuss matters privately with the auditor and the information necessary for shareholders to assess the the internal auditor.
In addition, the chairman of the Committee Groups position and performance, business model and holds regular meetings with the KPMG audit reporting partner strategy.
to discuss matters related to the Group.
The KPMG audit To facilitate its financial reporting responsibility the Committee partner for the Group rotated during 2017 from David Bills received reports from the Companys auditor, KPMG, at each to Mike Barradell following the audit tender process which of the scheduled Committee meetings.
The first meeting in was completed in 2016.
Details of the Committees specific February 2017 considered the accounting, financial control responsibilities and how it exercises those responsibilities and audit issues reported by the auditors that flowed from are set out in the remainder of this report.
The Board and the their audit work and reviewed the financial statements and members of the Committee separately review the performance specific disclosures, including the viability and going concern of the Audit Committee each year and are satisfied that statements, for recommendation to the Board.
In addition to the Committee discharges its duties and responsibilities in standard agenda items, the February meeting also received accordance with its terms of reference.
evaluations of the external and internal audit process and Main responsibilities of the Committee reviewed the procedures and outputs for the identification, assessment and reporting of risk.
The August meeting The Audit Committees main duties and responsibilities are to: received a review by the auditor of the Half Year results monitor the integrity of the Groups financial statements and considered the accounting, financial control and audit including a review of the significant financial reporting issues arising to enable the Committee to review the Interim judgements contained therein: Statement and recommend it to the Board.
The November meeting reviewed the planning memorandum for the annual assess the independence and objectivity of the auditor audit, including proposed scope and key risks, together with and make recommendations to the Board for the auditors an indication of the proposed audit fee, which was subject to appointment, re-appointment and removal: subsequent agreement.
In addition, the meeting considered approve the auditors remuneration including non-audit a detailed report from internal audit on their work for the year fees, terms of engagement and provision of non-audit and approved the internal audit programme for 2018. services: 35 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT JAMES FISHER AND SONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Integrity of financial reporting Acquisition accounting The Committee has a primary responsibility to review the The level of judgement involved in determining acquisition integrity of the Annual Report and Accounts and the Interim fair values and the valuation of acquired intangible assets Statement of the Company, which includes the review and is a potential risk to the Group.
The Committee considered discussion of papers prepared by management and takes the fair value and accounting policy adjustments made to account of the views of the auditor.
The key areas reviewed in each acquisition and assessments in respect of contingent the 2017 financial year are set out below.
These were discussed separately with the Group Finance Director and the auditor, and the IFRS 15 Revenue Recognition Revenue from Committee concluded that acquisitions had been accounted Contracts with Customers for in accordance with the Groups accounting policies.
The introduction of IFRS 15 with effect from 1 January 2018 Operations in overseas jurisdictions with will change the basis for revenue recognition from a stage uncertain legislation of completion of a contract to the delivery against identified performance obligations.
Due to the diverse nature of the territories in which the Group operates often with local partners, there is an inherent The main revenue streams within the Group are goods and commercial and financial risk arising from operating in services, rental income and construction contracts and for these locations.
This is particularly prominent in the Groups the most part revenue is recognised at the point in time when operations in emerging markets, due to a potentially more the performance obligation is met.
Long-term contracts, often uncertain legislative, political and regulatory environment.
The spanning a financial year end, are also a feature of some of our Committee received regular updates on the operational and business segments, most noticeably in Specialist Technical financial performance of the Groups business operations in and Marine Support.
In these situations, revenue is to be these territories together with the assessment of areas where recognised over time having regard to performance obligations specific judgements have been necessary.
The Committee was satisfied that each of the matters set out The Committee received reports on a number of contracts, above was adequately addressed by the Executive Directors including the Indian submarine rescue contract, the Galloper and senior management, appropriately tested and reviewed wind farm project, the decommissioning of the core nuclear by the auditor, and the judgements and disclosures made reactor at Winfrith, Dorset and the Swimmer Delivery Vehicle in the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts and 2017 Interim initiative.
The Committee critically examined the recognition of Statement were appropriate.
revenue and profit on these significant long-term projects to ensure both were recognised in the correct accounting period Going concern and that judgements made by management were reasonable The Committee reviewed the appropriateness of the going and in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 15. concern assumption in preparing the financial statements.
This Where appropriate, matters arising were discussed with senior included a review of papers prepared by senior management management and KPMG in their capacity as auditors, and the in relation to the Groups internal budgets, forecasts of Committee concluded that the financial statements recognised future performance, available financing facilities and facility revenue and profits in accordance with the Groups accounting headroom.
Taking account of possible changes that may policy.
impact trading performance and other factors that might affect availability, we expect the Group to maintain the necessary Goodwill valuation headroom under its borrowing facilities for the forthcoming The Committee considered the Groups carrying value year.
We are satisfied that the going concern basis of of goodwill and impairment reviews based on underlying preparation continues to be appropriate in preparing the assumptions, including where appropriate the impact of financial statements.
changes in oil and gas prices, together with the achievability of long-term forecasts and the discount rates applied to forecast Viability statement cash flows.
Senior management provided detailed analysis The Committee reviewed the Companys viability statement to determine the sensitivity of the outcome to changes in key set out on pages 56 and 57 and in particular took care to assumptions and we are satisfied that the judgements made understand the analysis which was prepared by management are both reasonable and appropriate.
and supports the Boards view that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period assessed.
36 JAMES FISHER AND SONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 permitted work have been pre-approved by the Committee.
Risk management and internal controls KPMG were not instructed to carry out any non-audit services The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups risk during 2017. management and internal control systems.
The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing the Internal audit effectiveness of these systems and the Groups internal audit function.
We received regular reports throughout the year The Committee is responsible for reviewing the work carried from the Group Risk Committee and we have reviewed the out by the internal audit department which considers, reviews Groups systems of risk management and internal controls, and reports on key commercial, financial and control risks including financial, operational and compliance controls, and across the Group.
The internal audit function is managed have concluded that the systems are sound and effective.
by an experienced professional assisted by senior financial Reports on whistleblowing complaints and material internal managers from within the Group who undertake their work control failings are referred to the Committee for review and in accordance with an annual programme approved by oversight to ensure that appropriate and timely actions are the Committee.
In addition, during 2017 we engaged the identified and completed.
During 2016 and 2017 there were services of  to support our internal no whistleblowing reports or material instances of internal audit resources particular at overseas offices.
The scope control failure brought to the attention of the Committee.
of each internal audit review is agreed by the Committee in consultation with the internal auditor to ensure that key areas The responsibilities and processes for risk management are for each business are addressed.
described in more detail on page 19.
In 2017, 25 internal audits were undertaken of which 17 were External audit performance in the UK and 8 overseas 2016: 15.
The internal audit reports were presented to the Committee for review and shared with The Committee continually assesses the performance of the senior managers for action, as well as being provided to the auditor, KPMG, from the initial planning stage when they receive auditor for information.
The internal auditor is responsible and discuss the audit plan and proposed strategy, approach, to the Committee for ensuring that all required actions are objectives, significant risk areas and other areas of focus, followed up and completed in a timely manner.
drawing on input from the Groups senior management, until conclusion of the audit.
The Committee conducts annually a The effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function is formal assessment of the auditors performance based on its continually reviewed and a formal review is undertaken own experience and that of the Groups senior management.
annually by the Board and the Committee.
Following the This process includes the use of questionnaires which focus final 2017 review, the Committee recommended and the on the quality and ability of the audit teams, the robustness Board concluded that the Groups internal audit process was of the audit process and the quality of communication and appropriate and effective.
governance, including the independence of the audit firm.
Malcolm Paul The results of the review are considered by the Committee Chairman of the Audit Committee and discussed with the auditor who provides input on the 26 February 2018 preparedness of the Groups own finance teams and the conclusions are reported to and discussed by the Board.
For the 2017 audit, the Committee considered that the performance of the auditor, including their interaction with the Company, senior management and the Committee, was good.
The Committee was also satisfied that KPMG provided an effective audit and remain independent and objective.
Non-audit services The Committee accepts that certain non-prohibited work is best undertaken by the auditor and to safeguard the auditors objectivity and independence the Committee has a long-standing policy on engagement of the auditor for nonaudit services, which the Committee reviews annually and recommends to the Board for approval.
In accordance with EU Audit Regulations and standards published by the FRC in June 2016, the Committee has not engaged the auditor on matters restricted by those Regulations and standards, and fees from 37 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
