JAMES FISHER AND SONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Nominations Committee report the listed company and is of the calibre necessary to support Nominations Committee composition and develop the Companys long-term strategy and success.
The Committee reports to the Board and is chaired by Charles The Board further considers that no individual or small group Rice with all other members being independent Non-Executive of individuals dominates the Boards decision-making.
The Committee members are Charles Rice, Malcolm The importance of diversity, including gender, in the Boards Paul, Aedamar Comiskey, David Moorhouse and Michael composition is recognised and the Board has agreed a target Salter.
Justin Atkinson joined the Committee on 1 February of at least two female Board Directors by 31 December 2018.
The Committee had three meetings in 2017 and its work The Committee acknowledges however that diversity is not included reviewing the composition of the Board and succession solely in relation to gender: ethnicity, age, educational and planning.
Committee attendance is shown on page 30. professional backgrounds are also important and diversity in senior management and across the entire workforce is Main responsibilities of the Committee supported and encouraged.
The Group has a diversity policy The Nominations Committees terms of reference, which are with the purpose of ensuring that the Group benefits from a available on our website, were updated in January 2018.
The diverse workforce and has a working environment where all main duties and responsibilities are: employees are encouraged to realise their full potential and where there is an open atmosphere of trust, honesty and to regularly review the structure, size and composition of respect.
The diversity policy is available on the Group website the Board including skills, knowledge, independence and as part of the Group policies document.
More information experience and recommend changes: about our employees, the Groups employment policies, succession planning for Directors and senior executives of and the Groups commitment to equal opportunities and both the Company and the operating businesses: and diversity can be found in the Corporate responsibility report on identifying and nominating for approval to the Board, pages 22 to 25 and the Directors report on pages 54 to 57. candidates for Board positions.
Appointments to the Board and succession Board composition and diversity planning The Committee leads the process for board appointments During 2017, there were seven Directors on the Board comprising the Non-Executive Chairman who was considered and makes recommendations to the Board.
Appointments independent on appointment, the Chief Executive Officer, the are made on merit, against objective criteria, with due regard Group Finance Director and four independent Non-Executive to the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender.
The names and biographical details of the members The Committee adopts a formal, rigorous and transparent of the Board are set out on pages 26 and 27. procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board, working together with external advisors.
The Committee The Board functions effectively and efficiently and is considered continues to evaluate the balance of skills and experience on to be of an appropriate size in view of the scale of the Group the Board and is satisfied that plans are in place for orderly and the diversity of its businesses.
The Board considers succession for appointments to the Board to maintain that that each Director demonstrates the knowledge, ability and balance whilst ensuring progressive renewal of the Board.
experience required to perform the functions of a director of 38 JAMES FISHER AND SONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 In January 2018, I informed the Board of my decision to step Non-Executive Chairman the Nominations Committee down at the conclusion of the AGM to be held on 3 May 2018. considered a list of potential external candidates for the This decision was made after receiving confirmation that the Chairman role provided by Korn Ferry, but concluded necessary steps for a smooth transition were in place.
Those that, given the availability of a strong internal candidate in steps included: the current Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Malcolm Paul, and the suitability of Justin Atkinson to chair Non-Executive Director the Nominations Committee the Audit Committee, it would recommend the internal sought the assistance of Korn Ferry to lead the search candidate.
Malcolm will transition to the role of Nonfor a new Non-Executive Director to join the Board.
Korn Executive Chairman with effect from the conclusion of the Ferry is an external search consultancy that has no other AGM, subject to his re-election by shareholders at the connection with the Company.
and interview process, the Nominations Committee subsequently recommended Justin Atkinson to join In February 2018, the Nominations Committee decided to the Board and, following the Boards approval, Justin appoint Fergus Graham to be an Executive Director with was appointed with effect from 1 February 2018.
Fergus joined the Group in January that date he has also become a member of the Audit, 2017 having worked previously at fide La Rue plc and other Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
Justin international companies in both operations and cross-border was formerly Chief Executive Officer of Keller Group plc business development.
He has played a senior role within our between April 2004 and May 2015, having previously held Marine Support division during the past year and will take over the position of Group Finance Director and Chief Operating responsibility for the Marine Support division.
Justin trained and qualified as an accountant and Charles Rice spent the early part of his career with Reuters plc.
It is Chairman of the Nominations Committee intended that Justin will be appointed as chairman of the 26 February 2018 Audit Committee with effect from the conclusion of the AGM, subject to his election by shareholders at the AGM.
39 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
