Governance NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT NonExecutive Director on 10 October Committee.
Roger Yates has substantial and executive teams drive to broaden the recent asset management experience leadership group and its initiatives aimed both in the UK and internationally which at improving talent and career the Board considered would be valuable development for all staff.
as Jupiter continues to pursue its The Committee has also continued to strategic goals.
focus on diversity matters and has During the summer Lorraine Trainer reviewed the progress made in stepped down as Senior Independent implementing the Companys diversity Director having served in this capacity and inclusion policy.
This was noted by since September 2014 and as Chairman the HamptonAlexander review, where of the Remuneration Committee having Jupiter was one of only three companies served from May 2010.
Jonathon Bond, to have gender equality on the Board.
who joined the Board in July 2014, was The Board is cognisant that diversity is appointed as Senior Independent more than gender and during the year Director and Bridget Macaskill, who is an the ViceChairman, CFO and HR experienced Remuneration Committee Director, together with a number of Chairman, was appointed as employees, have been actively involved DEAR SHAREHOLDER Remuneration Committee Chairman.
in the industrywide Diversity Project.
This The Nomination Committee has an Lorraine will not be seeking reelection project has a number of practical important role in ensuring the Board and at the 2018 AGM, having served as a workstreams to promote better diversity its Committees have the right NonExecutive Director for eight years.
practices across the financial sector.
composition, a good balance of the In keeping with the Boards continual experience and skills required to perform We will continue to focus on succession process of refreshing its membership, a their duties, and appropriate diversity of planning, talentmanagement, Board recruitment process will be commenced thought and perspective.
recruitment and diversity throughout in the summer of 2018.
The Committee undertakes succession As a people business, one of Jupiters planning for both Executive and Non key risks relates to attracting and Executive Directors and makes retaining talented people and ensuring recommendations to the Board when LIZ AIREY appropriate succession arrangements changes may be appropriate.
There was Chairman are in place.
Succession planning for one change to the membership of the 26 February 2018 executive Directors and senior executives Board during the year, with the has been a key area of focus for the appointment of Roger Yates as a ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE COMMITTEE The Committees role and responsibilities ll reviewing the Companys policies ll considering the Directors include: and practices for executive talent performance and continuing management, development and contribution to the Board and its ll reviewing and nominating candidates diversity: Committees and, when appropriate, for both executive and nonexecutive recommending to shareholders their ll evaluating the structure of the Board Board roles: reelection at the AGM.
and its Committees and the balance ll considering succession planning for of skills, knowledge and experience The Committees terms of reference are Directors and senior executives: required to underpin their continued available for inspection on the Companys effectiveness: and website at www.
com COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDEES Members Attendance by invitation Secretary Liz Airey Maarten Slendebroek CEO Adam Westley Jonathon Bond Andy Boorman Interim HR Director Bridget Macaskill Karl Sternberg Lorraine Trainer Polly Williams Roger Yates Roger Yates was appointed to the Committee on 10 October 2017 Details of attendance by members of Board committees are set out in the Governance report.
While only members of the Committee have the right to attend its meetings, from time to time others are invited to attend the discussion of particular agenda items, including other Directors, senior management and external recruitment consultants.
50 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 THE NOMINATION COMMITTEES WORK IN 2017 The Committee meets at least twice each EXECUTIVE APPOINTMENTS As previously disclosed Lorraine Trainer year, with further meetings taking place AND DEVELOPMENT will not be seeking reelection at the as required, for example to consider The Committee has continued to oversee forthcoming AGM.
All other Directors will nonexecutive or senior executive the talent management and development be seeking reelection or in the case of recruitment as it arises.
Three meetings of senior executives.
This has included: Roger Yates election at the AGM on were scheduled in 2017 and one further 16 May 2018.
The Committee has ll the ongoing development of the meeting took place.
The Committee reviewed the Directors standing for Executive Committee: reports formally to the Board on its election or reelection with Committee proceedings.
Liz Airey chairs the members recusing themselves in respect ll consideration of talent acquisition, Committee but does not do so when the of their own review, taking into account retention, succession planning and Chairmans appointment is being their effectiveness and commitment.
has also considered the independence of ll employee engagement including the NonExecutive Directors and is actions from the 2017 Employee Each year the Nomination Committee satisfied that they are independent in Opinion Survey.
evaluates the Boards and the Board both character and judgement, in Committees balance of skills, experience, accordance with the Code.
The The Committee has also overseen a independence and knowledge.
This Committee therefore recommended to pairing arrangement with each Non informs its assessment of the Boards the Board all of the Directors standing Executive Director having one or two of development, Committee composition for election or reelection at the AGM.
the senior executives meet with them and helps it prepare a description of the during the year.
The purpose of this is to role and responsibilities required for DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION increase the NonExecutive Directors each new Board appointment.
During The Committee believes that diversity understanding of particular areas of 2017, there was one new Board among Board members, including Jupiters business and for the senior appointment.
gender diversity, is of great value and executives to better understand the carefully considers this in making new NonExecutive Directors role in the NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Board or senior executive appointments.
APPOINTMENT The Companys policy on Board diversity In carrying out this work, the Committee is available at www.
com COMMITTEE EFFECTIVENESS determines the best selection process, An externally facilitated Board and choosing the right recruitment firm to The HamptonAlexander Review sets a Committee evaluation was carried out in help identify external candidates, as well target of 33% women on FTSE 350 2017 by Independent Board Evaluation.
as identifying internal candidates itself.
Boards and I am pleased to confirm that Selected candidates are interviewed by Jupiter exceeds this target and is one of The review found the Committee was members of the Committee and meet the few FTSE 350 Boards to have female operating effectively and highlighted the other Directors and senior managers as directors constituting 50% of the Board.
quality of recent Board appointments.
appropriate, before being recommended However the challenges in identifying an Currently 22% of the Executive to the Board, which makes the final extensive list of suitably qualified and Committee are female members, against decision on Board appointments.
diverse candidates, particularly in the the target recommendation of 33%.
The investment sector were also noted.
In The Committee appointed an Group continues to implement a diversity addition to a number of housekeeping independent consultant, Russell Reynolds, and inclusion policy, to give greater matters, the review also identified areas to recruit a NonExecutive Director as emphasis to supporting diversity of focus for the Committee during 2018, part of its continuing role of reviewing throughout Jupiter.
Further details of our namely: and refreshing the Boards composition.
initiatives in this area, together with the Russell Reynolds does not have any key Group metrics, can be found in the ll talentmanagement within the other connection to the Company, other Talent and Culture section of the organisation: than having been used for a previous Strategic Report.
The Nomination ll further development of the skills Board recruitment.
The Committee Committee continues to monitor diversity matrix: specified the skills, knowledge and within the business, as well as the goals ll continued focus on succession experience required.
Roger Yates was set under the diversity and inclusion planning and diversity across the selected and joined the Board in policy.
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST ll enhancements to the Board Following Lorraines retirement at the During the year, the Committee recruitment and interview process.
2018 AGM, the Committee will define the continued its review of the Boards specific skills, knowledge and experience operation of the Conflict of Interest required in order to initiate a search for policy.
Further details of the operation a new independent NonExecutive of this policy can be found in the Director in the summer of 2018.
Details of other commitments held by the Chairman and NonExecutive Directors are set out in their respective biographies.
