JAMES FISHER AND SONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Corporate governance report Introduction from the Chairman Statement of compliance I am pleased to present the 2017 Corporate governance The Board confirms that, without exception, the Company report on behalf of the Board.
The Board remains committed complied with all relevant provisions of the Code throughout to high standards of corporate governance and to ensure the year ended 31 December 2017.
The following disclosures that values and behaviours are consistent across the Group.
provide a detailed description of how the Company has This report, together with the Audit Committee, Nominations complied with the principles set out in the Code in the 2017 Committee and Directors remuneration reports, are intended financial year.
to give shareholders a clear and meaningful explanation of how the Board and its Committees discharge their corporate A.
Leadership governance responsibilities, and how the principles of good A.
1 Role of the Board governance as set out in the Financial Reporting Councils UK Corporate Governance Code April 2016 the Code, which The Board has a schedule of matters it reserves for its own is the version of the Code which applies to the Company for decision-making, such as decisions relating to: 2017, have been applied throughout the Group.
A copy of the strategy and management: Code can be found at the Financial Reporting Councils FRC website: https: www.
structure and capital: financial reporting and controls: In addition to the Code, the Annual Report and Accounts have been drawn up and presented in accordance with internal controls: the Companies Act 2006, the Large and Medium-sized capital expenditure: Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations approval of material contracts: 2008 as amended by the Companies Act 2006 Strategic communication with shareholders: Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013 and the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules.
The liabilities of Board membership and appointments: the Directors in connection with this report are subject to the corporate governance matters: limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
approval of Group policies: and I would encourage all shareholders to attend our AGM on approval of the Group and Company financial statements.
3 May 2018 as it provides an excellent opportunity to meet the The schedule is reviewed annually and approved by the Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
Charles Rice Chairman 26 February 2018 28 JAMES FISHER AND SONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 The Board Chaired by Charles Rice Meets regularly, with six scheduled meetings during the year.
The Board is responsible for providing effective leadership to the Company.
It does this by setting strategic priorities and overseeing their delivery in a way that enables sustainable long-term growth, while maintaining a balanced approach to risk within a framework of effective controls.
Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee Audit Committee Chaired by Malcolm Paul Chaired by Charles Rice Chaired by Malcolm Paul Meets a minimum of three times a year.
Meets a minimum of three times a year.
Agrees with the Board the remuneration Reviews the structure, size and Assists the Board in its oversight and policy for Executive Directors and composition of the Board including skills, monitoring of financial reporting, reviews other senior executives: reviews the knowledge, diversity and experience the Groups internal financial controls appropriateness and relevance of the and recommends changes: succession and systems for risk management Groups remuneration policy: and ensures planning for Directors and senior and internal controls: monitors the that the provisions of the Code relating to executives: and identifies and nominates Companys whistleblowing policies and remuneration are fulfilled.
for approval to the Board, candidates to fill assesses independence and objectivity vacancies when they arise.
The Directors remuneration report on pages 40 to 53 describes the work of The Nominations Committee report on The Audit Committee report on pages 34 the Committee including the Chairmans pages 38 to 39 describes in detail the to 37 describes in detail the Committees overview.
Executive Committee Sub-Committees Consisting of the Chairman and the Executive The Board also appoints from time to time sub-committees Directors consisting of at least two Directors in order to finalise and approve Meets at least monthly.
those matters that have been approved in principle by the Board.
Empowered, under written terms of reference, to take actions relating to the affairs of the Company in the normal course of business and of a routine nature, subject to such limits as the Board in its discretion determines.
Group Health and Safety Committee Group Risk Committee Chaired by Nick Henry Chaired by Nick Henry Meets on a quarterly basis.
Discusses all health and safety issues including incidents, mitigating Identifies and monitors operational risks throughout the Group: actions and training requirements and reports recordable safety supports the internal control and risk management strategy incidents to the Board.
Operating Divisions Corporate Functions Day-to-day business delivery.
Executive Directors meet on at least a quarterly basis with managing Executive Directors and heads of corporate functions meet at the directors of principal businesses.
Risk Committee on a quarterly basis.
29 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT JAMES FISHER AND SONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED The Directors attendance records at Board and Committee meetings held during the year are shown in the table below: Audit Remuneration Nominations Attendance at Board and Committee meetings Board Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings 6 3 3 3 Charles Rice 6 N A N A 3 Nick Henry 6 N A N A N A Stuart Kilpatrick 6 N A N A N A Malcolm Paul 6 3 3 3 Aedamar Comiskey 5 3 3 3 David Moorhouse 5 2 3 2 Michael Salter 6 3 3 3 Board and Committees operation of the Board Committees All Directors participate in discussing strategy, performance The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to the and financial and risk management of the Company.
Strategy, following Board Committees: acquisition and disposal of businesses and major capital Audit Committee: investments are agreed between the Chairman, the Chief Remuneration Committee: and Executive Officer and the Group Finance Director prior to review and approval by the Board.
Meetings of the Board are Nominations Committee.
structured to allow open discussion.
Each Committee is provided with sufficient resources to To enable the Board to discharge its duties, the Chairman undertake their duties and has formal written terms of ensures that all Directors receive accurate, timely and clear reference which are reviewed annually and available on the information on all relevant matters in advance of the Board Companys website.
meetings, including comprehensive financial and business reports covering the Groups principal activities.
2 Division of responsibilities Executive Directors regularly visit major business centres of The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate, set the Group in order to enhance their knowledge including in out in writing, clearly defined, and approved by the Board.
relation to the services and products offered, which in turn acts to strengthen their contribution to Board debate.
3 Chairman visits included JFD and James Fisher Nuclear at their UK headquarters, and the Non-Executive Directors also received The Chairmans role is to lead the Board and to ensure the presentations from management on key strategic plans, Board operates effectively in all aspects.
The Chairman including relating to individual businesses and markets.
sets the Boards agenda and ensures that adequate time is available for discussion of all agenda items, in particular During the year, the Board has considered a wide range of strategic issues.
On his appointment in August 2012, the matters including safety, operations, corporate governance, Board considered Charles Rice to be independent in character strategy, forecasts and long-term objectives, acquisitions, and judgement in accordance with the Code.
financing, taxation, risk management, internal controls, the Groups principal risks, management and succession The Board has considered and is satisfied that the role of planning and Board composition, as well as shareholder Chairman operates effectively.
The Board has a regular programme of six meetings and a schedule which identifies matters to be A.
4 Chief Executive Officer discussed at each meeting.
The January and July meetings The Chief Executive Officers role is to have the day-to-day are primarily focused on review of corporate governance responsibility for running the Group, including leadership of matters.
The other quarterly meetings each have a broad senior management in executing the Companys strategy based business agenda, which covers the items noted above.
and managing the operational requirements of the Groups businesses.
30 JAMES FISHER AND SONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 The Board has considered and is satisfied that the role of external appointments are set out in the biographies of the Chief Executive Officer operates effectively.
Board of Directors on pages 26 to 27.
4 Development The Board considers that the Non-Executive Directors On appointment, new Directors are given a detailed combine broad business and commercial experience to induction to the Groups business, together with an onbring independent and objective judgement to bear, and to going programme of visits to the Groups major sites and challenge constructively the Executive Directors on issues of meetings with senior management.
On-going training and strategy, performance, resource and standards of conduct.
development for Directors is available as appropriate and is The balance between Non-Executive and Executive Directors reviewed and agreed with the Chairman annually.
The Board is enables the Board to provide clear and effective leadership confident that all its members have the knowledge, ability and and to maintain the highest standards of integrity across the experience to perform the functions required of a director of a Groups business activities.
Each Non-Executive Director is expected to commit B.
5 Information and support sufficient time to allow for attendance at Board and Committee meetings and for keeping in touch with the senior All members of the Board are supplied with appropriate, management team, shareholders and other stakeholders.
clear and accurate information in a timely manner covering Malcolm Paul, the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, matters which are to be considered at forthcoming Board or also acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and as an Committee meetings.
intermediary for Non-Executive Directors where necessary.
Should Directors judge it necessary to seek independent During the year, there were no unresolved concerns regarding legal advice about the performance of their duties with the running of the Company.
the Company, they are entitled to do so at the Companys expense.
Directors also have access to the advice and During the year, Charles Rice met with the Non-Executive services of the Company Secretary.
Directors without the Executive Directors present on more than one occasion and Malcolm Paul, the Senior Independent The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board, Non-Executive Director, met with the other Non-Executive through the Chairman, on all governance matters and for Directors without the Chairman present on more than one ensuring that Board procedures are followed, and applicable occasion.
rules and regulations are complied with.
The Company Secretary also advises the Directors on any important changes B.
Board Effectiveness in legislation, regulation and best practice.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter requiring B.
1 Composition of the Board Board approval.
In 2017, the Board approved the appointment For further information on the composition of the Board, of Jim Marsh as Group General Counsel & Company please refer to the Nominations Committee report on Secretary in succession to Michael Hoggan.
2 Appointments to the Board At the end of each year, the Board undertakes an Appointments to the Board are overseen by the Nominations annual evaluation of its own performance and that of the Committee.
Please refer to the Nominations Committee report Remuneration, Nominations and Audit Committees and of on pages 38 to 39. each individual Director against the framework of Board effectiveness produced by the FRC.
3 Commitment that an external facilitation of the annual review of performance was not necessary this year, as it would be undertaken next Following the Board evaluation process, detailed further year as part of the 2018 annual review, being 3 years since the below, the Board is satisfied that each of the Directors is able last external facilitation.
to devote sufficient time to the Company to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
The 2017 performance evaluations were designed to assist the Board in identifying strengths and weaknesses and areas Contracts and letters of appointment with Directors are made for further improving performance and required each Director available at the AGM or on request.
Executive Directors are to complete in confidence a detailed questionnaire relating to encouraged to take up non-executive positions in other key aspects of Board performance, and performance of the companies or organisations, provided such appointments Boards principal Committees.
The review included an analysis are approved by the Board, which considers, amongst other of the Boards and Committees performance in key areas things, the time commitment required.
The details of current 31 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT JAMES FISHER AND SONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED including corporate governance, structure and procedures, C. 2 Risk management and internal controls strategy and its effectiveness, risk management and control The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent and communications with stakeholders.
The results of the of the principal risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic evaluation were collated by the Company Secretary and objectives and for ensuring that the Company maintains reported to the Board via the Chairman with recommendations sound risk management and internal control procedures.
for further consideration and action as appropriate.
On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee monitors the The 2017 review concluded that the Board functions well as a Groups risk management and internal control process and unit and provides a good balance of support and challenge to reviews its effectiveness on an on-going basis.
of an established process, in accordance with the Financial The annual review of individual Directors performance was Reporting Councils FRC Guidance on Risk Management, conducted internally.
The Chairmans performance was Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting reviewed by the other Non-Executive Directors led by the published in September 2014, for the identification, evaluation Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and taking into and management of the significant risks facing the Group, account the views of the Executive Directors.
The performance which operates and is reviewed continually throughout the of the Executive Directors was reviewed by the Non-Executive year.
The Groups internal control systems are designed Directors with the Chairman in attendance.
The Chairman and to provide the Board with reasonable assurance as to the the Executive Directors reviewed the performance of each effective and efficient operation of the Group and to ensure of the other Non-Executive Directors.
The Board considers the quality of internal and external reporting and compliance that each Director continues to contribute and demonstrate with all applicable laws and regulations.
However, there are commitment to the role.
inherent limitations in any system of internal control and accordingly even the most effective system can provide only B.
7 Re-election reasonable and not absolute assurance.
For further information on the Companys compliance with the The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the Code provisions relating to the re-election of Directors, please principal risks facing the Group including those that would refer to the Directors report on pages 54 to 57. threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Details of those principal risks and the Groups C. Accountability approach to mitigating them are set out in the Strategic report on pages 19 to 21.
C. 1 Financial and business reporting As part of its internal control procedures, the Group has a The Board considers that the Annual Report and Accounts whistleblowing policy which encourages employees to report taken as a whole present a fair, balanced and understandable in good faith any genuine suspicions of fraud, bribery or assessment of the Group and provides the information malpractice in order to identify any problems within the Group necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position at an early stage.
The policy is designed to ensure that any and performance, business model and strategy.
In making this employee who raises a genuine concern is protected.
Any assessment, the Board took into account its own knowledge concerns can be raised in the first instance with the Company of the Group, the markets in which the Group operates, its Secretary in confidence.
strategy and performance in the year, a detailed review of The Board is committed to ensuring the highest standards in the content of the Annual Report and Accounts and other all of the Groups business dealings and condemns corruption periodic financial statements and announcements, together in all its forms.
The Group has a formal anti-bribery and with the recommendation of the Audit Committee.
Key corruption statement and policy and does not tolerate or considerations included ensuring that there was consistency condone corruption or bribery in any of the Groups business between the accounts and the narrative provided in the front dealings.
This policy has been implemented throughout half of the Annual Report, and there was an appropriate the Group and is supported by a group-wide training and balance between the reporting of weaknesses, difficulties awareness programme and regular compliance reviews.
This and challenges, as well as successes, in an open and honest policy is reviewed annually by the Board and is available on manner.
The going concern assessment and the viability statement are The Board has a zero-tolerance approach to any form of set out in the Directors report on pages 56 and 57: and the modern slavery and is committed to acting in an ethical manner Strategic report on pages 8 and 9 sets out an explanation of and with integrity and transparency in our Groups business the Companys business model and the strategy for delivering dealings.
The Group has a formal slavery and human trafficking the Companys objectives.
statement which outlines the steps taken by the Group to ensure that slavery and human trafficking is not taking place 32 JAMES FISHER AND SONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 within any part of the Groups business or within the Groups days and the Company website.
The Board takes the supply chains, which is available on the Groups website.
opportunity at the AGM to meet and communicate with private and institutional shareholders and welcomes their involvement.
C. 3 Audit Committee and auditor In addition, the Company invites regular direct communication with its shareholders as part of the Companys investor For further information on the Companys compliance with relations programme.
the Code provisions relating to the Audit Committee and the Companys auditor, please refer to the Audit Committee report Non-attributable feedback on the investor presentations given on pages 34 to 37. by the Company to shareholders is circulated to the Board.
The Chairman periodically consults with major shareholders in D. Remuneration order to develop a balanced understanding of any issues and concerns and the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director For further information on the Companys compliance with is available to attend meetings with major shareholders if the Code provisions relating to the level and components of requested.
In addition if at any meetings of the Executive remuneration and remuneration procedure, please refer to the Directors with investors a governance or strategy matter is Directors remuneration report on pages 40 to 53. raised, it is relayed back to the Board.
E. Relations with shareholders The Board is therefore of the view that appropriate steps have been taken to ensure all Board members, in particular the The Company communicates with shareholders through the Non-Executive Directors, develop an understanding of the Annual Report and Accounts, Half Year Report, preliminary views of the major shareholders.
announcements, interim management statements, investor The Dorothy May White comes into service In April 2017, Workington Royal National Lifeboat Institution RNLI volunteers welcomed their new state-of-the-art Shannon class lifeboat.
The charitys new 2m lifeboat was part-funded by a substantial donation in 2016 from The Sir John Fisher Foundation.
The Shannon class lifeboat is the first modern RNLI all-weather lifeboat to be powered by water jets and not propellers.
It is capable of 25 knots which is 50% faster than the lifeboats it replaces and is the most agile lifeboat in the RNLIs fleet.
At a ceremony in June 2017, the vessel was named in memory of Dorothy May White, who gave a generous legacy to the RNLI, and was formally handed over to RNLI Workington by Rowland Hart Jackson a trustee of the Sir John Fisher Foundation.
Since coming into service, it has already been called out a number of times, including on the morning of 16 September 2017, when it was called out to assist in the rescue of a lone kayaker who had capsized in choppy seas five miles west of St Bees Head.
33 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
