STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2017 67 AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE REPORT The Committee has continued to play a crucial role in providing comfort to the Board on the integrity of the Group's processes and procedures relating to financial reporting, internal control and risk management.
Andrew Didham The Committee has carried out a The Committee also considered in detail INTRODUCTION FROM number of in-depth risk reviews during managements assessment of the going THE COMMITTEE the year.
This included thematic reviews concern and viability statements and the CHAIRMAN in respect of cyber risk, business underlying models and assumptions used, continuity and Brexit.
prior to their consideration by the Board.
I am pleased to present the Audit & Risk Committee Report for the year ended The Committee remains focused Finally, in addition to Jonathan Dawsons 31 December 2017. on ensuring that relevant laws and retirement and my joining the Committee, regulations are complied with, and that there have been other changes to the I became Chairman of the Committee the business operates within the right composition of the Committee during on 3 October 2017, upon the retirement control framework.
During the year the the year.
Bruce Carnegie-Brown retired of Jonathan Dawson, who had been Committee monitored key compliance from the Committee and the Board in Chairman of the Committee since March activities, including the development and June 2017, following his appointment 2013.
On behalf of the Committee I would implementation of systems and controls as Chairman of Lloyd's of London.
like to thank Jonathan for his strong to address the requirements of the new Richard Meddings joined the Committee leadership of the Committee over the past General Data Protection Regulation, the on 2 October 2017, bringing a broad four years and wish him well for the future.
Senior Managers and Certification Regime range of skills and experience, including The Committee has continued to play a and the Criminal Finances Act 2017. many years as a finance director and as crucial role in providing comfort to the a Chartered Accountant.
The Committee continued to oversee Board on the integrity of the Group's preparations for the implementation of processes and procedures relating to new accounting standards, in particular financial reporting, internal control and IFRS 9 Financial Instruments' and risk management.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Andrew Didham Customers, as further described in the This report highlights the extensive work Chairman, Audit & Risk Committee Significant Accounting Policies in the carried out by the Committee during 2017, 28 February 2018 financial statements.
including its continued focus on the risks and controls in key areas of the Groups The Committee continues to focus on businesses.
The Committees work has these key areas in 2018. reflected the further expansion of the As part of its role, the Committee Groups geographical footprint, including supported the Board in its assessment of in the US and Asia: external challenges whether the Annual Report and Financial affecting the Groups key risk exposures: Statements are fair, balanced and and internal changes in business understandable and provide sufficient organisation, structure and leadership.
information to allow an assessment of the Group's position and performance, business model and strategy.
68 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE COMPOSITION, SKILLS AND COMMITTEE MEETINGS AND ATTENDANCE EXPERIENCE The Committee held six scheduled meetings during the 2017 financial year.
Each meeting agenda was designed to reflect The members of the Audit & Risk Committee who served during the Companys financial reporting cycle and to incorporate the year are listed in the table below.
other matters of importance to the Committee.
The Committee Committee Members during the year has a forward planner which is designed to ensure that the Andrew Didham Chairman joined 2 October 2017 Committee discharges its responsibilities in full during the year.
Bruce Carnegie-Brown retired on 14 June 2017 The Chairman of the Committee reports to the Board after each Annette Court meeting and Committee meetings are scheduled close to Board Jonathan Dawson retired on 3 October 2017 meetings in order to facilitate a timely reporting process.
Richard Meddings joined 2 October 2017 The table below shows the Committee members during the Lord Sassoon year and their attendance at scheduled meetings.
Nicholas Walsh The UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 the Code Committee members Scheduled Attended meetings eligible requires the Board to establish an audit committee of at least to attend three independent, Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee 1 Andrew Didham 2 2 currently comprises five Non-Executive Directors, of which 3 Bruce Carnegie-Brown 3 3 four are independent.
Annette Court 6 6 The Board is satisfied that Andrew Didham and Richard 2 Jonathan Dawson 5 5 Meddings each possess recent and relevant financial 4 Richard Meddings 2 2 experience for the purposes of the Code and the requisite Lord Sassoon 6 6 competence in accounting.
In addition, the Board considers Nicholas Walsh 6 6 that the Committee as a whole has competence relevant to 1.
Andrew Didham joined the Committee on 2 October 2017 and became Chairman on the sector in which JLT operates.
The experience and expertise 3 October 2017. of Committee members is set out on page 62 and in their 2.
Jonathan Dawson retired on 3 October 2017. biographies on pages 58 and 59.
Bruce Carnegie-Brown retired on 14 June 2017.
Richard Meddings joined the Committee on 2 October 2017.
In addition to the Committee members, a number of other people routinely attend meetings by invitation.
The list of the Additional ad hoc meetings may also be held as and additional invitees is set out in the following table: when necessary.
Meeting Attendees During the year the Committee also held separate sessions with Group Company Secretary Group Internal Audit and the external auditor in order to provide Group Chairman additional opportunity for open dialogue and feedback without Group Chief Executive management being present.
The Chairman of the Committee Deputy Group CEO also met with the Group Finance Director, Group Head of Group Finance Director Internal Audit, Group Head of Risk and Compliance and Group Group Head of Internal Audit Company Secretary on an ad hoc basis, and prior to each Group Head of Risk and Compliance Committee meeting.
Group Chief Operating Officer Group General Counsel COMMITTEE ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES External Auditor The role of the Committee is to provide oversight and advice to the Board on matters of financial reporting, financial controls and risk management, together with the assessment and reporting of key risks, whilst maintaining an appropriate relationship with the Companys external auditor.
The business of the Committee is closely linked to the Groups internal calendar of events and external financial reporting cycle.
The Committee works independently of management and liaises with other Group Committees.
Cross-membership between each of the Group Committees ensures that members have a better understanding of the work of each Committee and that communication is more efficient.
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2017 69 The Committees role and responsibilities are set out in its terms of reference, which were updated in October 2017 and which can be found on the Companys website, jlt.
The Committees responsibilities include: Role and Responsibilities of the Audit & Risk Committee Financial Monitoring and review of the integrity of the financial statements of the Group, any formal announcements relating to the Reporting Groups financial performance and significant financial reporting judgements contained therein.
Narrative Reviewing the Annual Report and Financial Statements and advising the Board on the process to confirm whether it is fair, Reporting balanced and understandable and provides shareholders with sufficient information to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
Internal Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls, including financial, operational and Controls compliance controls, as well as reviewing and addressing audit findings.
Risk Monitoring and review of the Groups risk management framework, risk appetite and risk strategy to ensure that these are Management appropriate for the activities of the Group.
Ensuring that appropriate arrangements are in place to effectively manage and mitigate material risks facing the Group.
Review of thematic and business risk reviews and business continuity plans.
External Audit Monitoring and review of the effectiveness of the external audit process, taking into consideration relevant professional and regulatory requirements.
Monitoring and review of the external auditors independence and objectivity, together with the policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services.
Consideration of the appointment of the external auditor, the nature and scope of the external audit and approval of the audit fee.
Internal Audit Monitoring and review of the effectiveness of the Groups Internal Audit function in the context of the overall risk management system and ensuring that the function is adequately resourced and has appropriate standing within the Group.
Agreeing internal audit plans, reviewing reports of internal audit work and reviewing managements responsiveness to control observations made by the internal auditor.
Compliance Discussing relevant compliance and governance issues and reviewing the implications of new legislation and regulation.
Whistleblowing Monitoring and review of the Groups arrangements by which employees and contractors may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting and other matters.
IT Security Monitoring and review of the steps taken by the Group to ensure IT resilience and cyber security.
COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES The table below highlights some of the main activities carried out by the Committee during 2017.
January February April July October December Financials Review of draft Preliminary Results Statement Review of draft Annual Report & Financial Statements Viability Going Concern Review Group Finance update External Audit PwC reports Consideration of the Audit Plan Audit fees Non-Audit fees Auditor independence External Audit Effectiveness Review Other Activity Internal Audit reports External Audit report Annual Review of Systems of Internal Control Risk Management & Compliance reports In-depth Risk Reviews Committee evaluation Denotes thematic risk, specific business unit or function review 70 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE In order to satisfy its responsibilities the Committee, in the ordinary a range of matters in relation to the regulatory environment, course of business, reviewed a wide range of matters, including: including MiFID II, the General Data Protection Regulation, the Senior Managers and Certification Regime and the the drafting of the interim report, preliminary announcement Criminal Finances Act 2017.
The Committee reviewed the and relevant sections of the Annual Report and Financial work performed by the Group in the year to assess and Statements before their submission to the Board: respond to the implications for the business arising from the reports from the Group Finance Director, including updates new regulations and to prepare the Group for compliance: on currency exposures, the treatment of exceptional items, the risk scenario analysis underpinning the Groups viability key accounting judgements, market counterparty security, and going concern statements to be included in the Annual the Group insurance programme and financial reporting Report and Financial Statements: standards and controls: themes relating to the development of the Groups internal reports from the Group Head of Internal Audit on areas control environment framework: and where control weaknesses had been identified, together with the mitigation and remediation plans of management, regular reviews of compliance monitoring.
the activities within the function and resourcing matters: The Committee is focused on ensuring that the Group complies reports from the Group Head of Internal Audit in respect of with its regulatory obligations and monitors current and emerging the overall control environment: developments, including reviews and investigations carried out reports from the Group Head of Risk, including updates by regulators in the jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
on dealings with the regulators in the UK and in The Committee discussed reports during the year in respect other jurisdictions: of a number of regulatory developments, reviews and investigations, including: reports from the Companys external auditor, including in respect of financial reporting and accounting matters: an FCA market-wide study of competition in the wholesale insurance broker sector: reports on the management of professional indemnity risk exposure and the extent of any litigation or other provisions an FCA review of IT resilience and capabilities across the held: and financial services sector: the effectiveness of the Committee.
JLT's participation, following a market study into the asset management sector by the FCA, in a Competition and In addition to its regular agenda of matters, the Committee Markets Authority review of investment consultancy and considered key and emerging risks in a number of business fiduciary management services in the UK: areas, which were supported by Risk Review presentations an FCA conduct and anti-competition review concerning delivered by senior management and, in some cases, the aviation broking, the competition aspect of which has now Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee of the relevant been passed to the European Commission for investigation: business area.
and Key business areas reviewed the ongoing review by the Financial Conduct Authority of US Specialty Insurance Management enhanced transfer value pension products previously sold JLT Europe Canada by a number of market participants.
UK Employee Benefits Middle East and Africa The Group continues to assist the relevant regulators with their India reviews and is monitoring developments closely.
The Committee also considered the following thematic topics Business Audit & Risk Committees 'Entity ARCs' during the year: JLT operates Entity ARCs as part of its global governance a review of the increasing challenges associated with IT across the Group.
Each Entity ARC is provided with a template security and, in particular, cyber risk: planner to ensure that all matters in the terms of reference a review of global sanctions regimes and their application are addressed during the year.
The Entity ARCs focus on the across the Group: oversight of risk registers, emerging risks and financial reporting, the implementation of a consistent limitation of liability together with their regulatory and compliance responsibilities programme across the Group, commensurate with the type and the review of reports from Internal Audit.
Entity ARCs are and nature of services that each business offers: typically chaired by a Non-Executive Director and have a formal reporting process to the Group Audit & Risk Committee.
a review of financial accounting developments: ongoing review of the key risks and themes of Brexit: The Committee Chairman meets periodically with the Chairs of Entity ARCs to discuss common themes and emerging risks the further development and implementation of the Groups and to share areas of best practice across the Group.
business continuity plans and framework: STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2017 71 SIGNIFICANT FINANCIAL STATEMENT ISSUES CONSIDERED BY THE COMMITTEE The Committee considered the following significant issues in the year, taking account of the views of the Companys external auditor.
Issue How the issue was addressed by the Committee Pension The Committee discussed the maintenance of complete and accurate pension scheme data on which the pension liability Liability assumptions are based and noted that no exceptions had been found from testing.
The Committee considered the Valuation appropriateness of the methodology used by management including the key assumptions used to value the pension liabilities.
The key assumptions include the appropriateness of the discount rate used for the UK scheme by reference to the iBoxx AA 15 corporate bond index: the adjustment made by management to match the duration of the liabilities and compared this to assumptions adopted by other schemes with a similar duration: the rates used by management for each of these elements to the Bank of England inflation curve: and the appropriateness of the base tables selected for use by management by reference to the mortality experience analysis, completed by the UK Pension Scheme Trustees as part of the 2014 funding valuation.
The Committee concluded that the key assumptions made were reasonable and that the overall pension deficit is appropriately calculated.
Intangibles The Committee reviewed managements process for testing goodwill and other intangible assets for potential impairment.
Impairment This included the results of managements impairment assessment, including an assessment of the appropriateness of Assessment the methodology used to perform this.
The Committee considered the appropriateness of the key assumptions within managements valuation, in particular the terminal growth rates in the forecasts, by comparing them to economic and industry forecasts: and the weighted average cost of capital by assessing the cost of capital for the Company and comparable organisations.
The Committee considered the substantive testing results performed by the Company's external auditor of all inputs into the valuation, for example agreeing to approved budgets and checking historical performance against the budget.
The Committee concluded that the impairment assessment results are appropriate.
Litigation The Committee members received and reviewed errors and omissions and other litigation reports addressing key disputes, Provisions and discussed with management the key judgements made, including relevant legal advice if received.
The Committee members also discussed litigation provisions with the Company's external auditor, and received reports from Group Internal Audit and Group Risk and Compliance on quality controls designed to minimise the incidence of errors and omissions.
As a result, it was determined that the overall provision is appropriate, but it was recognised that due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation the final results could differ.
New The Committee reviewed managements reports on the progress being made towards the adoption of IFRS 9 Financial Accounting Instruments and IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
Management briefed the Committee on the key Standards elements of the standards, how management had interpreted them and their key judgements in the design of the resultant Group accounting policies.
In respect of IFRS 15 in particular, the Committee was kept informed of the progress being made by the business in collecting and analysing data, and enhancements to systems and procedures needed to adopt the new policy.
The Committee was kept informed of the major financial implications of adoption and the additional disclosure requirements.
EFFECTIVENESS OF THE AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE GROUP INTERNAL AUDIT An internal review of the Committees effectiveness was The Committee is accountable to the Board in relation to carried out in respect of 2017.
All of the members and the effectiveness of the Group Internal Audit GIA function.
regular attendees of the Committee were asked to complete The functions terms of reference were reviewed by the a questionnaire and the feedback was discussed by the Committee during the year and were considered to remain Committee.
The results of the review were very positive appropriate.
There was no change to the holder of the Group overall, with the Committee seen as functioning effectively Head of Internal Audit position during the period.
Discussions were seen to be of a high An external review of the GIA function took place in 2016, quality, focusing on the right areas, and with a good level of in accordance with the Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors constructive debate and challenge in an open environment.
This confirmed the functions effectiveness at that The Committee was also considered to have a good time, and its positive contribution to improving the control understanding of the Group's inherent risks and risk environment.
The Committee considers the effectiveness of management activities.
The Committee will increase its focus the GIA function on an ongoing basis during the year and is on operational risks and controls as the Group implements satisfied that it remains effective and is adequately resourced.
a number of planned transformation programmes.
Some opportunities were also identified to make Committee papers more concise and focused and to develop the professional training provided to the Committee.
72 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE During 2017, the Committee reviewed, evaluated and monitored: EFFECTIVENESS OF EXTERNAL AUDITOR the independence of the GIA function: The Committee considers the effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the external auditor throughout the year.
the annual GIA plan and other audit activities undertaken by the function: An internal effectiveness review of PwC was undertaken reports from the Group Head of Internal Audit on the results during the year.
The review focused on areas including: PwCs of audit work performed, and the effectiveness of the expertise and resources: the robustness and effectiveness Groups systems of internal control: of the external audit process: and the quality of reporting.
reports and recommendations from the Group Head of Feedback was obtained from finance directors across the Internal Audit on themes affecting the development of the business.
The Committee considered the feedback from the Groups internal control framework: review, which was generally very positive, and concluded that PwC continued to operate to the expected standards.
co-ordination between the internal and external auditors, The Committee and PwC agreed areas where there were other control functions within the Group, and with opportunities for development in order to further enhance the external regulators: audit process.
managements responsiveness to the findings and recommendations of GIA, and the monitoring of follow up actions relating to these: NON-AUDIT FEES AND EXTERNAL AUDITOR INDEPENDENCE the adequacy of the resources of the GIA function, including plans for managing that resource to meet the demands of To safeguard auditor objectivity and independence, the Group the business: and has a policy for the approval of non-audit services provided by PwC.
All proposed services must be pre-approved in the overall effectiveness of the Group Head of Internal accordance with the non-audit services policy which sets out Audit and the GIA function in promoting and influencing defined and escalating approval levels in reference to materiality.
improvements in the Groups internal control environment.
This policy was reviewed and updated by the Committee in The Committee, and separately the Committee Chairman on February 2018.
All non-audit services with fees exceeding a one-to-one basis, regularly meets with the Group Head of 50,000 must be pre-approved by the Committee Chairman or Internal Audit to discuss the work of the GIA function and the the Committee, which also reviews the non-audit fees charged findings of audits performed.
Prior to approving non-audit services, consideration is given EXTERNAL AUDITOR to whether it is in the interests of the Company that the services The Committee is accountable to the Board in relation to the are purchased from PwC, rather than another supplier.
"appointment of the external auditor,  Where PwC was chosen to provide non-audit services during LLP ""PwC"" and for overseeing the relationship with PwC."
the year, this was as a result of its detailed knowledge of the During the year, the Committee: structure of our business combined with an understanding of JLTs industry, which together made PwC the best supplier agreed PwCs remuneration for audit services, including to carry out the relevant work cost effectively.
In such satisfying itself that the level of audit fee was appropriate to instances, both JLT and PwC were satisfied that appropriate enable an adequate audit to be carried out.
The Committee safeguards were in place to ensure the preservation of PwCs also reviewed and monitored fees in respect of non-audit independence as external auditor.
services: approved the external audit plan and ensured that it was consistent with the scope of the audit engagement: approved the terms of engagement, including the engagement letter issued at the start of each audit, and the scope of the audit: assessed PwCs independence, including in relation to nonaudit services provided: reviewed the findings of PwC, including discussion of any major issues arising, and any accounting and audit judgements: and held meetings with PwC without management present.
PwC contribute an independent perspective on certain aspects of the Companys financial control systems arising from its work and report its findings to the Committee.
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2017 73 Fees paid to PwC for audit and non-audit services are set out EXTERNAL AUDITOR ROTATION in note 7 to the financial statements and are summarised in the PwC was appointed as the external auditor of Jardine Lloyd table below.
Thompson Group plc in 1997 following the merger of JIB Group plc and Lloyd Thompson Group plc, prior to which PwC was 2017 2016 the external auditor of JIB Group plc from 1991.
000 000 Audit 3,387 2,649 The Committee is aware of the EU-wide regulations concerning Non-audit 960 755 audit tenure and the longevity of audit firm relationships with Total 4,347 3,404 the companies they audit.
Under current EU transitional Total spend on non-audit services as arrangements, it is anticipated that the last financial year for % of the total fees paid to PwC 22% 22% which PwC will audit the Groups accounts will be that ending 31 December 2019.
The current audit partner, Nick Wilks, took The audit fees increased in the year, primarily due to the up his role in 2015. additional work required in connection with the implementation of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 and certain component auditor Continuity and consistency of audit quality are important, but scope changes.
the Committee is mindful of the fact that PwC has been the Company's auditor for 21 years without re-tender and it remains The table below summarises some of the more significant nonthe Companys intention to initiate an audit re-tendering process audit services carried out by PwC in 2017 and the safeguards in 2018.
The Company believes that this timing is appropriate to preserve PwCs independence: as it aligns with the rotation cycle for the current engagement partner.
There are no contractual obligations that would restrict Nature of Service Safeguards to preserve independence the selection of a different auditor.
Tax advisory and Tax specialists are separate to the audit compliance services team.
PwC acts as adviser only and is not The Committee considers that the Company has, throughout in international involved in making or influencing management the year ended 31 December 2017, complied with markets decisions.
PwC The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market does not directly handle or take custody of any client funds.
Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014.
Forensic services Data is not accounting information and does not relate to risk management.
Specialists involved are separate to the audit RISK MANAGEMENT team.
A description of the processes followed by the Group to identify Other advisory Specialists involved are separate to the audit and manage risk is included in the Risk Management Report on services team.
No pages 41 to 45. contingency fee involved.
CYBER RISK The Committee remains satisfied with PwCs independence, and its responsiveness to management, in respect of work The risk of any firm being compromised by some form of cyber undertaken in 2017.
PwC have also assessed and confirmed event is ever present.
JLT takes cyber risk very seriously and their independence to the Committee.
seeks to address any threats from internal or external sources, whether intentional and malevolent or by simple human error.
JLT also recognises the interrelationship between addressing EXTERNAL AUDITOR RE-APPOINTMENT cyber risk and dealing with other subjects such as the The Committee reviews and makes recommendations to the forthcoming General Data Protection Regulation, in particular Board with regard to the reappointment of the external auditor that creating a strong environment to manage one will assist each year.
In making this recommendation, the Committee with addressing the other.
takes into account auditor independence and effectiveness, audit partner rotation and any other factors that may impact the Cyber risk and related subjects have been the topic of regular Committees judgement regarding the external auditor.
Based discussion by the Committee for several years.
Rather than on the Committees recommendation, the Board is proposing running a one-off programme, JLT adopts the stance that this that PwC is reappointed to office at this years AGM.
area requires a constant focus across people, processes and technology in order to stay current and to mitigate this threat.
74 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CULTURE GLOBAL COMPLIANCE The Committee recognises that a strong and transparent Our businesses around the Group are at differing levels of corporate culture is a valuable asset to protect and generate maturity, but they have all implemented a suitable governance value.
Companies need to have a strong purpose, culture and and control environment, which in many cases either mirror, ethical values in order to succeed, be sustainable and build or are based upon, JLT Group standards and structures.
Businesses adopt appropriate quality assurance processes JLT's corporate culture is underpinned by a clear alignment of and all significant businesses operate an independently chaired business purpose, values, strategy and incentives: people at Audit & Risk Committee.
Businesses are also subject to regular all levels of the organisation understand JLT's values and act in internal audits.
Where local laws or regulations impose standards or practices Corporate culture is led by the Board and is not about rules but which differ from those of the wider JLT Group for example about actions.
A key objective for both the Board and senior in relation to licensing requirements or the applicable sanctions management is to communicate the behaviours they want to regime, adjustments are made to policies and practices see in the business and to find constructive ways to encourage as appropriate.
The compliance framework of each of our businesses will The Committee also has an important role to play in supporting continue to evolve in response both to their growth and local the right culture across the Group, by overseeing the provision legal and regulatory changes.
of high quality, insightful reporting both internally and externally to the Groups stakeholders, which demonstrates that the DIRECTORS FAIR, BALANCED AND Group has in place the right structures and processes to UNDERSTANDABLE STATEMENT support the right behaviours by employees.
The Committee At the request of the Board, the Committee carried out a seeks to recognise and address any instances where there is detailed review of the robust processes which were followed misalignment between behaviour, purposes and values.
in preparing the Annual Report and Financial Statements, The Committees work in this regard is supported by the key and reported the results of that review to the Board.
control functions, including Group Risk & Compliance, Group The review supported the Directors in satisfying themselves Internal Audit and Group Corporate Secretariat, as well as by that they could make the statement on page 95 of the Annual the Groups external auditor.
Report and Financial Statements that the Annual Report and The Committee has increased its focus on this area in the Financial Statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and past year and has discussed a number of matters relevant to understandable and provide the information necessary for the fostering of an appropriate corporate culture within JLT, shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, including the improving maturity of the control environment in business model and strategy.
the Groups businesses and in the context of the year end review of internal controls.
Andrew Didham Chairman, Audit & Risk Committee 28 February 2018
