STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2017 57 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Good governance, with high standards set from the top, is a key factor in delivering sustainable business performance and creating continued value for the Groups shareholders.
Geoffrey Howe Each of the Groups businesses is CODE COMPLIANCE INTRODUCTION FROM governed by a board of directors and, on We remain committed to the principles THE CHAIRMAN an individual business or regional basis, of good corporate governance an audit and risk committee, further On behalf of the Board, I am pleased established by the Code.
We confirm details of which can be found in the Risk to introduce the Companys Corporate that the Company applied the main Management Report on page 41.
Governance Report for the financial year principles and complied with the ended 31 December 2017. relevant provisions of the Code during BOARD COMPOSITION 2017, with the exception of provisions We continue to believe that how the B.
2.1, C. 3.1 and D. 2.1 relating During 2017, a number of changes were Group does business is as important as to the composition of the Board and made to the membership of the Board what it does, and recognise the need for a its Committees.
This was primarily due and its Committees.
Two Directors retired strong corporate governance framework to the roles of two Jardine Mathesonfrom the Board during the year: Bruce and supporting processes across the appointed Directors on the Board.
Carnegie-Brown retired in June, following Group.
Good governance, with high The Board strongly believes that the his appointment as the Chairman standards set from the top, is a key continuation of these arrangements is of Lloyds of London, and Jonathan factor in delivering sustainable business in the Company's best interests.
This is Dawson retired in October.
I should performance and creating continued value explained further in the Directors Report like to express the Boards thanks to for the Groups shareholders.
on pages 91 to 98, which provides an Bruce and Jonathan for their respective overview of the Companys compliance contributions to the Board.
In the following pages you will find details with the Code and an explanation for the of how JLT approaches governance, Andrew Didham and Richard Meddings areas of non-compliance.
including the operation of the Board both joined the Board on 2 October and its Committees and an explanation I should like to thank the Directors for 2017.
Richard has become Chair of of how we comply with the 2016 UK their support throughout the year.
the Remuneration Committee and Corporate Governance Code the Code.
Andrew has become Chair of the Audit You will also find a summary of the key & Risk Committee.
Annette Court has outputs from the latest review of the succeeded Jonathan Dawson as the Board's effectiveness - the results of Companys Senior Independent Director.
which were very positive - and Reports We are also pleased to welcome from each of the Board's Committees.
Lynne Peacock, who will join the Board as a Non-Executive Director with effect We recognise the importance of Geoffrey Howe from 1 May 2018. effective corporate governance Chairman throughout the Group and of having 28 February 2018 robust governance structures and processes in all our businesses.
58 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS' PROFILES GEOFFREY HOWE GROUP CHAIRMAN DOMINIC BURKE GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE Geoffrey Howe was appointed a Non-Executive Director in January 2002 Dominic Burke joined Jardine Lloyd Thompson in 2000, as the Chief and became Joint Deputy Chairman in November 2004.
He was appointed Executive Officer of JLTs UK Retail and Employee Benefits business, Chairman in April 2006 and is Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
following JLTs acquisition of his business, Burke Ford.
Geoffrey is the senior independent director of Close Brothers.
He was He was appointed a Director and Chief Operating Officer of Jardine Lloyd formerly chairman of Nationwide Building Society, chairman of Railtrack Thompson Group plc in January 2005 and was appointed Group Chief Group plc, a director of Investec plc, a director and general counsel of Executive in December 2005.
Robert Fleming Holdings and managing partner of Clifford Chance.
MARK DRUMMOND BRADY DEPUTY GROUP CEO CHARLES ROZES GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR Mark Drummond Brady was appointed a Director of Jardine Lloyd Thompson Charles Rozes joined Jardine Lloyd Thompson on 1 September 2015 as Group plc in March 2011 and became the Deputy Group CEO in September Group Finance Director.
He is a member of the Group Executive Committee.
Mark is also a member of the Group Executive Committee.
He is also a Director of JLT India and a member of its Audit & Risk Committee.
Mark has been with JLT since 1987 and has held a number of senior posts He joined the Group from Barclays where, since 2011, he had held the role of in the Group and was the Groups International Chairman of Risk & Insurance global head of investor relations.
Prior to that, he was chief financial officer of Barclays UK Retail and Business In February 2017, Mark became CEO of JLT Latin America and Chairman of Banking.
Charles has also held senior roles at Bank of America, IBM and JLT Canada.
ANNETTE COURT SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR ANDREW DIDHAM NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Annette Court was appointed a Non-Executive Director in August 2012.
Andrew Didham was appointed a Non-Executive Director on 2 October 2017 She is a member of the Audit & Risk, Remuneration and Nominations and Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee on 3 October 2017.
Annette was appointed as Senior Independent Director on also a member of the Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
Andrew has been a non-executive director and chairman of the audit Annette has extensive insurance industry experience.
Annette was appointed committee at Shawbrook Group plc since February 2017.
He has been a as a non-executive director of Admiral Group plc in 2012 and became its non-executive director of Charles Stanley Group plc since September 2015, chairman on 26 April 2017.
Between 2007 and 2010 she was chief executive where he is also senior independent director, chairman of the risk committee officer, Europe General Insurance for Zurich Financial Services and a member and a member of the nominations, audit and remuneration committees.
of the group executive committee.
She is a former chief executive officer Andrew was previously group finance director of Rothschild, the international of RBS Insurance, the insurance division of RBS Group which owned the investment banking group, from 1997 to 2012.
He became an executive vice Direct Line and Churchill brands.
In the role she was also a member of the chairman of Rothschild in 2012 and remains a director of NM Rothschild & RBS group executive management committee.
Annette was a non-executive Sons, the UK business of the Rothschild group.
director of Foxtons Group plc until May 2017 and has previously served as a Andrew is a Chartered Accountant and before joining Rothschild he spent member of the board of the ABI.
18 years at KPMG Thomson McLintock, including as a partner.
His experience includes audit responsibility for a number of global financial institutions, assignments on behalf of the Bank of England and the EU, and extensive dealings with regulatory authorities in the UK, Europe, Asia, Australia and the USA.
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2017 59 ADAM KESWICK DEPUTY CHAIRMAN RICHARD MEDDINGS NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Adam Keswick was appointed a Non-Executive Director and Deputy Richard Meddings was appointed a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of Chairman on 1 September 2016.
He is a member of the Remuneration the Remuneration Committee on 2 October 2017 and is also member of the and Nominations Committees.
Audit & Risk and Nominations Committees.
Adam joined the Jardine Matheson Group in 2001 before being appointed Richard has been a non-executive director and chairman of the audit to the Board in 2007.
He was deputy managing director of Jardine Matheson committee of Deutsche Bank AG since October 2015 and has been a nonHoldings Limited from 2012 to 2016, and became chairman of Matheson executive director and chairman of the audit committee of HM Treasury since & Co. in 2016.
He is also a director of Dairy Farm, Hongkong Land, Jardine July 2014.
In addition, Richard was appointed as a non-executive director Strategic, Mandarin Oriental and Ferrari, and a supervisory board member of of TSB Banking Group plc in September 2017 and chairman as of February Rothschild & Co.
He is a director of the Yabuli China Entrepreneurs Forum.
Richard also serves as a trustee of Teach First.
Richard was previously a non-executive director of Legal & General Group plc and chairman of the group risk committee from December 2014 to May 2017.
He was also a non-executive director of 3i Group plc from September 2008 to July 2014 and chair of the audit and risk committee and from 2010 to 2014 was senior independent director.
Richard held executive management roles at Standard Chartered plc from 2002 to 2014, as group executive director, risk & control from 2002 to 2005 and as group finance director from 2006 to 2014.
Prior to joining Standard Chartered, Richard spent nearly 20 years in a range of senior roles in the financial services sector.
He is a member of the governing body of the International Chamber of Commerce UK and a member of the Financial Reporting Review Panel.
LORD SASSOON, Kt NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NICHOLAS WALSH NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Lord Sassoon joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director in April 2013.
Nicholas Walsh joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director in He is a member of the Audit & Risk, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
He is a member of the Audit & Risk, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
He began his career at KPMG, before joining S. G. Warburg later UBS Warburg in 1985.
From 2002 to 2006 he was in the United Kingdom He has held a variety of underwriting, distribution and senior management Treasury as a civil servant, where he had responsibility for financial services roles in the insurance industry, with a career of 42 years with American and enterprise policy.
Following this, he chaired the Financial Action Task International Group, Inc. AIG.
His most recent roles were vice chairman of Force: and conducted a review of the UKs system of financial regulation.
AIG Property & Casualty Inc. and chairman of AIG Europe Limited and AIG Asia Pacific Insurance Pte.
Prior to this he was president and From 2010 to 2013 Lord Sassoon was the first Commercial Secretary to CEO of American International Underwriters.
He is also a director of Jardine Matheson Holdings, Matheson & Co.
Dairy Farm, Hongkong Land and Mandarin Oriental.
He is chairman Nicholas is an adviser to Norton Rose Fulbright.
of the China-Britain Business Council and a trustee of the British Museum.
Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee Audit & Risk Committee 60 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board has delegated the day-to-day management of the GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK Group, development of the Group's strategic direction for The Board and its Committees operate within a wider consideration and approval by the Board and implementation governance framework.
This ensures that decisions are of the agreed strategy to the Group Chief Executive, Dominic taken at the right level in the business by the people best Burke.
The Group Executive Committee operates to support placed to take them.
Our framework is designed to maintain the Group Chief Executive in the running of the Group and high standards of governance.
comprehensive Group Delegated Authorities govern the taking The work of the Board is supported by the Audit & Risk, of all significant decisions and the provision of approval for a Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
The roles and broad range of matters.
Further details of the composition of the activities of the Committees are described in more detail in the Group Executive Committee can be found on page 26.
Reports of the respective Committees on pages 67 to 90.
In addition, the Group has a Disclosure Committee which Terms of reference for each of the Committees, which are oversees the Companys compliance with the Groups reviewed regularly, can be found on the Company's website, disclosure obligations.
The Disclosure Committee is not a jlt.
Committee of the Board, but reports to the Board or to the Group Audit & Risk Committee as appropriate.
The Committee is chaired by Charles Rozes, Group Finance Director.
STRUCTURE AT A GLANCE The structure below sets out the composition of the Board and its Committees as at 31 December 2017: Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc JLT Group Board Geoffrey Howe Non-Executive Chairman Non-Executive Directors Executive Directors Adam Keswick Deputy Chairman Dominic Burke Group Chief Executive Annette Court Senior Independent Director Mark Drummond Brady Deputy Group CEO Andrew Didham Charles Rozes Group Finance Director Richard Meddings Lord Sassoon Nicholas Walsh Audit & Risk Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee Andrew Didham Chairman Richard Meddings Chairman Geoffrey Howe Chairman Annette Court Annette Court Annette Court Richard Meddings Andrew Didham Andrew Didham Lord Sassoon Adam Keswick Adam Keswick Nicholas Walsh Lord Sassoon Richard Meddings Nicholas Walsh Lord Sassoon Nicholas Walsh THE ROLE OF THE BOARD The Board is collectively responsible for approving and The Board has established a schedule of reserved matters overseeing the implementation of the Groups strategy to which include the aforementioned areas of responsibility, as create and deliver long term value for our shareholders in well as a range of other areas, including the approval of financial a way that is supported by the right culture, values and results announcements, the Annual Report and Accounts and behaviours across the Group.
shareholder circulars: decisions relating to the Groups capital structure: approval of dividend recommendations: and the The Board is also responsible for reviewing the performance approval of material acquisitions and disposals.
of management: ensuring that appropriate systems of internal controls and risk management are in place: and that the provision of the right resources are in place throughout the Group.
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2017 61 DIRECTORS NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS At the date of this Report the Board comprised the Chairman, The Non-Executive Directors perform a vital role in corporate who was independent on appointment, the Group Chief accountability.
The role of the Non-Executive Directors is to: Executive, Group Finance Director, Deputy Group CEO, provide a strong independent element to the Board four Independent Non-Executive Directors and two and offer constructive challenge to, and support for, Non-Independent Non-Executive Directors.
During the year management: Bruce Carnegie-Brown and Jonathan Dawson left the Board bring an appropriate breadth of skills and experience and Andrew Didham and Richard Meddings were appointed to the Board: as Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Lynne Peacock has together with the rest of the Board, satisfy themselves also been appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director that the Groups financial controls and systems of risk with effect from 1 May 2018. management are robust and effective: and contribute to the effective functioning of the CHAIRMAN Board's Committees.
The Chairmans role is to: lead the Board by providing direction and focus: SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR ensure that there is a clear structure for the effective The role of the Senior Independent Director is to: operation of the Board and its Committees: act as a sounding board for the Chairman and an set the agenda for Board discussions and promote intermediary for other Directors: effective and constructive debate and a sound decisionbring experience and independent judgement to the Board: making process: lead the Chairmans annual performance evaluation: and ensure that the Directors receive accurate, timely and clear be available as an additional point of contact for information and that effective communication takes place shareholders to discuss matters of concern which would with the Company's shareholders: not be appropriate through normal communication work closely with the Group Chief Executive to ensure channels with the Chairman, Chief Executive or Group that the strategies and actions agreed by the Board are Finance Director.
No such matters of concern were raised effectively implemented: and by shareholders during the year or by 22 February 2018, provide support and advice to the Group Chief Executive, being the latest practicable date prior to the date of while respecting his executive responsibility for managing the Report.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the GROUP COMPANY SECRETARY Group Chief Executive has been clearly defined and has been The role of the Group Company Secretary is to: agreed by the Board.
act as Secretary to the Board and all of its Committees: support the smooth operation of each of these bodies GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE by working with the Group Chairman and Chairmen The role of the Group Chief Executive is to: of the Committees: manage the overall direction and management of the Group: advise the Directors on Board procedures and corporate develop and agree, with the Chairman and the Board, governance matters: and the Groups strategy and key performance indicators: support the Chairman in ensuring compliance with relevant formulate and agree budgets: legal and regulatory requirements.
develop remuneration proposals for consideration by the Remuneration Committee: INDEPENDENT ADVICE build and maintain the Companys standing with The Company ensures that, if required, its Directors have shareholders and financial institutions and the public: access to independent professional advice at the Companys expense, relating to the performance of any aspect of their consult the Chairman on all significant matters: duties.
This is facilitated by the Group Company Secretary, ensure that appropriate systems of control, organisational who is also available to each Board member for consultation and management structures, and culture exist in the Group: as required.
and ensure that the Groups strategy is effectively implemented and the interests of the Groups stakeholders are promoted.
62 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS' INSURANCE COVER DIRECTORS ELECTION AND RE-ELECTION The Group maintains Directors' and Officers' Insurance cover In accordance with the requirements of the Code, newly for the benefit of individuals and this cover is reviewed annually appointed Directors and all existing Directors submit to ensure that its scope remains appropriate.
themselves for election or re-election, as the case may be, at the Company's Annual General Meeting.
DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST Andrew Didham and Richard Meddings, who were appointed Under the Companies Act 2006, all Directors have a duty to to the Board with effect from 2 October 2017, together with avoid conflicts of interest and disclose any interests and outside Lynne Peacock who joins the Board with effect from 1 May appointments.
The Board has formal processes in place for 2018, will be proposed for election at the Companys AGM.
the declaration and management of conflicts of interest and All other Directors will be proposed for re-election.
the Group Company Secretary maintains a Conflicts of Interest The Board recommends the election or re-election, as the case Register.
On appointment, new Directors are advised of the may be, of each member of the Board based upon their skills, process for dealing with conflicts of interest and Directors experience and contribution to the Board and its Committees.
interests are reviewed on an ongoing basis, as well as annually as part of the year end process.
JLT's relationship with Jardine Matheson is discussed on page 66.
BOARD EXPERIENCE AND BALANCE Following review, the Board remains satisfied that it continues to have the appropriate balance of expertise, experience, independence and knowledge to run the business effectively and to deliver long-term shareholder value.
The chart below provides an overview of the experience of each of the current Directors.
Position as Length of Independent?
Other Operational Insurance International Legal M&A Finance Government at 31 Dec service public experience industry experience experience experience experience 2017 as Board board experience member as at experience 31 Dec 2017 Geoffrey Howe Non-Executive 16 years No Chairman Annette Court Senior 5 years, Yes Independent 5 months Director Andrew Didham Non-Executive 3 months Yes Director Richard Meddings Non-Executive 3 months Yes Director Nicholas Walsh Non-Executive 3 years, Yes Director 3 months Lord Sassoon Non-Executive 4 years, No Director 8 months Adam Keswick Deputy 1 year, No Chairman 4 months Dominic Burke Group Chief 13 years N A Executive Mark Drummond Deputy Group 6 years, N A Brady CEO 10 months Charles Rozes Group Finance 2 years, N A Director 4 months Taking into account all relevant factors set out in the Code, the independence of the Non-Executive Directors has been assessed as indicated.
Lynne Peacock will join the Board as an additional Independent Non-Executive Director on 1 May 2018.
The Company has taken, and continues to take, steps to BOARD DIVERSITY promote diversity and inclusion, including gender diversity, The Board supports the Code's recommendation that diversity both at senior management level and in the boardroom.
and gender should be considered when making Director During the year the business has continued to progress its appointments.
The Board seeks to ensure that it has the right diversity programme.
Further information is available in the balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge Nominations Committee Report on page 75 and the Corporate to enable it to achieve its objectives and discharge its Responsibility Report on pages 50 and 51. responsibilities and duties effectively.
The Board's policy is to select the best candidate irrespective of background.
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2017 63 The Board met on seven scheduled occasions throughout SUCCESSION PLANNING the year, including a strategy day, and attendance at those Succession planning and talent development has been an meetings is set out below.
important focus for the Board and its Committees in the year.
Substantial progress has been made in promoting talent across Eligible to attend Attended the Group and the Board is confident that there is a strong Geoffrey Howe 7 7 senior management succession pipeline.
Dominic Burke 7 7 During the year management worked with external consultants 1 Mark Drummond-Brady 7 6 to carry out a review of the leadership capability and potential Charles Rozes 7 7 2 of a cohort of nearly 40 of JLTs senior managers.
The review Bruce Carnegie-Brown 4 4 focused on the capability of the cohort as leaders within JLT, Annette Court 7 7 3 using the Groups five pillar leadership model, measuring their Jonathan Dawson 6 6 4 leadership potential using a number of external tools and Andrew Didham 2 2 Adam Keswick 7 7 against a large group of executives in other businesses.
The 4 Richard Meddings 2 2 exercise was seen as important in assessing the strength of Lord Sassoon 7 7 JLTs leadership team and how well positioned it was to drive Nicholas Walsh 7 7 JLT forward.
The results of the review indicated that JLTs 1.
Mark Drummond Brady did not attend the Board meeting held on 27 April 2017 due to cohort had strong leadership in core areas and an appropriate overseas business commitments succession pipeline.
Training and development plans, with 2.
Bruce Carnegie-Brown retired from the Board on 14 June 2017 appropriate coaching and mentoring, are being tailored to help 3.
Jonathan Dawson retired from the Board on 3 October 2017 individuals meet their individual development needs.
Andrew Didham and Richard Meddings were appointed to the Board on 2 October 2017 The Group operates a range of programmes focused on The Board also convened by telephone on three occasions the development of future leaders, including its International during the year to approve the final form of the Q1 Interim Senior Managers Programme ISMP and its Emerging Leaders Management Statement IMS, the Interim Results Statement Programme.
More details on the ISMP can be found on page 7. and the Q3 IMS.
During the year the Nominations Committee discussed If a Director is unable to attend a Board meeting they are invited succession planning for the Group Chief Executive and the to provide feedback on Board papers ahead of the meeting and Group Chairman.
are provided with an update after the meeting of the key issues which were discussed.
The work of the Nominations Committee in respect of succession planning is described in greater detail in the The Directors attendance at Committee meetings is set out in Nominations Committee Report on pages 75 and 77. the respective Committee Reports on pages 67 to 90.
The Chairman also met with Non-Executive Directors during the BOARD MEETINGS year without management being present.
A forward agenda for the Board is maintained to ensure that all necessary and appropriate matters are covered during the year and to allow sufficient time for discussion and debate.
The Board receives papers and presentations from the Executive Directors and senior managers are regularly invited to attend to provide further detailed insight on specific matters.
64 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE HOW THE BOARD SPENT ITS TIME IN 2017 The table below provides a high level overview of the Boards main areas of focus and how it spent its time in 2017: January February April June July October December Strategy day Strategy Group Strategy Three Year Plan Global Transformation Programme Reporting CEO Report FD Report Financial Performance Business Presentations Business Unit Reports Financial Budget Capital Structure & Funding Treasury Report Dividend IFRS 15 and 9 Implementation Year End Process Interim Process Corporate M&A Activity Board Objectives Evaluation Committee Reports Directors Conflicts of Interest Review Legal Report Communications Engagement Investor Relations Update Employee Feedback Insurance Carrier Feedback Client Feedback The Group Chief Executive provided regular updates to The Board reviewed the Annual Report, interim results and the Board on business performance and developments, interim management statements.
It considered the assessments operations, market trends, M&A activity, people matters of the going concern and viability statements, the Groups and investor engagement.
The Group Finance Director also principal risks and the effectiveness of the Groups systems of regularly updated the Board in relation to the Groups financial risk management and internal controls.
performance against budgets and targets, as well as in respect The Board also discussed updates on the views of stakeholders of accounting, pension, tax and treasury matters.
during the year, including feedback from employees, The Board received updates on the work of its Committees shareholders, clients and insurance carriers.
It discussed regular reports During the year, the Board held a strategy day at which a range of from the Group General Counsel regarding litigation and issues were discussed, including the macroeconomic environment, regulatory matters and also received updates from the Group the market context in which the Group operates and the reCompany Secretary in relation to governance developments examination of the Groups strategy, which is described in more and routine governance matters.
detail in the Strategic Report on pages 22 to 24.
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2017 65 DIRECTORS INDUCTION AND DIRECTORS BOARD PERFORMANCE REVIEW TRAINING The Boards performance is reviewed annually.
Following an externally led review of the Board and its Committees in 2016, An induction programme is provided to new Directors which an internally facilitated review was conducted in 2017. is tailored to their roles on the Board and its Committees.
The results of the review were generally very positive, and the The programme is designed to provide new Non-Executive Board was seen as functioning well and covering the right Directors with an understanding of the Group, its business and ground.
Discussions were considered to be of a high quality the markets in which it operates.
It also provides a briefing on and there was felt to be open and constructive debate pitched Directors responsibilities and the governance framework within at the right level, with effective challenge where appropriate.
The programme provides Directors The Board was seen as being particularly effective at managing with the opportunity to meet and establish relationships with key performance and risk, as well as investment appraisal, and had people in the business as well as the Groups key advisers.
A tailored induction programme was agreed for the new A number of recommendations were made as to how to Directors, Andrew Didham and Richard Meddings, who joined increase the effectiveness of the Board further, including the Board during the year.
The programme was facilitated by reviewing the breadth of skills and experience on the Board the Chairman and the Group Company Secretary.
It involved in the context of its future needs: reviewing the pipeline of in-depth introductory meetings with a range of key people, top talent in the business: and adopting improvements to including the Executive Directors, the members of the GEC Board processes.
The Chairman also met with each individual and other function heads, including the Group Head of Internal Director to discuss performance as well as any training and Audit: the Group Head of Risk and Compliance: the Group development needs.
Treasurer: the Group Human Resources Director: and the Group Company Secretary.
Meetings were also arranged with The Senior Independent Director, Annette Court, led a review of the Groups auditor, corporate brokers and public relations the performance of the Chairman, the results of which were very media advisers.
positive, and concluded that he continues to provide effective leadership to the Board.
The programme of meetings was supported by the provision of a range of background information about JLT and its Following these processes, the Board remains satisfied that, business, the Board and general guidance on the duties and in line with the Code, all the Directors have sufficient time to responsibilities of a listed company director.
carry out their responsibilities as Directors effectively.
Members of the Board and its Committees are provided with regular training in order to keep them abreast of industry and RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROLS legal and regulatory developments, facilitated by professional The Board has overall responsibility for the Group's systems advisers where appropriate.
During the year Directors were of internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness.
provided with briefings on new accounting developments, The implementation and maintenance of the risk management including the introduction of IFRS 15 and IFRS 9: data and internal control systems are the responsibility of the protection issues, including the implementation of the General Executive Directors and senior management.
Data Protection Regulation: the actions being taken by the The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent Group to manage cyber risks: and governance developments, of any significant risks the Group is willing to take in order to including the governance green papers issued by the UK achieve its strategic objectives, as well as for maintaining sound government and the consultation launched by the FRC on a risk management and internal control systems to ensure that replacement for the Code.
an appropriate culture is embedded throughout the Group.
Directors are encouraged to visit different parts of the business Owing to the limitation inherent in any system of internal control, on a regular basis in order to enhance their understanding of this system provides robust, but not absolute, assurance those businesses and the key issues they face.
against material misstatement or loss.
The Groups risk management and internal control systems INFORMATION comprise Group policies, procedures and practices covering The Board and its Committees receive briefing papers and a range of areas, including the appropriate authorisation and information prior to meetings to ensure Directors are fully briefed approval of transactions, the application of financial reporting on the matters for discussion.
standards and the review of financial performance and significant judgements.
Directors also have access to the Group Company Secretary and senior management should they wish to receive additional information on any of the items for discussion.
66 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board monitors the effectiveness of the Groups systems In addition, the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are of internal control carefully throughout the year and carries out available to discuss matters with institutional shareholders an annual review covering their adequacy and effectiveness.
and the Board is also available at the Annual General Meeting The Board has delegated part of this responsibility to the to respond to questions.
The Investor Relations team Audit & Risk Committee.
The role and work of the Audit & Risk arranges communication with institutional shareholders with a Committee in this regard and the role of the Groups Internal combination of analyst briefings and presentations, including Audit function are described in the Audit & Risk Committee at the annual and half year results.
In addition, the Companys Report on pages 67 to 74. website, jlt.
com, has an investor section which contains further information about the Company and details of regulatory news releases which may be of interest to shareholders.
CULTURE AND ETHICS The Board recognises the importance of demonstrating its full Following a tender held during the year, Barclays were support for ethical conduct and leadership.
During the year, appointed as joint corporate brokers to the Company alongside the Board considered the subject of culture and ethics in the JP Morgan.
The addresses of the Groups brokers can be found context of JLT's style, tone and organisation.
The Company regularly consults its brokers in a strong focus on ensuring that there is a continuing open relation to disclosure matters.
and straightforward culture of integrity and honesty across the Group, and that the behaviour of employees ensures RELATIONSHIP WITH JARDINE MATHESON GROUP that the Group is compliant with applicable legal and The Group continued to have a number of arms-length trading regulatory requirements.
links with the Jardine Matheson group of companies during the financial year, which are set out in note 32 on page 160.
The Board takes the views of its staff seriously and regularly At 22 February 2018 being the latest practicable date prior to provides an opportunity to provide feedback.
In 2017, the date of this Report, Jardine Matheson Holdings Limited the Board considered the results of an employee engagement Jardine Matheson Holdings had an interest in 40.16% of survey, which emphasised that JLTs culture of collaboration, the Companys issued share capital.
This interest is held inventiveness, agility and client centricity was seen as through JMH Investments Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary remaining strong.
During the year the Company refreshed and reissued its The Company entered into a Relationship Agreement on Employee Handbook, which emphasises the importance of 23 October 2014, as required by Listing Rule 9.2.
In addition, employees are required a, and in March 2016 an amended Relationship Agreement to undertake regular training courses, including online training, was signed with Jardine Matheson Holdings.
The Agreement covering a range of ethical, legal and regulatory issues, such is intended to ensure that Jardine Matheson Holdings, as as the prevention of bribery and corruption, sanctions, data the Groups controlling shareholder, complies with certain security and market abuse.
It contains undertakings that JLT has published its Code of Ethical Conduct on its website, transactions and arrangements with Jardine Matheson jlt.
com, along with its modern slavery policy.
Holdings and or any of its associates will be conducted at arms-length and on normal commercial terms: that neither Jardine Matheson Holdings nor its associates will take any RELATIONSHIPS WITH action which could prevent the Company from complying with SHAREHOLDERS its Listing Rules obligations: and that neither Jardine Matheson Holdings nor its associates will propose any shareholder ENGAGEMENT WITH SHAREHOLDERS resolution intended to circumvent the proper application of the Our Board welcomes the opportunity to engage openly with Listing Rules.
shareholders as it recognises the importance of a continuing The Board confirms that, since the date of entry into the effective dialogue, whether with major institutional investors, Agreement, the Group has complied with its provisions and that, private shareholders or employee shareholders.
The Board is so far as the Company is aware, Jardine Matheson Holdings regularly updated on shareholder views.
and its associates have also complied with the independence The Board aims to ensure that investors understand the and procurement obligations set out in the Agreement.
The Chief Executive Officer The updated Agreement formalised the processes the and Group Finance Director are closely involved with investor Company has in place to control the provision of information relations, together with the Group Head of Investor Relations.
to Jardine Matheson and clarified when and how information may be requested by Jardine Matheson from JLT.
