01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 07  06  EEV basisresults This has enabled us to recruit highcalibre Our people The direct contribution made by our candidates with a diverse set of skills and The success of Prudential is rooted in the people to the communities in which they expertise and ensured continuity while commitment, creativity and drive of our live and participate makes me particularly minimising disruption.
I would like to thank teams in each of our markets and proud.
In 2017, Prudential colleagues Ann Godbehere, Tony Wilkey and Penny businesses.
The structural changes we are volunteered 96,493 hours of their time.
James for their significant contribution proposing will only succeed because of the I support this activity personally through during their tenures, and to welcome Mark hard work of our people and we will our flagship international volunteering FitzPatrick, Tom Watjen and James Turner support them through these changes.
programme, the Chairmans Challenge, to the Board.
The global market for talent and I am delighted by the continuing We are committed to ensuring that continues to be highly competitive and our success of the programme, with the Prudentials people represent the priority remains to ensure that we have the number of volunteers increasing yearon communities we serve and we therefore best possible executive and nonexecutive year.
From its launch in 2006, when 2,603 take a strategic approach to diversity and team.
We have committed to focusing employees signed up, volunteer numbers inclusion at every level of our business.
particularly on strengthening gender have more than trebled.
Last year 8,500 While this is an ongoing journey, we firmly diversity, alongside diversity of skills, in our colleagues around the world over believe diversity both adds strength and succession planning in 2018.
30 per cent of our workforce took part, ensures a wide range of perspectives.
We volunteering more than 35,000 hours to Ensuring the effectiveness of the Board aim to encourage an inclusive working support 30 projects.
also remains a priority for me as Chairman.
environment where we develop our talent, An external independent evaluation was reward great performance and recognise Conclusion conducted at the end of 2017 to consider our differences in order to continue to Prudential has announced a significant how the Board can improve and work deliver outstanding results for our change that we believe will secure the together more effectively.
I was pleased customers, shareholders and communities.
future success of both M&G Prudential and that the review concluded that the Boards As part of our commitment to diversity, our international business.
This decision strengths included creating a collegiate and Prudential has signed the HM Treasury has been made from a position of strength, constructive environment, effective use of Women in Finance Charter, which aims to with a well balanced 2017 performance time and materials, and strong risk and increase the number of women working in driven by every part of our business.
senior management in financial services Board has confidence in the creation of two companies, and we have set a gender valuable businesses that will continue to Our shareholders and other diversity target of 30 per cent females in deliver for our shareholders, customers stakeholders senior management by the end of 2021. and other stakeholders.
A well governed company engages regularly and effectively with its Our communities shareholders, responding to their Prudential provides important benefits to challenges and taking their ideas and society through our core business activities.
At Prudential, we have In addition to these benefits, Prudential is a open and constructive dialogue with responsible business that invests in our local investors via a regular and comprehensive communities, which we strongly believe is programme of engagement.
I have in the interests of all our stakeholders.
personally found this active engagement Our community investment work focuses hugely valuable and fully commit to particularly on financial education, disaster continuing this dialogue.
Shareholder input preparedness and social inclusion.
The is vital to ensuring well informed Board ChaChing programme, our financial discussions.
education platform aimed at primary Policy and regulatory change affects both schoolaged children, is now in its seventh our shortterm performance and longterm year.
It has expanded from its origins in strategy.
Prudential places great Asia to each of the four continents in which importance on having an effective the Group does business, and in all of the relationship with the regulators and markets where it has been launched it has policymakers who supervise us and our been extremely positively received, with markets.
We engage regularly and strong feedback from parents, teachers, constructively with all our regulators and children and political stakeholders.
The supervisors, as well as with governments Prudence Foundations Safe Steps is a around the world.
Throughout the firstofitskind panAsian public service Paul Manduca demerger process, the Board will continue initiative to enhance disaster preparedness Chairman to engage with all our stakeholders to and awareness through the dissemination of ensure that they are kept informed and educational survival tips for natural disasters, their input is sought.
with a potential reach of 200 million people.
And in the UK, over the past five years Prudential RideLondon has raised over 50 million for charity and become one of the largest fundraising events in the country.
In 2017 alone, more than 800 charities benefited from riders fundraising.
Note 1 Represents M&G Prudential asset management external funds under management and internal funds included on the M&G Prudential longterm insurance business balance sheet.
co. uk Annual Report 2017 Prudential plc 03
