STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2017 75 NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT It has been an active year for the Committee with a strong focus on succession planning.
Geoffrey Howe The Committee was also pleased Another key area of focus for the Group INTRODUCTION FROM to recommend the appointment of has continued to be diversity.
We have THE COMMITTEE Annette Court as the Companys Senior defined JLTs diversity agenda on the CHAIRMAN Independent Director.
basis of three pillars: Networking, Sponsorship and Involvement.
In 2017, I am pleased to present the Nominations In February 2018, the Committee JLT supported a number of initiatives, Committee report for the year ended recommended the appointment of both internally and in public events in 31 December 2017.
Lynne will join the the London Market and other insurance Board as a Non-Executive Director It has been an active year for the hubs, to help to drive a more diverse and on 1 May 2018.
Committee, with a strong focus on inclusive business and to play our part in succession planning for both the Board solving these challenges in our industry.
At a senior management level, Lucy and senior management.
More details are available in the Corporate Clarke was appointed as Global CEO Responsibility Report on pages 50 and 51. of JLT Specialty with effect from 1 April During 2017 there were a number of 2018.
Further details can be found in my Board and Committee changes.
Two The Committee continues to focus Chairman's Statement on page 12.
Directors left the Board during the year: on succession planning and executive Bruce Carnegie-Brown retired from development and during the year Jonathan Palmer-Brown stepped the Board and as Senior Independent it oversaw a detailed review by down from the Group Executive management, with the assistance of Director on 14 June 2017, following his Committee at the end of the year and external consultants, of the leadership appointment as the Chairman of Lloyds of continues to act as an Adviser to the capability and potential of a cohort London, and Jonathan Dawson retired on Group Chief Executive.
of nearly 40 of JLTs senior managers.
I should like to express More details of this review and its Leo Demer retired as CEO of our the Boards thanks to Bruce and Jonathan conclusions are set out in the Australia and New Zealand business at for their respective contributions to the following Report.
the end of December 2017 and has been Board and its Committees.
Nick joined The Committee oversaw the selection the Group Executive Committee with and appointment of new Non-Executive effect from 1 January 2018.
Leo assumes Directors and appointed executive search the new role of Head of Global Public firm, The Zygos Partnership, a signatory Sector Specialties.
to the Voluntary Code of Conduct of With effect from 26 February 2018, Executive Search Firms, to compile a Geoffrey Howe Mike Rice became Executive Chairman of long list of candidates for the respective Chairman, Nominations Committee JLT's US Specialty business to focus on roles.
In October, Andrew Didham and 28 February 2018 M&A and to continue to play a leading role Richard Meddings were appointed in driving new business development.
Richard has become Chair Pat Donnelly, formerly President and of the Remuneration Committee and Deputy CEO, assumed the role of CEO Andrew has become Chair of the Audit of that business on the same date.
76 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDANCE PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES The following table shows the Committee membership during The Committee met formally on two occasions during 2017, the year: as well as meeting on an ad hoc basis on several occasions to discuss key events during the year.
Committee Members Geoffrey Howe Chairman Adam Keswick During the year the Committee focused on succession 1 3 Bruce Carnegie-Brown Richard Meddings planning and the development of Directors and high performing Annette Court Lord Sassoon members of senior management, as well as on the promotion of 2 Jonathan Dawson Nicholas Walsh diversity and inclusion across the organisation.
3 Andrew Didham Key activities during the year 1.
Bruce Carnegie-Brown retired from the Committee on 14 June 2017 Non-Executive Director Appointments 2.
Jonathan Dawson retired from the Committee on 3 October 2017 Succession Planning 3.
Andrew Didham and Richard Meddings were appointed to the Committee on 2 October 2017 Consideration of Diversity The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Review of Board Composition Committee and, where appropriate, a number of others attend Oversight of Director Induction and Training meetings by invitation, including the Group Chief Executive and the Group Human Resources Director.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR APPOINTMENTS The table below shows the Committee members attendance at The Board appointed two new Non-Executive Directors in 2017, Committee meetings during 2017: Andrew Didham and Richard Meddings.
An external search Committee members Eligible to attend Attended consultancy, The Zygos Partnership, was engaged to lead the Geoffrey Howe Chairman 4 4 search process for both candidates.
The Zygos Partnership has Bruce Carnegie-Brown 1 1 no other connections with the Company.
A detailed longlist was Annette Court 4 4 prepared and discussed with the Committee and a shortlist of candidates was then interviewed.
The Committee met twice Jonathan Dawson 3 3 to discuss the results of the process and recommended the Andrew Didham 1 1 appointment of the two final candidates to the Board.
Adam Keswick 4 4 Richard Meddings 1 1 The Committee subsequently engaged The Zygos Partnership Lord Sassoon 4 4 to lead the search for a further Independent Non-Executive Nicholas Walsh 4 4 Director.
The Committee discussed the results of the process during 2018 and recommended the appointment of Lynne Peacock to the Board with effect from 1 May 2018.
COMMITTEE RESPONSIBILITIES The Committee is responsible for reviewing the structure and During 2017, the Committee also reviewed and recommended composition of the Board and its Committees and ensuring that the extension of Nicholas Walshs appointment as a Nonthey have the right balance of skills, knowledge and experience.
Executive Director following three years of service on the Board.
The Committee ensures that there is a formal, rigorous and transparent process for new Board appointments.
It is the SUCCESSION PLANNING Committees responsibility to lead this process by preparing One of the key roles of the Committee is to discuss succession a description of the role and capabilities required for each planning for the Board and other senior management positions.
particular appointment: appointing external search consultants It is important that a pipeline of talent is recognised and as appropriate and overseeing the search process: and making nurtured within the business and that the skills and experience recommendations on new appointments to the Board.
of senior management are developed.
Ultimate responsibility All appointments to the Board are made on merit and against for making senior management appointments rests with the objective criteria.
The Committee has responsibility for considering a range of The Committee works closely with management to ensure other issues including diversity, inclusion and gender equality.
that succession planning looks ahead over multiple years and addresses any identified skill shortages.
The terms of reference of the Committee are available on the Company's website jlt.
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2017 77 During the year the Committee oversaw a detailed review by BOARD INDUCTION AND TRAINING management, with the assistance of external consultants, The Committee is focused on ensuring that an appropriate Korn Ferry, of the leadership capability and potential of a induction programme is provided to all new Directors which cohort of nearly 40 of JLTs senior managers.
The review is tailored to their roles on the Board and its Committees.
focused on the capability of the cohort as leaders within JLT, A programme has been developed which is designed to using the Groups five pillar leadership model, as well as on provide new Directors with an understanding of the Group, their leadership potential measured using a number of its governance framework, its business and the markets in external tools and against a large group of executives in other which it operates.
The exercise was seen as important in assessing Members of the Board and its Committees are provided with the strength of JLTs leadership team and how well positioned regular training in order to keep them abreast of industry and it is to drive JLT forward to deliver on the Groups strategy.
legal and regulatory developments, facilitated by professional The results of the review indicated that JLTs cohort had advisers where appropriate.
strong leadership in core areas and great potential.
Further details regarding the induction and training programmes Training and development plans, with appropriate coaching provided during the year can be found on page 65. and mentoring, are being tailored to help individuals meet their development needs.
For and on behalf of the Board.
The Committee also continued to discuss future succession plans for the role of Group Chief Executive.
Korn Ferry carried out further work to evaluate several potential internal candidates for the role, in order to identify development opportunities for those individuals.
The Committee also spent time considering succession Geoffrey Howe planning in respect of the Chairman and is comfortable that an Chairman, Nominations Committee appropriate plan is in place.
28 February 2018 The Committee is confident that there are succession plans in place for Directors and senior management across the Group which are appropriate to enable the implementation of our corporate strategy and our future growth plans.
DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION The Committee aims to maintain an appropriate balance of skills, experience, expertise and background on the Board.
In preparing to recommend new appointments, the Committee takes into account the benefits of diversity whilst considering candidates on merit against objective criteria.
The Board supports the recommendations made in the reviews published by Davies, Hampton-Alexander and Parker and supports the Codes recommendation that diversity and gender should be considered when making Board appointments.
JLT recognises the benefits of having a diverse Board and is committed to achieving a Board which includes and makes the best use of differences in culture, gender, skills, background, regional, financial and industry experience and other qualities.
More details of JLT's approach to diversity can be found in the Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 50 and 51.
