qxp 22 03 2018 09:32 Page 30 D I R E C T O R S R E P O R T Corporate Governance management accounts, revenue projections, analysis of transactions and performance comparisons.
JPMAM believes that corporate governance is integral to its investment process.
As part of its commitment to delivering Management Agreement Evaluation and appointment of superior investment performance to clients, it expects and a manager and custodian regulated by the Financial Conduct encourages the companies in which it invests to demonstrate the Authority FCA, whose responsibilities are clearly defined in highest standards of corporate governance and best business a written agreement.
JPMAM examines the share structure and voting structure Management Systems The Managers system of risk of the companies in which it invests, as well as the board balance, management and internal control includes organisational oversight functions and remuneration policy.
These analyses then agreements which clearly define the lines of responsibility, form the basis of JPMAMs proxy voting and engagement activity.
delegated authority, control procedures and systems.
These are Proxy Voting monitored by JPMorgans Compliance department which regularly JPMAM manages the voting rights of the shares entrusted to it as it monitors compliance with FCA rules and reports to the Board.
would manage any other asset.
It is the policy of JPMAM to vote in Investment Strategy Authorisation and monitoring of the a prudent and diligent manner, based exclusively on reasonable Companys investment strategy and exposure limits by the Board.
judgement of what will best serve the financial interests of clients.
So far as is practicable, JPMAM will vote at all of the meetings called The Board keeps under review the effectiveness of the Companys by companies in which it is invested.
system of risk management and internal control by monitoring the operation of the key operating controls of the Manager and its Stewardship Engagement associates as follows: JPMAM recognises its wider FRC stewardship responsibilities to its clients as a major asset owner.
To this end, we support the the Board, through the Audit Committee, reviews the terms of introduction of the FRC Stewardship Code, which sets out the the management agreement and receives regular reports responsibilities of institutional shareholders in respect of investee from JPMorgans Compliance department: companies.
Under the Code, managers should: the Board reviews a report, which is also independently publicly disclose their policy on how they will discharge their reviewed, on the internal controls and the operations of its stewardship responsibilities to their clients: custodian, JPMorgan Chase Bank: disclose their policy on managing conflicts of interest: the Board reviews every six months a report from the monitor their investee companies: Companys Depositary, BNY Mellon Trust and Depositary UK Limited, which summarises the activities performed by the establish clear guidelines on how they escalate engagement: Depositary during the reporting period: and be willing to act collectively with other investors where appropriate: the Board reviews every six months an independent report on the internal controls and the operations of JPMFs investment have a clear policy on proxy voting and disclose their voting trust department.
record: and report to clients.
By means of the procedures set out above, the Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys system of JPMAM endorses the FRC Stewardship Code for its UK investments risk management and internal control for the year ended and supports the principles as best practice elsewhere.
We believe 31st December 2017, and to the date of approval of this Annual that regular contact with the companies in which we invest is central Report and Accounts.
to our investment process and we also recognise the importance of being an active owner on behalf of our clients.
During the course of its review of the system of risk management and internal control, the Board has not identified nor been JPMAMs Voting Policy and Corporate Governance Guidelines are advised of any failings or weaknesses which it has determined to available on request from the Company Secretary or can be be significant.
Therefore a confirmation in respect of necessary downloaded from JPMAMs website: actions has not been considered appropriate.
co. uk governance which also sets out its approach to the seven principles of the FRC Stewardship Code, its policy relating to conflicts of interest and its Corporate Governance and Voting Policy detailed voting record.
The Company delegates responsibility for voting to JPMAM.
The By order of the Board following information in italics is a summary of JPMAMs policy Alison Vincent, for and on behalf of statements on corporate governance, voting policy and social and JPMorgan Funds Limited, environmental issues, which has been reviewed and noted by the Secretary Board.
Details on social and environmental issues are included in the Strategic Report on pages 19 and 20.
