qxp 22 03 2018 09:32 Page 31 D I R E C T O R S R E P O R T Audit Committee Report The Audit Committee, chaired by Simon Bragg, consists of all The Board was made fully aware of any significant financial Directors, except the Chair of the Board, and meets at least twice reporting issues and judgements made in connection with the each year.
The Chair of the Board attends by invitation of the preparation of the financial statements.
The members of the Audit Committee consider that at Going Concern least one member has recent and relevant financial experience The Directors believe that having considered the Companys and that the Committee as a whole has competency relevant to investment objective see page 18, risk management policies see the sector in which the Company operates.
pages 62 to 67, capital management policies and procedures see The Committee reviews the actions and judgements of the page 68, the nature of the portfolio and expenditure projections, Manager in relation to the half year and annual report & financial the Company has adequate resources, an appropriate financial statements and the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate structure and suitable management arrangements in place to Governance Code.
It examines the effectiveness of the Companys continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For internal control systems, receives information from the Managers these reasons, they consider that there is reasonable evidence to Compliance department and also reviews the scope and results of continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial the external audit, its cost effectiveness and the independence statements.
They have not identified any material uncertainties to and objectivity of the external auditors.
The Audit Committee has the Companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least reviewed the independence and objectivity of the auditors and is twelve months from the date of these financial statements.
satisfied that the auditors are independent.
The Audit Committee Auditor Appointment and Tenure also has the primary responsibility for making recommendations Representatives of the Companys Auditors, Deloitte LLP, to the Board on the reappointment and the removal of external attended the Audit Committee meeting at which the draft Annual auditors.
Report & Financial Statements were considered and also engage Financial Statements and Significant Accounting Matters with Directors as and when required.
Having reviewed the During its review of the Companys financial statements for the performance of the external Auditors, including assessing the year ended 31st December 2017, the Audit Committee considered quality of work, timing of communications and work with the the following significant issues, including those communicated by Manager, the Committee considered it appropriate to recommend the Auditors during their reporting their reappointment.
The Board supported this recommendation which will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual Significant issue How the issue was addressed General Meeting.
The Board reviews and approves any non-audit Valuation, existence The valuation of investments is undertaken in services provided by the independent auditors and assesses the and ownership of accordance with the accounting policies, disclosed impact of any non-audit work on the ability of the auditors to investments in note 1 to the accounts.
The Company has remain independent.
No non-audit work was carried out by the appointed BNY Mellon Trust and Depositary UK auditors this year.
Details of the auditors fees paid for audit and Limited BNY as its depositary.
BNY has appointed nonaudit services are disclosed in note 6 on page 53.
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A. as the Companys The current tenure of the external auditor dates from 10th August custodian.
BNY remains responsible for the 2006.
The Companys year ended 31st December 2017 is the current oversight of the custody of the Companys assets.
Audit Partners third of a five year maximum term.
The Board opened Calculation of The management and performance fees are the external auditor position up to tender in 2015 and reappointed Deloitte LLP, following presentations from three firms to include the management and calculated in accordance with the Investment performance fees Management Agreement.
Based upon existing legislation, another tender process would not be required until 2025.
The Company is therefore in controls reports, expense schedules and the performance fee calculation.
compliance with the provisions of The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory use of Recognition of The recognition of investment income is undertaken competitive tender processes and audit committee responsibilities investment income in accordance with accounting policy note 1 d to Order 2014 as issued by the Competition & Markets Authority.
Income recording is conducted by the Fair, Balanced and Understandable Manager and the methodology is reported upon to As a result of the work performed, the Committee has concluded the Board within a six monthly independent report that the Annual Report for the year ended 31st December 2017, on the operations of the Manager.
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and Compliance with Approval for the Company as an investment trust provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Sections 1158 and under Sections 1158 and 1159 for financial years Companys position and performance, business model and 1159 commencing on or after 1st October 2012 has been strategy, and has reported on these findings to the Board.
The obtained and ongoing compliance with the eligibility Boards conclusions in this respect are set out in the Statement of criteria is monitored on a regular basis by the Directors Responsibilities on page 36.
Manager, who reports on a monthly basis to the Simon Bragg Board on the Companys continuing compliance.
