Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance RISK, ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE REPORT Committee responsibilities Chairmans Letter The RECCs primary function is to assist the Board in its oversight of all matters related to the risk management and compliance of the Company and the Group as a whole.
The RECC is responsible for recommending the Groups risk appetite limits to the Board and monitoring the risk profile to make sure that it complies with the established limits.
It is also responsible for reviewing, assessing and recommending any actions for the Board to take regarding the Groups overall risk management strategy, as well as the risk management system and associated policies.
In addition, the committee reviews and approves credit facilities to large borrowers if the borrower represents one of the top 20 groups of borrowers of the Bank or exceeds 5% of the Banks supervisory capital.
The RECC is also responsible for overseeing the Groups compliance activities to ensure that it complies with all applicable laws and regulations and maintains the highest standards of ethical behaviour.
The committee supports fostering an ethical culture within the Group based on the principles of honesty, integrity, fairness and transparency.
Dear shareholders, I am pleased to present Risks, Ethics and Compliance Committee The RECCs terms of reference are available on the Groups website: the RECC report for the Group.
Throughout 2017, the RECC continued to take a proactive approach Committee members and meetings to risk management by closely monitoring and discussing the The RECC consists of five independent non-executive Directors: internal and external challenges facing the Group.
Along with Nikoloz Enukidze Chairman, Stefano Marsaglia, Nicholas Haag, regular updates regarding the macroeconomic environment, the Eric Rajendra and Stephan Wilcke.
Their biographies can be found Groups risk profile, risk management practices and results, the on pages 114 to 117. committee focused on several other issues, namely: the recent regulatory changes concerning the new liquidity The committee meets in person on a quarterly basis.
At each coverage ratio, risk weighting rules and capital management meeting its members review a thorough report on risk management framework, the details of which are given below under results for the quarter, as well as updates on compliance and other Regulatory updates: areas within its remit.
The Chief Executive Officer, CRO, head of the successful project to implement IFRS 9, including updating compliance and key members of the Groups risk and compliance the Groups provisioning methodology: and teams normally attend the meetings.
Additional meetings, as the post-merger integration of Bank Republic into the Group, needed, are held electronically.
which was successfully finalised in May 2017.
The attendance of members at the RECCs meetings during the year, In January 2017, TBC Bank appointed a new CRO, David Chkonia, to at the Company and the Bank levels, are set out in the Directors further strengthen the risk function.
He has 15 years of experience Governance statement on page 106. in risk management.
In previous positions held before joining the Group, Mr Chkonia consulted companies regarding risks, especially RECC activities during 2017 those associated with credit and capital market transactions.
The In 2017, one of the Groups primary focus areas was to ensure a RECC worked closely with the new CRO and oversaw the transition smooth post-merger integration with Bank Republic.
The RECC process to ensure that he was equipped with all the necessary played an important role in monitoring the project of aligning all information to perform his processes, which was successfully completed in the first half of the duties effectively.
Additionally, the NBG introduced various regulatory changes during the reporting period.
The committee closely monitored these The report below summarises the RECCs activities for the year.
changes, including through reviews of periodical regulatory updates and frequent discussions regarding these changes, assessing potential implications for the Groups capital and liquidity management processes, and outlining ways to manage these processes more effectively.
Nikoloz Enukidze Chairman of the Risk, Ethics and Compliance Committee 28 March 2018 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 123 RISK, ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED The RECC was actively involved in the IFRS 9 implementation project the enhancement of authorisation processes related to execution by, amongst other things, systematically reviewing its progress and of large cash transactions, including those authorised under the key changes in the provisioning methodology, as well as powers of attorney: and analysing the expected impact on the Groups level of allowances.
the assessment of risks and controls involved with the Banks operating procedures, with a focus on branch operations.
Apart from the above activities, the committee maintained its focus on its key responsibilities of monitoring the Groups risk Financial risks management processes, promoting progress in risk management The RECC closely reviewed the Groups financial risk positions and tools and techniques, and implementing mitigation actions against produced a report that included an assessment of TBC Banks risks prevailing risks.
associated with liquidity, foreign exchange, banking book interest rates and counterparties.
As part of assessing compliance with the Risk appetite approved risk appetite limits, the committee monitored TBC Banks The RECC received and reviewed the risk appetite compliance readiness to meet the NBGs new regulatory ratio, the liquidity reports at each of its quarterly meetings, during which the coverage ratio, which came into force in September 2017.
In committee members discussed the Groups risk profile and addition, the RECC received comprehensive updates on optimising respective outlook with the management.
the liquidity coverage ratio and reviewed a thorough report on the interbank portfolios performance within the counterparty risk In the beginning of 2017, the RECC discussed updates in risk management framework.
The committee focused on developing a appetite limits that the CRO proposed, as well as assumptions and deep understanding of the interbank limits approval process.
At the drivers for change.
The committee suggested certain revisions to the year-end, the Supervisory Board approved the Banks counterparty currently proposed limits, which they subsequently considered and risk management policy in light of the RECCs positive approved.
The RECC paid special attention to the reduction in margins, Macroeconomic environment in Georgia reviewing the interest rate risk positioning of the Banks net interest The RECC received a comprehensive report on Georgias income and reports analysing the economic value sensitivities for macroeconomic environment and discussed the medium-term different interest rate scenarios.
Considering that a significant part of the Groups loan book is denominated in foreign currency, the GELs volatility remained a key focus for discussions throughout the year.
The Capital management committee discussed potential implications of GEL depreciation on The RECC continued to review the internal capital adequacy process the Groups performance and respective actions that it undertakes and closely monitored compliance with regulatory ratios under to mitigate these risks.
The RECC continued to closely monitor how different macroeconomic scenarios.
During the committees government initiatives launched in the beginning of 2017, which are meetings, it also examined the changes and impacts associated with aimed at reducing the economys dependence on currencies other various capital framework initiatives that the NBG introduced during than GEL, affected the Groups portfolio composition and discussed the reporting period.
In addition to the updated framework discussed below, under the new capital regulations, the NBG initiated a stress-testing exercise.
Credit risk During the RECCs meetings, it reviewed comprehensive The RECC reviewed the performance of the Groups loan book at presentations covering the methodology of the stress-testing and each meeting during 2017.
The reports covered the structure of the discussed the results extensively.
The main purpose of the stressGroups portfolio, including segmentation by currency, business testing framework is to use it in the future to define Pillar II buffers.
The committee received a detailed update regarding the Groups Compliance largest exposures during the meetings from the CRO and corporate Throughout 2017, the RECC reviewed the Groups compliance business director.
They presented the strategy for growing the programmes on a quarterly basis.
The topics of discussion included corporate loan book to ensure that it is balanced with proper risk the following: assessment processes.
The RECC encouraged the CRO to maintain the status of the compliance and anti-money laundering a balanced growth approach.
programmes implementation: information on the supervision of subsidiaries: identified weaknesses and compliance failures, as well as Operational risk follow-up corrective measures: Throughout the year, the RECC focused on reviewing the results of a summary of regulatory changes: and internal loss data collection and fraud risk management.
The a report on whistleblowing cases.
committee discussed establishing and segregating duties among the lines of defence of the Groups internal control system with the aim In addition, the committee closely scrutinised the Groups relatedof further fine-tuning the operational risk management framework.
party list and transaction tracker for the purposes of the UK Listing Following a recent incident of identity fraud, a summary of which is Rules during 2017. set out on page 68, the RECC conducted a further review of TBC Banks internal control system and recommended the following actions to the Board: 124 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance As part of the NBGs ongoing operations, it conducted a thematic Committee effectiveness review inspection of the Bank covering the last six years, a summary of The Board and RECC members conduct a review of the committees which is set out on page 69.
The RECC followed up on agreed effectiveness every year.
The main role of the review is to assess the actions in response to the recommendations that the NBG provided RECCs performance as per international standards of best practice after its inspection.
During 2017, the RECC was found to be effective in overseeing the Groups risk management, compliance activities and ethical standards.
Regulatory updates The NBG introduced numerous initiatives during the reporting period.
The RECC examined all key initiatives that were relevant for Looking ahead to 2018 risk management by analysing their impact on the Groups Going forward, the RECC will continue to focus on its key performance.
The NBG introduced capital buffers compliant with the responsibilities of assessment of quarterly risk results and Basel III regulatory framework, which are based on the updated compliance with the Banks risk appetite, providing sign-off on capital requirements that will be divided across Pillar I and II transactions with the largest exposures, and facilitate progress in buffers.
These initiatives include: risk management tools and techniques.
The RECC will continue the the capital conservation buffer which is currently incorporated in close monitoring of the impact that recent and upcoming regulatory minimum capital requirements, which has been separated: changes may have on the Banks financial standing and respective over a four-year period, a systemic risk buffer, which will be implications for risk management processes.
In addition, key introduced for systemically important banks: attention will be paid to proper management of risks that may arise a countercyclical capital buffer, which has been introduced and from further digitalisation of TBC Banks services.
Moreover, review initially set to 0%: and monitoring of results produced from newly introduced IFRS 9 a currency-induced credit risk CICR buffer, which has replaced models will stay as one of the key focus areas of the RECC, to the current conservative weighting for un-hedged loans ensure that respective results adequately capture TBC Banks denominated in foreign currencies: expected losses.
concertation buffer, which will be introduced for sectoral and single borrower exposures: a net stress buffer, which will be introduced based on the stress-testing results that the Group provided: and a General Risk-Assessment Programme GRAPE buffer, which is defined by the regulator and will be applied based on the Banks specific risks.
In addition, based on the updated methodology, the NBG has introduced specific payment-to-income PTI and loan-to-value LTV thresholds, applying higher risk weights to exposures that do not fall into the pre-defined limits for the PTI and LTV ratios.
Apart from the capital changes, the NBG has introduced a liquidity coverage ratio, which is used to manage liquidity risk.
This is in addition to the Basel III guidelines, under which a conservative approach was applied to the weighting of mandatory reserves and to the deposit withdrawal rates, depending on the concentration of client groups.
IFRS 9 implementation The implementation of IFRS 9 began in 2016 and was one of the most significant projects in 2017.
The Group developed an enhanced provisioning methodology in line with the IFRS 9 requirements.
With the updated methodology, the Group can assess loan loss provisions and allowances accurately with the incorporation of forward-looking information.
In addition to developing the methodology, the Group also implemented an accompanying IT tool.
The impact of IFRS 9 on the equity, as of the transition moment, amounts to GEL 64 million.
Major impacts were observed in the retail segment.
TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 125
