Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2017 97 In accordance with the Listings Requirements of the JSE, the committee DLC audit committee has considered and satisfied itself that Andrew King, Mondis Chief Financial Composition Officer, has appropriate expertise and Meeting Members Committee attendance experience.
Andrew is a chartered throughout member four meetings accountant and throughout his career the year since in the year has held various finance and business Tanya May 2017 2 1 development roles.
The committee has Fratto also considered and satisfied itself of the Stephen March 2011 4 appropriateness of the expertise and Harris adequacy of resources of the finance John Nicholas, October 2009 4 chairman function and expertise of the senior The committee remained focused management responsible for the finance during the year on the completion Anne May 2007 2 2 Quinn function.
As a result, the committee also of the transition from Deloitte to confirms that it is satisfied that Mondi  PwC 1 Tanya Fratto was appointed to the committee has appropriate financial reporting and on working with PwC through on 11 May 2017.
Tanya attended all meetings procedures in place and that these are the first full year of reporting following her appointment operating effectively.
2 Anne Quinn stepped down from the committee on 11 May 2017.
Anne attended all meetings up Alongside the regular review of to the time of her retirement from the Boards Role of the committee the key risks facing Mondi, cyber The committee operates under formal security remained a key priority, Other regular attendees terms of reference.
The committee agenda with the committee receiving e Chief Executive Officer included the regular matters reserved for its two detailed presentations review during the annual financial reporting e Chief Financial Officer from Mondis Chief Information cycle and ensured it has appropriately Officer on Mondis approach to e Group Controller discharged its responsibilities during information technology risk as e Group Head of Internal Audit the year, having operated in compliance well as additional, practical advice e South African and UK representatives with relevant legal, regulatory and on maintaining data security and from PwC other responsibilities.
The committees tackling attempted fraud.
performance against its terms of The committee is constituted as a John Nicholas reference is reviewed on an annual basis.
statutory committee in respect of the Chairman of the DLC audit committee The committee is satisfied that it has acted duties set out in the South African in accordance with its terms of reference Companies Act 2008 and a DLC during the year.
committee of the Boards in respect of other duties assigned to it by the Boards.
The committee chairman regularly reports to the Boards on the work and output from meetings and provides any necessary recommendations or advice on matters Composition Although Tanya was new to the Boards of direct relevance to the deliberations of in 2017, her engineering background and During the year Anne Quinn stepped the Boards.
experience in product innovation and down from the committee as a result of sales and marketing meant that she was her retirement from the Boards at the The evaluation of the committee well placed to understand the sector.
conclusion of the Annual General Meetings was carried out as part of the 2017 In addition, Tanya has attended all meetings in May 2017.
Tanya Fratto, who was internal evaluation see page 93 for of the committee since her appointment appointed to the Boards on 1 January more information.
to the Boards, giving her the opportunity 2017, was appointed as a member of to observe and familiarise herself with the committee by shareholders at the the workings of the committee prior to Annual General Meetings.
There were her appointment as a member.
John, no other changes to membership during Stephen and Tanya all have appropriate the year.
John Nicholas remained chair knowledge and understanding of financial of the committee and, being a chartered matters and have commercial expertise accountant and having, until April 2015, gained from industries with similar capital been a member of the UK Financial intensive manufacturing, engineering, Reporting Review Panel, he is considered natural resources and technology-focused to have specific recent and relevant financial international operations.
John and Stephen have been detailing the experience of each member of on the Boards, and the committee, for the committee can be found on page 83. more than six years and have gained a familiarity and understanding of the sector in which Mondi operates.
Mondi Group 98 Integrated report and financial statements 2017 Corporate governance report How the committee spent its time the year, allowing the committee to further fraud attempts and mitigating actions.
consolidate relationships, to hear the Ongoing projects to improve the security While the work programme largely covered perspective of PwC on the transition and to of Mondis networks and to understand the regular cycle of financial and risk related receive regular updates on progress with and prevent the risk of an attack impacting matters, the key focus for the committee audit work.
on the Groups operational assets were during the year continued to be the audit particular areas of focus see page 99 for transition from Deloitte to PwC and working Cyber security also continued to be a more information.
with PwC during the first full year of their material area of consideration for the audit appointment.
The committee was committee given the publicity during the The potential impact of a number of new satisfied that there was a smooth transition year around large-scale cyber attacks IFRS accounting standards was also from Deloitte to PwC, with significant work and increasingly sophisticated fraud considered during the year.
having been undertaken in 2016 towards attempts.
The committee was provided this.
Members of PwC have been present with detailed updates on the Groups cyber at all meetings of the committee during security arrangements, key areas of risk, Other matters addressed by the committee included: Financial reporting External audit matters Internal audit matters e Reviewing the integrity of all financial e A recommendation to the Boards that the e Reviewing and agreeing the internal audit plan, announcements with input provided by the Group appointment of PwC for the 2017 audit be put to confirming the focus on key risk areas and adequate Controller and PwC.
shareholders at the Annual General Meetings.
cover of all material operations.
e Reviewing restated segmental information included e Reviewing the independence, objectivity e Reviewing and approving the internal audit charter in the October 2017 trading update following the and effectiveness of PwC see page 103 for which sets out the purpose, remit and authority of reorganisation of the business segments.
e Reviewing the Mondi Group Integrated report and e Reviewing and approving the external audit plan, e Receiving reports from the Group Head of financial statements for tone and consistency and taking account of the scope, materiality and audit Internal Audit at each meeting see page 104 for considering whether the report as a whole was fair, risks and agreeing the audit fees.
balanced and understandable see page 102 for e A report at each meeting of any non-audit e Reviewing the effectiveness of the internal more information.
services covering PwC, and Deloitte up to audit team.
e Reviewing and discussing the audit the time of their retirement, in order to monitor e Holding a meeting with the Group Head of Internal management letter.
e Reviewing accounting policies to be applied for the e Reviewing and agreeing the engagement letters and year ending 31 December 2017. representation letters.
Governance and other e Reviewing new accounting pronouncements e Holding a meeting with PwC without management e For JSE purposes reviewing the appropriateness and any potential impact for the Groups present: the committee chair also engaged regularly and expertise of the Chief Financial Officer and the financial reporting.
effectiveness of the finance function see page 97 e Reviewing the going concern basis of accounting for more information.
Risk management and and the longer-term viability statement see page41 e Monitoring and reviewing the continued for more information.
internal controls implementation of those elements of the Groups e Reviewing the JSEs latest report from its proactive Code of Business Ethics reserved for review by the e Undertaking a detailed review of the Groups risk monitoring process setting out the results of its committee, as well as the supporting framework of management policy, plan and tolerance levels and reviews of financial statements during the year, the Business Integrity Policy.
of the process to assess the risks see pages 34 to confirming that Mondis financial statements 40 for more information.
e Reviewing the legal and compliance risks faced by were compliant.
e Reviewing the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control systems see pages 34 to 40 for e Reviewing Mondis competition compliance more information.
programme and the adjustments made to it following the changes to Mondis structure during e At each committee meeting undertaking a more in- 2017, including the replacement of two divisional depth review of three or four of the most significant compliance committees with one GroupGroup risks.
e Half-yearly presentations on IT risk management e Reviewing the committees terms of reference, and cyber security see page 99 for performance and work programme, recommending more information.
changes to the terms of reference to reflect the e A presentation from PwC on digital hygiene King IV Governance Code and changes to the JSE providing the committee with practical ways in Listings Requirements.
which to protect data and confidential information.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2017 99 Approach to regular financial reporting The committee continually reviews its approach to financial reporting, being aware of the need for transparency and maintaining a focus on long-term value creation.
This has included, in particular, consideration of the continued practice of publishing a quarterly update on trading conditions.
Having considered the cyclical nature of our business, our competitor reporting cycles and our desire to keep the market informed, we are of the view that we should continue with this practice.
We also took into account feedback received from some of the Groups largest shareholders who have indicated their support for this approach as they find that it bridges the gap between the full reporting periods and provides an update on important market dynamics that affect the sector in which Mondi operates.
We continue to monitor market practice and to keep the position under review.
Information technology risk The committee undertakes, on a half-yearly basis, a detailed review of the information technology risk and mitigation actions.
The Groups IT risk management framework has been explained with comfort obtained that it is holistic and robust, having been audited by independent third parties.
The committee reviewed the IT risk register confirming that all aspects had been covered security, compliance and availability and noting that the top five risks were all in the area of cyber security.
It was further noted that cyber security was driving the main mitigation activities, particularly in the areas of network design and security architecture.
Key areas of focus during the year included ensuring that Mondis core systems were up to date and protected and that audits of the Groups key sites were undertaken to understand the level of risk faced by Mondis operational assets.
These audits, together with continued development of Mondis networks to protect against fraud attempts, will remain the focus during 2018.
The committee also assessed the findings of PwCs assessment of certain IT controls, performed as part of its financial statements audit.
The committee was encouraged by the level of focus being given to cyber security within the organisation, The emphasis being placed on employee awareness, education and testing was welcomed by the committee.
Overall the committee concluded that the Groups IT risk management was effective and that management ensured that it was subject to continuous monitoring and improvement see page 40 for more information.
Mondi Group 100 Integrated report and financial statements 2017 Corporate governance report Internal control The Groups internal control and risk management framework, embedded in all key operations, is designed to address all the significant strategic, financial, operational and compliance risks that could undermine our ability to achieve our business objectives in the future and is managed within risk tolerance levels defined by the Boards.
In accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Group has in place an internal control environment to protect the business from principal risks which have been identified.
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal controls over financial reporting and we have responsibility for ensuring the effectiveness of these controls.
Full details of Mondis internal control and risk management framework can be found in the Strategic report on pages 34 to 40.
The committee has reviewed the risk management process and the Groups system of internal controls.
The committee considers that the system of internal controls operated effectively throughout the financial year and up to the date on which the financial statements were signed.
Significant issues related to the financial statements The committee has considered each of the following items based on discussions with, and submissions by, management and satisfied itself as to the accounting treatment and presentation thereof.
The most significant items were discussed with the external auditors during the planning stage and on completion of the audit.
These issues are broadly similar to those addressed by the committee during 2016.
The key considerations in relation to the 2017 financial statements were: Matter considered Action Special items are those financial items which the Group considers The committee has critically reviewed each item presented by should be separately disclosed on the face of the income statement management as being special to ensure that the items are in line with to assist in the understanding of the underlying financial performance the Groups accounting policy.
of the Group as special items affect year-on-year comparability.
The committee considered both the quantification and presentation The classification of an item as special is based on judgement and of special items.
generally must exceed 10 million and or be material in the context of the current years financial performance.
Subsequent adjustments The committee has reviewed the adequacy of the descriptions of the to items previously reported as special items continue to be reflected special items in the Financial statements and the Strategic report.
as special items in future periods even if they do not exceed the The committee has also considered whether any significant reporting threshold.
transactions that were not classified as special were appropriately The net special item charge of 61 million before tax included classified in the Financial statements and appropriately described in restructuring and closure costs of 23 million and related impairments the Strategic report.
of 38 million related to the restructuring programme in Consumer Packaging including closure of a plant in Poland, streamlining the UK operations and reducing the cost base across the business: the release of a restructuring and closure provision following the finalisation of a release liner plant closure in the United States: the closure of the South African newsprint business: the partial impairment of kraft paper assets in the United States: the partial reversal of the impairment of a kraft paper mill in Bulgaria: and the release of restructuring and closure provisions following finalisation of the sale of the Groups kraft paper mill in Finland.
Details of the special items are included in the Strategic report on pages 56 and 57 and in note 3 of the financial statements.
The Groups operations are capital-intensive and, in 2017, the Group At the time of approval of significant capital projects, the Boards incurred 611 million in capital expenditure.
approve the underlying assumptions including the estimated useful lives of these investments.
Good progress continued to be made on the Groups major capital investment projects including the commissioning of the final phase The committee has interrogated management and satisfied itself of of the 260 million investment programme in wiecie to provide the appropriateness of the assumptions made, the consistency of additional light-weight kraftliner production and increased share of those assumptions compared with the initial approval and the basis kraft top liner production.
on which any changes were made.
The 310 million investment in Ruomberok in relation to a new kraft The committee has also considered the internal audit reports top white machine and related pulp mill upgrade is also progressing.
completed in respect of the Groups procurement and capital The work on the pulp mill upgrade has commenced while the expenditure processes, in which there were no significant investment in the paper machine remains subject to obtaining the weaknesses identified.
The335m modernisation of the tt mill is progressing well.
Progress also continued to be made with ramping up the production of the rebuilt paper and inline coating machine at the tt mill although technical challenges remain.
These projects are more fully described in the Strategic report on page 23 and details of the Groups tangible fixed assets are provided in note 10 of the financial statements.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2017 101 Matter considered Action In addition to property, plant and equipment of 3,962 million, The committee considered a report from management describing goodwill of 698 million is included as an asset in the statement of potential impairment indicators of tangible and intangible assets and financial position.
the outcomes of related impairment tests.
As set out in the accounting policies, the Group performs an The committee also considered a report from management on the impairment review at least annually and whenever there is any outcomes of the annual goodwill impairment test.
indication that certain of its assets may be impaired.
The critical underlying assumptions applied were reviewed by the See notes 10 and 11 of the financial statements.
committee and compared with the Groups budget and the current macroeconomic environment.
The committee considered the sensitivities underlying the primary assumptions to determine the consequences that reasonably possible changes in such assumptions may have on the recoverable amount of the underlying assets.
The committee satisfied itself that no impairment related to goodwill was required and that the impairments in property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets were primarily related to the closure and restructuring of operations.
The Group has operations in a number of countries each with a The committee receives regular reports from management about different tax system.
new legislative developments that may impact the Groups tax positions.
The Group is regularly subject to routine tax audits and provisions are made based on the tax laws in the relevant country and the expected The committee has considered reports from management outlining outcomes of any negotiations or settlements.
the Groups most significant tax exposures, including ongoing tax audits and litigation, and has reviewed the related tax provisions The Groups recognition of deferred tax assets, relating to future recognised by management, satisfying itself these are appropriate utilisation of accumulated tax losses, is dependent on the future and the risk of new unexpected exposures arising is low.
profitability and performance of the underlying businesses.
The committee has considered a report from management outlining See note 7 of the financial statements.
the key judgements relating to the recognition of deferred tax assets and satisfied itself that the assumptions made are reasonable and consistent from year to year.
Significant judgement is required in determining the assumptions The assumptions applied in the valuation of the forestry assets and to be applied for the valuation of the Groups forestry assets and retirement benefits were reviewed by the committee.
Such assumptions are based, as The committee considered the basis on which these assumptions far as possible, on observable market data and, in the case of the were determined, and evaluated the assumptions by comparing retirement benefit obligations, the input and advice of actuaries.
them with prior years and considering market developments The most significant assumptions and sensitivities are disclosed during2017.
in note 13 for forestry assets and 22 for retirement benefits in the The committee satisfied itself that the assumptions, and the changes financial statements.
to those assumptions when compared with the year ended 31 December 2016, were appropriate.
During 2017, the Group concluded three business combinations, as The committee considered a report from management describing the described in note 23 of the financial statements.
process taken in conducting the identification and valuation of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations.
On acquisition, the Group determined the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, based on its own experience in the industry The committee satisfied itself that the fair values were appropriate and the input of experts.
and that the resulting goodwill recognised in these transactions was appropriate and did not include any unrecorded assets or liabilities.
During 2017, the Group reorganised its business units to reflect the The committee has considered a report from management in relation nature of the underlying products produced.
The prior year figures to the restated segmental information.
have been restated to reflect the new organisational structure.
The The process of restatement was discussed with management and reorganisation has no impact on the overall Group result.
thecommittee satisfied itself that the restated segmental information The changes to the Groups business units, and consequently to was appropriate.
the Groups segmental reporting, were as follows: Uncoated Fine The restated prior year figures were published with the October 2017 Paper and South Africa, excluding the containerboard operations, trading update.
were merged into a single business unit: and the containerboard operations of South Africa were merged into Packaging Paper.
TheFibre Packaging and Consumer Packaging business units wereunaffected by the change.
See note 2 of the financial statements.
Mondi Group 102 Integrated report and financial statements 2017 Corporate governance report Fair, balanced and understandable A key role of the committee is to ensure Although oversight and review of material that the interests of shareholders are financial reporting matters are considered protected, in particular that there is throughout the year, at the request of robust financial reporting with good the Boards, the committee assessed the internal controls in place and appropriate integrity of the Groups Integrated report accounting practices and policies and financial statements 2017 and the combined with sound judgement.
clarity, completeness and consistency of disclosures.
Process Oversight through the year Review confirmed Recommendation e Review of applicable e Well documented planning and e The committee accounting policies and procedures for the preparation of reported its findings pronouncements and the report and conclusion to their application the Boards e Collaborative approach between e Review of regular financial all parties required to contribute to results and announcements the report e Reports from the Group e Basis of preparation consistent with Controller and PwC financial reporting throughout the year e Reports from internal audit e All significant issues had been considered e Messaging was consistent particularly the narrative reflecting the financials Review included Conclusion e Provision of an outline plan including content e After completion of the detailed review the and structure, design concepts and timetable committee was satisfied that, taken as a whole, the Groups Integrated report and e Consideration of regulatory and governance financial statements 2017, were fair, balanced requirements for reporting and understandable e Review of detailed reports from the Group e That the report accurately reflected the Controller and PwC providing the opportunity information shareholders would require in for debate and challenge order to assess the Groups performance, e Summaries of areas where management business model and strategy judgements had been made e That the use of alternative performance e Consideration of going concern and longermeasures contained in our report term viability assists in presenting a fair review of the e Separate meeting with PwC without Groups business management present e Sufficient opportunity to review drafts Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2017 103 External audit Management External audit independence,  Inc and e Feedback from engagement with the Chief objectivity and effectiveness Financial Officer, Group Controller and Group Head  LLP together of Internal Audit PwC were appointed as auditors by A formal framework for the assessment of the e Feedback from questionnaires issued at corporate effectiveness of the external audit process and shareholders at the Annual General and business unit level to those personnel involved quality of the audit has been adopted by the Meetings in May 2017, replacing Deloitte with the audit committee, covering all aspects of the audit service & Touche and Deloitte LLP respectively provided by PwC.
While part of the assessment is PwC managed annually, it is treated as an ongoing review together Deloitte.
This followed a full e Provided the committee with confirmation that they throughout the cycle.
operate in accordance with the ethical standards tender process undertaken in 2015 and required of audit firms Evaluation focus a transition process during 2016, which e Robustness of audit process e Confirmed the policies and procedures they have in allowed PwC to work together with Mondi place to maintain their independence e Audit quality, including quality controls and Deloitte to ensure a smooth handover.
Regulators e Audit partners and team, including skills, character e The UK Financial Reporting Councils FRC Andy Kemp was appointed as the UK audit and knowledge 2016 17 report on Audit Quality Inspections partner and Michal Kotz as the South e Independence and objectivity included a review of audits carried out by PwC.
Africa audit partner with the 2017 audit e Formal reporting PwC shared the findings with the committee and being their first for Mondi.
confirmed how they were addressing the areas Inputs highlighted for improvement Audit committee The committee confirms its compliance Key outputs e Continual monitoring of audit performance for the financial year ending 31 December e The quality of the audit partners and team were throughout the year 2017 with the provisions of The Statutory confirmed with no material issues raised in the e Reviewed and agreed the audit plan feedback received Audit Services for Large Companies e Reviewed the quality of reporting to the committee, e The audit had been well planned and delivered with Market Investigation Mandatory Use of the level of challenge and professional scepticism work completed on schedule and management and the understanding demonstrated by PwC of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit comfortable that any key findings had been the business of the Group Committee Responsibilities Order 2014. raised appropriately, active engagement on e Reviewed the coordination between the South misstatements and appropriate judgements African and UK audit partners, the quality of the The committee also confirms that on materiality audit team, technical skills and experience and the  Inc is included in e PwC demonstrated a good understanding of the allocation of resources during the audit Group and had identified and focused on the areas the JSE list of accredited auditors.
e Considered the interaction with management and of greatest risk the level of challenge e PwCs reporting to the committee was clear, e Regular meetings held between the chairman of open and thorough, including explanations of the the committee and the audit engagement partners rationale for particular conclusions as appropriate e Reviewed feedback from committee members e It was confirmed that there had been an including views on how PwC has supported the appropriate level of challenge work of the committee and their communication Conclusion with the committee The committee, having considered all relevant e Considered the effectiveness of Mondis matters, has concluded that it is satisfied that auditor policies and procedures for maintaining independence, objectivity and effectiveness have auditor independence been maintained.
Mondi Group 104 Integrated report and financial statements 2017 Corporate governance report Non-audit services Internal audit The committee also monitors the staffing and resources available to the internal A policy is in place that governs the The audit committee has primary audit function and the quality of those provision of non-audit services provided by responsibility for monitoring and reviewing resources.
In 2015 an external review of PwC to Mondi, including the requirements the scope and effectiveness of the Groups the internal audit function was undertaken for the approval of such services.
The policy internal audit function and appoints and by Ernst & Young LLP with a full report was last updated in 2016 to reflect the new discharges the Group Head of Internal presented to the committee.
The review EU audit framework regulations.
Audit the equivalent of the chief audit concluded that the internal audit function is executive as envisaged by the King Code.
Where approval is required the business fit for purpose and meeting its mandate to The Group Head of Internal Audit has must submit a formal request setting out provide assurance primarily in the financial direct access to, and responsibility to, the the objectives, scope of work, likely fee and operational areas.
Of particular committee and works closely with the level and the rationale for requiring the note was the clear affirmation that the committee in liaison with PwC.
The internal work to be carried out by the Groups function is independent and objective.
audit function provides, in combination external auditor rather than another service Some recommendations were put forward with the external assurances received and provider.
Sufficient information must also mainly in the areas of knowledge sharing those from management, comfort to the be provided to allow an assessment of and the greater use of technology by the committee that the Groups key risk factors materiality and the impact the service team.
The way in which the team has been are being managed effectively.
might have on the financial statements.
addressing the recommendations in the Each request is reviewed, and where An internal audit charter, approved by the report has been monitored and reviewed appropriate challenged, before being committee, is in place.
The charter sets by the committee.
The committee has passed for approval.
out the purpose, remit and authority of concluded that the Group Head of Internal the internal audit function.
Each year the Audit provides appropriate leadership of The committee monitors compliance committee considers and approves the the internal audit function which remains with the policy, receiving reports at each internal audit plan which is designed to effective in carrying out its remit.
meeting detailing all approved non-audit focus on the Groups key risks to ensure services.
This enables regular consideration This audit committee report was approved that they are managed effectively within and oversight of a key threat to auditor by the Boards on 1 March 2018 and is the context of our business objectives independence and objectivity.
During 2017, signed on their behalf.
and that appropriate internal controls are the committee not only monitored any nonin place.
The committee ensures that all audit services provided by PwC throughout material operations are covered and that John Nicholas the year but also those services provided Chairman of the DLC audit committee there is an appropriate degree of financial by Deloitte up until Deloitte had formally and geographical coverage.
Every Mondi stepped down as Mondis auditor.
operation is visited at least once every five The majority of non-audit services are audityears with all major plants audited annually.
During 2017 Reports are given at each committee examples were the confirmation of meeting providing an update on activities, Mondis ownership of certain assets that progress against plan, results from audits were the subject of subsidy grants and carried out and managements response the provision of a net debt calculation to address any areas highlighted for required in connection with a net debt improvement.
The committee will consider adjustment following the disposal of a deviations from plan as the need arises subsidiary company.
during the year, usually in response to a material acquisition or change in the The breakdown of the fees paid to PwC, Groups risk profile highlighted through Speakout including the split between audit and audit reports and through matters raised via non-audit fees, is included in note 4 to the The Group has a confidential reporting hotline the confidential reporting hotline, Speakout.
The noncalled Speakout operated by an independent The committee regularly challenges the third party.
Speakout, monitored by the audit audit fees for 2017 represent 8% of the nature and speed of managements committee, is a simple, accessible and confidential audit fee paid.
response to issues raised in audits and channel through which our employees, customers, suppliers, managers or other stakeholders can to Speakout messages in order to be raise concerns about conduct that seems contrary satisfied that this has been appropriate to Mondis values.
It makes communication to the circumstances.
Maintaining sound channels available to any person in the world who has information about unethical practices in the oversight and control of activities through Groups operations.
More details can be found on the use of internal audit reviews is page 53.
The committee receives a report at each considered by the committee to be a key meeting of Speakout messages received in the element of its work.
period since the prior meeting and ensures that appropriate investigation into each message has been undertaken and responses given with actions taken where any allegation proves to have some foundation.
This will continue to be an area of focus for the committee with such reports being key to understanding where further work may be required to reinforce Mondis ethical and cultural values.
