AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Chairmans Letter and certain operational risks including internal investigations into Dear shareholders, control weaknesses.
Moreover, the Audit Committee evaluates the I am pleased to present the Audit Committee report for the Group.
managements competence in all the above areas and ensures that they take necessary corrective actions in a timely manner to address any vulnerabilities.
In relation to the risk assessment function, the Group has a separate Board-level committee responsible for risk, ethics and compliance, the RECC, which is chaired by Nikoloz Enukidze, who is also a member of the Audit Committee.
Nicholas Haag, the Chairman of the Audit Committee, is, in turn, a member of the RECC.
Please see pages 60 to 69 for a description of the Groups risk management framework and pages 123 to 125 for the RECCs report.
Whilst there are synergies between the work of the Audit Committee and the RECC, and they share many of the same complex issues of judgement and policy, we continue to believe that there is a clear benefit in preserving a separate independent Audit Committee as well as a strong RECC.
We recognise that there is, in any case, no clear dividing line between financial risk and other risks, but we acknowledge that the Audit Committee is more attuned to risks in financial reporting, whereas the RECC is responsible for monitoring on-going credit and other market risks.
In addition to close cooperation with the RECC, several of the Audit Committees members, including the Chairman, also sit on the I invite you to read the results of these and other main activities of Remuneration Committee, which allows the Audit Committee to the Audit Committee in the report below.
track remuneration policies and ensure that there are no incentives which could weaken controls or introduce Management bias in connection with loan provisioning and valuations.
The Audit Committee has adequate administrative resources from Nicholas Dominic Haag the Groups and Board Secretariat and receives sufficient and timely Chairman of the Audit Committee materials from the Management both proactively and when we make 28 March 2018 additional information requests.
The lines of communication with the Management are open with constructive, candid and continual Committee Structure and Role dialogue taking place throughout the year.
Since the Companys incorporation in 2016, there have been two separate but inter-connected audit committees in the Group for Committee Composition, Expertise and Independence each of the Company and the Bank, which have common At the end of 2017, the audit committee of the Company comprised membership and perform a joint function within the Group.
In five non-executive Directors: Nicholas Haag Chairman, Eric J. practice, we consider both audit committees as complementary and Rajendra, Stephan Wilcke, Nikoloz Enukidze and Stefano Marsaglia.
somewhat fungible with both of them being focused on optimising All members of the audit committee of the Company have been governance of the Group as a whole, especially because the Bank deemed as independent under the Code, which is applicable to represents 98% of the Groups total assets.
Nevertheless, we companies listed on the premium segment of the LSE.
We believe continue to ensure that particular resolutions are passed by the that the audit committee of the Company and all of its members appropriate audit committee with as little duplication as possible, continue to exercise fully independent judgement in all matters while making sure that there is seamless co-operation between the related to their functions.
In addition, members of the audit two committees to avoid any gaps in overall scrutiny.
For the committee continue to satisfy the director independence criteria as purpose of this report, we refer to the two committees collectively as defined by the Georgian Law of Banks.
Committee Meetings The Audit Committees primary responsibilities include overseeing In 2017 the attendance level of members at meetings of the audit the Groups financial reporting process, supervising the process of committee of the Company was 98%.
The majority of meetings took appointment of external auditors, reviewing the implementation of place in London and were attended by members either physically in the Groups accounting and reporting policies and practices, person or via teleconference.
In case of the latter, relevant attendees ensuring the integrity, accuracy and full disclosure of the Groups participated from locations within the UK.
The attendance of financial condition including the Groups taxes and assisting in the members at the Audit Committee meetings during the year 2017 assessment of the going concern status of the Group.
The Audit are set out in the Directors Governance statement on page 106.
Committee is also responsible for reviewing relevant content of the Groups annual reports and interim statements, and supervising the The meetings of the Banks audit committee took place in both the Banks systems of internal control in relation to financial reporting UK and Georgia with the majority of meetings taking place in 148 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance Georgia.
The reason for this is that the Audit Committee is keen to During each formal meeting, the Audit Committee met in executive maintain a high degree of interaction with a range of local staff session without Management present.
In addition, we typically also employed by the Bank in operational, financial and control roles.
met with at least one member of the Management Board of the Bank This allows us to gather deeper insights into the Banks processes, responsible for a particular divisional line of business to seek culture and morale of staff, who have functions related to our audit feedback on issues that may have been highlighted in Internal Audit work.
This type of review cannot be so easily performed in the UK reports.
This allows us to impress upon senior members of the due to logistical reasons and the extra expense of having to bring a Management the importance of minimising deficiencies and large number of the Banks employees to London on a regular basis.
remedying any that do occur.
We also typically met with other senior Attendance of meetings of the Banks Audit Committee in 2017 is set members of the Management, notably the CEO, CFO, COO, CIO and out in the Directors Governance statement on page 106.
The Head of Internal Audit was present throughout every meeting.
We have adopted a policy of inviting PwC to attend the All current members of the Audit Committee see biographies on entirety of our Audit Committee meetings except for meetings that pages 114 to 117 of the Annual Report are financially literate and address topics sensitive to PwC, such as auditor appointments and possess a detailed understanding of the financial services sector, fees because we felt that this would assist with their understanding with backgrounds primarily in the banking industry in both the EU of the Company and the Group.
This also allowed us to benefit from and emerging markets, as well as consultancy, risk management PwCs wide-ranging expertise.
Most have served on or chaired other banks audit and risk committees, which provides them with the necessary expertise to The audit committee of the Company met twice in or around each guide and challenge the Board, the Management and external quarter of 2017, broadly in synch with the Banks quarterly financial auditors.
The Audit Committee, therefore, has sufficient recent and reporting cycle.
At least one such quarterly meeting coincided with relevant expertise, in particular of the financial services industry, to the timing of our Board meetings and the Audit Committee was operate effectively and it calls upon other expert internal and scheduled a day in advance of these meetings to ensure that we external resources as and when required.
Moreover, the Chairman of could formally present our summary findings to the Board.
The the Audit Committee has the recent and relevant financial Audit Committee used such reports for highlighting the scope for experience required by the Code to fulfil his responsibilities as a process improvement and inviting responses from the CEO or his designated financial expert on the Audit Committee.
senior team, which led to follow-up actions that were formally minuted by the Board.
Although one member of the Audit Committee has a substantially full-time executive role on the management board of another The number of meetings of the audit committee of the Company non-conflicting bank and all other members spend much of their doubled from that held in 2016, which reflects additional supervisory time on various supervisory-type boards, the Board believes that responsibilities arising from the Companys listing on the premium members of the Audit Committee have sufficient time to devote to segment of the LSE, its status as a Public Interest Entity under the their responsibilities towards the Group.
Appropriate training is Statutory Audit Directive 2006 43 EC of the European Parliament available to members of the Audit Committee and has recently and of the Council and its commitment to enhanced supervision.
The included professional updates by external specialists on new Company became a Public Interest Entity for the first time in 2017. accounting regulations, which are currently being implemented, and relevant developments in corporate governance and best In 2017, there were no significant or enduring points of difference of practice, which training was attended by most members of the opinion between the Audit Committee and PwC or between the Audit Audit Committee.
We continue to review, in collaboration with the Committee and the Board or Management.
Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee, suitable medium-term succession plans for the Audit Committee, similar to Audit Committee Effectiveness the same process for all other committees of the Board.
Our priority The Terms of Reference for the audit committee of the Company would be to select future members of the Audit Committee with a were approved by the Board on May 2016.
The document is available background in the audit industry or one with a relevant specialist on TBCs website at www.
com The audit committee background and knowledge, such as in cybersecurity.
Policy of the Bank was revised and approved in March 2017 and approved by the Supervisory Board of the Bank in the same month.
The Committee is also acutely aware of the highest standards expected of disclosure, record-keeping and controls associated In March 2018, the Audit Committee conducted an annual with the Companys listing on the premium segment of the LSE.
Effectiveness Self-Review using an extensive and customised We will continue to work to ensure these standards are fully met questionnaire.
In addition, the whole Board included in its wider and maintained.
Self-Assessment certain questions relating to the efficacy of the Audit Committee amongst other committees of the Board.
Both the Over the course of 2017 there were 8 formal meetings of the audit Audit Committee and the Board concluded that the former is committee of the Company and the same number for the Banks constituted properly, operates effectively and carries out all its audit committee, all of which were minuted.
In addition, there were responsibilities as laid out in its Terms of Reference and Policy.
regular interim meetings via teleconference facilities, where members discussed a narrower agenda, mostly around planned Integrity of Financial Statements releases of financial data.
Members are also in regular e-mail We have reviewed, with input from the External Auditor and in-house correspondence with each other on various matters relating to the Finance, Risk and Internal Audit teams, all data and narrative Audit Committees work.
comment and concluded that the Annual Report and full year financial statements give a complete, true, fair, balanced and TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 149 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED understandable view of the Groups financial position and are seek to maximise the value of the external audit relationship.
We consistent with the Committees understanding of the facts, and assess and approve audit scope and frequency, make provide the information necessary for the Companys shareholders recommendations to auditors on areas for particular focus and and other stakeholders to assess the financial condition of the Group.
receive and review key external audit reports.
The Committee is conscious that the Group consists of the Company, The audit committee of the Company held multiple audit planning which is listed on the premium segment of the LSE, and the Bank, meetings with PwC in 2017, commencing this process in the middle which is the largest financial services company in the Georgian of the year.
The Audit Committee had the opportunity without market, and it has legal and social responsibilities to the Companys involvement of the Management to highlight areas it wished the shareholders and other stakeholders of the Group.
Our business is External Auditor to focus on, flagging relevant concerns and trends, overwhelmingly tied to the performance of the Georgian economy.
In and discussing the appropriate audit response.
2017 Georgia delivered a strong real GDP growth of 5.0%, an improvement on 2.8% growth in 2016.
The Georgian government and The Audit Committee has a policy of regular quarterly face to face third party forecasts for 2018 suggest growth of a similar magnitude discussions with PwC as part of our formal meeting agendas, may be achievable.
At the timing of writing, the macro-economic proactively and mutually addressing any material audit or control outlook for Georgia looks more positive than it has been for several issues.
In addition, the Chairman and often other members of the years with significant improvements in foreign trade and tourism, as Audit Committee, had a similar number of more informal i. e. not well as development of important, and often multi-national, minuted meetings with PwC at occasional but frequent intervals, infrastructure projects, which indicate the potential for Georgia to which combined mutual audit planning execution updates with some become more of an international hub economy.
Nevertheless, there element of briefing or training to the Audit Committees members is always a risk of a sudden downturn due to a changing local, on the latest developments in accounting regulations and corporate regional or global environment and the Committee, like the RECC, governance, which included, in particular, PwC sharing with us tracks closely on a weekly basis relevant economic data for experiences of best practice across their full international audit warning signs.
This provided both parties with the opportunity for open dialogue.
We are equally vigilant in seeking any evidence of complacency which might lead to a risk of deterioration in internal standards.
The Given the holding company structure of the Group, both the London Audit Committee will seek to ensure that any unexpected and Tbilisi practices of PwC are fully involved in the audit process for deterioration in the Georgian economy will trigger extra vigilance on the Group.
PwC Georgia and PwC in Azerbaijan, which audits our our part in relation to financial controls and reporting risk since any small Azeri subsidiary, are both part of PwCs Central and Eastern challenging economic context potentially raises both credit and Europe network firm.
In the opinion of the Audit Committee, this operational risks within the Bank.
The recent adoption of IFRS9 in double coverage works well and provides some extra reassurance our view further supports the early revelation of any such potential to us in terms of scrutiny of the Groups financial and riskdeterioration in loan quality and it is being swiftly reflected in our management processes.
We also enjoy ready access to our audit models, with any necessary extra provisioning accounted for engagement partner Jeremy Foster for the entire Group, who is accordingly.
The Group has always operated a conservative aware of his overall responsibility and ultimate sign-off duties, and provisioning policy but the Audit Committee welcomes the extra the cooperation and communication between the two audit practices discipline imposed by IFRS9 and the additional disclosures to the is well coordinated with a common audit methodology.
audit team coordinates the entire audit for the Group and the balance of PwCs audit responsibilities is shifting somewhat from The Audit Committee remains as focused as ever on ensuring the Tbilisi to London.
We expect this trend to continue going forward.
integrity of our financial releases and internal records.
The Audit The Chairman and majority of the Audit Committees members are Committee pre-vets all audited and auditor-reviewed financial based in the UK and enjoy ready access to the audit team there.
releases, as well as all other financial releases, before making recommendations to the Board to approve these.
The Audit In our view, Jeremy Foster has exhibited not only strong technical Committee holds formal discussions with the Management, in skills but also a good understanding of the Groups business, the particular the CFO and his finance team, about each of these country and sector.
He has also exhibited suitably robust challenge releases, typically with a multi-stage drafting, review and approval and professional scepticism in relation to the audit.
We are also in regular communication with the External Committee has shared its views on audit and partner quality with Auditor via both teleconference facilities and correspondence before PwCs own independent senior partner, who collects client feedback approving any releases.
We have extended the remit of Internal Audit and seeks to maximise standards of service by PwC.
which now undertakes its own assessment of financial and regulatory reporting to give the Audit Committee further assurance on the In 2017 we welcomed Agnieszka Accordi as the new PwC audit integrity of our reported numbers and, above all, the governance partner for the Banks audit.
We are satisfied with the smooth process involved in assembling and releasing our financial statements transition from the previous longstanding PwC audit partner for the in the public domain.
We also monitor the financial data published on Bank and she has made a strong hands-on start to understanding the TBC Banks website to ensure its accuracy.
the Banks business and audit issues and is also a subject-expert in areas of importance to us, in particular IFRS9.
Agnieszka is based in Warsaw but, similar to Jeremy Foster, has already travelled to External Audit Team and Planning Georgia on a number of occasions.
The Audit Committee makes recommendations on the appointment or potentially removal and compensation of external auditors and 150 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance Areas of Focus for External Audit and Audit Committee Clearly, one of the biggest factors impacting and also reflecting the The audit coverage and the judgements about underlying audit Georgian economy is the stability of the local Lari currency.
The Lari materiality have been explained to us satisfactorily.
We agreed with has been prone to periods of volatility, particularly in early and late PwC an overall consolidated audit materiality sum of GEL19.7m for 2017, which was, to some extent, affected by the seasonality of FX the Group compared to GEL15.8m in 2016.
The increase is related to inflow and outflow among other things related to the tourism the further expansion in the Groups size and profitability.
We industry and energy imports.
The exchange rate appears to have continue to believe that pre-tax profitability of 5% is a suitable and now stabilised and the Lari is currently trading at a higher level meaningful materiality basis for the Company, especially given the against the US$ than at the start of 2017, partly reflecting the relatively stable performance of the Groups profitability metric over apparent weak dollar policy of the US government.
Given the still highly dollarised nature of the Georgian economy and In accordance with our normal practice, we have assessed the the Banks loan book, we invited PwC to scrutinise the reasonableness and appropriateness of all critical accounting Managements judgements as to the continuing creditworthiness of estimates and judgements in applying accounting policies.
In the those of the Groups clients including both retail and corporate frequent planning meetings held between the Audit Committee and without matching dollar sources of income.
In reviewing provisioning PwC, there were a number of areas of focus identified.
The key levels the Audit Committee has sought and received detailed data on accounting judgements and significant estimates were identified and such currency mismatches and the RECC has performed a have been addressed with appropriate resources, including the deep-dive into this risk issue.
We note that, in previous periods of necessary involvement of specialists in these areas.
national currency volatility, our assumptions regarding the impact of this on the quality of the loan book have proven reassuringly In particular, we agreed with PwC that the two most significant cautious on a back-tested basis and the periods of Lari weakness audit-related risks were the Managements ability to override over 2017 were, in our view, not sustained enough per se to be controls and the provisions for impairment of loans and guarantees.
reflected in changes to the quality of our portfolio.
In addition, we We also agreed with PwC an additional elevated risk in relation to note that the welcome larisation policy of the Georgian the disclosure of the potential impact of IFRS9 given the complexity government has and will continue to diminish the credit and of determining such estimates and the requirement to guide the financial reporting risk.
market as soon as valid estimates became available.
Other risks in terms of areas of judgement that we asked PwC to focus on included Implementation of IFRS9 accruals for litigation and claims, collateral values supporting the Whilst the new standard was not formally adopted until 1 January 2018, Groups loan book, net realisable value of repossessed collateral, IFRS9 was clearly an audit priority for the Audit Committee in 2017. fair value of securities and derivatives, share based payments and As noted above, this was almost by definition an area of elevated impairment of goodwill.
risk in the audit since the implications for the Group are significant in the same way as for most European banks, with necessary Provisions and impairments anticipatory disclosure about the likely transitional impact and the In terms of loan provisions, we have worked with PwC in verifying inherent risk of misstatement.
the current provisioning methodology used by the Bank, challenging these assumptions and examining individual mostly corporate loan In 2017, the Audit Committee, together with the RECC, oversaw the exposures on the non-performing and watch list.
We have Groups preparations for the implementation of IFRS9 which has been a confirmed the completeness of this watch list, which we note tends complex project launched by the Group in the middle of 2016.
Both the to be stable in composition without frequent additions that would Audit Committee and the RECC at regular intervals invited the CFO, indicate a deteriorating book or poor capture of problem loans.
We CRO and the internal dedicated Credit Risk and Finance team to provide have also sought to use our judgement to back-test the reliability of them with updates and supporting materials.
The Group worked with the Banks previous impairment assumptions, which we have found Deloitte, our project consultant and product vendor, throughout the year to be reasonably conservative compared to observed reality, partly and the main inputs and outputs were shared with PwC.
because the Georgian economic climate has proven to be more resilient than the Banks earlier assumptions.
We note that in 2017 We obtained confirmation that PwC, employing their accounting, we made significant recoveries from corporate loans that we had modelling and IT specialists, have adequately identified the key provisioned or written off.
sources of complexity, judgement and uncertainty in the Groups estimates of expected credit losses under IFRS9.
They have The Audit Committee, benefiting from work streams led by the undertaken substantive testing of key model methodologies for RECC, continues to monitor on a regular basis  completeness, availability and accuracy of the data flows and for key loans on the Banks watch list but also  loans judgements and assumptions, as well as the governance and that are less than 90 days past due and not yet classified as internal controls involved.
We note, however, that there is limited impaired to calibrate any deterioration of credit quality that may historical loss data in the Georgian market.
The Bank has feed through into impairments.
Given the continued challenging undertaken parallel runs i. e. IFRS9 vs IAS39.
We have also macro economic situation in Azerbaijan, the Audit Committee has maintained a close dialogue on the subject with the NBG.
paid close attention to the portfolio quality of TBC Kredit, our Azeri subsidiary.
We note that there has been some stabilisation in the We anticipate that the Banks provisioning policies described above quality of this portfolio since 2016. will enhance the Banks already robust approach to financial reporting on credit risk.
There has been a lot written about the potential impact of IFRS9 being likely to result in higher provisioning and profit and TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 151 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED loss volatility, particularly amongst smaller banks.
However, the Bank will have a positive effect on lowering the Groups future effective tax has a record of steady growth in earnings and we anticipate that the rate by several percentage points further, starting from 2019. impact on our results may be somewhat less material.
We recognise that the impact of IFRS9 will take time to calibrate across all across Reporting on the alternate performance measures financial institutions and that there will be an element of informed The Audit Committee is conscious of the recommendations of guesswork as it has been widely described in financial reporting European authorities and the UKs Financial Reporting Council the until the new standard is definitively established.
"FRC"" in connection with improving the reporting of alternate performance measures APMs."
We carefully track what APMs the Readiness for other accounting standards Group uses in its financial reporting.
The Group discloses a limited The Audit Committee has also looked at other accounting standards number of APMs, such as adjusted cost to income ratio, various recently adopted or in the pipeline, most notably IFRS15 which has return metrics and adjustments for the Bank Republic acquisition.
We applied since January 2018 on revenue recognition and IFRS16 consider that most of these for example, the return metrics preas which is expected to come into force from January 2019 on leases.
well as post-provision are in common usage and meaningful IFRS 15 potentially changes the profile of revenue and in some cases additions to our reporting designed to clarify rather than obfuscate cost recognition.
However, we anticipate no material impact because our financial position and do not detract in any way from our core most of the Groups revenue will be outside the scope of the new IFRS numbers.
Some of them, such as for Bank Republic, are standard as the proportion of contractually uncertain revenue inherently time-limited in terms of usage.
streams is small and, equally, the cost differential is also small and this is reflected in the impact disclosure in our published 2017 Revised segment accounting methodology financial statements.
One other area that the Audit Committee intends to focus on in 2018, and has already discussed with the CFO, is the revised segment IFRS 16 sets out the principles for the recognition, measurement, accounting methodology that the Group is changing from 1 January presentation and disclosure of leases, which will become effective 2018 because this has implications around divisional profitability and starting from January 2019.
It will change the reporting standard of strategy, as well as touching on remuneration incentives.
leasing transactions for the lessees.
Given the low volume of transactions where the Group is the lessee, we do not anticipate any material External Audit Quality, Tender Assessment and impact on the financial statements of the Group.
Under IFRS 16, the Reappointment lessor accounting remains largely unchanged from IAS 17 and, The Audit Committee is responsible for the assessment of the hence, the change will have no impact on transactions where the Group performance, objectivity and independence of the External Auditor is a lessor.
and the delivery of a good quality audit.
Each year the Audit Committee is required to consider the reappointment of the Managements ability to override controls auditors, the suitability of the lead engagement partner, as well as In terms of the significant risk of Managements overriding of controls, the wider audit team, and the remuneration and terms of we note that this is a priority risk factor on all audit engagements, engagement for the chosen auditor.
PwC have undertaken a especially in a banking context because the Management is responsible comprehensive assessment of their independence, in accordance for the design and operation of systems to prevent and detect fraud with the requirements of standards and relevant legislation.
and, thus, it is in a unique position to manipulate accounting records.
In response to this risk PwC conducted review of organisation-wide PwC has been the Groups External Auditor since 2008.
2017 marks governance systems and overall control environment.
We asked the 10th year in which PwC has audited the Group.
Consequently, the Internal Audit to pay special attention to the bedding down of controls in Audit Committee had extensive discussions in 2016 and 2017 relation to the Groups acquisition of Bank Republic.
The operational regarding the merits of conducting an external audit tender under the merger was completed in May 2017 and this has several implications UK implementation of the EU Audit Regulations for Public Interest for audit in terms of process flow and the integration of differing bank Entities the EU Regulations.
Given the Groups recent systems.
We invited PwC to analyse the integration and alignment of incorporation of the Company and its listing on the premium segment policies and procedures.
The Audit Committee was satisfied that this of the LSE, the audit rotation rules permitted the 10-year audit clock integration has been essentially completed.
for the mandatory tendering of the Group audit to be re-set to start in 2016, obviating any requirement for a mandatory audit tender in the Deferred tax foreseeable future.
However, taking into account the existence of the Another particular focus area of the Audit Committee has been the Bank prior to the incorporation of the Company and the duration of fide-recognition of deferred tax balances under changes in Georgian our relationship with PwC, the Audit Committee evaluated, with input tax regulation.
In May 2016, the government enacted changes to from the CFO, whether there would be a case nonetheless to initiate incentivise the reinvestment of corporate profits.
The new code an audit tender.
The Audit Committee concluded that it would be impacts the recognition and measurement principles of the Groups distracting to change auditor shortly after the Companys listing on income tax and also affects the Groups deferred income tax assets the premium segment of the LSE and given other important work liabilities.
Whist this law will not come into effect for the banking streams for the Groups finance team, such as the adoption of IFRS9.
sector until January 2019, it has a more immediate impact on Accordingly, the Company has complied with the requirements of The deferred tax calculations.
In 2016, the Group had a one-off income Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation charge of GEL 17.9m related to this change and in 2017 the change Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit decreased the effective tax rate from a potential 12% to 9% through Committee Responsibilities Order 2014, which relates to the reducing deferred tax liabilities relating to the period from 1 January frequency of external auditor tenders for the financial year 2019.
However, the potentially tax-free reinvestment of future profits under review.
152 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance We are also mindful that the availability of leading audit suppliers in External Audit Independence and Provision of the Georgian market is somewhat limited and further restricted by Non-Audit Services potential conflicts in respect of the provision of such services to The Audit Committee is rigorous in ensuring that all non-audit other large Georgian banks, which makes a change of auditor more assignments to our External Auditor do not jeopardise the latters difficult but not impossible.
In addition, we have taken into account proper independence of judgement.
We will typically use our the extra safeguards of a relatively recently appointed lead External Auditor only where such non-audit services are required by engagement partner since 2016 ie Jeremy Foster, the shift of the legislation to be undertaken by the incumbent auditor or where the centre of gravity for the audit to London from its historical base in service is a by-product of the audit process.
The Groups policy as Tbilisi and a new engagement partner for the Banks audit ie to the provision of non-audit services was updated in 2016 and is Agnieszka Accordi appointed in 2017.
Consequently, last year we regularly reviewed to ensure that it continues to be appropriate.
resolved to defer any decision whether to hold an audit tender and Essentially, all such engagements, without exception or derogation, we expect that, subject to the finalisation of suitable contract terms are first recommended by the CFO and must be approved in advance and the Board approval, PwC will remain the Groups External by the Audit Committee.
We will then use our External Auditor for Auditor for 2018. non-audit services only where there is either a clear synergy with their audit role or where they offer superior competence or There is clearly an interesting ongoing global debate about the materially better commercial terms.
No non-audit services were so-called audit gap, which is the occasional difference between provided by PwC that are or will be prohibited in the foreseeable expectations of users and auditors as to the responsibilities of the future by the UKs implementation of relevant EU Regulations.
We latter and the nature of the audit engagement.
Leaving this aside, the have a system in place for precisely tracking procurement and Audit Committee has concluded that PwC have delivered a high tendering for all non-audit fees irrespective of their size and scope.
In 2017, PwC made reliable and effective judgements at all stages, identified and focused on areas of greatest risk and PwC provide the financial audit both for the Company and the Bank.
In convincingly articulated their testing strategy.
We welcomed the 2017 fees to PwC for total contracted audit-related work totalled candour of the audit partners for both the Company and the Bank and US$877,000 net of taxes, of which the fees attributed to the Groups the clarity of their observations in private and informal sessions.
As financial audit was US$645,000 with three-quarters for the Companys noted above, we are confident in the technical and personal qualities audit and a quarter for the Banks audit.
The balance of PwCs fees displayed by Jeremy Foster and Agnieszka Accordi, and that they have related to additional financial reviews for both entities, audit of other deployed sufficient PwC human and automated i. e. data analytics subsidiaries and other miscellaneous audit-related work such as resources and were well supported by experienced audit managers in provision of comfort on financial covenants.
We also used PwC for tax both London and Tbilisi.
We also note PwCs proven continuing ability audit work in our Azeri subsidiary after a full tender process.
to meet our tight reporting deadlines in the context of a larger Group, the Companys listing on the premium segment of the LSE and our Only 2% of the Groups total spend with PwC in 2017 related to acquiring the status of a FTSE 250 company.
Feedback from our CFO non-audit work.
In addition, only 3% of the Groups total non-audit and finance team has been positive expressing the view to the Audit services spend was awarded to PwC compared to 70% in 2016, which Committee that PwC have demonstrated a good understanding of the was then due to the exceptional work related to the Companys listing Groups business and the current economic environment in Georgia on the premium segment of the LSE and a number of acquisitionand have provided useful insight into corporate governance and good related transactions.
The rest of the total non-audit services spend advice on the enhancement of disclosures in this Report.
Equally, PwC was shared between three other large firms.
As stated above, we have shared with us supportive insights into the Management as part work with other firms not only to preserve auditor independence but of their audit findings.
also to build relations and user experience that will be useful when the Group decides to tender its audit contract in due course.
In the meantime, both the Audit Committee and the Management consciously cultivate relationships with other prominent audit firms In terms of non-audit related services, the biggest consulting spend and some of their individual partners in London and Tbilisi and use of 2017 US$180,000 related to designing a methodology around the allocation of non-audit services as an opportunity to engage with IFSR9 with Deloitte being chosen following a tender of 5 firms and and to try out different firms and to familiarise some of them with an open tender for fair valuation services was awarded to KPMG.
In the Company and our business.
Audit quality will always be summary, total spend with the so-called Big Four firms on paramount in our selection of auditor.
contracts in 2017 amounted to c. US$1.2M.
Nearly three-quarters of this was for audit-related work, all of which went to PwC.
As regards External Audit Quality Validation the non-audit consulting spend, only US$20,000 of approximately As noted in last years Report, FRC undertook a routine formal Audit US$300,000 was awarded to PwC excluding c. US$8,000 paid for tax Quality Review AQR of PwCs audit of the Bank for the year audit in our Azeri subsidiary, which was in respect of providing ending December 2015.
It is reassuring to us that the AQR confirmed consulting services for implementing accounting rules in our leasing that the audit was properly compliant and was awarded one of the subsidiary with PwC winning on price and relevant experience.
The AQR did not highlight any significant areas for improvement and nothing that brought into The Audit Committee will remain mindful of the relatively new EU question the reappointment of PwC.
Over the course of 2017, we Regulations on capping the quantum of non-audit fees that can be have tracked progress in the minor follow up recommendations billed in any one year to an external auditor 70% of the average noted by the FRC in their AQR and implemented with PwC small audit fees billed in the last three consecutive years.
We do not changes in audit procedure for example, acceleration of believe that the Company will have cause to breach these rules even communication with this Committee.
in the event that PwC remains our External Auditor after 2018.
TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 153 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED We note that there is a commercial banking relationship between We are satisfied that Internal Audit has sufficient human and PwC Georgia and the Bank but this is not material in size and it is financial resources to perform its role and the Audit Committee has, conducted in the ordinary course of business and pre-dates the where necessary, requested additional funds for them to purchase appointment of PwC as the Groups auditors.
the training and tools necessary to function effectively.
The Audit Committee requires all Internal Audit executives to attend training PwC have confirmed in writing their independence and that no and to take relevant international Certified Internal Auditor exams.
prohibited non-audit services were provided.
There were no Recently, the senior team of Internal Audit attended training in independence issues raised by the FRC when they completed their London at the Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors.
AQR on the Companys audit in 2016.
We remain satisfied, taking account also of the views of Internal Audit and the Management, that In February 2018, the Committee conducted an assessment of the PwC have a robust process for maintaining independence and Internal Audit function and concluded that the department is monitoring such compliance in accordance with the FRCs 2017 suitably structured and proactively meets its assurance objectives.
In our view, PwC continue to offer an independent, The quality of the Internal Audit function continues to improve.
Our professional and cost-effective service that is capable of detecting any internal assessment of Internal Audit suggests that it is already in audit irregularities.
Any potential threats to auditor objectivity compliance with over 90% of best practice targets established by the overfamiliarity, self review etc.
are, we believe, contained by existing Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors in its September 2017 safeguards.
In particular, we are convinced that the objectivity of the guidance on effective internal audit in the financial services sector lead audit engagement partner and audit staff is not impaired.
We and we expect to be 100% compliant by the end of 2018.
We had reached this decision on the basis of PwCs openness to challenge, planned to conduct an External Quality Assessment EQA of our perception of their proper independence from the Management Internal Audit in 2017 but decided to delay this until 2018 in order to and absence of any material prior year financial restatements.
allow time for the merger of Bank Republic to be completed and integrated into the Groups business and to ensure that a valid assessment of the combined departments could then be Internal Audit meaningfully undertaken.
The merger of the two Internal Audit units The Audit Committee has continued its regular dialogue with has now been completed satisfactorily and the deputy head of Internal Audit during 2017.
The Audit Committee relies heavily on internal audit at Bank Republic has joined the Bank as deputy CAE.
Internal Audit to provide an objective and professionally sceptical view We therefore intend to conduct an EQA of Internal Audit during the of how the Bank is handling a number of key financial and noncourse of 2018. financial reporting and record-keeping tasks.
Whilst primary responsibility to manage risk always resides with the Management, We believe that Internal Audit has not only established its Internal Audits role, acting in its capacity as the third line of independence from the Management but feels properly empowered defence, is to identify potential problems and recommend ways of and motivated to perform its functions and carry out its duties.
improving risk management and internal control.
The Audit Internal Audits value is recognised by the Management, who have Committee meets regularly with the Head of Internal Audit i. e. the proactively requested with sign off from the Audit Committee their Chief Audit Executive CAE with no members of the Management involvement in various projects and investigations.
The CAE always attends the entirety of our Audit Committee meetings.
As Chairman of the Audit Committee, At the behest of the Audit Committee, we are in the process of Nicholas Haag is in at least monthly and often weekly contact with establishing a new Bank-wide rating system for Internal Audits the CAE, who functionally reports unambiguously to him.
audits, whereby we will fine-tune the scoring methodology that the latter uses to evaluate the quantum severity of sampled anomalies Internal Audits Charter has been reviewed and approved in March found in branches and service centres in respect of various 2017.
The Audit Committee routinely reviews Internal Audits remit transactional and lending processes.
We will then establish new and annual and rolling 3-year plans, on which it provides feedback thresholds to rank each of the Banks units into categories ranging and authorises any changes to their scope.
We provide targets for from good to unsatisfactory.
The intention is to establish clearer and formal assessment of Internal Audit and ensure that it is and fairer benchmarks for acceptable levels of identified and often effective, suitably embedded in the organisation and used and very minor deficiencies.
Internal Audit are also working with the respected by the Management.
The CAE routinely attends monthly Operational Audit department to establish a criticality-based Management Board meetings as an observer, makes a formal hierarchy of processes, which will again determine the scoring quarterly submission to the Audit Committee and delivers a formal outcome for different units within the Bank.
There will be zero status report on its work at every Board meeting as well as providing tolerance for any unmitigated critical process failures.
an annual summary Internal Audit report which presents an overall assessment of the effectiveness of the governance, risk and control In addition to its regular workload, there were a number of one-off framework within the Group and an analysis of themes and trends projects commissioned by the Audit Committee from Internal Audit emerging from its work.
For example, we asked Internal Audit to re-validate processes around capturing and disclosing related party lending The Audit Committee solely determines Internal Audits budget and within the Group.
In 2018, the Audit Committee has requested compensation including variable bonus payments to the CAE and her Internal Audit to confirm the adherence of the Bank to its approved staff.
The Audit Committee is also responsible for supervising the risk tolerances.
We have also asked Internal Audit to work jointly annual personal performance assessment of the CAE, drawing on with the Risk department to create a more comprehensive Bankinput from peers, direct reports and senior members of the wide register of risks to ensure we have sufficiently captured and Management, including the CEO and the CFO.
recorded all types risks, to which the Bank is exposed.
In addition, 154 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance we have asked Internal Audit in 2018 to undertake a cultural audit calibrated to ensure that they are not incentivised to take unhealthy of the Bank.
As non-executive directors of a company, it is often hard short-term risks to generate personal rewards.
to understand the prevailing culture at lower levels of an organisation yet this often determines the opportunity, incentives The Audit Committee has had sight of the management internal and pressures for staff, which may lead them to commit dishonest control letter submitted by our External Auditor and has reviewed acts or to by-pass critical procedures and even to rationalise this the Managements response to it and discussed it directly with PwC.
Therefore, the Audit Committee considers that such a We also note that no non-standard representations have been cultural audit is essential to monitoring behavioural risks presented requested from or provided to PwC in respect of the management by the Banks most valuable asset, its human capital, and confirming representation letter signed by the Groups CEO and CFO.
Together that employees live the ethical values espoused by the Company with the RECC, we have received regular updates from the Chief and the wider Group.
Compliance Officer on the implementation of the Banks compliance programme, which we consider to be sufficiently robust.
The Audit Committee has increasingly organised Internal Audits plan to be risk-weighted i. e. investigate the higher risk priorities Internal Audit seeks to complete audits of all the Banks key more frequently and in greater depth and also more flexible, operating risks on a regular basis and this activity has continued in allowing it to conduct one-off projects where the Board or the 2017.
In particular, we tracked very closely all deficiencies, both in Management wish it to undertake special investigations arising from terms of severity and trend, and scrutinised remediation follow-up situations where the Bank may have heightened vulnerability or has with historic analyses being carefully maintained.
The Banks units, been the victim of fraud.
While we are still some way from which showed weaknesses are routinely re-inspected to confirm if automated internal auditing, Internal Audit has invested in specialist improvements have been made and the Audit Committee is regularly software, which will enable it to speed up some of its more routine updated on the results of these repeat audits.
tasks, allowing it to concentrate on its most added-value functions.
Internal Audit must always try to stay ahead of business The Audit Committee is increasingly holding not only senior developments in the same way as all other assurance functions and members of the Management but also middle management it must use the power of data to deliver intelligent audit.
executives of the Bank accountable for any recurring failures within their control.
This active enforcement has been endorsed by the Board.
The Key Performance Indicators KPIs in respect of meeting Control Environment control targets and reducing identified audit deficiencies continue to A sound system of internal control contributes to safeguarding the be cascaded down to the local level and also included as KPIs for best interests of all stakeholders and the Groups assets and members of the Management Board of the Bank.
The emphasis is on liabilities.
The Management is responsible for establishing and minimising and mitigating high priority process failings that may lead maintaining adequate internal controls over the capturing, processing to real financial and reputational risk for the Bank and the Group as a and reporting of financial information but the Audit Committee has whole.
We agreed in 2017 to roll out governance-type KPIs in 2018 responsibility for ensuring the effectiveness of these controls and for across branch directors and managers, with a significant double digit confirming that they are sufficiently robust to cope with changing percentage of their personal variable compensation being dependent economic conditions and continued strong growth in the Bank, with on the scores their units achieve.
By driving this cultural change, we approximately 7 million branch transactions executed in 2017.
We believe this will help to diminish operational risk and improve evaluate the Managements identification of fraud risk and behavioural norms.
In addition, as noted above, we are in the process implementation of anti-fraud measures and supervise investigation of of establishing a new Internal Audit scoring system that sets clear any alleged or suspected frauds brought to our attention.
We seek to thresholds on what level of failure is unacceptable and which establish the right tone at the top and to assess whether the Group is processes demand zero failure rates.
a high integrity organisation from top to bottom.
In 2017, the Audit Committee liaised closely with the RECC to undertake The Audit Committee regularly reviews progress in this vital a deep-dive into the Operational Risk structures within the Bank, discipline and alerts the CEO, CFO, divisional heads and, if working with the new head of this department.
One of the conclusions necessary, the entire Board where it occasionally sees intractable of this work was the need for a more streamlined approach to problems and insufficient commitment to continuous process managing, investigating and reporting fraud risk events, especially improvement.
The Audit Committee was pleased to note that in 2017 given the historic dispersion of responsibilities in this regard.
there was a further improvement in the rate and speed of remediation of identified Internal Audit deficiencies, especially in the As a matter of policy, the Audit Committee have sought this year to Groups Retail segment.
elevate the oversight of all the Banks geographic e. g. TBC Kredit in Azerbaijan and product e. g. TBC Insurance, TBC Leasing, TBC Pay In accordance with our mandate, we have reviewed the robustness subsidiaries with additional reporting to central functions, whilst not of the Banks controls, working with our External Auditors, our diminishing the authority of subsidiary executives.
We have, for Operational Risk department and Internal Audit.
In the opinion of the example, started an initiative to ensure that all best practice policies Audit Committee, there is a proper system and allocation of are rolled out universally and policed by Internal Audit accordingly.
responsibilities for day-to-day monitoring of financial controls within the Group and there have been no significant failings or weaknesses In 2016 the Banks whistleblowing or anonymous hotline for staff during 2017.
We have also considered the risk of Management and external entities went live, alerting the Bank to any potentially override of controls and discussed with PwC their assessment of unsatisfactory practices.
Arrangements are in place for this mandatory significant audit risk.
We ensure that the proportionate and independent investigation of all such cases and remuneration of senior and middle members of the Management is TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 155 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED appropriate follow up actions.
The Audit Committee reviews each reported case on an at least quarterly basis.
Our experience over 2017 has been that many of these cases have been small in scale and typically related to breaches of the Groups behavioural code of conduct or have involved low-level disclosure of confidential customer information: few have been vexatious and all have been worthwhile alarms.
Most importantly, we believe that our employees and customers have come to realise that speaking up is valued and taken seriously.
IT, Cyber-security and Data Protection In 2017, the Audit Committee maintained its focus on IT issues, especially following the NBGs request in 2016 that the Bank, as a systemic player in the local market, undertake an external IT resilience audit which it has passed.
Against a backdrop of increasingly sophisticated global cyber-attacks, cybersecurity has risen towards the top of the Audit Committees and the Boards agenda in 2017, not only to protect against risk of immediate losses but also to protect against business disruption and reputation risk.
The Audit Committee has supervised an internal cyber health check and gap analysis, and concluded that whilst there are areas for improvement, the risk environment is satisfactory and that we have sufficient prevention, detection and containment practices in place.
Nevertheless, the Bank has initiated a plan to address certain areas for improvement and it is in the process of evaluating the availability and cost benefit of taking out some form of cyber-risk insurance policy even though such policies have historically not been available for the Georgian market.
Internal Audit has an experienced IT auditor on its staff who has a particular specialisation in IT security and we believe that this helps to monitor and maintain IT security standards.
The Management continuously seeks to raise risk standards within the organisation requiring almost all employees to pass an IT security awareness test covering vital vulnerabilities such as access control.
In 2017, the Audit Committee also sponsored a review of IT governance within the Group, which has being undertaken by a specialist third party consultant and seeks primarily to validate the depth of alignment between the Groups business and IT strategies.
The digitisation and collection and use of data is proceeding everywhere at an unprecedented rate and organisations face significant uncertainty over the extent and pace of regulatory change and genuine public integrity and privacy concerns.
We are conscious that Georgia has just appointed a new data regulator, the office of the Personal Data Protection Inspector PDP, who we understand are currently working on amendments to the local law in order to align it with the EUs General Data Protection Regulation GDPR.
It is also possible that the Bank may have to comply to some extent with the EUs GDPR regulations and we are seeking legal advice on this but our expectation is, given that the Bank has only limited exports of data outside its non-EU operational markets, that the GDPR is unlikely to be triggered by the day-to-day operations of the Bank and it will be able to ring-fence itself against any breaches of these provisions.
156 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017
