Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Members of the Committee Chairmans Letter There have been no changes in the composition of the Committee and as at 28 March 2018, the Committee is composed of three independent non-executive Directors, namely Eric Rajendra Chairman, Nikoloz Enukidze and Stephan Wilcke, and Badri Japaridze, who is not considered to be independent for the purposes of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
As such, the Board believes that the composition of the Committee complies with the UK Corporate Governance Code and that the majority of the Committee members are free from any relationship or circumstances which may, could, would be likely to, or appear to, affect their judgement.
Attendance at Committee Meetings Only members of the Committee have the right to attend its meetings, but the Committee may invite others, including the Chief Executive Officer, the head of human resources and external advisors, to attend all or part of any meeting if it thinks it is appropriate or necessary.
The Committee members meet on a quarterly basis and schedule additional meetings when appropriate.
The attendance of members at the Committee meetings during the year is set out on page 106.
Dear shareholders, Committee role and responsibilities The Committees role and responsibilities are set out in its terms of The Corporate Governance and Nomination Committee the reference, available on the Groups website: www.
Committee is responsible for developing corporate governance principles and guidelines applicable to the Group and assessing the The Committee is responsible for the establishment and oversight of Groups governance practice in light of international standards of the Groups compliance with the corporate governance guidelines best practice.
The Committee continually seeks to ensure that the and for making recommendations to the Board in respect of changes Boards composition is aligned to the Groups strategic objectives or additional actions as the Committee deems necessary.
The and recognises the importance of building upon Board diversity Committee is responsible for leading the process for appointments whilst maintaining the meritocratic approach to Board appointments to the Board and the Banks Management Board.
The Committee is that has served the Group well during recent years.
In addition, the also responsible for identifying and nominating candidates with the Committees role extends to recommendations of appointments to appropriate skills and experience, for approval by the Board.
the Management Board of its main subsidiary, JSC TBC Bank the Bank.
The main responsibilities of the Committee, in relation to the development and functioning of corporate governance During 2017, succession planning and the composition of the Board within the Group, are: and its Committees remained the key focuses of the Committee.
The advising the Board periodically with respect to significant Committee regularly considered the balance of skills, experience developments in the law and practice of corporate governance: and diversity needed on the Board to ensure that the Group has the reviewing the independence standards for Board members: best calibre of individuals and a clear plan for both executive and monitoring and evaluating the process for assessing the non-executive succession.
As at the date of this Report the performance and effectiveness of the Board and its committees Committee is engaged in selecting an external search firm to including a self-assessment of this Committee : and identify suitable candidates to join the Board as additional reviewing the structures and procedures of the Board and its Independent non-executive Directors.
relationship with management to ensure that it can function independently.
The main responsibilities of the Committee, in relation to nomination, are: Eric J. Rajendra evaluating the current balance of skills, experience, Chairman of the Corporate Governance and Nomination Committee independence and knowledge of the Board and within the senior management team and, in light of this evaluation, preparing a 28 March 2018 description of the role and capabilities required for particular appointments: ensuring that non-executive Directors are appointed for specified terms, subject to re-election and to statutory provisions relating to the removal of a Director: considering and making recommendations to the Board on the composition of the senior management team: TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 121 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED overseeing the orientation programme for new members of the The Committee carefully assesses each candidate for membership Board with respect to their Board responsibilities and roles, as of the Board against our criteria for Board appointments and well as the contribution that individual members are expected to ensures that appointees have enough time available to devote to the make: and position.
The Committee then decides whether to recommend an making recommendations to the Board on succession planning appointment to the Board and the Board decides whether to make for the Board and the senior management team, over the longer the appointment.
term, in order to maintain an appropriate and diverse balance of skills and experience, and to ensure progressive refreshing.
The Committees work In 2017, the Committee remained focused on succession planning, Appointment and re-election of Directors diversity matters, assessment of effectiveness of the Board and its The Committee considers a skills matrix for the Board, and the committees.
Boards committees, and identifies the skills, core competencies, diversity and experience that the Group needs in order to be able to Succession deliver its strategic aims, to govern the Group appropriately and The Committee recognises that good succession planning align with the Groups corporate culture and values.
contributes to the delivery of the Groups strategy, by ensuring there is the desired mix of skills and experience in current and future In order to assess the overall effectiveness of the Committee in Board members.
During the course of 2017, the Committee accordance with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance chairman personally met with key members of the Management Code, the Chairman of the Committee carried out an internal Board and middle management to ensure that the Group creates evaluation and Committee is of the view that each Director opportunities for current and future leaders.
The Committee has demonstrated the level of commitment required in connection with identified strong and weak areas for each candidate and developed a their role on the Committee.
plan for further professional development.
The recommended succession planning framework ensures that the Company builds an In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all the appropriate internal leadership pipeline and includes initiatives that Directors will stand for re-election at the Companys Annual General cover additional qualification courses, training opportunities and Meeting.
As already announced, two non-executive Directors, recommendations on developing relevant skills as needed.
Stefano Marsaglia and Stephan Wilcke will be stepping down from the Board but remain in post pending the appointment of Corporate governance, independence and diversity successors, which may or may not have occurred by the time of the The Committee oversaw the continued developments of the Groups Annual General Meeting.
Stefano and Stephan will, therefore, only corporate governance framework and reviews of its compliance with be re-elected if they remain Directors at the opening of the Annual the Code requirements: the independence of non-executive Directors, General Meeting.
together with non-executive Directors re-election and suitability to continue in office.
The review of Directors independence was also In addition, as required by the UK Corporate Governance Code, in satisfactory, as throughout 2017 all independent non-executive 2018, and going forward, once every three years the Board and its Directors remained independent as to both character and judgement.
Committees will conduct an independent, externally facilitated self assessment.
Although Board appointment recommendations are always based on merit, the Committee and the Board recognise the importance of Diversity diversity and are committed to increasing the diversity of the Board The Committee recognises the importance of ensuring that there is including by adding one or more female members to the Board.
diversity on the Board, while continuing to recommend all appointments based on merit in the context of the skills and experience required.
The Assessment of effectiveness Committee is very mindful that the Board does not currently include any The Committee effectiveness review is conducted every year in order female members and has resolved to ensure that the next appointments to assess the Committees performance.
This assessment is carried to the Board address this concern and complement the Boards diversity out by the Committee as part of the annual evaluation process.
The in terms of ethnicity, cultures, gender, age levels, relevant skills and work 2017 Corporate Governance and Nomination Committee evaluation experience.
The Committee notes the number of talented women in key has found that the Committee effectively fulfilled all of its positions reporting to the CEO and other Management Board members responsibilities and obligations.
and, going forward, the Committee intends to increase diversity by identifying qualified female candidates for appointment to the Board and Looking forward to 2018 senior management teams.
In the coming year, the Committee will continue its focus on increasing gender diversity by seeking to identify talented female Board Recruitment and Appointment Process candidates for appointment to the Board and to the Groups senior The Board has formal, thorough and transparent procedures in management team.
In addition, the Committee will further elevate place for Board recruitment and appointment.
In identifying suitable the performance standards expected of each member of the Board candidates, the Committee typically seeks recommendations from and oversee an external evaluation of the Boards performance.
trusted advisers, but may also use external search consultancies to Lastly, the Committee will continue its effort to strengthen the facilitate the recruitment.
As at the date of this Report the development of the skillset of the Groups senior management team Committee is engaged in the selection of an external search firm to via specialised local and international training programmes.
assist in the requirement of additional nonexecutive Directors to the Board.
122 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017
