Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2017 105 How the committee spent its time The committee oversees and monitors the DLC sustainable development committee progress of our sustainable development Composition SD approach, commitments, targets and performance within a global Meeting Members Committee attendance context.
Providing guidance in relation to throughout member six meetings the year since in the year sustainability matters generally, reviewing and updating the Groups framework Stephen Harris, March 2011 6 chairman of sustainability policies and strategies, ensuring they are aligned with global David May 2007 2 1 Hathorn best practice.
Its remit is set out in terms Peter May 2017 4 of reference adopted by the Boards.
2 Oswald It is encouraging to note the The committees performance against excellent progress made towards Anne August 2009 2 these terms of reference is reviewed on an 1 Quinn achieving commitments in relation annual basis.
The committee is satisfied to emissions to air and waste to Dominique May 2017 4 that it has acted in accordance with its 2 Reiniche landfill.
In a world of increasingly terms of reference during the year.
constrained resources, we 1 David Hathorn and Anne Quinn stepped down The safety of our employees and recognise the imperative to do from the committee on 11 May 2017.
David and contractors continued to be a priority Anne both attended all meetings up to the time of more with less and to play our part their retirement from the Boards during the year with safety performance in contributing to the achievement 2 Peter Oswald and Dominique Reiniche were being reviewed in detail at each meeting.
of global objectives such as the appointed to the committee on 11 May 2017.
We were deeply saddened by the two Paris Climate Agreement and Peter and Dominique both attended all meetings fatalities we experienced during the year following their appointment the United Nations Sustainable and the investigations in each case were Development Goals.
critical to the committees understanding Other regular attendees Stephen Harris of the events that led to these incidents Chairman of the DLC sustainable e Group Technical & Sustainability Director and the actions we can take to prevent development committee e Group Head of Sustainable them reoccurring in the future.
In addition, Development a forestry worker was reported missing presumed deceased in Russia during e Group Head of Safety and Health preparation for cleaning activities on the river in our Syktyvkar logging operations.
We also experienced a number of serious incidents during the year.
While safety has always been high on the agenda, the committee will refocus during 2018 on ensuring that a culture of safe behaviour is embedded throughout the business.
The 24-hour safety mindset approach was introduced during 2017 and we will continue to build on this.
Mondi Group 106 Integrated report and financial statements 2017 Corporate governance report A review of Mondis approach to the UK The increasing focus on stakeholder Modern Slavery Act was undertaken interests and how companies are engaging by the committee during the year.
with their stakeholders was also an area of External support was engaged to assist us consideration for the committee during the in fully understanding the requirements of year.
In light of the provisions in the King IV the Act and how to apply these at Group Governance Code, the proposed revisions level as well as throughout our business.
to the UK Corporate Governance Code and It was important for the committee to Mondis commitment to good corporate assess the current position in terms of our citizenship and ethical behaviour, this will policies in relation to labour and human remain a priority during the coming year.
rights and supply chain and responsible The committee works together with the procurement, the principal risks facing Mondi Limited social and ethics committee us, the key areas of our supply chain that in addressing social and ethical values.
needed to be reviewed and our reporting The Group Technical & Sustainability mechanisms.
The committee ultimately Director together with the Group Heads agreed and recommended to the Boards of Sustainable Development and Safety a statement for publication on Mondis and Health attend all meetings of the website.
While we have good policies committee and provide the link between and practices in place already, further the committee, management and work is required and progress against the the operations.
commitments we made in the statement will remain a focus for the committee A summary report from the directors on the into 2018.
Groups sustainability practices is set out on pages 42 to 55.
Other matters addressed by the committee included: e Reviewing the committees terms of reference Safety performance and Forestry and performance.
serious incidents e Reviewing an update on the forestry operations e Considering and agreeing the committees annual in Russia.
e Reviewing detailed reports on the fatalities at our work programme.
Tire Box plant and in our South African forestry e Reviewing an update on the forestry operations in operations and receiving follow up reports on the South Africa.
Environmental performance outcome of the investigation into each incident, managements response and actions taken.
e Receiving regular reviews on performance against Community and other relationships each of the environmental key performance e Receiving regular follow up reports in relation to a e Reviewing the Groups relationships and indicators and commitments.
missing forestry worker in Russia, monitoring the engagement with key stakeholders, including outcome of the ongoing search process.
e Receiving information on any material environmental governments, NGOs and analysts and changing incidents and considering managements response.
e Reviewing detailed reports of selected incidents, regulation and governance in this area.
for example those resulting in life-altering injuries e Reviewing the on-going WWF global partnership or having a high risk potential and reviewing Policies and commitments and initiatives.
e Reviewing the achievements against the e Reviewing our social and community engagement, e Receiving regular reports on safety performance at 2020 commitments.
including Community Engagement Plans and Group and business unit level, including individual e Reviewing Group SD policies and approval of proposals for SEATs Socio-economic assessment mill performance, classification of incidents and amendments to reflect best practice and the toolbox in 2018. peer comparisons.
requirements of the UK Modern Slavery Act.
e Reviewing trends in security statistics in Product stewardship e Receiving an update on and monitoring progress South Africa.
with the implementation of the SD policies e Receiving a report on the Groups product e Considering the safety milestones and leading and and commitments.
lagging indicators for the next reporting period.
e Receiving an update on the review and amendment e Considering the increased focus on supply chain of Mondis Sustainable Development Management SD governance and risks management, including the impact of the UK System operating standards.
Modern Slavery Act and the requirement to ensure e Reviewing those elements of the Groups that slavery and human trafficking are not present in Code of Business Ethics reserved for review by our supply chain.
e Reviewing a position paper on the sustainability e Reviewing the material SD issues, risks of plastic-based flexible packaging designed to and opportunities.
provide an overview of the Consumer Packaging e Reviewing and approving the annual SD reporting.
business approach to sustainability and to assist in responding to questions from customers.
