Mondi Group 94 Integrated report and financial statements 2017 Corporate governance report How the committee spent its time While sound succession planning has DLC nominations committee always been a priority for the committee, Composition David Hathorns decision to retire from the Boards and as Group Chief Executive Meeting Members Committee attendance Officer brought this to the forefront during throughout member seven meetings the year since in the year the early part of the year.
This planning has proven to be effective with Peter Tanya January 2017 7 Fratto Oswald, previously Chief Executive Officer of Mondis former Europe & International Stephen March 2011 7 Harris Division, being appointed to the Group John October 2009 7 chief executive role at the conclusion of the Nicholas Succession planning was a key Annual General Meetings on 11 May 2017. focus for the committee during Fred June 2013 7 Peters experience and detailed knowledge Phaswana the year, with Peter replacing of Mondis operations were integral to the David as Chief Executive Officer, Anne May 2007 3 committees decision.
Further details on 1 Quinn Tanya replacing Anne as chair of the appointment process can be found on Dominique October 2015 7 the remuneration committee and page 95.
Reiniche Johns appointment as Senior During the year, Tanya Fratto also replaced David Williams, May 2007 7 Independent Director.
This gave chairman Anne Quinn as chairman of the DLC the committee the opportunity remuneration committee and John Nicholas to review the composition of 1 Anne Quinn stepped down from the committee was appointed Senior Independent each of the committees and to on 11 May 2017.
Anne attended all meetings up to the time of her retirement from the Boards Director.
These changes resulted in a refresh the membership where thorough review of the membership of each appropriate.
Diversity at board and of the committees and the opportunity executive committee level as well Other regular attendees to appoint new members in some cases, as throughout the organisation e Chief Executive Officer providing a new perspective.
was also a key subject for the committee.
David Williams Chairman of the DLC nominations committee Other matters addressed by the committee included: Board and committee composition Succession planning Corporate governance and other matters e Consideration of the skills and experience required e Consideration of the appointment of a new chief for the role of Group chief executive officer and a executive officer of South Africa in response to the e Consideration of a request from a non-executive recommendation to the Boards that Peter Oswald decision by Ron Traill to retire from the role resulting director to take on the directorship of another be appointed to the role following David Hathorns in a recommendation to the Boards.
company, confirming that the time commitment decision to retire.
would not interfere with their duties to Mondi.
e Receiving a report and presentation on talent e Review of the composition of the Boards to ensure management practices within the Group.
e Consideration of, and recommendation to the maintenance of an appropriate balance of skills Boards, the re-election of all directors at the Annual e Receiving a report and presentation on diversity and diversity of experience to support the future General Meetings.
within the Group and a review of measures being growth strategy.
e Review of the committees terms of reference, e Review of the composition of each of the committees performance and work programme with a e Review of the succession plans for the executive and committee chairs, particularly in light of Peter number of changes to the terms of reference committee members and senior management Oswalds appointment as Group Chief Executive being recommended in response to the King IV within the Group, discussing any potential gaps and Officer, recommending changes to the Boards.
e Consideration of the composition of the DLC e Consideration of, and agreement to, the executive committee, including the skills, experience Board evaluation committees report for inclusion in the Groups and qualifications required, diversity and succession Integrated report and financial statements.
e Monitoring progress against the agreed action planning, and proposals from management and plan from the prior years evaluation process see recommendation of a number of new appointments page93 for more information.
to the Boards for approval.
e Consideration and agreement of the process e Conducting a review as Stephen Harris completed for the 2017 internal evaluation of the Boards, his second three-year term in office see page 92 committees and individual directors see page 93 formore information.
e Review of the continued independence of each none Review of the output from the 2017 evaluation executive director, including consideration of their process and recommendation of an action plan to term in office and any potential conflicts of interest.
the Boards see page 93 for more information.
e Review of the time commitment required of each non-executive director, concluding that all nonexecutive directors continued to devote appropriate time to address their duties to Mondi.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2017 95 Diversity was also a key focus for the committee with gender, race and other forms of diversity being an area of discussion and debate.
Mondi is conscious of the challenges it has in this area, both at board and senior management level and throughout the business, and creating an effective, more diverse pipeline up to the DLC executive committee and to the Boards will continue to be an area of focus in the coming year.
We are committed to improving diversity in all forms and have implemented a number of initiatives aimed at achieving this.
However we are Peters ability to perform the role was then Peter Oswald appointment as also aware that a long-term strategy is considered in detail in light of these requirements.
Group Chief Executive Officer required.
In light of this and the increasing Factors considered included his industry experience regulatory and governance requirements and his in-depth understanding of the way in which On 31 January 2017, David Hathorn notified the Boards Mondi operates.
Having joined Mondi in 1992, his in this area, the committee reviewed the of his decision to retire from the Boards and as Group detailed knowledge of the Group and its operations Groups diversity policy during the year, Chief Executive Officer.
Davids decision required and his involvement with the development of the the committee and the Boards to give immediate recommending a number of changes to the Group over many years were key.
Having been consideration to an appropriate replacement for David, on the Boards since 2008, Peters values and Boards for approval.
Further details can be with the starting point being the succession planning his understanding of Mondis culture were wellfound on page 96. undertaken during prior years in preparation for Davids established and his ability to lead and manage the eventual departure.
This had identified Peter as a Group was clear to the committee.
The committees remit is set out in terms potential successor to David.
The committee, and the Boards, agreed that Peter of reference adopted by the Boards.
The committee reviewed the qualifications, skills was the appropriate person to replace David and was The committees performance against and experience required for the role and the key well-placed to lead the Group.
He was subsequently these terms of reference is reviewed on an responsibilities, including to lead and manage the appointed Chief Executive Officer at the Annual business and the Groups day-to-day operations as General Meetings in May 2017. annual basis.
The committee is satisfied well as the relationship with institutional investors.
that it has acted in accordance with its These responsibilities are explained in more detail on terms of reference during the year.
Terms of appointment On appointment each non-executive Appointment process director receives letters of appointment setting out, among other things, their Mondi has an agreed process in place for the recruitment and appointment of new term of appointment, the expected time directors to the Boards.
This process was followed in relation to the appointment of commitment for their duties to Mondi and Tanya Fratto on 1 January 2017 and is outlined below: details of any committees of which they will be a member.
Non-executive directors are Agreement of key Agent conducts a market Short list reduced to Boards consider initially appointed for a three-year term, after business experience search and provides a long an agreed number the recommendation and skills required and list of potential candidates ofcandidates for and whether to which a review is undertaken to consider candidate specification for consideration interview by other proceed with renewal of the term for a further three drawn up executive and nonthe appointment years.
However, Mondi follows governance executive directors best practice with all directors standing for re-election by shareholders at each Annual General Meeting.
External independent Short list chosen from Nominations committee search agent engaged long list for interview considers the preferred to assist with the by one of the Joint candidates and makes selection process Chairmen and SID a recommendation to the Boards The recruitment process is usually led The Zygos Partnership was used for the by David Williams, Joint Chairman, and appointment of Tanya Fratto.
The Zygos Mondis Senior Independent Director, on Partnership does not provide any other behalf of the nominations committee.
services to the Mondi Group.
At the time of Tanyas appointment The Zygos Partnership, which is now part of Russell Reynolds Associates, was a signatory to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms.
Mondi Group 96 Integrated report and financial statements 2017 Corporate governance report Diversity However, while gender, race and other Diversity is also an essential part of Mondis forms of diversity will always be considered, leadership development programme Mondi is committed to encouraging and appointments at all levels will continue with the inclusion of a number of talent promoting diversity in all its forms.
to be made based on skill and ability.
management and development initiatives, As a global organisation operating in It remains important to ensure that diversity including the implementation of training over 30 countries, diversity forms an is seen in a broader context and that we modules such as Intercultural Diversity integral part of the way we do business.
have the right mix of backgrounds, skills, & International Business Competence We are committed to creating a culture knowledge and experience on our Boards, through The Mondi Academy to enhance that embraces diversity and provides a and throughout the Group, to meet our the understanding and appreciation of the working environment that is flexible and business needs and future strategy.
benefits of diversity within the business.
non-discriminatory from recruitment and Other training schemes designed to At the end of 2017, we had two female people development to reward and our empower and support diversity include directors representing 25% of the talent management approach.
We strive for Success management training with composition of the Boards and one director an inclusive environment where differences a focus on female career strategies of colour.
During 2017, we also reported are valued and embraced.
We employ, for higher management positions and to the Hampton-Alexander Review that empower and develop competent people training on career building for young as at 30 June 2017 we had approximately with the necessary potential required to female employees.
In addition, employee 27% female representation across our meet our business needs and maintain a exchanges where individuals spend executive committee and its direct reports competitive business advantage.
time working in different business units combined.
While the number of women and locations around the Group enable During 2017 the Boards reviewed the on our executive committee has increased them to gain experience of different Groups formal diversity policy which during the course of 2017, there is still working practices and skills as well as sets out guidelines for such matters as further work required if we are to make having exposure to different cultures.
recruitment, the use of search firms, progress towards 33%.
Details of the DLC Other initiatives include mentoring and succession and annual reviews.
The review executive committees membership during development programmes, flexible working was undertaken in light of increasing the year and as at 31 December 2017 can practices and membership of an LGBT expectation in this area, the Boards desire be found on page 110.
A continued focus network and consultancy in order to to send a strong message and the findings on the pipeline up to executive committee support diversity and employee integration of the Hampton-Alexander Review on level is needed as well as a focus on across the business world.
gender diversity and the Parker Review on other forms of diversity including ethnicity.
The revised policy builds Additional gender diversity statistics can be The Mondi cultural characteristics on the original one, continuing to set out found in the Strategic report on page 48. incorporate our aim to hire and work the Boards position and clear guidelines in effectively with people who differ in race, As part of the Boards oversight of Mondis relation to diversity at board and executive gender, culture, age and background.
diversity policy, two presentations were committee level and throughout the Group.
We measure our progress through the provided to the committee during the year The policy requires search firms to include use of tools such as our global employee in relation to diversity, covering new and female candidates as well as candidates surveys and 360 feedback.
ongoing initiatives to improve diversity and from a variety of ethnic backgrounds progress made in this regard.
While it is recognised that there are in order to ensure that diversity is fully many challenges and there is more work considered during recruitment processes, In South Africa we are committed to making to do, Mondi believes that continually both at board and executive committee a positive contribution to the process of sharing best practice, networking and level and throughout the organisation.
We have taken active steps sharing experiences both internally and to meet the requirements of broad-based The policy also confirms the Boards externally helps us to make good progress.
black economic empowerment BBBEE, intention to work towards achieving More details can be found on pages 47 including establishing transformation the Hampton-Alexander Reviews and 48. forums in our South African operations to recommended target of 33% women on allow our employees to discuss equity and boards and across executive committees training-related issues and ideas.
and their direct reports by 2020 and the Parker Reviews recommended target of one person of colour on boards by 2021, a target that we currently meet.
