Mondi Group 84 Integrated report and financial statements 2017 Corporate governance report Composition Diversity of the Boards of the Boards % Joint chairmen 2 Female 25% Executive directors 2 Male 75% Non-executive directors 4 Compliance statement view that Mondi has been in compliance Mondis dual listed company structure with the principles of King IV.
Examples of requires us to comply with the principles contained in the South African King IV Mondis application of the recommended Code of Corporate Governance Principles practices set out in King IV can be found available at www.
co. za and the throughout this governance report.
provisions of the April 2016 edition of A more detailed analysis of Mondis the UK Corporate Governance Code compliance with King IV is available issued by the Financial Reporting Council on the Mondi Group website at available at www.
It is the view of the Boards that Mondi The Boards note the Financial Reporting has complied throughout the year with Councils consultation on a new UK all the provisions of the UK Corporate Corporate Governance Code.
During the year, monitoring developments and await Mondi has assessed its compliance the final outcome of the consultation, at with King IV, which was published in which time we will review any potential November 2016 and replaces King III, implications for Mondi.
and as a result, the Boards are also of the Composition of the Boards The size and composition of the Boards and its committees are kept under The directors holding office during the year review by the nominations committee.
ended 31 December 2017 are listed on We are of the view that collectively there page 85, together with their attendance is an appropriate balance of capabilities, at board meetings.
As at 31 December business experience, independence and 2017 there were eight directors: the Joint diversity on the Boards to meet the Groups Chairmen, four non-executive directors, current business needs.
The directors each considered by the Boards to be have experience gained from a range of independent, and two executive directors.
Those in office as at the date of this report, together with their biographical details, can be found on pages 82 and 83.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2017 85 Non-executive Nationalities represented director tenure on the Boards 03 years 2 South African 2 36 years 0 British 3 69 years 2 Austrian 1 9 years 0 French 1 American 1 Mondi Limited Mondi plc board one board one DLC board Directors meeting meeting seven meetings Fred Phaswana 1 1 7 David Williams 1 1 7 Tanya Fratto 1 1 7 Stephen Harris 1 1 7 1 David Hathorn 1 1 3 Andrew King 1 1 7 John Nicholas 1 1 7 Peter Oswald 1 1 7 2 Anne Quinn 1 1 3 Dominique Reiniche 1 1 7 1 David Hathorn retired from the boards of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc on 11 May 2017.
David attended all meetings up to the time of his retirement from the Boards 2 Anne Quinn retired from the boards of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc on 11 May 2017.
Anne attended all meetings up to the time of her retirement from the Boards Professional advice D&O insurance A policy is in place pursuant to which Throughout the year to 31 December each director may obtain independent 2017, in line with market practice, Mondi professional advice at Mondis expense maintained directors and officers in the furtherance of their duties as a liability insurance.
director of either Mondi Limited or Mondi Procedure for conflicts of interest plc.
No requests were received during the year.
Company law, the memorandum of incorporation of Mondi Limited and In addition, each of the committees the articles of association of Mondi plc are empowered, through their terms allow directors to manage potential of reference, to seek independent conflicts.
A formal procedure is in place professional advice at Mondis expense in for the reporting and review of any the furtherance of their duties.
potential conflicts of interest involving the Boards with support from the Company Secretaries, with authorisations reviewed on an annual basis.
Mondi Group 86 Integrated report and financial statements 2017 Corporate governance report Board structure Mondi Limited Mondi plc African operations Non-African operations Board of directors Board of directors DLC Registered in South Africa Registered in the UK Board Primary listing on the JSE Premium listing on the LSE Secondary listing on the JSE Single unified economic enterprise Mondi comprises Mondi Limited, registered The Boards meet at least six times a and listed in South Africa, and Mondi plc, year as a DLC board plus at least once registered and listed in the UK.
Each entity each year as separate legal entity boards.
has its own board of directors comprising Each board programme is usually held over the same individuals.
This enables the two days enabling the directors to spend effective management of the DLC structure more time together and form a greater as a single unified economic enterprise understanding of each others characters, with due consideration being given to the aiding discussion and challenge in the interests of the ordinary shareholders of board room and creating a positive and both Mondi Limited and Mondi plc.
Fred Phaswana chairs those meetings held in South Africa Leadership of the Boards comes and David Williams those held in Europe.
Having joint Together they oversee the distribution of chairmen brings to the Boards a diversity appropriate, accurate and well-presented of knowledge, experience and shared materials, with meeting packs being values.
They have agreed a rolling agenda circulated electronically a week before to ensure that all key matters reserved each meeting.
They also ensure there is for the consideration of the Boards are sufficient debate and consultation with covered in the annual cycle of meetings.
management and advisers as well as Agendas for each meeting are agreed with between the directors themselves during the chairmen to ensure that, in addition to meetings, allowing considered and effective regular items, consideration is being given decisions to be reached.
As appropriate, to matters that may impact the Groups other senior executives and advisers are operations from the wider economic or invited to attend and present at meetings, business environment.
During 2017 for providing the non-executive directors example the Boards received presentations with a broader perspective on matters on Russia and Turkey as well as the under consideration.
new South African King IV Code of Corporate Governance Principles.
Responding appropriately to the changing environment in which the Group operates is vital for Mondis long-term success.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2017 87 Mondi Mondi Limited plc The Boards DLC DLC DLC DLC nominations audit remuneration sustainable committee committee committee development Oversees the Oversees the Responsibility for committee composition of Groups corporate recommending Oversees the Groups the Boards and financial reporting, overall remuneration strategy, commitments, committees and the internal control policy and the setting Mondi Limited targets and considers succession system, risk of executive and performance relating social planning, making management and senior management to safety, and ethics recommendations the relationship remuneration the environment to the Boards with the external committee and other sustainable auditor Oversees South development matters African social and ethical issues 107 94 97 113 105 DLC executive DLC disclosure committee committee Day-to-day Responsibility for classifying and management overseeing the prompt disclosure of of the Group inside information and overseeing the creation of insider lists 112 108 The Boards are supported by the The committees meet prior to meetings of committees that have been established the Boards to enable the committee chairs in line with governance practice and to to report to the Boards.
This facilitates the which the Boards have delegated specific communication between directors.
It also areas of responsibility.
The role of each ensures that all aspects of the Boards committee is described in more detail later mandate have been addressed and in this report.
Each committee has the enables any necessary recommendations authority to make decisions according to or advice relevant for deliberations to its terms of reference.
are agreed by each committee that are Only committee members are entitled to designed around the annual business attend committee meetings, although the calendar and their respective terms of chairman of each committee can invite, as reference.
The matters reserved for the they consider appropriate, management Boards together with the terms of reference and advisers to meetings to provide of each of the committees are reviewed on information and insights, answer questions an annual basis and when there have been and to assist the committees in carrying out changes in circumstances, governance their duties.
These are available on the Mondi Group website.
During 2017 certain of the committee terms of reference were updated, primarily in response to changes introduced by King IV.
Mondi Group 88 Integrated report and financial statements 2017 Corporate governance report How the Boards spent their time The chairmen agree an annual work programme for the Boards that ensures all matters reserved for review by the Boards are covered.
The Boards are satisfied that this was the case during the year.
Additional matters are added to each meeting agenda as the need arises throughout the year, usually in connection with strategic opportunities that have presented themselves or where market conditions or operational performance discussions trigger a request for a more in-depth review.
Each meeting includes a report from the Chief Executive Officer providing an operational update: a report from the Chief Financial Officer on the Groups financial performance: an update on safety performance: country assessments for key geographic locations where the Group operates: and a report from the Company Secretaries on recent governance and regulatory matters.
Other matters addressed by the Boards during the year included: e A review of the Groups risk management Financial performance Operational performance processes, plan and risk tolerance levels and e Review and approval of the full and half-yearly e Detailed reports in relation to the fatalities in South internal controls, with consideration of risk results and associated announcements and the Africa and at our Tire Box plant Turkey and in monitoring, mitigation activities and independent trading updates and consideration of feedback relation to a forestry worker reported missing assurance processes.
from investors and analysts following the presumed deceased in Russia.
The Boards e Half-yearly presentations on IT risks and cyber results roadshows.
were deeply saddened by the fatalities and security see page 99 for more information.
it was important to ensure that they had full e Review and approval of the Mondi Group Integrated e Review of the Group insurances, ensuring an details of the investigations and could oversee report and financial statements, ensuring they are appropriate balance of risk between the Group and managements response.
fair, balanced and understandable see page 102 for our insurers.
e Reports from the chief executive officers of a e Review and approval of directors declarations number of the business units, providing more e Consideration of dividend recommendations related to potential conflicts of interest.
detailed insights into each business, in particular the and declarations in light of the Groups stated markets, pricing and performance.
e Consideration of governance and regulatory dividend policy, financial performance and strong developments, in particular the implementation of cash generation.
e Consideration and approval of a reorganisation of King IV.
e Review and approval of the Group business plan for e Review of principal Group policies and, in particular, 20182020 and the budget for 2018, considering e Monitoring of the implementation of a number of agreed changes to the diversity policy.
assumptions made and the reasonableness of the large capital projects, particularly at Ruomberok, plan and focusing on the operational overviews, tt and Syktyvkar.
e Review of arrangements for the Annual General cash flow management and capital allocation.
Meetings, in particular feedback received from e A presentation from the Chief Innovation Officer shareholders and voting indications.
e Annual reviews of the Group treasury position providing a detailed overview of innovation activity and Group tax strategy, including approval of the and processes throughout the Group and examples Groups tax strategy statement for publication on of key products developed as a result.
e Consideration of a recommendation to appoint Governance and risk management Peter Oswald as Group Chief Executive Officer.
Strategy formulation and monitoring e Regular reports from the chairman of e Consideration of recommended changes to the e A strategy review session, considering where Mondi each committee.
membership of the DLC executive committee.
is today, its strategic focus, options for future growth e Review of the Groups corporate e Consideration of recommendations from the DLC and detailed business unit strategic initiatives, governance framework.
nominations committee in relation to a number of resulting in continued support for Mondis strategic key roles.
e Review and approval of the renewal of direction see page 20 for more information.
Stephen Harris term of office see page 92 for e Consideration of succession and talent e Regular review of potential growth opportunities more information.
e Review and approval of the Groups Modern Slavery e Regular review of competitor analyses.
Other e Regular review of shareholder analysis reports.
e A report on South African land reform, including e Consideration of a number of regular matters that an update on the regulatory environment and are reserved for the Boards see schedule on the proposed options for consideration.
e Review of the output from the internal board evaluation process and agreement of an action plan see page 93 for more information.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2017 89 Board responsibilities Role Key responsibilities include: Chairmen and Chief Executive Officer Joint Chairmen e to lead and manage the Boards, setting the agenda, providing Mondi has joint chairmen, Fred Phaswana direction and focus, ensuring effectiveness and open and and David Williams, with the Chief Executive Fred Phaswana transparent debate Officer role held separately by Peter David Williams e to ensure there is a constructive relationship between the Oswald.
The division of responsibilities executive directors and non-executive directors See between the Joint Chairmen and the Chief 82 biographies Executive Officer has been clearly defined e to ensure high standards of corporate governance and ethical and approved by the Boards.
They do behaviour and oversee the culture of the Group however work closely on matters such as e to oversee the induction, training and development of directors the relationships with major shareholders and the consideration of succession and other external parties.
The Joint e to ensure effective communication with shareholders and Chairmen provide support and advice while other stakeholders respecting the executive responsibility of e to ensure the Boards receive accurate, timely and clear the Chief Executive Officer.
They maintain information to support discussion and decision making an effective relationship and have regular interaction through meetings and telephone Chief Executive e to lead and manage the business with day-to-day responsibility calls outside the formal board meeting Officer for running the operations and, in particular, the execution of cycle.
This provides opportunities for strategy within the delegated authority from the Boards Peter Oswald regular updates on business objectives e to ensure the communication of Mondis values and goals and priorities.
See throughout the organisation, leading by example 82 biography Having joint chairmen ensures the Group e to chair the DLC executive committee and lead and motivate and its stakeholders benefit from an the management team extensive knowledge and experience of e to ensure the Group has effective processes, controls and risk the jurisdictions relating specifically to its management systems dual listed company structure.
The Joint e to develop and implement Group policies, including with regard Chairmen maintain a regular dialogue to safety and sustainability with each other and manage the Boards through mutual agreement.
e together with the Chief Financial Officer, to lead the relationship with institutional shareholders The main positions held by each of the Joint Chairmen outside the Mondi Group Executive e to manage the day-to-day operations of the Group, in this case director are detailed in their biographies set out on within his remit as Chief Financial Officer, in accordance with page 82.
There have been no changes to authority delegated by the Boards Andrew King the commitments of either chairman during the year.
Both chairmen were independent See 82 biography upon appointment.
With the Joint Chairmen now having minimal commitments external to Mondi, the Boards continue to consider that they each devote sufficient time to their duties to Mondi, with both having attended all meetings and made themselves available to management and other directors when required.
Mondi Group 90 Integrated report and financial statements 2017 Corporate governance report Senior Independent Director Role Key responsibilities include: During the year, John Nicholas was Senior e providing support to, and acting as a sounding board for, the appointed as Mondis Senior Independent Independent Joint Chairmen and other non-executive directors Director SID following Anne Quinns Director SID e acting as a point of contact for shareholders retirement from the Boards.
The SID has John Nicholas a key role to play in ensuring the smooth e being available as a trusted intermediary for the other directors, operation of the Boards, primarily by as necessary See 83 providing support to the Joint Chairmen, biography e chairing a meeting of the non-executive directors at which the as well as the other directors, where performance of the Joint Chairmen is considered required.
The function and duties of the Independent e to provide independent oversight of the Groups activities SID are set out in a separate statement non-executive of responsibilities.
e to offer an external perspective to, and constructively challenge, directors management Non-executive directors Tanya Fratto e to monitor management performance and the development of The non-executive directors provide a the organisational culture Stephen Harris valuable level of independent oversight e to review and agree strategic priorities and monitor the delivery Dominique of the Groups activities and constructive of the Groups strategy Reiniche challenge of management.
Their varied e to ensure the integrity of financial reporting and the effectiveness business backgrounds enable them to apply See 83 of internal controls and risk management biographies diverse knowledge and experience to issues e to determine executive director remuneration raised with the Boards, particularly when considering strategic growth opportunities.
Company e to support the Joint Chairmen in the delivery of accurate and They each actively participate in the decisionsecretaries timely information ahead of each meeting making, discussing and tackling issues e to ensure compliance with board and committee procedures Philip Laubscher with a frankness and openness of mind, e to act as a key point of contact for Joint Chairmen and nonand dedicate sufficient time to effectively Jenny Hampshire executive directors discharge their duties to Mondi.
See 109 e to provide support to the Boards and committees, and advise Meetings of the non-executive directors are biographies on governance, statutory and regulatory requirements, including held twice a year.
These meetings focus presenting a report at each board meeting highlighting any particularly on the performance of the areas of development or change executives although the agendas are driven e to provide advice on legal, governance and listing requirements by the non-executive directors themselves in both South Africa and the UK, in particular relating to and cover a variety of topics.
One of these continuing obligations and directors duties meetings is attended by the Chief Executive Officer in order to provide input to the discussions on executive performance and succession.
Company secretaries The Company Secretary of Mondi Limited and of Mondi plc work together on the co-ordination of Mondis DLC structure.
They are appointed and removed by the Boards and are accountable to the Boards as a whole.
Pursuant to the Listings Requirements of the JSE, the Boards confirm that they have reviewed and are satisfied that each of the Company Secretaries is competent and has the relevant qualifications and experience.
Their biographies are on page 109.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2017 91 In assessing their competence and the While all directors have access to the Training and development quality of the corporate governance services advice and services of the Company When new directors join the Boards they they provide, the Boards have considered Secretaries, the Company Secretaries undertake an induction.
While there is an the expected role and duties pursuant to the maintain an arms length relationship outline induction programme in place, requirements of both the South African and with the Boards.
They do not take part in this is discussed with each new director UK Companies Acts, governance codes board deliberations and only advise on and is tailored to meet any specific and continuing obligations of the stock matters of governance, form or procedure.
requirements, in particular any committee exchanges on which Mondi is listed, and Throughout the year they have ensured responsibilities.
The programme generally considered their respective compliance with compliance with board procedures and includes meetings with each member of each of these.
The Boards have reviewed have provided independent advice to the the executive committee and key advisers their performance not only during the last Boards, in particular the chairmen and as well as site visits.
The aim is to provide year but since joining Mondi.
non-executive directors, on a range of a new director with sufficient background governance and compliance matters and and information about the Group and its The Boards concluded that the Company best practice.
performance and to highlight any specific Secretaries have each complied with areas of risk or concern.
Following her all the requirements of the Companies appointment on 1 January 2017 and a Acts, governance codes and continuing number of initial meetings, Tanya continued obligations of the relevant stock exchanges her induction throughout the year, with and that the arrangements in place for this including visits to Mondis mills in monitoring and assessing their competence tt Czech Republic and Ruomberok and performance are effective.
Slovakia more details are provided below.
Ruomberok, Slovakia Austria & Czech Republic Site visits During the year, Tanya Fratto, as part of her continuing In October 2017, the directors visited Mondis integrated pulp and paper mill in Ruomberok.
induction, and Dominique Reiniche undertook a The directors are encouraged wherever visit to Mondis office in Vienna, Austria to meet with The visit included a presentation from the local possible to visit Mondis key assets and management team, providing the Boards a number of Mondis business unit chief executive operations so that they can see them first hand officers, enabling them to have one-on-one with an update on matters including safety, and get a more in-depth understanding of the financial and productivity performance, quality discussions about more detailed aspects of each business as well as meet local management business unit.
Such visits also allow the directors to better understand the culture within our The directors undertook a tour of the mill, giving them This was followed by visits to our plants in Korneuburg businesses and to ensure that Mondis values an opportunity to see in practice the results of recent Austria and in tt.
A tour of each plant was are being effectively communicated and put investment and to speak directly to local management undertaken and management presentations provided.
and staff about the planned 300,000 tonne per The visit to tt gave Tanya and Dominique the annum kraft top white machine and related pulp mill opportunity to see the completed bleached kraft upgrade approved by the Boards in 2016. paper machine completed in 2014 and to speak to local management about the 335 million investment approved by the Boards in January 2017 to modernise the mill.
Site visits by the directors, either individually or collectively, remain high on the agenda in 2018 with a visit to our mill in Syktyvkar being planned for the Boards during the year.
Mondi Group 92 Integrated report and financial statements 2017 Corporate governance report Each director can discuss any development Although it is recognised that valuable needs with one of the Joint Chairmen at experience can be gained from executive any time but the opportunity arises more directors accepting appointments as nonformally during the annual review process executive directors on other boards, it is when discussions regarding individual important to ensure the appropriateness performance are held.
In addition, all and number of such commitments.
directors are encouraged to strengthen Mondi has a policy setting out the and refresh their knowledge by attending parameters regarding such appointments.
workshops, seminars and courses relevant A director will retain any fee paid to them in to their respective roles, and details of the Board presentations respect of directorships external to Mondi.
availability of these are provided regularly.
Neither of Mondis executive directors The Boards received a number of presentations To ensure the directors are aware of currently holds a directorship external from external advisers during the year, including in developing trends and future changes to Mondi.
relation to: in governance and regulation and the e the South African and Turkish economies: While on the Boards, David Hathorn likely impact on the Group, the Company e market conditions and future prospects in Russia was appointed chairman of Kore Potash Secretaries report to the Boards at each and central Europe: Limited, an advanced stage mineral meeting.
They also brief the directors on e the South African King IV Governance Code: and exploration and development company governance and regulatory consultations e MiFID II.
listed on the Australian stock exchange with for information and to assist the directors Additionally the Boards heard from the chief a primary asset in the Republic of Congo with context for their decision-making executive officers of Mondis Consumer Packaging and with its head office in Johannesburg.
and Fibre Packaging business units and Mondis during board and committee deliberations.
The Boards were satisfied that the nature South African business as well as Mondis Chief Other corporate function specialists, Innovation Officer.
The chief executive officers of of the business, its location and the time for example from Group tax and Group the Packaging Paper and Uncoated Fine Paper commitment expected, would not interfere business units presented in early 2018. treasury, report to the Boards to enable with Davids role and commitments at the directors to gain a greater insight into The Boards have also received updates on Mondi.
During 2017, up to the date of his information technology risk through two detailed the way Mondi is managed and controlled.
retirement from the Boards, David received presentations given to the DLC audit committee This provides opportunities to question during the year see page 99 for more information.
shares in Kore Potash Limited worth processes, resources and key risks as AUD155,000.
No other fees were paid to well as providing context on the wider David between 1 January 2017 and the economic environment.
date of his retirement in respect of this role.
Part of the Boards annual rolling agenda is After a year in office, Peter Oswald resigned focused on updating skills and knowledge.
his chairmanship of the supervisory board Presentations and reports aimed at of OMV AG in May 2016.
During 2017, Peter providing wider context to the Groups received fees totalling 30,918 representing activities and position in the market are fees owed from his prior appointment.
provided regularly to the Boards and periodically Mondis South African and UK advisers facilitate sessions on the duties and responsibilities of directors and on corporate governance developments.
Management also provide updates on Stephen Harris issues affecting the packaging and paper review of term of office industry as a whole and regular feedback is provided through the sharing of analyst During 2017 Stephen Harris completed his second and broker reports and briefings.
The chief three-year term in office.
A more detailed review of his performance, including consideration of executive officer of each of Mondis the governance codes requirements, evaluation business units presents to the Boards feedback and shareholder opinion, was considered at regular intervals, giving directors the against the time he devotes to his duties at Mondi opportunity to meet members of senior and his other business commitments.
Feedback from his fellow directors and his contribution to the management and to understand more board debate were also taken into account.
It was thoroughly developments within each concluded that Stephen remained independent business unit.
and able to contribute effectively to Mondi in the best interests of shareholders, both in his role as a director and as chair of both the DLC sustainable development and Mondi Limited social and ethics committees.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2017 93 Performance evaluation Below are the key actions reported last year following the external evaluation undertaken in 2016 and details of the progress we have made against those actions: Action agreed from 2016 evaluation Progress achieved To consider the need for further site visits by the As part of the programme of meetings in October 2017, the Boards visited Mondis Boards in light of recent developments in the mill in Ruomberok see page 91 for more information.
The need for further site business and its strategic direction and changes visits is being kept under review with a visit to Mondis Syktyvkar mill being planned to the composition of the Boards.
To review and refine the format of the safety The format of the safety reports has been reviewed in conjunction with the reports presented to the Boards.
chairman of the DLC sustainable development committee.
Adjustments were made in order to provide a clearer summary of key incidents and statistics to the Boards.
The revised format has been in use since May 2017.
To continue to focus on innovation and quality, An annual update on quality and innovation matters has been added to the Boards ensuring that the Boards receive relevant updates annual rolling agenda.
During 2017, the Boards received a presentation from the and presentations in this regard.
To include in acquisition proposals presented to Although already included in Mondis due diligence processes, this is now a the Boards sufficient insight into the due diligence specific item to be considered when preparing such papers for the Boards.
undertaken in relation to the management and culture of the business to be acquired.
2017 internal board evaluation process In line with best practice, we have conducted external evaluations at least once every three years, the last time being in 2016.
In 2017, the Boards determined that an internal evaluation was appropriate, recognising the opportunity this provides to reflect on the activities and performance of the Boards, committees and individual directors, and to consider improvements to the operation of the Boards.
The process was facilitated by the Company Secretaries and is illustrated below: Review of prior year One-on-one interviews Results collated and Action plan agreed by action plan and progress between the Joint Chairmen report prepared the Boards against plan and individual directors Questionnaires issued to and completed Review of Joint Chairmens Report considered by the nominations by directors, senior executives and the performance by the SID and committee, proposed actions formulated Company Secretaries other directors and recommendations made to the Boards The results confirmed that the Boards of the meetings.
The positive working e to maintain the high level of focus on safety, continue to operate well and to a high relationship between the Joint Chairmen considering in particular the behavioural and standard, with open and effective debate, and the way in which they effectively cultural reasons behind life altering injuries opportunity for challenge and full and manage their joint role was noted.
and other serious safety incidents: active participation from all members of e to continue to develop Mondis policies and The key actions agreed by the Boards the Boards.
The report also highlighted procedures in the key areas of focus set following the 2017 evaluation are: the culture of transparency and positive out in the UK Modern Slavery Act and to dynamics on the Boards, allowing the e to continue to focus on succession consider the use of certain measurements directors to focus on the key issues and to planning at board, committee and to allow progress to be monitored: and voice their views openly.
executive level, considering cultural, e to monitor the outcome of the consultation geographic and gender diversity The review of the performance of the Joint in relation to the UK Corporate requirements as the business looks Chairmen, led by John Nicholas as the Governance Code and to consider and to grow: Senior Independent Director, incorporated implement any changes required in order e to continue to assess opportunities feedback from the non-executive and to ensure compliance with the new Code.
for growth as and when they arise executive directors.
Consideration was The Boards consider that they continue with management providing detailed given to the effective leadership of the to benefit from the annual review process, overviews to the Boards of any potential Boards, how they worked together, their the results from which help guide the future options when appropriate: time commitment and the management focus of meeting agendas and behaviours.
