BAE Systems 76 Annual Report 2017 Board governance This is the structure through which we manage theCompany.
It has evolved over time, and continues to evolve to meet the needs of the business and our stakeholder responsibilities.
Shareholders Board Operational governance The Company has The Board consists of executive and The Operational Framework sets approximately 100,000 independent non-executive directors, outhow we do business across individual, corporate and plusanon-executive chairman who BAE Systems, and encapsulates employee shareholders.
wasindependent in accordance with ourvalues, policies and processes, theUKCorporate Governance Code together with clear levels of onhisappointment.
delegated responsibility aimed atensuring that all of our The non-executive directors constructively Annual General Meeting challenge and help develop proposals employees and businesses act Shareholders vote on key onstrategy.
They also scrutinisethe governance matters, inaclear, accountable and performance ofmanagement in meeting including the re-election of consistent manner.
It is reviewed agreed goals andobjectives, and satisfy directors, their remuneration, and approved annuallyby themselves as to theintegrity offinancial the payment of dividends information, and thatsystems of risk theBoard.
and the appointment of management are robust and defensible.
Inaddition, they set the remuneration of Oversight of theexecutive directors andoversee Board performance Shareholder relations succession planning.
andcompliance The Chief Executive and with Operational Group Finance Director meet Chairman Governance the Companys principal Responsible for leading the Board and shareholders on a regular ensuring that it discharges its duties basis.
Chairman maintains regular Chief Executive contact with the Companys Responsible for the implementation and principal shareholders on delivery of the strategy agreed by the Board.
governance matters and ensures that all directors are Senior Independent Director aware of their views.
Acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and acts as an intermediary for the other directors asnecessary.
Company Secretary Responsible to the Board for ensuring thatBoard procedures are complied with.
Through the Chairman, heisresponsible forensuring that directors are supplied withinformation in atimely manner.
Board committees The membership of the principal board committees see below solely comprises non-executive directors.
Theyprovide leadership, scrutiny and oversight over keygovernance areas.
Audit Corporate Responsibility 82 87 Committee Committee Nominations Remuneration 90 91 Committee Committee Governance Financial statements BAE Systems Annual Report 2017 77 Group strategic 18 framework How we work Organisation The Operational Framework sets out the principles of From the Board downwards, we set out how we are good governance which, together with our culture, guide organised and the responsibilities of the Board, the our work and behaviour in support of the strategysetin Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Executive Committee, our Group strategic framework seepage18.
Here we our Functional Councils such as Engineering, Human set out the values that we ask all our employees to Resources and Procurement and thesenior executives demonstrate in their day-to-day work, wherever they charged with running our businesses.
Governance The UK Corporate Governance Codes the Code principles are embedded in the Operational Framework, and itspolicies and processes underpin allthe disclosures made by the Board pursuant to the Codes provisions.
How we conduct our business is fundamental to the success of BAE Systems.
The Operational Framework sets outour approach and the standards to which we adhere.
It includes the following: Code of Conduct Responsible Internal controls Risk framework Workplace and Delegated Lays out the Trading Principles Provide assurance This is how we operational authorities standards that are We do not regarding: identify, analyse, environment As part of a robust expected of each compromise on the evaluate and This covers how we system of internal the reliability ofus, to support way we do business mitigate risk expect our people controls, the Board andintegrity of usin doing the right and here we mandate seepage 66. tobe managed and has delegated information: thing.
All employees a principles-based the obligations certain authorities compliance with receive annual approach to our placed on us all toexecutive policies, processes, training designed business activity.
laws, regulations tostimulate conflicts of interest, Delegation is subject and contracts: conversations anti-bribery, and to financial limits the safeguarding aboutethical managing the and other of assets and decision-making.
security ofour restrictions, above protection against people, information which matters fraud: and and other assets.
mustbe referred the economical tothe Board.
and efficient use of resources.
Operational Assurance Statement OAS This key governance process requires that areturn is completed every six months by each operational and functional business head, reporting their formal view against such matters as compliance with law and regulation, ethical business conduct, financial controls, risk management, compliance with business planning processes, health and safety, conflicts of interest, delegated authorities, appointment of advisers and product safety.
There is a separate OAS process for our joint ventures.
OurInternal Audit function owns the OAS process.
It is managed independently from management functions.
The Internal Audit Director reports functionally to the Audit Committee and, for day-to-day operations, to the Chief Executive.
Core business processes These core business processes are mandated by the Operational Framework and designed to ensure consistent planning, reporting andreview of business performance across all businesses: IBP LCM M&A TPL Integrated Business Planning Lifecycle Management Policy Mergers & Acquisitions Policy Total Performance Leadership Approved by the Board annually, How we plan and manage the A structured approach to A set of people-related creates a consistent approach execution of all projects above a mergers, acquisitions and activitiesthat help to identify, tostrategic planning, aligning certain minimum level, providing disposals.
select, manage and reward resources with the delivery of decision gate reviews at key leaders, and facilitates forecast financial performance stages from initial opportunity succession planning.
