Governance Audit and Risk Committee Report The Committee has welcomed the new challenge and fresh perspective of the change in external auditor.
Bill Seeger Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee I am pleased to report to shareholders on the activities of the Audit The UK Corporate Governance Code invites the Committee to and Risk Committee during the year and provide insight into our report on the significant matters considered during the year.
satisfied that our activities have provided the Committee with a good understanding of the key matters impacting the Group during The external governance landscape continues to evolve and place the year and full details are contained on the opposite page.
From further focus on the role of the Audit and Risk Committee.
The my perspective the most important matters were: Committee continues to pay close regard to the changes in external requirements and I would like to thank the members of the the review of the Group's ethics programme and, in particular, Committee, together with management and Deloitte, for their the monitoring of the mitigating actions put in place by support, guidance and challenge during the year as we respond to management to address the risk of sales diversion: those changes.
the review of the impact of IFRS 15, a new accounting standard applying to revenue for contracts with customers, effective for The Committee met four times during the year.
The meetings accounting periods on or after 1 January 2018: are aligned to the Groups financial reporting timetable, to allow sufficient time for full discussion of key topics and enable early the review of the Omega acquisition and lessons learned identification and resolution of risks and issues.
As Chairman, following the 2016 goodwill impairment: and I met regularly with management, internal audit and the external the evolution of our risk management processes and auditor between Committee meetings.
In July, I was pleased to internal controls.
welcome Karim Bitar to the Committee following his As a Committee, we will continue to focus on risk management appointment to the Board.
and, in particular, the Groups ongoing enhancements to systems Following the competitive tender of the Companys external audit of governance and internal control during 2018. services in 2016 and the Boards decision to recommend the I hope that you find this review, and the report that follows, useful appointment of Deloitte LLP to shareholders at the Companys in understanding the work of the Committee during the year.
The 2017 AGM, the Committee has closely monitored the transition Committee and I encourage shareholder feedback and I look process and worked with Deloitte to agree the audit approach and forward to meeting with shareholders at our Annual General scope of work to be undertaken.
Deloitte undertook their first half Meeting in May.
year review on behalf of the Group in July 2017.
Bill Seeger The Committee is satisfied that Deloitte have been effective Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee throughout the year and we have welcomed the new challenge 19 February 2018 and fresh perspective that the change in auditor has brought to the Committee's considerations to date.
The Committee considers it important to interact with members of management beyond the Executive Committee.
The Committee held its meeting in October at the offices of Malvern Panalytical in the Netherlands and spent time with senior leaders from both Malvern Panalytical and Particle Measuring Systems to discuss the opportunities and risks faced by the operating companies.
58 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Key areas of focus Issue and significance The role of the Committee Comments and conclusion Impact of IFRS 15 The Committee considered the main The Committee supported the Under the new Standard, an entity is changes to revenue recognition required judgements made by management required to recognise revenue when it under IFRS 15 for the Group, the actions regarding the likely impact of IFRS 15 for transfers goods services to the customer in undertaken by management to prepare the year ending 31 December 2018 and an amount that reflects the consideration for both implementation for the year agreed with management that, due to to which the entity expects to be entitled ending 31 December 2018 and to the year-on-year impact for the Group in exchange for those goods and services.
support the disclosure required in the being relatively small, the opening This will require the use of more 2017 Annual Report and the expected balance sheet for 1 January 2018 should judgement and estimation than the impact on the Groups revenue.
be adjusted to reflect the cumulative current standard and, in certain situations, impact of the change, rather than the will result in the revenue being deferred Group undertaking a full restatement and recognised over a period of time of comparatives.
rather than at a point in time which is likely to affect the measurement and timing of the recognition of revenue.
Provisions for taxation The Committee reviewed and challenged Following discussion with both Provisions held in respect of tax risks are the approach taken by management and management and Deloitte regarding the included within current and deferred tax Deloitte explained to the Committee the key judgements which had been made, liabilities depending on the underlying work conducted during the year, the Committee was satisfied that they circumstances of the provision.
including how their audit procedures were reasonable and that, accordingly, Management judgement is exercised in were focused on those provisions with the provision amounts recorded were arriving at the amounts to be provided.
the highest level of judgement on appropriate.
Further details of the Management confirmed to the Committee recognition criteria and or measurement.
Group's taxation provision are set that the provisions recorded at 31 out on page 30.
December 2017 represent their best estimate of the likely financial exposure faced by the Group.
Use of alternative performance The Committee noted the guidance The Committee concluded that, in measures APMs issued by the European Securities and relation to the half and full year 2017 The Companys performance measures Markets Authority and by the Financial results and the 2017 Annual Report, clear continue to include some measures which Reporting Council 'FRC' in relation to and meaningful descriptions had been are not defined or specified under IFRS.
the use of APMs and, supported by the provided for the APMs used.
It was also Further detail is set out in the Financial challenge of Deloitte, considered whether concluded that the relationship between Review on page 28. the performance measures used by these measures and the statutory IFRS management provided a meaningful measures was clearly explained and insight into the results of the Company supported the considered understanding for its shareholders.
Estimation, uncertainty and judgement Management confirmed to the After reviewing the presentations and During the year, the Committee received Committee that they were not aware reports from management and reports and recommendations from of any material or immaterial consulting, where necessary, with the management and the external auditor to misstatements made intentionally external auditor, the Committee is consider the significant accounting issues, to achieve a particular presentation.
satisfied that the Financial Statements estimates and judgements applicable to appropriately address critical judgements The Committee reviewed presentations the Groups Financial Statements and and key estimates both in respect of the made to the Committee by management disclosures.
amounts reported and the disclosures.
and questioned Deloitte to understand The key risks of estimation disclosed in the whether the external auditor had, to the The Committee is also satisfied that the Groups 2017 Financial Statements are: Committees satisfaction, fulfilled its significant assumptions used for responsibilities with diligence and determining the value of assets and the assumptions applied in the calculation professional scepticism and in a liabilities have been appropriately of retirement benefit plan liabilities: and sufficiently robust manner.
scrutinised and challenged and are provisions for uncertain exposures and sufficiently robust.
The Committee noted the inclusion of the tax positions.
Group's 2016 Annual Report in the FRC's In relation to the FRC's review of the Further details are set out in Note 1, Note 9 thematic review of significant accounting significant accounting judgements and and Note 20 to the Financial Statements.
judgements and sources of estimation sources of estimation uncertainty set out uncertainty and the subsequent in the 2016 Annual Report, the feedback received.
Committee noted that the feedback contained no substantive issues and supported management's consideration of the inclusion of additional information recommended by the FRC.
Spectris plc 59 Governance Audit and Risk Committee Report continued reviewing the Groups tax policy and agreeing the Groups tax Role of the Committee strategy ahead of its publication on the Groups external The Committee supports the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities in website: and respect of: overseeing the Companys financial reporting processes: reviewing the processes to assure the integrity of the Annual reviewing, challenging and approving significant accounting Report and Accounts as well as reviewing: judgements proposed by management: the way in which management ensures and monitors the adequacy of financial and the management representation letter to the external auditor: compliance controls: the appointment, remuneration, the findings and opinions of the external auditor: independence and performance of the Groups external auditor: the disclosures in relation to internal controls and the work of and the independence and performance of internal audit.
the Committee: Details of the work carried out by the Committee in accordance that the information presented in the Annual Report and with its terms of reference and in addressing significant issues are Accounts, when taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and reported to the Board as a matter of course by the Chairman of the understandable and contains the information necessary for Committee and are described in this report.
The terms of reference shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business for the Committee can be found at www.
model and strategy: the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures Membership and attendance designed to ensure that the Annual Report and Accounts The Committee is comprised solely of independent Non-executive complies with all relevant legal and regulatory requirements: Directors.
Bill Seeger, Martha Wyrsch and Ulf Quellmann were the process designed to ensure the external auditor is aware of members of the Committee throughout 2017.
Karim Bitar became all relevant audit information, as required by Sections 418 a member of the Committee on joining the Board in July 2017. and 419 of the Companies Act 2006: and Bill Seeger is determined by the Committee to have recent and relevant financial experience as required by the Code.
All members the Directors Report.
of the Committee are considered to have competencies that 2.
Risk management and internal controls the Board deems relevant to the sectors in which the Company operates.
assessing the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control environment and making recommendations to Meetings are normally attended by the Chairman, the Chief the Board: Executive, the Finance Director, the Head of Internal Audit, the considering reports from internal audit: General Counsel and Company Secretary and representatives of the external auditor.
The Committee retains time at the end of considering the level of alignment between the Companys each meeting to meet separately without management present principal risks and internal audit programme: and invites the Head of Internal Audit and the external auditor reviewing the adequacy of resources of the internal audit to attend for part of this session.
function and considering and approving the scope of the internal audit programme: Performance review considering the effectiveness of internal audit: The Committees performance was assessed during the year reviewing the Groups ongoing litigation matters: under the stewardship of the Committee Chairman and this review was fed into the wider Board evaluation process which reviewing the control procedures in place to comply with was led by the Chairman.
It was concluded that the Committee the Group's policies on business ethics, anti-bribery, compliance operated effectively.
and fraud: reviewing matters reported to the external whistleblowing Activities of the Committee during 2017 hotline and the status of associated investigations: and The Committee has an annual forward agenda developed from considering reports from the external auditor on their assessment its terms of reference with standing items considered at each of the control environment.
meeting in addition to any specific matters arising and topical Further details of the Group's whistleblowing policy and approach business or financial items on which the Committee has chosen to the management of ethical conduct are set out in the Ethics to focus.
The work of the Committee in 2017 principally fell into Report on pages 46 and 47. three main areas: 3.
Accounting, tax and financial reporting overseeing the on-boarding of the new external auditor: reviewing the integrity of the half year and Annual Financial Statements and the associated significant financial reporting considering and approving the audit approach and scope of the judgements, estimates and disclosures: audit undertaken by Deloitte as external auditor and the fees for the same: considering the liquidity risk and the basis for preparing the half year and Annual Financial Statements on a going concern basis, agreeing reporting materiality thresholds: and reviewing the related disclosures in the Annual Report and reviewing reports on audit findings: Accounts: considering and approving letters of representation issued to considering the provisions of the Code regarding going concern Deloitte: and and viability statements and reviewing emerging practice and considering the independence of Deloitte and their effectiveness, investor comment as well as the Groups Viability Statement: taking into account: reviewing updates on accounting matters including the new non-audit work undertaken by the external auditor: accounting standards on revenue IFRS 15 and financial feedback from a survey targeted at various stakeholders: and instruments IFRS 9 : the Committees own assessment.
60 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 During the year, the Committee considered the internal audit Internal control and risk programme for the forthcoming year and reviewed the proposed management systems audit approach, coverage and allocation of resources.
The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of The Committee also reviewed the progress updates against the the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its particular 2017 activity of internal audit, received reports on issues of objectives and is ultimately responsible for the effectiveness of the significance to the Group and reported to the Board on its risk management and internal control systems that safeguard evaluation of these findings.
shareholders investments and the Companys assets.
To ensure the effectiveness of these systems, at the Boards request, a robust External auditor assessment of the principal risks facing the Group is undertaken by The Committee is responsible for managing the relationship with the Committee.
the Groups external auditor on behalf of the Board.
Before reporting its findings and recommendations to the Board, The Company last undertook a tender for external audit services the Committee: during 2016 which led to the appointment of Deloitte LLP at the evaluates the results and recommendations of audits undertaken May 2017 Annual General Meeting 'AGM'.
by the internal audit team and the external auditor: During the year, the Committee carried out a preliminary reviews reports received on significant control issues to the assessment of the auditors which focused on their performance Group and considers and challenges as necessary the adequacy during the half year review and their on-boarding process and of managements response to any matters raised: reported these findings to the Board.
To support this assessment, appraises the Groups response to information security and data the Committee invited members of the Group and operating protection risks: company finance teams to provide their feedback.
In addition, the Committee reviewed the Audit Quality Inspection public report for considers the Groups ethics programme and the anti-bribery and 2016 17 for Deloitte.
After taking these reports into consideration, corruption audit programme: together with the auditors report on their approach to audit quality considers common control themes identified throughout the and transparency and having given consideration to the Financial business, and where themes are identified, ensures that Reporting Councils Revised Ethical Standard 2016, the Committee subsequent action has been taken to minimise the risk: concluded that the auditors demonstrated appropriate assesses the Groups responsibilities relating to regulated qualifications and expertise and remained independent of the exposures of the Group: Group and that the audit process was effective.
reviews the annual Audit and Risk Committee agenda: and Following the tender process and the appointment of Deloitte, the has oversight of the governance and risk management Committee reviewed the proposed engagement letter and framework, including a definition of risk appetite by risk category determined the proposed remuneration of Deloitte in accordance and principal risk, put in place throughout the Group.
with the authority given to it by shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
The Committee considered the proposed auditor's remuneration to The effectiveness of risk management and mitigation is reviewed be appropriate.
regularly by the Executive Committee and twice yearly by the Audit and Risk Committee.
The Board notes that, as with all such systems, It is proposed that Deloitte be re-appointed as auditors of the the Groups risk management and internal control framework is Company at the next AGM in May 2018 and, if so re-appointed, designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve that they will hold office until the conclusion of the next general business objectives, and can provide only reasonable and not meeting of the Company at which accounts are laid.
Further details absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
are set out in the Notice of Meeting which is available at www.
Viability Statement The Group will continue the practice of the rotation of the audit The Committee reviewed the 2016 Viability Statement and the engagement partner at least every five years, with all other draft 2017 Viability Statement in light of comments made by the partners and senior management required to rotate at least FRC and the Investment Association regarding the first viability every seven years.
statements published by companies and remains of the view that the statement made regarding the Companys viability period The independent external auditor's report to shareholders is set out on pages 84 to 91. continues to be an accurate assessment of the Companys viability as at the date of the report.
Non-audit fees The Viability Statement is set out on page 39.
The Committee believes that non-audit work may only be undertaken by the external auditor in limited circumstances.
A Independent assurance cumulative annual cap is imposed for non-audit services provided Internal audit by our external auditor save for acquisition due diligence and limited taxation services, above which all engagements are subject The Committee has oversight responsibilities for the internal audit to the Committees prior approval.
function which is led by the Head of Internal Audit.
Non-audit fees for services provided by Deloitte for the year The purpose of the Internal Audit function is to provide amounted to 0.1million 6% of the audit fee.
Further details are independent, objective assurance to add value and improve the included in Note 5 to the Financial Statements.
Its responsibilities include assessing the key risks non-audit services policy is available at www.
of the organisation and examining, evaluating and reporting on the adequacy and effectiveness of the systems of internal control and risk management in place, and the governance processes in operation throughout the Group.
