BAE Systems 74 Annual Report 2017 Directors duties Here we outline how the directors discharge their dutiestopromote the success of the Company.
Directors The directors of BAE Systems and those Section 172 of the UKs Companies Act ofall UK companies must act in accordance Culture and values In summary, as required by Section 172 with a set of general duties.
These duties ofthe UKs Companies Act, a director The right corporate culture underpins how aredetailed in the UKs Companies Act ofacompany must act in the way he acompany creates and sustains value over andinclude a duty to promote the success considers, in good faith, would most thelonger term, and is a key element of ofthe Company, which is summarised here.
likelypromote the success of the company maintaining a reputation for high standards for the benefit of its shareholders.
In doing Aspart of their induction, the directors are ofbusiness conduct.
Culture and values are this, the director must have regard, briefed on their duties and they can access important in setting the behavioural standards amongst other matters, to the: professional advice on these either through expected of employees.
the Company or, if they judge it necessary, During the year, the Board, which sets the Companys likely consequences of any decisions from an independent provider.
values, considered the Companys culture and the inthe long term: behaviours this is seen to be driving.
The Board uses It is important to recognise that in large and interests of the companys employees: employee engagement surveys to help understand complex companies, such as BAE Systems, corporate culture across the Group.
The Corporate need to foster the companys business thedirectors fulfil their duties partly through Responsibility Committee monitors the types of relationships with suppliers, customers agovernance framework that delegates issues reported through the Companys Ethics and others: day-to-day decision-making to employees Helpline and Ethics Officers to assist in monitoring corporate culture.
impact of the companys operations on the community and environment: The Board recognises that such delegation Corporate Responsibility 87 Committee report needs to be much more than simple financial companys reputation for high standards authorities and, in this section of the report, of business conduct: and Shareholders we have summarised our governance A board needs to communicate effectively with need to act fairly as between members structure, which covers: the values and its shareholders and understand their views.
behaviours expected of our employees: The Annual Report is the principal means by which thestandards they must adhere to: how the Board reports to shareholders on its stewardship weengage with stakeholders: and how the of the Company.
This report and other matters are Board looks to ensure that we have a robust put to shareholders for their consideration and system of control and assurance processes.
approval at the Companys Annual General Meeting, where the Board engages directly with For more detail on our governance structure, shareholders.
In addition, the Chairman meets see pages 76 and 77. regularly with our largest shareholders and provides feedback to the Board following these meetings.
Board 76 governance Risk management Risk management is the identification of keyrisks that could threaten the success of acompany, and taking steps to reduce or eliminate them.
A board needs to ensure thata company has effective risk managementprocesses.
The Company has well-developed risk management processes, for which the Board has overall responsibility.
The Audit and Corporate Responsibility committees jointly review the Operational Assurance Statement Risk Register and Non-financial Risk Register regularly.
The Board considers risk as part ofits annual strategy review process and also when considering major new business bids.
How we 66 manage risk Governance Financial statements BAE Systems Annual Report 2017 75 Directors Standards Robust governance Strategy and planning To promote the success of a company and In order to carry out their legal duties effectively, Promoting the long-term success of the maintain a reputation for high standards the directors of large companies should ensure company by setting the strategy and strategic ofbusiness conduct, a board should set the they have a robust governance structure objectives that will ensure its business model expectations and requirements with regards underpinned by the right culture and values remains relevant and effective.
tothe behaviours and standards required by which will ensure decisions are made at the The Board approves the Companys strategy and its employees and others associated with it.
appropriate level and, where necessary, by business plan.
Eachyear, in November, it spends a reference to required policies and procedures.
whole day reviewing and agreeing strategy, which Through the Operational Framework, which isdetailed in the Companys Integrated Business includes our Code of Conduct, the Board has The Operational Framework documents the roles Plan IBP.
Through the year, and in preparation for agreedpolicies that set the standards of behaviour ofthe directors and executive management, the IBP, the Board undertakes a series of strategic and business practice.
Also, through these policies, detailing how and by whom key decisions are to updates with each of the Groups business sectors.
the Board sets standards and requirements with bemade.
The Board and Audit Committee regularly regards to key governance matters, including: review the effectiveness of the internal controls Group strategic ourpeople: our commitment to the community detailed in the Operational Framework, supported 18 framework andthe environment: standards of business by our assurance processes.
The Board uses its conduct: and our relationship with suppliers.
annual evaluation process to help ensure that it is effective in discharging its responsibilities.
Operational 76 framework Operational 76 framework Employees Business relationships Assurance A companys employees are central to the Fostering business relationships with key A board needs assurance that a companys long-term success of a company, as such a stakeholders, such as customers and suppliers, financial reporting, risk management, board needs to consider their interests, and is key to a companys success.
As such, a board governance and internal control processes have means of engaging with and should have oversight of these relationships.
This is essential to understanding their views.
the success of the company and its long-term The Boards annual programme provides opportunities reputation.
for it to engage with our principal customers, and The Company has a well-developed structure gain at first-hand an understanding of their through which senior management, including the The Board, principally through the Audit and requirements and the Companys performance in Chief Executive, engages regularly with senior trade Corporate Responsibility committees, engages meeting these.
The Chairman is engaged actively union officials to discuss and understand, in an throughout the year with the Companys auditors indeveloping customer relationships at the most openand well-informed basis, matters concerning and internal audit function, and receives feedback senior level and reports regularly on this to the UK employees.
The Chief Executive briefs the Board ontheir audit and review activities.
During the year, the Corporate Responsibility on matters raised at these meetings.
Board members has put in place certain key assurance processes, Committee undertook a deep dive into how we engage with employees when visiting Company such as the Operational Assurance Statement.
sites around the world, and it has held town hall Operational Assurance meetings as part ofsuch visits.
77 Group strategic Statement 18 framework Our 24 people Major decisions Performance oversight Remuneration and incentives Many of the decisions and actions of large The board of a large company will normally A board needs to ensure that executive companies are made on the basis of authority delegate day-to-day management to executive management and other employees are delegated by the board.
However, it must maintain remunerated and incentivised in a manner that major decisions particularly those not in oversight of the companys performance and thatis consistent with the directors duty the normal course of business, involving large ensure that management is acting in topromote the success of the company values or with a possible impact on the accordance with its delegated authority, and andthe consequences of their decisions reputation of the company are considered the values and standards that underpin this.
and taken by the directors.
A board should At each Board meeting, the directors receive a In addition to setting the remuneration of the reserve certain matters for its own decision.
comprehensive report from the Chief Executive on executive directors, the Boards Remuneration the performance of the Company.
The effectiveness Committee reviews and approves the remuneration The Operational Framework clearly details the of such reporting is supported by a system of risk structure for all senior executives, including matters that the Board has reserved for its own management and internal control processes all of incentivetargets and their outcomes.
Where matters are delegated, financial and which is underpinned by the values and standards oversees the operation of the all-employee share other limits are set to ensure that major decisions are mandated in our Operational Framework.
plans that reward and incentivise employees across referred to the Board.
This includes major business the Group.
opportunities, capital expenditures and the nature Board of the business that the Company should undertake.
80 information Remuneration Committee 91 report Operational 76 framework
