Governance Financial statements BAE Systems Annual Report 2017 81 Governance disclosures UK Corporate Governance Code the Code compliance The Company was compliant with the provisions of the Codethroughout 2017 and the Board has applied its principles inits governance structure and operations.
The following statements are made in compliance with the Code.
Risk management and internal The detailed plan is reviewed each year Forthis reason, they continue to adopt the controlstatement bytheBoard as part of its strategy review going concern basis in preparing theaccounts.
The Board is responsible for the Companys process.
Once approved by the Board, the Directors IBPprovides the basis for setting all detailed risk management and internal control systems.
In compliance with the Code, all directors are financial budgets and strategic actions across It has delegated responsibility for reviewing in subject to annual election by shareholders.
detail the effectiveness of these systems to the the businesses, and is subsequently used The Chairman has confirmed that, based on bythe Board to monitor performance.
Audit Committee, which reports to the Board the formal performance evaluations undertaken on its findings so that all directors can take a Liquidity analysis the Board regularly in 2017, all remain committed to therole and view on the matter.
reviews an analysis based on the financial the individual performance of alldirectors output from the IBP, looking at the forecast An overview of the processes used to identify, continues to be effective.
Also, incompliance working capital requirements, cash flow, evaluate and manage the principal risks can be with the Code, the Company ensures that andcommitted borrowing and other funding found on pages 66 and 67.
These processes non-executive directors have sufficient time facilities available to the Company over the are an integral part of our governance tofulfil their obligations.
This isassessed when five-year period covered by the IBP.
This framework, the Operational Framework, a director is appointed and also in the event analysis includes stress testing of the details of which can be found on page 76. ofthere being a material change to an Companys liquidity under severe, but TheOperational Framework mandates the individuals circumstances.
plausible, scenarios as developed from the Operational Assurance Statement process, At the beginning of 2018, Elizabeth Corley, IBP, including the following: which is owned by the Companys Internal anon-executive director of the Company, Audit function and is one of the principal the Company being unable to access debt wasappointed as a non-executive director processes used by the Board in monitoring markets to renew term debt facilities: ofMorgan Stanley, a US listed company.
an unfavourable change to the terms of Oneof its UK subsidiary companies provides trade the Company enjoys with certain The risk management and internal control corporate broking services to the Company systems detailed in the Operational Framework principal customers: and, consequently, an assessment has been were in place throughout the year and the the Company failing to win certain major undertaken to determine whether this Board, having reviewed their effectiveness, export contracts: and relationship has a bearing on her independence believes they accord with the Financial potential change of UK government policy.
for the purposes of provision B.
1.1 of the Reporting Councils Guidance on Risk Code.
After review, it was determined that this The scenarios tested included the impact Management, Internal Control and Related was not a material business relationship given ofmultiple adverse factors.
the relatively low value of the contractual Conclusion arrangements and the nature of the Viability statement In undertaking its review of the IBP in 2017, relationship, i. e. broking services are provided Assessment the Board considered the prospects of the by a UK subsidiary of Morgan Stanley and her As required by the provisions of the Code, the Company over the five-year period covered appointment is to the board of the US parent Board has undertaken an assessment of the bythe process.
On the basis of this and other company and non-executive in nature.
future prospects of the Company taking into matters considered and reviewed by the account the Companys current position and Should there be any change to either Board, the Board has reasonable expectations principal risks.
This assessment was informed ElizabethCorleys role with Morgan Stanley that the Company will be able to continue in by the following business processes: ora material change in the services its UK operation and meet its liabilities as they fall subsidiary provides to the Company, this Risk management process the Company due over the following five years.
It is decision will be reconsidered.
has developed a structured approach to the recognised that such future assessments are management of risk seeabove and the subject to a level of uncertainty that increases In addition to being a non-executive director principal risks identified are considered as part with time and, therefore, future outcomes of the Company, Ian Tyler is chairman of two of the Boards annual review of the Integrated cannot be guaranteed or predicted with listed FTSE 250 companies, Bovis Homes Group Business Plan.
Also, this assessment was made and Cairn Energy, and also two non-listed recognising the principal risks that could have companies, AWE Management, a private Integrated Business Plan IBP the IBP an impact on the future performance of the company owned by three joint-venture partners, represents a common process with standard Company see pages 68 to 71. and Amey, a subsidiary of a Spanish listed outputs and requirements that produces an company.
The Chairman has reviewed Ian integrated strategic and business plan for the Going concern statement Tylers other commitments and is satisfied that Group and also for each of its businesses over Accounting standards require that directors they do not impinge on his ability to discharge the following five years.
Theuse of a five-year satisfy themselves that it is reasonable for his responsibilities to BAE Systems effectively.
period provides a robustplanning tool against them to conclude whether it is appropriate Hewill keep this matter under review.
which long-term decisions can be made toprepare financial statements on a going concerning, amongst other things, strategic concern basis and the Code requires that, if All directors undertake astructured induction priorities, funding requirements including appropriate, this report includes a statement programme when they first join the Board, commitments to Group pension schemes, to that effect.
Following review, the directors thereafter they regularly update and refresh returns made to shareholders, capital have concluded that it is appropriate to their knowledge of the Company.
Longeradoptthe going concern basis for these The Company considers that all of the term strategic inputs also form part of the financial statements and have not identified non-executive directors identified on pages IBPprocess and, where activity is required any material uncertainties concerning the 78and 79 of this report are independent in tomeet suchlong-term priorities, this is Companys ability to do so in the 12-month accordance with Code provisions.
period from the date of approving them.
