Governance Nomination Committee Report During the year the Committee focused heavily on the search for a new Chairman and I would like to thank Russell King for leading this process on behalf of the Board.
Mark Williamson Chairman The Committee has taken note of the Financial Reporting Council's assessing whether Directors are able to commit enough time discussion paper on UK Board Succession Planning and, in to discharge their responsibilities: particular, the recommendation that the Committee should reviewing induction and training needs of Directors: and regularly evaluate the senior management team and maintain recommending the process and criteria for assessing the a broad oversight of talent management processes within effectiveness of the Board and Board Committees and the the Company.
contribution of the Chairman and individual Directors to In consideration of this recommendation and in support of the the effectiveness of the Board and helping to implement Groups developing strategy, the Committee has focused during these assessments.
the year on reviewing and challenging talent management and Detailed terms of reference for the Committee can be found at succession planning at a Group Executive and at an operating www.
This focus culminated in December 2017 in the Committee holding a deep-dive discussion, led by the Membership and attendees Group Human Resources Director, to review immediate and As at 31 December 2017, the members of the Committee were long-term executive succession plans and to ensure that initiatives Mark Williamson, Russell King, Martha Wyrsch, Kjersti Wiklund and were in place to develop the talent pipeline and to promote John O'Higgins.
Meetings of the Committee are normally attended diversity of thinking within the organisation.
The Committee will by the Group HR Director.
From January 2018, all Non-executive revisit these discussions during 2018.
Directors became members of the Committee and, in support of Mark Williamson best governance practice, John O'Higgins ceased to be a formal Chairman of the Nomination Committee member of the Committee and became a standing attendee.
19 February 2018 Activities of the Committee during 2017 During the year, the Committees key activities included: Role of the Committee the appointment of a new Chairman: The Committee leads the process for Board appointments and overseeing a search and selection process for an additional makes recommendations to the Board in this regard.
In fulfilling this Non-executive Director with life sciences experience.
This process role, the Committee evaluates the balance of skills, experience, was supported by Egon Zehnder and resulted in the independence and knowledge on the Board and, in the light of this recommendation of the appointment of Karim Bitar to the Board evaluation, prepares a description of the role and capabilities in March 2017: required for every appointment.
The Board values diversity and considering the independence of each Non-executive Director when recruiting new Board members it addresses the issue of and whether each Director continued to be able to allocate diversity, with particular regard to the percentage of women on sufficient time to discharge their responsibilities effectively: and the Board.
providing continued oversight of a Group-wide organisational The key responsibilities of the Committee are: capability review that included both Board and Executive succession planning.
reviewing the size, structure and composition of the Board: recommending membership of Board Committees: The Committees performance was assessed as part of the Boards annual effectiveness review.
It was concluded that the Committee undertaking succession planning for the Chairman, Chief had operated effectively.
Executive and other Directors and senior management: searching for candidates for the Board, and recommending During 2018, the Committee will continue to focus on succession planning and supporting the diverse composition of the Board, Directors for appointment: Executive and senior management in support of the Board's determining the independence of Directors: diversity policy as set out on page 54.
56 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Recruitment of a new Chairman Board composition In December 2016, the Group announced that Dr John Gender diversity Hughes had advised the Board that he would stand down as Chairman and Director on the appointment of a successor, Board after serving as Chairman for nearly nine years and as a Non-executive Director for nearly ten years.
77.8% 22.2% Following this announcement, the Board of Directors commenced the process to recruit and appoint a new Executive Committee Chairman.
The search was undertaken by the Nomination 88.9% 11.1% Committee and led by myself as the Senior Independent Director.
Egon Zehnder was appointed by the Committee to Executive Committee and direct reports support the recruitment process.
Egon Zehnder is a signatory to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms 80.6% 19.4% on gender diversity and best practice and, aside from assisting with recruitment and the development of senior leaders, has Male Female no other links with the Company.
Given that the announcement of Johns retirement had been See page 54 for a full description of the Companys made to the market in December and interested parties were diversity policy.
able to contact either myself or other Committee members, it was not considered necessary to publicly advertise the role.
Non-executive Director tenure The Committee had a number of discussions to scope out the key skills, experience, characteristics and requirements for the role.
Based on these discussions, a detailed specification for the role was prepared and shared with Egon Zehnder.
1 79 years 02 years From a detailed understanding of our requirements and the 2 specification of the role, Egon Zehnder put together an extensive range of potential candidates for the Committees consideration.
After considered debate, this was narrowed down to a shortlist for interview by members of the Committee.
John OHiggins also spent significant time with the final candidates.
3 The Committee members were unanimous in their final 36 years selection of the new Chairman and on 17 May 2017, we were pleased to announce the appointment of Mark Williamson as Non-executive Chairman with effect from the conclusion of Board competencies and experience the Spectris Annual General Meeting held on 26 May 2017.
Mark was a strong match to our requirements with Competencies considerable business and financial expertise combined with Commercial and marketing broad governance experience.
The Committee believes that Financial Mark is well placed to further strengthen the Spectris Board Internet economy and to support John and the team as they continue to develop and deliver the Groups strategy.
International Russell King Legal, governance and risk control Senior Independent Director M&A and strategy Manufacturing Services Chairmans induction process R&D Following the announcement of Marks appointment, the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary devised and led a detailed induction process which included an overview of the Groups Experience of end-user markets structure, history, strategy, succession plans, Board procedures, Academic research the Groups Code of Business Ethics, previous Board effectiveness Automotive and aerospace reviews and action plans: operating and financial performance: key relationships: and the Groups risk profile.
Energy and utilities Key shareholders were invited to meet with Mark and to provide Metals, minerals and mining him with their feedback on the Group.
Mark also met separately Pulp, paper and tissue with all members of the Executive Committee and other key Semicon, telecoms and electronics executives within the business.
Pharmaceuticals and fine chemicals Mark visited the majority of operating companies during his first six months in role, with visits to the remaining operating companies scheduled for early 2018.
