Governance Executive Committee Jo Hallas Business Group Director appointed May 2014 Jo has responsibility for the In-line Instrumentation and Industrial Controls segments.
She has extensive international management experience, most recently as general manager residential controls at Invensys plc.
Prior to this, she was at the Bosch Group where she held management positions in both the UK and Germany.
She started her career at Procter & Gamble where she served in a number of management roles in Germany, the USA and Asia.
She has an engineering degree from the University of Cambridge and an MBA from INSEAD.
She is currently a non-executive director of Norcros plc.
Andrew Harvey Group Human Resources Director appointed January 2017 Andrew has considerable human resources experience gained in areas including change management, talent and development, employee engagement, acquisitions and disposals.
Andrew joined Spectris from GKN where he served as senior VP human resources in the aerospace division and subsequently as senior VP human resources in the automotive division.
Prior to GKN, he was VP human resources with Sequana Private Equity which followed a series of senior human resource leadership roles with industrial companies in the UK and Europe.
Eoghan OLionaird Business Group Director appointed February 2014 Eoghan has responsibility for the Materials Analysis and Test and Measurement segments.
He has wide-ranging engineering and commercial expertise, having previously been president of the Leica Microsystems division of Danaher Corporation in Germany.
Prior to this, he spent 11 years in Philips in a number of management roles, latterly as CEO of the respironics sleep business unit based in the USA.
He started his career with Mitsui Mining & Smelting where he held a number of engineering and commercial positions.
Mark Serfz General Counsel and Company Secretary appointed October 2017 Mark joined Spectris from Rolls-Royce plc where he served as director of risk for four years and before that he spent 18 years at BAE Systems plc where he held a number of senior legal positions including, latterly, the role of group chief counsel compliance and regulation.
Mark qualified as a solicitor in 1990 and is a member of the University College London Centre for Ethics and Law Advisory Board.
Ken Smith President, Asia Pacific appointed July 2012 Ken has over 30 years engineering and industrial business experience, 23 of which have been spent in Asia.
Having started his career in Switzerland, with various management positions in R&D and product portfolio management, he moved to Asia where he had a number of operational roles, including president of Schindler Japan and president Asia and global materials division for Deloro Stellite.
Robin Stopford Group Head of Corporate Development appointed November 2013 Robin has extensive experience in leading corporate growth, from the development of the strategy through to its implementation, within diverse industrial groups such as Doncasters and Low & Bonar PLC.
Robin also spent several years at Bain & Company, the leading strategy consultants.
Robin began his career at Rolls-Royce plc where he served in a variety of engineering and management roles.
He has an engineering degree from Durham University and an MBA from Wharton where he was a Palmer Scholar.
