BAE Systems 82 Annual Report 2017 Audit Committee report Nick Rose Chairman of the Audit Committee More detail on work undertaken by Deloitte Members Dear Shareholders, on the transition arrangements is set out on The section on the Audit Committees year Nick Rose Chairman page 83. onpage 86 provides an overview of the workthat we have undertaken inthe last Paula Rosput Reynolds Audit re-tender and transition aside, the 12months and I would like tofocus here Committee has continued its monitoring Ian Tyler onspecific aspects of that activity.
ofthe financial reporting process and itsintegrity, risk management systems We reported last year on progress to date on andassurance.
our audit tender which has been conducted inaccordance with the audit tender and During the year, we have reviewed the initial transition timeframe set out in thegraphic disclosures for IFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts below.
I am pleased to report thatthe with Customers, and related briefings on the tenderexercise was completed to timescale, impact on the financial statements.
Further enablingthe Audit Committee tomake a information on IFRS 15 is provided in note 34 recommendation to theBoard inMay 2017 to the Group accounts on pages 199 to 201. which it subsequently endorsed.
Subject to As reported on page 21, the Group has shareholder approval at the 2018 Annual beenrestructuring its portfolio of interests General Meeting AGM, Deloitte LLP will inanumber of industrial companies in succeed KPMG LLP as the Companys auditor SaudiArabia in order to support the at the end of that meeting.
More detail on Kingdoms Vision 2030 industrialisation theaudit re-tender is set out on page83.
During the year, we have focused My Audit Committee colleagues and I are oncontrols in our Saudi business, as well highly appreciative of the time and effort asgovernance in relation to this portfolio thataudit firms expend in preparing their ofcollaborative partnerships.
responses to tenders and would like to thank We have continued in our efforts to leverage the participating firms for their professionalism optimal use of the Internal Audit function and diligence in this regard.
An external Audit rotation regulations going forward assessment of the function originally willrequire large companies to re-tender scheduled to be undertaken in 2017 has been theirexternal audit service no less frequently deferred until 2018 following organisational than every ten years.
changes taking effect from 1 January 2018.
The assessment has been commissioned and Our focus since the recommendation was will commence in the first quarter of 2018. endorsed by the Board has been two-fold: ensuring that audit quality is maintained forthe 2017 half-year and full-year audits fromthe outgoing auditor, whilst at the same time ensuring that the proposed incoming auditor is readying itself for the engagement in terms of both audit engagement compliance issues and familiarisation with the business.
External audit tender and transition timeline Prior to May 2016 June 2016 Summer 2016 December 2016 Pre-audit qualification and Request for Proposal documents Meetings with lead partners Tender progress independence enquiries for selected firms agreed oftendering firms assessment September 2016 to March 2017 Fact-finding process for tendering firms Governance Financial statements BAE Systems Annual Report 2017 83 Audit re-tender Audit transition 1 Key elements of the audit re-tender were as follows: Activity undertaken by Deloitte, as the incoming auditor for the year ending 31 December 2018, has included the following: overseen by the Audit Committee who agreed the scope oftheRequest for Proposal RFP : reviewed non-audit services provided to the Group and steps taken to achieve audit independence from 1 January 2018: assessment of tender participants informed by complexity oftheGroup and scale of its international business: agreed interaction with KPMG, as outgoing auditor, during the2017 audit cycle, including attendance at key audit meetings, tender competed by highly capable and experienced observing the 2017 half-year process and shadowingthe international audit firms with strong track records and year-end audit: technicalexpertise: finalised audit team and agreed key transition milestones no contractual obligations restricted the selection of firms withthe Committee and finance teams across the Group: participating in the audit: held regular meetings with Group Finance Director, current incumbent, KPMG LLP and its predecessors, had Director, Financial Control and Reporting, and business beenin place as the Companys auditors since 1981 without unitfinance directors: re-tender and was thus not invited to tender: worked closely with Internal Audit to understand their 2017 evaluation criteria in the RFP included: and2018 work programmes, and used the outputs to inform audit quality and independence: the 2018 Audit Plan and risk assessment process: understanding of the Groups business: attended Audit Committee meetings since June 2017 and capability of audit team in terms of skills, experience reported regularly on independence and audit transition andgeographic reach: planstatus: and clear planning and audit approach: and undertaken familiarisation visits and other meetings and robust challenge, insight and proactivity: interactions with sector and business unit management, business meetings and site visits scheduled to enable andother senior executives to facilitate knowledge building, theparticipating firms togain anunderstanding of the audit scoping and execution planning.
Groupsbusiness: presentations made to the Audit Committee by participating firms, with question andanswer sessions: Audit Committee put forward formal recommendation to the Board that, of two auditfirms capable of undertaking the audit appointment, Deloitte LLP was its preferred choice: and Board endorsed the Committees recommendation and willrecommend the appointment of Deloitte LLP at the 2018AGM.
Subject to shareholder approval at the 2018 AGM.
External audit tender and transition timeline May 2017 August 2017 February 2018 May 2018 Selection of new auditors for Announcement of Announcement of Board recommendation recommendation to the Board half-year results full-year results atAnnual General Meeting toappoint new auditors June 2017 to July 2017 December 2017 to February 2018 Half-year results Full-year results shadow period shadow period BAE Systems 84 Annual Report 2017 Audit Committee report continued How the effectiveness of the external approvals required beyond such limits by the Audit Quality Review AQR audit process was assessed Committee.
A copy of the policy is available The Financial Reporting Councils AQR team on the Companys website, baesystems.
Who we surveyed: monitors the quality of audit work of certain UK audit firms through inspections of a sample Executive directors As reported last year, we made revisions of audits and related procedures at individual tothepolicy in order to ensure compliance Operating group sector and line audit firms.
During the year, the 2016 external with the Financial Reporting Councils revised ofbusinessmanagement audit of the Group by KPMG was reviewed regulations on ethical standards for auditors Internal Audit Director bythe AQR.
The review covered certain items and EU regulations adopted by the UK which Other senior executives, including of the Group-level audit including retirement apply prohibitions to a range of engagements keyfinanceroles benefit obligations, taxation, procedures in that could result in an auditor facing a relation to the risks of bribery and corruption, conflictof interest.
As a result, certain services Areas we covered: and the quality of communications with the formerly provided by KPMG, primarily tax Understanding of the Groups risks Audit Committee and the audit of recognition services and investor information services, Audit plan of revenues and profits on long-term contracts were no longer provided by them with effect by two of the business unit audit teams.
I met Robustness of audit processes from 1 January 2017. with the AQR to gain an understanding of Objectivity Details of fees payable to the auditors are itsreport and the Committee discussed the Quality of communications setout on page 151.
In 2017, non-audit fees review findings with KPMG.
The AQR represented 15% of the audit fee.
The principal Ability to provide a seamless reported a number of recommendations for non-audit services provided by the auditors serviceacross differing jurisdictions improvement and also areas of high standard.
related to the interim review and accounting The recommendations were incorporated aswell as interaction with the Committee advice primarily in respect of IFRS 15. intothe 2017 audit work and the Committee members.
is satisfied that they have been properly Financial statements This review related to KPMGs final addressed.
The Committee does not consider The Committee reviews all significant issues auditprior to rotating off our account.
any of the findings to have a significant impact concerning the financial statements.
The The feedback has been shared with them on KPMGs audit approach.
We will make the principal matters we considered concerning and will also help inform our discussions lessons learned from this report available to the 2017 financial statements were: on audit scope and process with Deloitte, our incoming auditor, Deloitte.
Recognition of revenue, profit Audit independence andprovisioning We have reviewed in detail the confirmation We reviewed key estimates and judgements and information received from KPMG on prior to publication of the financial statements.
thearrangements that they have in place Our review included the key estimates and tosafeguard auditor independence and assumptions applied in determining the objectivity, including specific safeguards in financial status of the more significant place where they are providing permissible programmes, including Typhoon, UK aircraft non-audit services to the Group.
carrier programme, Astute Class submarine As part of the auditor transition arrangements, programme and Saudi British Defence we have reviewed on a regular basis the steps Co-operation Programme.
being taken by Deloitte, the proposed incoming Pensions auditor, to achieve audit independence from Recognising the scale of the Groups pension 1January 2018 onwards.
How we ensure that the Groups obligation, we reviewed the key assumptions financial statements, taken as a Non-audit services policy supporting the valuation of the retirement whole, are fair, balanced and The Committee has a formal policy benefit obligation.
This included a comparison understandable governingthe engagement of the auditors of the discount and inflation rates used against toprovide non-audit services which we externally-derived data.
We reviewed the The process is: reviewon an annual basis.
The policy methodology used to allocate a proportion comprehensive guidance issued to all prohibitscertain activities from being ofthe retirement benefit obligation to equity thecontributors at operational level: undertaken by the auditors and also places accounted investments and concluded that a verification process dealing with the restrictions on the employment of former this was appropriate with reference to factual content of the reports: employees of the auditors.
agreements between the Company and those comprehensive reviews undertaken Recognising that the auditors are best placed companies.
We also considered the adequacy atdifferent levels in the Group that to undertake certain work of a non-audit of disclosures in respect of the sensitivity of aimto ensure consistency and overall nature, the policy permits the provision of the deficit to changes in these key assumptions, balance: and Audit-Related Services and Permitted as well as the results of the UK triennial funding Non-Audit Services up to limits that are valuations see note 21 to the Group accounts comprehensive review by the directors pre-approved by the Committee, with specific on pages 174 to 183. andthe Executive Committee.
Governance Financial statements BAE Systems Annual Report 2017 85 How the Committee assesses the Goodwill outputs of general financial and LCM controls effectiveness of Internal Audit We considered the level of goodwill held testing, and any required improvement onthe Groups balance sheet in respect of actions, with management, andinternal and Who we survey: anumber of past major transactions and external audit, with a view toensuring the Group-wide heads of Audit Review whether, given the future prospects of these ongoing robustness of programme execution Boards businesses, the value of goodwill held on and risk mitigation.
Other business leaders thebalance sheet remains appropriate.
The We have reviewed the ongoing effectiveness External auditors methodology for impairment testing used by of the Companys risk management processes the Group is set out in note 8 to the Group Areas for requested feedback include: as part of our wider review of internal controls.
As a result of this Role of Internal Audit and The Groups principal risks are set outon review, there has been an impairment of independence pages 68 to 71. goodwill held in respect of Applied Intelligence Audit planning, processes and of 384m reflecting the future level and timing Internal audit execution of expected returns from the business.
Internal Audit plays an integral role in the People resources and skilling Companys governance structure and provides Taxation Communications and reporting regular reports to the Committee, including Whilst tax policy is ultimately a matter for the outputs of the twice-yearly OAS process theBoards determination, we reviewed the and the tracking of remedial action in the case Groups tax strategy as set out on page 34. of any control failures.
Twice during the year, we reviewed the Groupstax charge, tax provisions and the The annual Internal Audit programme is basis of recoverability of the deferred tax agreed jointly by the Audit and Corporate assetrelating to the Groups pension deficit.
Responsibility committees to ensure that theoverarching programme covers not only Going concern and viability statements financial risk, but also the assessment of The Committee agreed the parameters theeffectiveness of key areas of ethical and of, andreviewed the supporting report for, reputational risk.
The assurance programme the going concern statement see page 81 covers a broad range of audits covering areas and the statement on the Boards assessment such as mandated governance, OAS outputs, of the prospects of the Company the viability risk register findings, change programmes, statement on page 81 over the five-year structural and business changes, and areas period used in the Integrated Business Plan.
relating to responsible behaviour and non-financial risk.
Internal Audit may also Internal control and risk fromtime-to-time undertake other work The Board has delegated to the Committee within the context of the risk environment.
responsibility for reviewing in detail the Aspart of this years process, we reviewed effectiveness of the Companys risk Committee composition and evaluation thescope of annual audits and recalibrated management and internal control system.
them against the current risk environment.
TheCommittees review of the effectiveness The breadth of experience of the of internal controls has encompassed a review AuditCommittee members is set out During the year under review, and separate of the reports relating to the six-monthly onpage 79.
The performance evaluation from the normal regular sessions we hold Operational Assurance Statements OAS, which of theCommittee is undertaken as part withthe Internal Audit Director without are submitted by each business or function ofthe wider Board evaluation and the management present, we held a separate asa mandated policy under the Group-wide Board believes the Committee to have session with him, his heads of internal Operational Framework, controls reports, and theappropriate composition, skills and auditand the external auditor, which reports from both internal and external auditors.
experience to discharge its responsibilities.
hashelped inform our view on how tooptimise internal audit resource for A key focus for the Committee is the controls value-added assurance.
environment surrounding the Companys Lifecycle Management LCM process, the Competition and Markets After discussion of the 2017 evaluation bedrock of our programme execution and AuthorityAudit Order outputwith the Internal Audit Director, the management.
LCM is integral to the successful The Committee has complied with Committee concluded that the Internal Audit execution of the Groups projects and theprovisions of the Competition and function remains effective.
As reported earlier, programmes, and of particular importance Markets Authority Audit Order in respect an external assessment of the function will inthe early identification of programme risk of committee responsibilities and audit commence in the first quarter of 2018. and the determination of profit recognition or re-tendering disclosures.
provisioning which, you will see from above, tend to be areas where we are required to Nick Rose exercise judgement.
We have discussed the Chairman of the Audit Committee BAE Systems 86 Annual Report 2017 Audit Committee report continued The Audit Committees year February June August Committee Committee Meeting London, UK Washington DC, US London, UK Considered the accounting, financial Agreed audit engagement and audit fee.
Informal meeting with the Internal controland audit issues reported by the AuditDirector to discuss best practice Agreed audit strategy and scope.
auditors that flowed from the audit work.
developments in internal audit and Reviewed external auditor independence itsstrategic development.
Reviewed the financial statements and issues.
specific disclosures, including viability Reviewed Deloittes Audit Transition Plan.
andgoing concern, for recommendation October Discussed with external auditors the tothe Board.
Financial Reporting Councils latest Committee Reviewed the effectiveness of the QualityReview onKPMG which London, UK externalaudit process.
didnotinclude the BAE Systems audit.
Received a report from the Group Agreed the Trading Update.
Considered output of the Internal TaxationDirector.
Considered output from the six-monthly Received a presentation from VP, Audit November OAS review.
Briefing Reviewed the procedures and outputs 1 Regular quarterly items.
Reviewed briefing on IFRS 15. forthe identification, assessment and reporting of risk.
Reviewed the effectiveness of the July December Companys helpline procedures in Committee Committee respectofthe reporting of accounting London, UK .
London, UK 1 Considered the accounting, financial Regular quarterly items.
Considered the external auditors controland audit issues reported by the controlsreport.
Joint session with the Corporate auditors that flowed from the audit work.
Considered output of the Internal Audit : Reviewed the financial statements and Directors report.
Agreed final iteration of the annual specific disclosures, including going concern, Presentation on governance in the InternalAudit programme.
for recommendation to the Board.
Companys Saudi Arabian Kingdom Received a report from the Group Taxation PortfolioCompanies.
May Received a report on export control Considered output from the six-monthly compliance.
Received a report on the Groups insurance Farnborough, Hampshire, UK Reviewed the procedures and outputs arrangements.
Conducted the audit tender selection and forthe identification, assessment and Reviewed the Non-Audit Services Policy.
Discussed the first iteration of the annual Agreed the AGM Trading Statement.
Audit Transition: Reviewed independence Internal Audit programme.
Set the parameters for work supporting 1 Regular quarterly items.
theviability and going concern statements.
Undertook a review of the effectiveness ofthe Internal Audit function.
The Committee reviews the nature and level of non-audit services including independence safeguards from the incumbentauditor where it provides such services, and holds a separate session with the Internal Audit Director andexternal auditors without management present.
The Audit Committee Chairman also meets separately with internalandexternal audit on an ad hoc basis.
Audit Committee timeline February May June July August October November December Committee Committee Committee Committee Meeting Committee Briefing Committee
