Governance Board of Directors Leading OUR BUSINESS Mark Williamson Chairman appointed May 2017 N Mark Williamson is a qualified accountant with a strong financial background combined with considerable managerial experience.
He was chief financial officer of International Power plc until 2012 and is experienced in managing relationships with the investor and financial communities.
Prior to joining International Power plc, Mark was group financial controller and group chief accountant of Simon Group.
He is also a former senior independent non-executive director and chairman of the audit committee of Alent plc.
Mark is chairman of Imperial Brands plc and senior independent non-executive director and chairman of the audit committee of National Grid plc.
John OHiggins Chief Executive appointed January 2006 E F D John OHiggins has a wealth of experience in the global instrumentation and controls industry, having previously worked for Honeywell in a number of management roles, including as president of automation and control solutions, Asia Pacific.
His career began as a design engineer at Daimler Benz in Stuttgart.
He has engineering degrees from University College Dublin and Purdue University and an MBA from INSEAD, and has been a non-executive director of Exide.
John is a non-executive director of Johnson Matthey plc.
Clive Watson Group Finance Director appointed October 2006 E F D Clive Watson has considerable finance experience, having previously been chief financial officer and executive vice president for business support at Borealis.
Prior to this, he was group finance director at Thorn Lighting Group and group finance director Europe at Black & Decker.
Clive is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and the Chartered Institute of Taxation.
Clive is a non-executive director and chairman of the audit committee of Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc.
Russell King Senior Independent Director appointed October 2010 R N Russell King has considerable international experience acquired across a number of sectors, including mining and chemicals, together with strong experience in strategy and human resources.
He was previously chief strategy officer of Anglo American PLC and a non-executive director of Anglo Platinum Ltd.
Prior to that, he spent over 20 years in senior roles at ICI.
Russell is chairman of Hummingbird Resources plc, senior independent non-executive director of Aggreko plc and senior independent non-executive director of Interserve plc and an independent non-executive at BDO LLP.
50 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Committee membership key A Audit and Risk D Disclosure N Nomination E Executive R Remuneration F Finance R Chairman of Committee Membership as at 1 January 2018 Karim Bitar Non-executive Director appointed July 2017 A R N Karim Bitar has extensive experience of leading international, technology-focused organisations.
He is currently chief executive of Genus plc.
Prior to joining Genus, Karim worked for more than 15 years for Eli Lilly and Company, where he was president of Lilly Europe, Canada and Australia.
An ex-McKinsey and Company consultant, he also held management roles at Johnson and Johnson and the Dow Chemical Company.
Karim is a member of the University of Michigan Ross School of Business Advisory Board.
Ulf Quellmann Non-executive Director appointed January 2015 A R N Ulf Quellmann has broad general management experience and considerable knowledge of the metals, minerals and mining industry, having worked in the sector for over 12 years.
He is currently vice president, strategic projects, copper and diamonds, at Rio Tinto plc.
Previously, he was chief financial officer, copper and diamonds and before that group treasurer of Rio Tinto plc and held senior positions at Alcan Inc. including vice president, investor relations and media relations, and chief pension investment officer and assistant treasurer.
Prior to that he held senior management positions at General Motors, including as senior manager, capital planning, and managing director of Vauxhall Master Hire.
Ulf is a non-executive director of Turquoise Hill Resources Limited a company listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange.
Bill Seeger Non-executive Director appointed January 2015 A N Bill Seeger has significant corporate finance and accounting experience, having formerly been group finance director of GKN plc and, prior to that, president and CEO of the propulsion systems and special products division and CFO in the aerospace division of GKN.
He spent most of his career at TRW, latterly in senior finance roles, including as vice-president, financial planning and analysis, and vice-president, finance of TRW Automotive.
Bill is a non-executive director of Smiths Group plc and visiting professor at UCLA Anderson School of Management.
Kjersti Wiklund Non-executive Director appointed January 2017 R N Kjersti Wiklund brings significant knowledge of the international telecommunications sector.
Kjersti has held a series of senior global roles including director, group technology operations at Vodafone: chief operating officer of VimpelCom Russia: deputy chief executive officer and chief technology officer of Kyivstar in Ukraine: executive vice-president and chief technology officer of Digi Telecommunications in Malaysia: and executive vice-president and chief information officer at Telenor in Norway.
Kjersti was previously a non-executive director of both Cxense ASA and Fast Search & Transfer ASA in Norway and Telescience Inc in the USA.
Kjersti is a non-executive director of Laird plc.
Martha Wyrsch Non-executive Director appointed June 2012 A N Martha Wyrsch has held a number of senior executive positions in the energy industry and has significant experience in the North American markets.
She currently holds the position of executive vice-president and general counsel of Sempra Energy, a company quoted on the New York Stock Exchange.
Previously, she was president of Vestas Americas, a subsidiary of Vestas Wind Systems A S and prior to that she was president and CEO of Spectra Energy Transmission.
She was previously a non-executive director of SPX Corporation.
Martha is a director of the Cristo Rey Network a US educational foundation, George Washington University Board of Trustees a non-profit US university, San Diego Gas and Electric Company a wholly-owned subsidiary of Sempra Energy, Southern California Gas Company a US subsidiary of Sempra Energy with publicly-traded shares, and Ienova, S. A.
B. a Mexican subsidiary of Sempra Energy.
