Governance Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code The UK Listing Rules stipulate that listed companies must include in their annual report a statement of whether they have complied with all the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 'the Code', which can be found at www.
During 2017, Spectris has complied fully with the Code.
The notes below are intended to assist with the evaluation of Spectris compliance during 2017 and the processes put in place to support the continuation of best governance principles.
Effectiveness continued The Board determines, through the Nomination Committee, the independence of A.
1 The role of the Board its members.
The Board considers all of its Non-executive Directors to be The Board is collectively responsible for promoting the success of Spectris and the independent and free of any business relationships that could compromise the operation of effective governance arrangements with a view to the creation of exercise of independent and objective judgement.
Conflicts of interest are strong, sustainable financial performance and long-term shareholder value.
steps the Board takes to facilitate this are outlined in the Governance report set out on pages 48 to 82.
2 Appointments to the Board The Board met seven times in 2017 in order to review the Companys The Nomination Committee leads all appointments of new Directors to the Board, performance and strategy against set objectives.
Details of Board and Board applying a rigorous and transparent process mindful of merit, objectivity and Committee attendance for 2017 are set out on page 49. diversity.
Details of its activities undertaken during the year, including the search and selection process that led to the appointment of the new Chairman, The Board has adopted a clear schedule of matters reserved for its specific succession planning and talent management, can be found in the Nomination approval, including a framework for those decisions which can be delegated to Committee report on pages 56 and 57. committees or otherwise.
A full list of matters reserved to the Board is available at www.
A full description of the Companys diversity policy is set out on page 54.
All Directors are covered by a directors and officers insurance policy.
The terms of reference for the Nomination Committee are available at www.
2 Division of responsibilities The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate, with both having B.
3 Commitment distinct and clearly defined responsibilities which are established in written The Nomination Committee considers on appointment and annually the time terms of reference that have been agreed by the Board and which are available needed to fulfil the roles of Chairman, Senior Independent Director and at www.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and Non-executive Director and ensures that the Non-executive Directors will have effectiveness of the Board, and the Chief Executive is responsible for leading the sufficient time to fulfil their duties.
day-to-day management of the Company within the strategy set by the Board.
On appointment, and as at the date of this report, the Chairmans significant listed company interests are as chairman of Imperial Brands plc and senior A.
3 The Chairman independent non-executive director of National Grid plc.
The Board has formally The Chairman sets the agenda for meetings, manages the meeting timetable and reviewed the Chairmans other commitments and confirms that it believes that facilitates open and constructive dialogue during the meetings.
the Chairmans obligations to the Company are properly fulfilled notwithstanding The Chairman was independent on appointment.
Indeed, the Board is appreciative of the additional skills and experience the Chairman brings to the Board arising from these directorships.
4 Non-executive Directors In November 2017, John O'Higgins joined the Board of Johnson Matthey plc as a The Chairman promotes an open and constructive environment in the boardroom non-executive director.
Clive Watson has been a non-executive director of and actively invites the Non-executive Directors views to help develop proposals Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc since 2009. on strategy and scrutinise the performance of management against set goals and objectives.
They should satisfy themselves on the integrity of financial B.
4 Development information and that financial controls and systems of risk management are New Directors receive a full, formal and tailored induction on joining and the robust and defensible.
Chairman reviews and agrees subsequent training and development needs with Russell King is the Senior Independent Non-executive Director and is available to the Board on at least an annual basis.
Details of the induction programmes meet with shareholders if required.
The Chairman meets with Non-executive provided to Mark Williamson, Kjersti Wiklund and Karim Bitar are set out on pages Directors in the absence of the Executive Directors at regular intervals during the 57 and 54. year, and the Senior Independent Non-executive Director leads a meeting with the In April 2017, the Board visited Omega in the USA and in October 2017, the Non-executive Directors without the Chairman present at least once a year.
Board visited our Malvern Panalytical facility in the Netherlands to support its During the year, the Directors had no unresolved concerns about the running of familiarity with the Groups operations.
Further details are set out on page 54. the Company or any proposed action.
5 Information and support The Chairman is responsible for the delivery of accurate, timely and clear information to the Directors, with support from the Company Secretary.
Effectiveness Directors are able to solicit independent professional advice at the Companys expense where specific expertise is required in the course of discharging their B.
1 The composition of the Board duties.
All Directors have access to the General Counsel and Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring compliance with appropriate statutes There are currently six Non-executive Directors in addition to the Chairman and and regulations.
two Executive Directors on the Board.
The composition of the Board is reviewed regularly by the Nomination Committee B.
6 Evaluation to ensure that there is an appropriate mix of skills, experience, diversity including The Board and the Board Committees undertook an internal evaluation in 2017 gender, independence and knowledge on the Board.
Board members which was led by the Chairman and the Committee Chairmen and included a biographies are provided on pages 50 and 51, which identify the experience each review of Committee membership, a review of Non-executive Directors whose Director brings to the Board.
Diagrams identifying the skills and experience of length of service was more than six years, the external commitments of all Board members can be found on page 57.
The 2017 Board evaluation Directors and a review of the skills of each of the Directors.
Further details are set determined that the Board continued to be effective and that the current out on page 55.
A summary of the relevant skills, knowledge and experience of Directors backgrounds provided a good mix to meet current and future needs.
Directors is shown on page 57.
7 Election re-election D. 1 The level and components of remuneration Each Director is subject to election at the first AGM following their appointment, The Remuneration Report on pages 64 to 79 outlines the implementation of and re-election at each subsequent AGM.
In determining whether a Director remuneration during 2017, including salary, bonus and share awards.
should be proposed for re-election at the 2018 AGM, the Board took into account Details of John OHiggins' remuneration relating to his non-executive director the Nomination Committees advice based on the results of a peer group review role at Johnson Matthey and Clive Watson's remuneration relating to his of each Directors contribution to the Boards effectiveness, which formed part of non-executive director role at Spirax-Sarco are set out on page 78. the internal Board evaluation.
This review confirmed that all Directors continue to The Board believes that the current remuneration policy, as approved by be effective and demonstrate commitment to their roles and the Committee shareholders at the 2017 AGM, remains appropriate and fit for purpose.
The accordingly recommended their re-appointment.
Board considers that Executive Director remuneration is an appropriate balance between fixed and performance-related, immediate and deferred remuneration, C. Accountability with the latter being subject to demanding performance conditions aligned with the Groups strategic objectives, including appropriate circumstances for Spectris to recover sums paid or to withhold payment of sums.
C. 1 Financial and business reporting A statement of the Directors responsibilities regarding the Financial Statements, D. 2 Procedure including the status of the Group as a going concern, is set out on page 83, with During 2017, the Remuneration Committee comprised three Non-executive an explanation of the Groups strategy and business model, together with relevant Directors and has delegated authority for setting the remuneration of the risks and performance metrics, which are set out on pages 1 to 38.
Executive Directors and the Chairman.
The fees payable to the Non-executive A further statement is provided on page 83, confirming that the Board considers Directors are determined by the Board.
Full details of responsibilities are set out in that the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced the terms of reference for the Committee available at www.
and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position, performance, business model and strategy.
In October 2017, the Remuneration Committee appointed PwC as its remuneration consultant from January 2018.
Further details regarding this The external auditor has provided a report to the shareholders on their reporting tender process are set out on page 65. responsibilities at pages 84 to 91.
During 2017, no individual was present when their own remuneration was C. 2 Risk management and internal control being discussed.
The Company maintains its system of risk management and internal control with a view to safeguarding shareholders investment and the Companys assets.
E. Relations with shareholders The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including an assessment of the prospects of the Group.
Further details can be found on pages 34 to 38.
E. 1 Dialogue with shareholders The Board recognises that meaningful engagement with institutional and retail The Directors have assessed that the appropriate period of longer-term viability shareholders is integral to the continuing success of the Company.
Throughout for the Group is three years, as disclosed in the Viability Statement on page 39. the year, the Board has sought to actively engage with shareholders on a The Viability Statement includes an explanation of how the Directors have number of occasions through meetings, roadshows and a Capital Markets Day assessed the prospects of the Company, over what period they have done so and in May 2017. why they consider that period to be appropriate.
It also includes a statement that the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group can continue Shareholders representing in excess of 2.5% of the Companys issued share in operation over the three-year longer-term viability period.
capital receive a standing invitation to meet with the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director or Non-executive Directors.
Such meetings supplement The Board determines the Companys risk appetite and has established risk but do not replace the regular meetings with the Chief Executive and the Group management and internal control systems.
At least annually, the Board Finance Director.
The Board is kept informed of the views, needs, expectations, undertakes a review of their effectiveness.
Further details are set out on major issues and concerns of shareholders through periodic reports including, pages 33 and 61. but not limited to, market feedback on investor relations, shareholding analysis The Company operates a robust internal control framework which is routinely and consensus.
monitored through a combination of certification, self-assessment and internal audit reviews, complemented by a sound risk management process.
This process E. 2 Constructive use of general meetings is overseen by the Audit and Risk Committee.
The next AGM will be held on 25 May 2018 and is an opportunity for shareholders to vote on certain aspects of Group business, in person, and have C. 3 Audit committee and auditor the opportunity to meet and question the Chairman and Board members.
The Audit and Risk Committee Report on pages 58 to 61 sets out details of the The results of proxy votes are available at the AGM.
These are then published composition of the Committee, including the expertise of members, and outlines on the Companys website.
how the Committee has discharged its responsibilities during 2017.
At the AGM in 2017, there were no significant votes against any of the The Board has delegated a number of responsibilities to the Audit and Risk resolutions put before shareholders.
Committee, including: financial and narrative reporting: management of the external and internal audit processes: internal controls: and risk management systems.
Full details are set out in the terms of reference for the Committee, published at www.
