Governance Financial statements BAE Systems Annual Report 2017 73 During such visits, we meet individuals Our customer contact is undertaken at all Board evaluation forbreakfast and dinner, tour the sites levels on a daily basis to ensure that the Period of evaluation andconduct town hall sessions with the relationships we have continue to be open, January February with feedback and review workforce.
During 2018, the Board will transparent and productive.
From a Board taking place at aBoard meeting held on alsoaccompany the executive management perspective, however, we felt it was important 21February 2018. team to meet colleagues and customers in to provide the non-executive directors with theUS and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
first-hand knowledge of the challenges and Evaluation process opportunities with each of our major UK  self-assessment of the Additionally, the Corporate Responsibility customers.
To achieve this objective, we Board conducted in accordance with best Committee makes independent visits to invited senior members of the Royal Navy and practice described in the UK Corporate operational sites across the world to evaluate Ministry of Defence to join the Board for an Governance Code and other guidance.
and encourage the adoption of the highest open exchange on our strengths, weaknesses standards of corporate behaviour.
The forum provided a Ffion Hague at Independent Board Evaluation To further our practice of Board involvement in robust discussion which was both instructive IBE, which provides no other services to and encouraging.
We intend to extend 2018, we intend to nominate a non-executive BAE Systems.
invitations to other customers in the coming director to accompany Charles Woodburn to year in order to deepen our understanding participate in one of his regular meetings with Description of process oftheir needs and reinforce the relationships trade unions representatives in the UK.
All directors interviewed by the facilitator for we enjoy.
1.5 hours based on a set agenda that had As we look forward to the year ahead, we are been tailored for BAE Systems.
Ten senior As a discipline, a number of Board meetings determined to continue this policy of deeper executives were also interviewed.
are held on operational sites throughout engagement with all stakeholders to ensure theyear which provide an opportunity for we understand and respect the needs of our Feedback interaction with employees and a chance for shareholders, our suppliers, our colleagues A comprehensive report was produced by non-executive directors to develop deeper and our customers.
IBE, which was provided to directors ahead insights into the quality of our current senior ofthe Board meeting at which the principal management and the potential for succession findings were presented by Ms Hague.
Amongother things, the report covered shareholder and stakeholder relations: strategy: governance and compliance: Boardfocus: risk management: succession planning: Board composition: Board culture: relationship with senior management: Sir Roger Carr Chairman decision-making: induction: papers: and Boardresources.
Feedback from the evaluation will be Governance highlights providedto individual directors by the Executive succession planning the planned succession process whereby Charles Woodburn Chairman.
Feedback on the Chairmans succeeded Ian King as Chief Executive was completed in an orderly manner.
ownperformance will be provided by the Senior Independent Director after he has Non-executive directors Revathi Advaithi was appointed to the Board as an independent metwith all the non-executive directors non-executive, further strengthening it, particularly with regards to multinational business toconsider the material provided by IBE.
leadership, and engineering and manufacturing experience and expertise.
Resulting actions Audit re-tender after a comprehensive and robust selection process led by the Audit The Board discussed thereport and agreed Committee, Deloitte was selected for appointment to succeed KPMG as the Companys actions concerning: auditors with effect from the Annual General Meeting in 2018. executive and non-executive succession Shareholder engagement the Board as a whole engaged directly with major shareholders, planning: including the hosting of an event at which governance arrangements for the Board and its employee engagement, and diversity committees, and employee engagement activities were presented and discussed.
andinclusion: and Customer engagement in order to help directors to develop their understanding of the provision of additional Board time theCompanys performance and relationship with key UK customers at first-hand, during forwider and more open-ended discussion the year, the Board visited a customer site and also met with senior Royal Navy and of certain matters.
The Board will work on implementing Reporting the Boards reporting on governance matters in these reports has been thesein2018.
enhanced further, including greater focus on how the directors discharge their duties andpromote the success of the Company.
