s n o i t i s i u q c A L e a d e r s y h g i e p t a a r n t d S p e o p l e Key Areas of Board Activity During the Year The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Company.
This is achieved through the appropriate consideration of strategic, operational, financial and risk matters.
This page details the focus of the Board during 2017 in support of that responsibility.
Strategy Reviewed the Groups principal risks and Governance and ethics systems for identification, management Held a detailed annual strategy off-site Appointment and induction of the and mitigation.
meeting for the Board and Executive.
Reviewed the Groups operating model Reviewed and agreed an updated Leadership and people in light of the agreed strategic direction schedule of matters reserved to Discussed the composition of the of the Group.
Board and its Committees, including Deep-dive presentation on the Groups Discussed the outcome of the 2016 succession planning.
strategy in the Asia Pacific region.
external Board evaluation and agreed Attended an organisational capability opportunities for improvement.
Received a detailed synopsis of the review led by the newly-appointed Group Industrial Internet of Things Completion of an internal evaluation of Human Resources Director.
the Board, Remuneration Committee Reviewed the development of people and Audit and Risk Committee, led and the potential talent within the senior Acquisitions, disposals and JVs respectively by the Chairman and the management community, including Approved the acquisition of both Chairmen of the Board Committees.
succession planning for senior leaders.
The Omnicon Group, Inc. and Setpoint.
Reviewed feedback from institutional Appointed a new General Counsel and Approved the divestment of Microscan.
Undertook 24-month post-acquisition Reviewed and approved the terms of Finance reviews of ESG and Reliasoft and a reference for the Board Committees.
five-year post-acquisition review Monitored progress against the 2017 Received regular reports from Audit and of Omega.
financial plan and consideration and Risk, Nomination and Remuneration approval of the 2018 financial plan.
Reviewed the Groups acquisition pipeline.
Reviewed the potential impact and Approved the formation of a joint Reviewed developments in corporate progress of Project Uplift.
venture with Macquarie Capital through governance and received key legal the divestment of 50% of the Groups and regulatory updates.
Approved the Annual Report, interim EMS business.
results and full half year results Conducted regular meetings of the presentations to analysts.
Non-executive Directors without Operations and risk management being present.
Considered and approved the Groups Regular operational updates from the going concern and viability statements.
Undertook an annual detailed review Business Group Directors.
of the Groups ethics programme and Reviewed and recommended the Site visits to Malvern Panalytical and interim updates on reports taken at final and interim dividend.
the Audit and Risk Committee.
Reviewed material capital expenditure Presentations from the Presidents of requests from operating companies.
Malvern Panalytical, Particle Measuring Systems, Omega, Red Lion and NDC Technologies.
Spectris plc 53 s c i O h p t e e r d a t n i a o n e s c n a a n n d r e r i v s o k G e c n a n i F Governance Board Activity Board diversity policy Induction of Non-executive Directors The Board reviewed its approach to the promotion of diversity in Kjersti Wiklund and Karim Bitar joined the Board during the year January 2018.
Following this review and mindful of the findings of and followed a tailored induction programme, which included the Hampton-Alexander Review and the Parker Review, the Board dedicated time with the Group Executive and visits to operating has approved the following policy on diversity.
companies within each of the four business sectors.
The Board is committed to further promoting diversity and They met with the Chairman, Chief Executive and Group Finance inclusiveness of all kinds throughout the Group, regardless of Director on a one-to-one basis on appointment and subsequently geography or position.
The Board agrees that diversity, which met the other members of the Board and Executive Committee should be construed in its broadest sense and includes gender and along with senior managers from head office functions and ethnic diversity, is an important factor in Board effectiveness and the sectors.
the Group is a supportive participant of the Hampton-Alexander The Company Secretary provided a comprehensive overview of: Review which sets a target for the percentage of women on FTSE the Group and the legal and organisational structure: the boards and leadership teams to reach one third by 2020. governance framework: the role of Non-executive Directors: key business contacts at Group, sector and operating company level: In support of this policy, the Nomination Committee will conduct and details of the external advisers.
an annual review of progress towards achieving a more diverse workforce at all levels within the organisation.
In particular, the Karim Bitar spent a day with the Project Uplift working group to Committee will: gain an insight into their work.
aspire to long lists of potential non-executive directors including Information regarding the induction process for the new Chairman 50% female candidates: during the year can be found on page 57. only engage executive search firms who have signed up to the Ongoing Board training and development Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms on gender Board meetings are held regularly at our operating company sites, diversity and best practice: giving the Board the opportunity to tour the sites, meet local work closely with the Group Human Resources Director during management and employees and gain an in-depth knowledge of 2018 to review the Group's approach to talent management and our operations.
During 2017, the Board visited Omega in the USA succession planning.
In particular, ensuring that initiatives are in for its April meeting and Malvern Panalytical in the Netherlands for place to develop the talent pipeline and to promote diversity in its October meetings.
senior leadership appointments with consideration being given to the nature, variety and frequency of interaction between the Board and aspiring candidates at all levels: and ensure that high-performing employees from within the business and from a variety of backgrounds, who have the requisite skills, are given greater exposure to the nomination committees of other FTSE 350 companies.
The Board will report annually on progress.
In October 2017, the Board visited the offices of Malvern Panalytical in Almelo, the Netherlands, to review the progress made to merge the businesses during 2017.
Paolo Carmassi, the President of Malvern Panalytical, toured the facility with the Board and provided an overview of how the newly combined company was working to leverage its joint resources in order to deliver a more complete range of products, solutions and services to a broader set of markets and customers and to grow its service offering.
Outside of the formal meeting, the Board met with the executive team and other key employees to better understand the development of the joint business proposition.
54 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Board evaluation The 2017 Board evaluation was facilitated by the Chairman with In accordance with current best practice and the Code, the Board undertakes an annual formal evaluation of its performance and the support of the Company Secretary and was undertaken in December 2017.
This was supplemented by individual evaluation effectiveness and that of each Director and its Committees.
It is the Boards policy to invite external evaluation every three years.
exercises for each Board Committee which were managed by the relevant Committee chairman.
The final evaluation report and As disclosed in the 2016 Annual Report, the 2016 Board and suggested priorities were discussed by the Board at its meeting in Committee evaluation was facilitated externally by Dr Tracy Long February 2018.
Dr Long is independent, her only The Chairman and the Company Secretary will assess progress connection with Spectris is her work on the Board evaluation.
against the priorities agreed during the evaluation process at The Board continued to consider Dr Longs recommendations regular intervals during 2018. during 2017 and, on appointment, the Chairman revisited the recommendations when considering his priorities for the year.
Actions taken following the 2016 external Priorities for 2018 following the 2017 Board evaluation Board evaluation Strategic ambition Strategic implementation The Board met during the year to undertake an in-depth review The Board will focus on monitoring and supporting the of the Group's strategy.
This meeting was the culmination of a implementation of the agreed strategy and considering the risks detailed workstream undertaken by the Executive Committee to related to that implementation.
The Board will also undertake a map the Group's strategy out to 2020.
In their review, the Board series of deep-dive reviews into the current risk appetite and gave particular attention to the review of the Group's principal mitigation plans in place regarding the Group's principal risks.
risks and also the proposed organisation model that would support the Group's strategy.
Stakeholder management Developing stakeholder communication The Executive Directors met regularly with shareholders The Board will focus on the continued development of a clear throughout the year.
On his appointment, the Chairman also narrative for communicating progress against the Group's met with key investors.
Members of the Board also met with strategy to the investor community.
The Board will also spend analysts at a Capital Markets Day held at the Millbrook Proving time considering communication of the Group's strategy with Ground in May 2017. employees and considering an appropriate method for gathering the views of the Group's employee base.
Pattern of meetings and information flow Enhanced Board interaction The pattern of Board and Committee meetings was altered to In planning the Board's agenda for the year, continued focus include regular Board dinners and formal scheduled private will be placed on dedicating more time to open dialogue, meetings for the Non-executive Directors.
The introduction of a debate and discussion outside of the formal meeting agenda.
forward agenda for Board and Committee meetings, together The Chairman will also work with the Company Secretary to with the adoption of a consistent form of Board papers and introduce external speakers at certain Board dinners.
monthly update reports between scheduled Board meetings, has improved both information flow, agenda planning and the quality of Board discussion.
Succession planning Succession planning During the year, the Nomination Committee undertook a Building on work initiated in 2017, the Nomination Committee detailed review of the Group's Board and Executive succession will meet at regular intervals during the year to assess the planning processes with the support of the newly-appointed progress made in developing the Group's organisation model to Group Human Resources Director.
As part of this review, the support the Group's agreed strategy.
The Committee will also Committee considered immediate succession plans and the focus on the development of the Group's talent pipeline and the talent pipeline to support long-term succession.
enactment of the Board's diversity policy within the business.
Chairman and Non-executive Director induction programmes Board continuing education Considerable time was spent during 2017 on the induction The Board will introduce a Non-executive Director training and of two new Non-executive Directors and the new Chairman.
development programme which will bring together a variety of informal briefings, technical updates and further direct interaction with the operating companies.
