BAE Systems 90 Annual Report 2017 Nominations Committee report Sir Roger Carr Chairman of the Nominations Committee One of the Committees objectives over the Members Last year, I committed to further strengthen last couple of years has been to develop a the non-executive representation on the Sir Roger Carr Chairman better understanding of the depth of our Board.
Im delighted that we were able management resource.
This has meant making toachieve this with the appointment of Revathi Advaithi RevathiAdvaithi on 1 January this year.
time for the non-executive directors to meet Withan international industrial sector with executives who either currently occupy Elizabeth Corley background anda good understanding of senior management positions just below our Harriet Green thedigital economy, Revathis knowledge Executive Committee, or show the potential andexperiencewill be anasset to the Board.
Using informal events Chris Grigg 1 Heidrick & Struggles JCA Group scheduled around our Board meetings, we worked have been successful in significantly increasing with the Committee to assist in her Paula Rosput Reynolds 1 the Boards engagement with executives.
recruitment and Spencer Stuart performed Thisactivity has helped the members of the asimilar role in the Chief Executive search.
Nick Rose Nominations Committee to perform the Looking ahead, next year Nick Rose, who Ian Tyler important role they undertake in overseeing chairs our Audit Committee and is also our succession planning and executive Senior Independent Director, will have served development across the Group.
on the Board for nine years and has indicated This work will be a key priority for the that he will retire in 2019.
We know we employ Committee hasinitiated a search process to Dear Shareholders, some highly talented people, and will identify a suitable candidate to succeed Nick Im pleased to report that 2017 saw a engagewith the Chief Executive and our inleading the Audit Committee.
successful conclusion to the Chief Executive newGroup Human Resources Director in BAE Systems recognises the value of being an succession planning process as managed ensuring that they are developed and given inclusive employer with a diverse workforce.
bythe Nominations Committee with the opportunities to leadthis Company in This also applies at Board level, and we CharlesWoodburn succeeding Ian King on theyears to come.
continue to make good progress in increasing 1July.
It was back in March 2015 that the the diversity of the Board.
In terms of gender, Committee first identified Charles as a Sir Roger Carr 36% of Board members are women, which possible candidate for the role, and I would Chairman of the NominationsCommittee exceeds our previously stated policy target like to thank him and Ian for the professional of33% or greater by 2020 as targeted by and helpful manner in which they conducted the Hampton-Alexander Review.
This remains themselves during a rigorous and lengthy our policy concerning gender.
In terms of selection and handover process.
other aspects of Board diversity, our policy Charles is well supported in his new role istocontinue, over time, to create a Board bytwo very able and experienced fellow that not only brings together individuals with executive directors: Jerry DeMuro, who the right skills, knowledge and experience, leadsour US business, and Peter Lynas, butalso has a diversity that reflects the GroupFinance Director.
Im pleased that multi-national nature of our Company and Peterhas agreed to take a wider management theincreasingly global nature of the business role, and since November last year he has world in general.
However, individual merit been responsible for UK Shared Services, will always be the prime consideration when Procurement and Group Mergers & making appointments to the Board.
continue to engage with search consultants toidentify candidates in a mannerthat is consistent with achieving anappropriately diverse board.
Heidrick & Struggles JCA Group and Spencer Stuart provide other recruitment services to BAE Systems.
Nominations Committee timeline February March May July Committee Committee Committee Committee
