BAE Systems 78 Annual Report 2017 Board of directors Sir Roger Carr Charles Woodburn Peter Lynas Chairman Chief Executive Group Finance Director Appointed to the Board: 2013 Nationality: UK Appointed to the Board: 2016 Nationality: UK Appointed to the Board: 2011 Nationality: UK Skills, competence and experience Skills, competence and experience Skills, competence and experience Having joined the Board in 2013, Sir Roger was Charles joined BAE Systems in May 2016 as Peter, a qualified accountant, was appointed to the appointed Chairman in 2014.
He is an experienced ChiefOperating Officer and succeeded Ian King as Board as Group Finance Director in 2011.
This year, company chairman with a wealth of knowledge Chief Executive on 1 July 2017.
Prior to joining the Peters role was expanded to include responsibility gainedacross a number of business sectors.
With Company, he spent over 20 years in the oil and gas forUK Shared Services, Procurement and Group overtwo decades of boardroom experience, Sir Roger industry, holding a number of senior management Mergers & Acquisitions.
has a deep understanding of corporate governance positions in the Far East, Australia, Europe and the Peter previously served for a number of years as and what is required to lead an effective board.
He joined the Company from the oilfield services Director, Financial Control, Reporting & Treasury.
tojoining BAE Systems, Sir Roger was Chairman of business, Expro Group, where he served as Chief Hejoined GEC-Marconi in 1985 having previously Centrica plc and Deputy Chairman of the Court of Executive Officer.
Prior to that, he spent 15 years worked for other companies in the UK and Europe.
In the past, he has also served withSchlumberger Limited.
After progressing through a number of positions, asCEO of Williams plc and chairman of Thames Water hewas appointed Finance Director of GECs Marconi Non-executive appointments plc, Cadbury plc, Chubb and Mitchells & Butlers plc.
Electronic Systems business, which was subsequently None.
Hewas Vice Chairman of the BBC Trust until it was acquired by British Aerospace in 1999 to become dissolved in April last year.
He has been active in representing UK business Non-executive appointments havingpreviously served as President of the CBI and Non-executive director of SSE plc and chairman of asa member of the Prime Ministers Business Advisory itsaudit committee.
He was a member of the Higgs Committee onCorporate Governance, which assisted in further developing the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Sir Roger is also a senior adviser to Kohlberg Kravis Roberts, a fellow of the Royal Society for the encouragement of Arts, Manufactures and Commerce, an honorary fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators, and a visiting fellow tothe Sad Business School, Oxford.
Committee membership Chairman of the Nominations Committee and the Non-Executive Directors Fees Committee.
Jerry DeMuro Revathi Advaithi President and Chief Executive Officer Non-executive director ofBAESystems, Inc.
Appointed to the Board: 2018 Nationality: US Appointed to the Board: 2014 Nationality: US Skills, competence and experience Revathi brings extensive operational experience to Skills, competence and experience theBoard, gained from her leadership of multinational Appointed to the Board on 1 February 2014 as President engineering and manufacturing businesses, where she and Chief Executive Officer of BAE Systems, Inc. has gained a good understanding of digital technology Jerryis an experienced US executive who has worked and international markets.
Revathi is Chief Operating in the national security, technology and aerospace Officer, Electrical Sector, for Eaton, a power industry for over 30 years.
Prior to joining the Company, management company.
She joined Eaton in 1995 he served as executive vice president and corporate andled the Electrical Sector in the Americas and vice president of General Dynamics Information Asia-Pacific, with a three-year assignment in Shanghai.
Earlier in his career, Between 2002 and 2008, Revathi worked at Honeywell, he spent almost a decade as an acquisition official at where she held several senior roles within the sourcing the USDepartment of Defense.
and supply chain functions of the aerospace sector Non-executive appointments before being named vice president and general manager Non-executive director of Aero Communications, Inc. of Honeywells Field Solutions business in 2006.
Revathi returned to Eaton in 2008 as vice president and Committee membership general manager of the Electrical Components Division.
She serves on the board of governors of the National Electrical Manufacturers Association in the US and on the Advisory Council for the University of Pittsburghs Center for Energy.
Chairman Committee membership Executive directors Corporate Responsibility Committee and Nominations Non-executive directors Committee.
Governance Financial statements BAE Systems Annual Report 2017 79 Elizabeth Corley CBE Harriet Green OBE Chris Grigg Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Appointed to the Board: 2016 Nationality: UK Appointed to the Board: 2010 Nationality: UK Appointed to the Board: 2013 Nationality: UK Skills, competence and experience Skills, competence and experience Skills, competence and experience Elizabeth brings investor, governance and boardroom Harriet is a transformative business leader with As chief executive of a FTSE 100 company, Chris experience to the Board.
She is currently non-executive international operational and boardroom experience.
bringsmanagement and boardroom experience vice-chair of Allianz Global Investors.
She has served She is currently Chief Executive Officer and Chairman totheBoard.
He is currently Chief Executive of asChief Executive Officer of Allianz Global Investors, of Asia-Pacific at IBM.
Harriet has extensive global TheBritish Land Company PLC, a position he has initially for Europe then globally, from 2005 to 2016. business leadership experience.
Prior to that, she worked for Merrill Lynch Investment as Chief Executive Officer and executive director of Chris has more than 30 years experience in the Managers.
Elizabeth is active in representing the Thomas Cook plc.
Prior to that, she was Chief Executive banking and real estate industries.
Prior to joining investment industry and developing standards within Officer and executive director of Premier Farnell plc.
British Land, he was Chief Executive of Barclays it.
She is a member of the FICC Market Standards Previously, she was also a non-executive director of Commercial Bank.
Before that, he was a partner Board, the European Securities andMarkets Emerson Electric Co.
In 2017, Harriet was named as atGoldman Sachs.
Chris is currently a member Authoritys stakeholder group and of the advisory one of the Fast Companys 100 Most Creative People oftheexecutive board of the European Public council of TheCityUK.
Elizabeth is currently chair of the inBusiness and The Financial Times ranked Harriet  and the board of the advisory group to the UK government on social impact sixthin their HERoes ranking: Champions of Women .
In 2017, she stepped down from the board inBusiness list.
In 2016, shewon the Women in Other non-executive appointments of the UK Financial Reporting Council after completing Technology Institute WITI Award and, in 2014, she None.
her second three-year term of appointment.
received the Veuve Clicquot Business Woman Award.
Elizabeth is also an acclaimed writer, a member Committee membership Other non-executive appointments oftheRoyal Society of Arts and atrustee of the Corporate Responsibility Committee and Nominations None.
Committee membership Other non-executive appointments Corporate Responsibility Committee and Nominations Non-executive director of Pearson plc and Committee.
Committee membership Nominations Committee and Remuneration Committee.
Paula Rosput Reynolds Nick Rose Ian Tyler Non-executive director Non-executive director and Non-executive director SeniorIndependent Director Appointed to the Board: 2011 Nationality: US Appointed to the Board: 2013 Nationality: UK Appointed to the Board: 2010 Nationality: UK Skills, competence and experience Skills, competence and experience An experienced company director in both the UK Ian brings considerable financial and long-term Skills, competence and experience andNorth America, Paula is currently Chief Executive international contracting experience to the Board.
Nick brings to the Board considerable financial Officer and President of the business advisory group Having qualified as a chartered accountant, Ian expertise and boardroom experience.
subsequently held a number of senior finance and ChiefFinancial Officer of Diageo plc for over ten years operational positions within industrial companies Starting her career as an economist, she spent over until 2010.
In this role, he was responsible for supply, before being appointed Finance Director of Balfour 20years in the energy sector, culminating in her procurement, strategy and IT on a global basis.
He was subsequently appointed appointment as President and Chief Executive Officer financial experience was developed during his time as asChief Executive in2005.
He is currently Chairman ofAGL Resources in 2002.
She served as President and group treasurer and group controller at Diageo, and ofBovis Homes Group PLC and Cairn Energy plc.
Chief Executive Officer of Safeco Corporation before also in his earlier career at Ford Finance.
He is a former becoming Vice Chairman and Chief Restructuring Chairman of the engineering technology company Ian is a former non-executive director of Mediclinic Officer of American International Group, overseeing Edwards Group Limited and former non-executive International plc, Cable & Wireless Communications itsdivestiture of assets and serving as chief liaison with director of Mot Hennessy SNC and Scottish Power plc.
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
She received the Nick is currently an adviser to CCMP Capital Advisors, LLC.
Other non-executive appointments National Association of Corporate Directors National Chairman of Amey plc and AWE Management Limited.
Other non-executive appointments Lifetime Achievement Award in 2014.
Chairman of Williams Grand Prix Holdings PLC: Committee membership Past roles include non-executive directorships at non-executive director and senior independent Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee, Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc. Anadarko Petroleum director of BT Group plc: and non-executive chairman and member of the Audit Committee and Nominations Corporation, Delta Air Lines Inc. Air Products and of Loch Lomond Group.
Chemicals Inc. and Siluria Technologies, Inc. Committee membership Other non-executive appointments Chairman of the Audit Committee, and member of the Non-executive director of BP p. l. c. CBRE Group, Inc.
Nominations Committee and Remuneration Committee.
Committee membership Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, and member of the Audit Committee and Nominations Committee.
