Corporate governance practices Code of ethics In the US, BP ADSs are listed on the New York Stock Exchange The company has adopted a code of ethics for its group chief NYSE.
The significant differences between BPs corporate executive, chief financial officer, group controller, group head of audit governance practices as a UK company and those required by NYSE and chief accounting officer as required by the provisions of listing standards for US companies are listed as follows: Section406 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules issued by the SEC.
There have been no waivers from the code of ethics Independence relating to any officers.
BP has adopted a robust set of board governance principles, which BP also has a code of conduct, which is applicable to all employees, reflect the UK Corporate Governance Code and its principles-based officers and members of the board.
This was updated and published approach to corporate governance.
As such, the way in which BP in July 2014. makes determinations of directors independence differs from the NYSE rules.
Controls and procedures BPs board governance principles require that all non-executive directors be determined by the board to be independent in character Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures and judgement and free from any business or other relationship The company maintains disclosure controls and procedures, as such which could materially interfere with the exercise of their judgement.
term is defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15 e, that are designed to The BP board has determined that, in its judgement, all of the nonensure that information required to be disclosed in reports the executive directors are independent, with the exception of the company files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, chairman.
In doing so, however, the board did not explicitly take into processed, summarized and reported within the time periods consideration the independence requirements outlined in the NYSEs specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission rules and listing standards.
forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to management, including the companys group chief executive and Committees chief financial officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions BP has a number of board committees that are broadly comparable in regarding required disclosure.
purpose and composition to those required by NYSE rules for In designing and evaluating our disclosure controls and procedures, domestic US companies.
For instance, BP has a chairmans rather our management, including the group chief executive and chief than executive committee, nomination rather than nominating financial officer, recognize that any controls and procedures, no corporate governance committee and remuneration rather than matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, compensation committee.
BP also has an audit committee, which not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the disclosure controls NYSE rules require for both US companies and foreign private and procedures are met.
Because of the inherent limitations in all issuers.
These committees are composed solely of non-executive control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute directors whom the board has determined to be independent, in the assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within manner described above.
the company have been detected.
Further, in the design and The BP board governance principles prescribe the composition, main evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures our management tasks and requirements of each of the committees see the board necessarily was required to apply its judgement in evaluating the committee reports on pages 77-89.
BP has not, therefore, adopted cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures.
Also, separate charters for each committee.
we have investments in certain unconsolidated entities.
As we do not control these entities, our disclosure controls and procedures with Under US securities law and the listing standards of the NYSE, BP is respect to such entities are necessarily substantially more limited required to have an audit committee that satisfies the requirements than those we maintain with respect to our consolidated subsidiaries.
of Rule 10A-3 under the Exchange Act and Section303A.
06 of the Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, NYSE Listed Company Manual.
BPs audit committee complies with misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.
The BP audit committee does not have direct The companys disclosure controls and procedures have been responsibility for the appointment, reappointment or removal of the designed to meet, and management believes that they meet, independent auditors instead, it follows the UK Companies Act 2006 reasonable assurance standards.
by making recommendations to the board on these matters for it to put forward for shareholder approval at the AGM.
The companys management, with the participation of the companys group chief executive and chief financial officer, has evaluated the One of the NYSEs additional requirements for the audit committee effectiveness of the companys disclosure controls and procedures states that at least one member of the audit committee is to have pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-15 b as of the end of the period accounting or related financial management expertise.
The board covered by this annual report.
Based on that evaluation, the group determined that Brendan Nelson possesses such expertise and also chief executive and chief financial officer have concluded that the possesses the financial and audit committee experiences set forth in companys disclosure controls and procedures were effective at a both the UK Corporate Governance Code and SEC rules see Audit reasonable assurance level.
Mr Nelson is the audit committee financial expert as defined in Item16A of Form 20-F.
Managements report on internal control over Shareholder approval of equity compensation plans financial reporting The NYSE rules for US companies require that shareholders must be Management of BP is responsible for establishing and maintaining given the opportunity to vote on all equity-compensation plans and adequate internal control over financial reporting.
BPs internal control material revisions to those plans.
BP complies with UK requirements over financial reporting is a process designed under the supervision that are similar to the NYSE rules.
The board, however, does not of the principal executive and financial officers to provide reasonable explicitly take into consideration the NYSEs detailed definition of assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the what are considered material revisions.
preparation of BPs financial statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with IFRS.
Code of ethics As of the end of the 2017 fiscal year, management conducted an The NYSE rules require that US companies adopt and disclose a code assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial of business conduct and ethics for directors, officers and employees.
reporting in accordance with the UK Financial Reporting Councils BPhas adopted a code of conduct, which applies to all employees Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and members of the board, and has board governance principles that and Business Reporting.
Based on this assessment, management address the conduct of directors.
In addition BP has adopted a code has determined that BPs internal control over financial reporting as of of ethics for senior financial officers as required by the SEC.
considers that these codes and policies address the matters specified in the NYSE rules for US companies.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 275 See Glossary
