Corporate governance Committee reports Role of the committee Audit committee The committee monitors the effectiveness of the groups financial reporting, systems of internal control and risk management and the integrity of the groups external and internal audit processes.
Key responsibilities Monitoring and obtaining assurance that the management or mitigation of financial risks is appropriately addressed by the group chief executive and that the system of internal control is designed and implemented effectively in support of the limits imposed by the board executive limitations, as set out in the BP board governance principles.
Reviewing financial statements and other financial disclosures and monitoring compliance with relevant legal and listing requirements.
Reviewing the effectiveness of the group audit function, BPs internal financial controls and systems of internal control and risk management.
Overseeing the appointment, remuneration, independence and The committee continued to review the performance of the external auditor and the integrity of the audit process as a whole, including the engagement of the external auditor integrity of the groups disclosures by to supply non-audit services to BP.
challenging and debating the Reviewing the systems in place to enable those who work for BP to judgements made by management.
raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting or other issues and for those matters to be investigated.
Members Chairmans introduction Brendan Nelson Member since November 2010 and chair since April 2011 Last years report highlighted our monitoring of the groups financial performance in light of the demanding external environment.
While this Nils Andersen Member since October 2016 focus remains, the committee has continued to review the integrity of Paula Reynolds Member since May 2015 the groups financial reporting by challenging and debating the judgements made by management, including the estimates which are Andrew Shilston Member since February 2012: made.
We receive reports from management and the external auditor retired May 2017 each quarter highlighting significant accounting issues and judgements Brendan Nelson is chair of the audit committee.
He was formerly and have used these to inform our debate on whether BPs financial vice chairman of KPMG and president of the Institute of Chartered reporting is fair, balanced and understandable.
Currently he is chairman of the group audit In 2017 the committee focused on the effectiveness of the group audit committee of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc and a member of function.
We reviewed its longer-term vision and capability and oversaw the Financial Reporting Review Panel.
The board is satisfied that he is an externally facilitated review of its performance, the results of which the audit committee member with recent and relevant financial we discussed in a joint session with colleagues from the SEEAC.
We experience as outlined in the UK Corporate Governance Code and will continue to focus on the actions arising from the review in 2018. competence in accounting and auditing as required by the FCAs Corporate Governance Rules in DTR7.
It considers that the committee Following the 2016 tender process for the statutory audit, the as a whole has an appropriate and experienced blend of commercial, committee has overseen the transition to Deloitte from EY in time for financial and audit expertise to assess the issues it is required to 2018.
We met with both EY and Deloitte during 2017 and monitored address, as well as competence in the oil and gas sector.
The board also Deloittes progress towards independence in time for their shadowing determined that the audit committee meets the independence criteria of the 2017 year-end audit.
provisions of Rule 10A-3 of the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and The committee visited one of the groups global business service that Brendan may be regarded as an audit committee financial expert as centres, located in Budapest, enabling us to see first hand the work defined in Item 16A of Form 20-F. undertaken by this growing part of BPs operations and to meet local staff.
We found this direct contact added an important additional Meetings and attendance dimension to our review and understanding, and intend to hold further site visits in 2018.
There were 13 committee meetings in 2017, of which six were by teleconference.
All directors attended every meeting during the period Andrew Shilston retired from the committee in May 2017.
I would like in which they were committee members.
to thank Andrew for his service to the committee, and for the challenge and perspective he provided as a member.
Regular attendees at the meetings include the chief financial officer, group controller, chief accounting officer, group head of audit and Brendan Nelson external auditor.
Committee chair BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 77 Activities during the year Financial disclosure The committee reviewed key Financial resilience: including areas of BPs ethics and the risk associated with external The committee reviewed the operational events, and considered compliance programme, including market conditions, supply and quarterly, half-year and annual whether the period covered by the the integration of the business demand and prices achieved for financial statements with companys viability statement was integrity and ethics and BPs products which could impact management, focusing on the: appropriate.
development of the anti-bribery Integrity of the groups The committee considered the BP The committee reviewed the key financial reporting process.
and corruption elements of the Annual Report and Form 20-F price assumptions used by the Clarity of disclosure.
programme, enhanced policies, 2017 and assessed whether the group for investment appraisal and Compliance with relevant legal tools and training and report was fair, balanced and the judgements underlying those and financial reporting strengthening of counterparty risk understandable and provided the proposals, the cost of capital and standards.
information necessary for its application as a discount rate to Application of accounting shareholders to assess the Security threats against BPs evaluate long-term BP business policies and judgements.
groups position and performance, digital infrastructure: including projects, liquidity including credit As part of its review, the business model and strategy.
In inappropriate access to or misuse rating, hedging, long-term committee received quarterly making this assessment, the of information and systems and commercial commitments and updates from management and committee examined disclosures disruption of business activity.
credit risk and the effectiveness the external auditor in relation to during the year, discussed the and efficiency of the capital The committee reviewed changes accounting judgements and requirement with senior investment into major projects.
in the cyber security landscape, estimates including those relating management, confirmed that including events in the oil and gas BPs principal risks are listed on to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, representations to the external industry and within BP itself.
page 57. recoverability of asset carrying auditors had been evidenced and The review focused on the values and other matters.
reviewed reports relating to For 2018, the board has agreed improvements made in managing internal controls.
The committee that the committee will continue The committee keeps under cyber risk, including the application made a recommendation to the to monitor the same four group review the frequency of reporting of the three lines of defence board, who in turn reviewed the risks as for 2017.
The group risk during the year.
model and examining the report as a whole, confirmed the financial resilience has been indicators associated with risk The committee reviewed the assessment and approved the renamed financial liquidity for management and barrier assessment and reporting of reports publication.
longer-term viability, risk Other disclosures reviewed management and the system included: of internal control, including the Oil and gas reserves.
O ther reviews reporting and categorization of Pensions and post-retirement risk across the group and the benefits assumptions.
Other reviews undertaken in 2017 recommendations, see examination of what might page 50.
by the committee included: constitute a significant failing or Legal liabilities.
Non-operating items NOIs : weakness in the system of internal Downstream: including BPs policy for identifying and Tax strategy.
It also examined the strategy and strategic Going concern.
categorizing NOIs and an groups modelling for stress progress, financial analysis of those NOIs testing different financial and performance, risk impacting BPs reported results.
management and controls, Blockchain: introduction to audit findings, key litigation and blockchain technology, its ethics and compliance findings.
potential impacts on the oil and Upstream: including vision gas industry and an overview of Risk reviews and priorities, structure and BPs participation and approach portfolio, financial controls and to date.
The principal risks allocated to the The committee further the balance sheet, an overview Capability and succession audit committee for monitoring in considered updates in the trading of intangible assets and a in BPs finance function, review of the segments 2017 included those associated functions risk management including the groups finance finance organization.
with: programme, including modernization programme.
Shipping: including an overview compliance with regulatory Assessment of financial metrics Trading activities: including risks of BP shippings role and developments and activities in for executive remuneration: arising from shortcomings or operating model, financial response to cyber threats.
consideration of financial failures in systems, risk performance, strategy, risk performance for the groups management methodology, Compliance with applicable management and controls and 2017 annual cash bonus internal control processes or laws and regulations: including the impact of IFRS 16 lease scorecard and performance employees.
ethical misconduct or breaches of accounting standard.
share plan, including applicable laws or regulations that Financial Stability Board's Task In reviewing this risk, the adjustments to plan conditions could damage BPs reputation, Force on Climate-related committee focused on external and NOIs.
adversely affect operational results Financial Disclosures TCFD : market developments and how the origin, purpose and work of and or shareholder value and BPs trading function had the TCFD along with its key potentially affect BPs licence to responded including new areas recommendations and how operate.
of activity and impacts on the BPs existing reporting control environment.
compares to these 78 See Glossary BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 Corporate governance Training In te rnal control and risk management The committee held a deep dive on reserves, covering resource definition and estimation, the groups governance processes, areas of The committee received The review concluded that the focus for the regulator and how BP compared with its competitors in quarterly reports on the findings group audit function: terms of approach.
It received technical updates from the chief of group audit in 2017.
It reviewed Performed strongly across accounting officer on developments in financial reporting and group audits vision for 2020, Deloittes assessment accounting policy, including IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, IFRS 15 including the roadmap for 2017 framework.
Revenues from Contracts with Customers and IFRS 16 Leases.
The committee met Demonstrated a high level of privately with the group head of maturity when assessed Site visits audit and key members of his against internal audit functions leadership team.
within large FTSE nonIn September, the committee visited BPs global business services financial services companies.
During the visit the committee reviewed the The committee oversaw an Had a remit covering all risk functions strategy, context, and how it has grown in scope and scale.
external review of the categories financial and It looked at its risk management and controls processes, including effectiveness of the group audit operational a breadth seen understanding the risks around transition of activity from the business function, which was awarded to as leading practice.
and the standardization of global processes.
It also reviewed capability Deloitte in July 2017 following a Had areas where continuous and human resources issues, including talent attraction and retention, competitive tender process.
improvement activity and met a range of staff and heard about the various GBS diversity Fieldwork and interviews with continued dialogue with the programmes including LGBT, working parents and disability awareness.
management and board business could result in an members was completed by even stronger performance.
In December, members of the committee and wider board visited BPs September 2017 and the results integrated supply and trading IST business in London for a day that Implementation of the agreed of the assessment were covered oil and gas market fundamentals, finance and risk, ISTs actions arising from the review reviewed at a joint meeting of strategy, and presentations on oil products and LNG trading.
will be tracked during 2018. the audit and safety, ethics and environment assurance The audit committee also held committees in December.
private meetings with the group ethics and compliance officer during the year.
Accounting judgements and estimates Areas of significant judgement considered by the committee in 2017 and how these were addressed included: Key judgements and estimates Audit committee activity Conclusions Outcomes in financial reporting Gulf of Mexico oil spill BP uses judgement in relation to the A review of the provisioning for and Following significantly higher average claims recognition of provisions relating to the disclosure of uncertainties relating to the determinations issued by the Court Gulf of Mexico oil spill.
The timing and Gulf of Mexico oil spill was undertaken each Supervised Settlement Program CSSP in amounts of the remaining cash flows are quarter as part of the review of the stock the fourth quarter 2017 and the continuing subject to uncertainty and estimation is exchange announcement.
effect arising from the Fifth Circuit May 2017 required to determine the amounts opinion, BP recognized a post-tax charge of Particular focus was given to updates to the provided for.
$1.7 billion for BEL and other claims provision related to business economic loss associated with the CSSP.
BEL and other claims related to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, including the continuing Disclosure includes information on effect of the Fifth Circuit May 2017 opinion remaining uncertainties.
on the matching of revenues with expenses when evaluating BEL claims.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 79 Key judgements and estimates Audit committee activity Conclusions Outcomes in financial reporting Oil and natural gas accounting, including reserves BP uses technical and commercial judgements Held an in-depth review of BPs policy and Exploration write-offs totalling $1.6 billion when accounting for oil and gas exploration, guidelines for compliance with oil and gas were recognized during the year.
appraisal and development expenditure and in reserves disclosure regulation, including the Exploration intangibles totalled $17.0 billion determining the groups estimated oil and gas groups reserves governance framework at 31 December 2017. reserves.
Reserves estimates based on managements Reviewed exploration write-offs as part of assumptions for future commodity prices have the groups quarterly due diligence process.
a direct impact on the assessment of the Received briefings on the status of recoverability of asset carrying values reported upstream intangible assets, including the in the financial statements.
status of items on the intangibles assets Judgement is required to determine whether it watch-list.
is appropriate to continue to carry intangible Received the output of managements assets related to exploration costs on the annual intangible asset certification process balance sheet.
used to ensure accounting criteria to continue to carry the exploration intangible balance are met.
Recoverability of asset carrying values Determination as to whether and how much Reviewed the groups oil and gas price The groups long-term price assumptions for an asset, cash generating unit CGU or group assumptions.
Brent oil, and Henry Hub gas were of CGUs containing goodwill is impaired unchanged from 2016.
Reviewed the groups discount rates for involves management judgement and impairment testing purposes.
The groups discount rates used for estimates on uncertain matters such as future impairment testing were also unchanged.
Upstream impairment charges, reversals commodity pricing, discount rates, production and watch-list items were reviewed as Impairments of $1.0 billion were recorded in profiles, reserves and the impact of inflation on part of the quarterly due diligence process.
the year, net of impairment reversals.
Reviewed the groups credit risk The group had $1.5 billion of receivables Judgement is required in assessing the management and reporting framework, which were not impaired but past due recoverability of overdue receivables, and including actual credit losses observed, at 31 December 2017. deciding whether a provision is required.
expected loss delegations and utilization and changes in the credit portfolio quality.
Investment in Rosneft Judgement is required in assessing the level of Reviewed the judgement on whether the BP has retained significant influence over control or influence over another entity in group continues to have significant Rosneft throughout 2017 as defined by which the group holds an interest.
BP uses the equity method of accounting for Considered IFRS guidance on evidence its investment in Rosneft and BPs share of of significant influence, including Rosnefts oil and natural gas reserves is representation on the board and included in the groups estimated net proved participation in policy-making processes.
Received reports from management and The equity-accounting treatment of BPs the external auditor which assessed the 19.75% interest in Rosneft continues to be extent of significant influence, including dependent on the judgement that BP has BPs participation in decision making significant influence over Rosneft.
through the continued service on the Rosneft board and key board committees of two BP-nominated directors and work on significant transactions and projects.
This assessment considered the appointment of two additional non-BP directors to the Rosneft board but concluded that the assessment of significant influence remained unchanged.
80 See Glossary BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 Corporate governance Key judgements and estimates Audit committee activity Conclusions Outcomes in financial reporting Derivative contracts In some instances, BP estimates the fair value Received a briefing on the groups trading BP has assets and liabilities of $7.1 billion and of derivative contracts using internal models risks and reviewed the system of risk $6.6 billion respectively recognized on the due to the absence of quoted market pricing or management and controls in place, balance sheet for derivative contracts at other observable, market-corroborated data.
including those covering the valuation of 31 December 2017, mainly relating to the derivative instruments, using models where activities of the integrated supply and trading Judgement may also be required to determine observable market pricing is not available.
whether contracts to buy or sell commodities meet the definition of a derivative.
The committee annually reviews the control BPs use of internal models to value certain process and risks relating to the trading of these contracts has been disclosed in business.
Note 28 in the financial statements.
Provisions BPs most significant provisions relate to Received briefings on decommissioning, Decommissioning provisions of $16.1 billion decommissioning, the Gulf of Mexico oil spill environmental, asbestos and litigation were recognized on the balance sheet at 31 see above, environmental remediation provisions, including the requirements, December 2017. litigation.
governance and controls for the The discount rate used by BP to determine development and approval of cost The group holds provisions for the future the balance sheet obligation at the end of estimates and provisions in the decommissioning of oil and natural gas 2017 was a real rate of 0.5% based on financial statements.
production facilities and pipelines at the end long-dated US government bonds.
Most of these Reviewed the groups discount rates for decommissioning events are many years in calculating provisions.
the future and the exact requirements that will have to be met when a removal event occurs are uncertain.
Assumptions are made by BP in relation to settlement dates, technology, legal requirements and discount rates.
The timing and amounts of future cash flows are subject to significant uncertainty and estimation is required in determining the amounts of provisions to be recognized.
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits Accounting for pensions and other postReviewed the groups assumptions used to The method for determining the groups retirement benefits involves making estimates determine the projected benefit obligation assumptions remained largely unchanged from when measuring the groups pension plan at the year end, including the discount rate, 2016.
The values of these assumptions and a surpluses and deficits.
These estimates rate of inflation, salary growth and mortality sensitivity analysis of the impact of possible require assumptions to be made about levels.
changes on the benefit expense and obligation uncertain events, including discount rates, are provided in Note 22. inflation and life expectancy.
At 31 December 2017, surpluses of $4.2 billion and deficits of $9.1 billion were recognized on the balance sheet in relation to pensions and other post-retirement benefits.
Income taxes Computation of the groups income tax Received regular updates on the groups tax Deferred tax assets amounting to $4.5 billion expense and liability, the provisioning for exposures and deferred tax asset were recognized on the balance sheet at 31 potential tax liabilities and the level of deferred recognition.
December 2017. tax asset recognition are underpinned by Reviewed the judgement exercised on tax As a result of changes in the fiscal terms of management judgement and estimation of the provisioning, including any material changes the Abu Dhabi onshore concession following amounts which could be payable.
to deferred tax asset recognition.
its renewal, the groups taxes payable relating to the concession are now principally Reviewed the accounting treatment of reported as income taxes rather than as taxes relating to renewal of the Abu Dhabi production taxes.
Changes to the US corporate tax system Reviewed the estimated impact of tax resulted in a one-off deferred tax charge of reforms arising from the US Tax Cuts and $0.9 billion in the fourth quarter 2017 arising Jobs Act.
from a revaluation of BPs US deferred tax assets and liabilities.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 81 External audit A key area of focus from 2016 related to audit team turnover, particularly for junior members of the teams.
Actions taken over the year resulted in Audit risk an improvement in the related score for continuity and retention of key The external auditor set out its audit strategy for 2017, identifying key members of the audit team in 2017. risks to be monitored during the year.
These included: The committee held private meetings with the external auditor during Determining the liabilities, contingent liabilities and disclosures arising the year and the committee chair met separately with the external from the Gulf of Mexico oil spill.
auditor and group head of audit before each meeting.
Estimating oil and gas reserves and resources which has significant impact on the financial statements, particularly impairment testing and Audit transition the calculation of depreciation, depletion and amortization.
Deloitte was appointed for the statutory audit, with effect from 2018 following a tender process in 2016.
The committee monitored the Monitoring for unauthorized trading activity in the trading function and transition of BPs statutory auditor from EY to Deloitte, including activity its potential impact on revenue.
to enable Deloitte to achieve independence by October 2017.
This The committee received updates during the year on the audit process, included: including how the auditor had challenged the groups assumptions on Receiving reports from the audit transition team, including an overview these issues.
of operational activities and the termination of non-audit services being Audit fees provided by Deloitte to BP which would be prohibited when Deloitte The audit committee reviews the fee structure, resourcing and terms of becomes the groups statutory auditor.
This included Deloitte stepping down as independent adviser to BPs remuneration committee.
engagement for the external auditor annually: in addition it reviews the non-audit services that the auditor provides to the group on a quarterly Requiring management to report to the committee on any services basis.
undertaken by the statutory auditor in line with the groups policies relating to non-audit services.
Fees paid to the external auditor for the year were $47 million 2016 $47 million, of which 6% was for non-audit assurance work see Requiring confirmation of Deloittes compliance with BPs Financial statements Note 34.
The audit committee is satisfied that independence and ethics and compliance rules.
this level of fee is appropriate in respect of the audit services provided Inviting Deloitte to attend meetings of the audit committee, joint audit and that an effective audit can be conducted for this fee.
Non-audit or and SEEA committees and the board from October 2017 as part of its non-audit related assurance fees were $3 million 2016 $2 million.
The shadowing of the audit of the third and fourth quarters 2017.
$1 million increase in non-audit fees primarily relates to non-audit related assurance services, offset by a reduction in tax compliance services.
Deloitte confirmed its independence to the committee in October 2017.
Non-audit or non-audit related services consisted of other assurance EY resigned on 29 March 2018 following completion of the 2017 audit.
There were no new services contracted for tax compliance Deloitte will audit the 2018 financial year subject to shareholder approval and advisory services for 2017. at the 2018 AGM.
Audit effectiveness Changes in Registrants Certifying Accountant The effectiveness, performance and integrity of the external audit Following a competitive tender process and on the audit committees process was evaluated through separate surveys for committee recommendation, in November 2016 the board selected Deloitte as members and those BP personnel impacted by the audit, including chief BPs independent external auditor for the financial year ending financial officers, controllers, finance managers and individuals 31 December 2018.
This change in external auditor is being made in responsible for accounting policy and internal controls over financial accordance with UK and EU law requirements in particular, the UK reporting.
Corporate Governance Code and the reforms of the audit market by the Competition and Markets Authority and the European Union which The survey sent to management comprised questions across five main require that companies put their external audit out to tender at least criteria to measure the auditors performance: every ten years.
EY has served as BPs external auditor since 1909.
EY Robustness of the audit process.
continued to serve as BPs external auditor throughout the financial year ended 31 December 2017.
The audit committee supervised the transition period of Deloitte, as new Quality of delivery.
external auditor, to ensure the monitoring of Deloittes independence Quality of people and service.
and extended the audit committees policy on non-audit services to Deloitte during the financial year ended 31 December 2017.
The board Value added advice.
appointed Deloitte as the company's new external auditor with effect Further questions were included on BPs attitude to the audit and the from 29 March 2018 to fill the vacancy arising from EYs resignation progress of the audit transition.
following completion of their audit of BPs 2017 financial statements.
At The 2017 evaluation concluded that the external auditors performance the 2018 AGM, EY will not stand for re-election and the board will seek had remained largely constant in key areas compared with the previous shareholder approval for the appointment of Deloitte as the company's year.
Areas with high scores and favourable comments included quality external auditor until the conclusion of the next AGM at which the of accounting and auditing judgement, the working relationship with company's accounts are laid before shareholders.
management and the insight brought through EYs audit work.
Areas In respect of the financial years ended 31 December 2016 and 2017, EY of focus included the need for innovation in the audit and consistency did not issue any report on the consolidated financial statements of the of audit practices in locations further away from the UK and US.
A BP group that contained an adverse opinion or a disclaimer of opinion, further focus was BPs assessment of its own performance in relation nor were the auditors report qualified or modified as to uncertainty, to the audit.
audit scope or accounting principles.
There has not been any Results of the annual assessment were discussed with the external disagreement as defined in Item 16F a 1 iv of Form 20-F with EY over auditor who considered these themes for the 2017 audit service any matter of accounting principle or practice, financial statement approach.
disclosure, or auditing scope or procedure, which disagreement, if not resolved to EYs satisfaction, would have caused EY to make reference to the subject matter of the disagreement in connection with its 82 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 Corporate governance auditors reports, or any reportable event as defined in Item 16F a 1 v For all other services which fall under the permitted services of Form 20-F. categories, approval above a certain financial amount must be sought on a case-by-case basis.
Any proposed service not included in the BP has provided EY with a copy of the foregoing disclosure and has permitted services categories must be approved in advance either by requested that they furnish BP with a letter addressed to the US the audit committee chairman or the audit committee before Securities and Exchange Commission SEC stating whether or not they engagement commences.
The audit committee, chief financial officer agree with such disclosure and, if not, stating the respects in which they and group controller monitor overall compliance with BPs policy on do not agree.
A copy of EYs letter dated 29 March 2018, in which they audit-related and non-audit services, including whether the necessary stated that they agree with such disclosure, is filed as Exhibit 15.6. pre-approvals have been obtained.
The categories of permitted and During the financial years ended 31 December 2016 and 2017 BP did not pre-approved services are outlined in Principal accountants fees and consult with Deloitte regarding: i the application of accounting services on page 276.
The committees policies were updated in 2017 to principles to any specified transaction, either completed or proposed, reflect the revised regulatory guidelines of the FRC, including: or the type of audit opinion that might be rendered on the consolidated Adoption of the FRCs prohibited non-audit services list.
financial statements of the BP group: or ii any matter that was either the subject of a disagreement as defined in Item 16F a 1 iv of Form Prohibition of non-audit tax services by the audit firm.
20-F or reportable event as defined in Item 16F a 1 v of Form 20-F.
Reduction of the pre-approval requirements for non-audit services in line with FRC guidance on non-trivial engagements with the audit Auditor appointment and independence firm.
The committee considers the reappointment of the external auditor each year before making a recommendation to the board.
The Committee evaluation committee assesses the independence of the external auditor on an ongoing basis and the external auditor is required to rotate the lead audit The audit committee undertakes an annual evaluation of its performance partner every five years and other senior audit staff every seven years.
The current lead partner has been in place since the start of 2013.
2017 evaluation No partners or senior staff associated with the BP audit may transfer For 2017 an internal questionnaire was used to evaluate the work of the to the group.
The review concluded that it had performed effectively.
Non-audit services Areas of focus for 2018 include succession planning for membership The audit committee is responsible for BPs policy on non-audit of the committee and a further review of capital spending.
services and the approval of non-audit services.
Audit objectivity and Actions from the 2016 evaluation independence is safeguarded through the prohibition of non-audit tax Priorities arising from the 2016 evaluation included a review of and visit services and the limitation of audit-related work which falls within to one of BPs global business service GBS centres, a focus on defined categories.
BPs policy on non-audit services states that the streamlining committee materials and further scrutiny on risk auditors may not perform non-audit services that are prohibited by the management when undertaking business or functional reviews.
The SEC, Public Company Accounting Oversight Board PCAOB, UK committee visited GBS in Budapest in 2017, undertaking a review of Auditing Practices Board APB and the UK Financial Reporting Council the organizations activities and strategy.
It also focused on improving FRC.
committee pre-read materials, which received improved evaluation The audit committee approves the terms of all audit services as well as scores for the 2017 review.
And an overview of risk management and permitted audit-related and non-audit services in advance.
The external controls was included in all segment and functional reviews.
auditor is only considered for permitted non-audit services when its expertise and experience of the company is important.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 83
