42 Strategic Report | Resources and relationships Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 RESOURCES AND RELATIONSHIPS Delivering a positive impact KEY STAKEHOLDER RESPONSES INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL The Board believes corporate and social responsibility Value rated out of 5 is an important part of the Internal External Groups culture and the Cyber security 5.0 5.0 adoption of good practice 5.0 4.7 Access to services 5.0 4.4 Fair labour standards will have a positive impact 4.6 4.7 Customer privacy on the business Internal training and investing in people 5.0 4.1 4.5 4.6 Environmental impact of space debris Ensuring we act in an ethical manner, taking account of our responsibilities socially and 4.6 4.4 Satellite launches environmentally is important in the way we 4.6 4.3 Anti-bribery and corruption operate and interact with our stakeholders, 4.6 4.3 including investors, employees, suppliers and Equal opportunities, diversity and outreach activities business partners.
This way of working contributes Intellectual property rights 5.0 3.8 to how we create value for all our shareholders.
This section of our Annual Report is prepared in accordance with the Companies, Partnerships and Groups Accounts and Non-Financial Reporting range of sustainability issues ranging from of our key talent, which in turn has informed Regulations 2016.
Here we provide information the importance of charitable giving to cyber our succession planning and individual of Inmarsats development, performance security.
The analysis of this has informed development plans.
and position and the impact of our activity the content included within this report and we More broadly we have focused on enhancing our relating to environmental matters, employees, have utilised the Global Reporting Initiative peoples performance.
Following a wide-ranging social matters, respect for human rights and GRI framework to structure a number review of our current performance management anti-corruption and anti-bribery matters.
Our GRI Content Index can process, and reviewing external best practice, More information relating to these activities be found on the CSR section of our website.
we have redefined our performance management can be found on the CSR and investor relations We will continue to engage with our stakeholders process and principles and have outlined a new sections of our website.
Be Your Best approach that will be launched Inmarsat is committed to improving its in early 2018.
Alongside this, we have redefined OUR PEOPLE transparency in these areas and, as a result, our total reward philosophy approach for responded to the RobecoSAM Corporate launch also in 2018.
Building a high-performance organisation Sustainability Assessment for the first time continued to be at the heart of our activity in The HR team has also continued its own in 2017.
The launch of a comprehensive People transformation journey to delivering excellence Strategy ensured sustained focus and progress for the organisation it serves.
Core systems MATERIALITY on developing our people and our culture to capability has been enhanced, we have ensure Inmarsat is an engaging and inspiring Inmarsat recognises that its non-financial rationalised our payroll process, launched place to work, where everyone can be their best.
information statement should reflect a fair a new people portal and moved to a more view of the information required by stakeholders direct model of resourcing saving $1.7m We believe that the key to sustained performance and therefore we have conducted a materiality April 17 to year end.
lies in the quality of our leaders and managers and assessment to ensure that we are reporting on this year we devoted much effort in developing We also continued to build an effective material disclosures in a clear and balanced way.
leaders at all levels in the business, from the organisation, and in the autumn we consulted Executive Team to more junior managers.
This As part of this materiality assessment, we have on and implemented organisational changes involved the delivery and execution of a range of engaged with a number of external and internal that rebalanced the mix of skills and capabilities activities from tailored leadership development stakeholders throughout 2017 including a we have across the global organisation to programmes, face-to-face and online training and number of employees, customers, suppliers ensure we have a firm platform for growth.
development, the creation of a 2018 commercial and shareholders.
A summary of the key curriculum for senior leaders, and a bespoke RADA focus areas for the output is shown above.
This leadership We held stakeholder interviews and sent work was underpinned by the development of a out quantitative surveys to understand the comprehensive talent framework, created through level of stakeholder concern regarding a wide the insights gained from a formal assessment programme that has supported the identification Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report | Resources and relationships 43 CULTURE AND VALUES 2017 also saw us develop our employee value proposition framework and roadmap for launch in 2018, underpinned by insights gathered from global focus groups and our quarterly 2017 People Pulse survey, which launched in January.
These have provided rich feedback to understand what our people really value about working at Inmarsat, what motivates, inspires and engages them.
In response to this insight and feedback we have continued to extend our employee offer with a number of initiatives such as a new approach to flexible working, building our communications and engagement capability and an expanded learning and development offer.
A key pillar of our transformation will be the company-wide culture change programme that we launched to our global senior leaders community in the autumn.
This work will help Tlcoms Sans Frontires TSF to ensure that we all embrace behaviours and In 2000, Inmarsat became the first official partner of Tlcoms Sans Frontires TSF, ways of working which support the delivery an organisation that responds to the critical need for reliable emergency telecommunications of excellent business performance and help us services following conflicts or natural disasters.
Since then, Inmarsat and TSF have covered to become a high-performance organisation.
158 emergency deployments in 72 countries, delivering 1.3 million calls during more than COMMUNICATIONS AND ENGAGEMENT 10,500 days in the field.
Assistance provided by TSF to 830 humanitarian organisations, Two-way open communications are an governments and UN agencies has facilitated the aid brought to several million people important part of creating an engaging and across the globe.
Inmarsat and TSF work together to ensure telecommunications support inspiring culture.
We continued to build our is established as soon as possible in an emergency, as well as providing training in areas group internal communications capability frequently affected to ensure that in the long-term locals can use the equipment if this year, supporting a rich mix of activities another crisis strikes.
that provided opportunities for our people to connect with our vision and strategy, brand and culture and to share their feedback.
CODE OF CONDUCT, ANTI-CORRUPTION policy and the implications for breaching More formally we maintained our engagement AND ANTI-BRIBERY AND CORPORATE the policy for the business and them with elected employee forums in the UK and TAX EVASION as individuals.
Our anti-bribery policy Batam in Indonesia, a Works Council in the Our Code of Ethics requires Directors, operates in line with current legislation.
Netherlands and an Enterprise Agreement in officers, employees and contractors to The policy also incorporates guidelines on Perth, Australia.
In 2017 meetings between conduct business with the highest standards dealing with gifts and accepting and giving the Executive Team and the UK Staff Forum of personal and professional integrity.
Our latest training module were set quarterly, facilitating open and honest of our Code is published on our website.
on this subject was issued to employees communications and two way engagement.
We comply with local laws where we operate and, Some of these meetings were also extended in 2017, we have received no fines or penalties We have separate policies in place dealing to include global representation.
associated with non-compliance to any law relating with ethics, fraud, the use of inside information In support of the organisational changes to the environment, human rights violations, and whistleblowing.
These policies are fully announced in the autumn and in accordance labour standards, anti-corruption or tax.
endorsed and supported by the Board which with legislation and their role as elected has ultimate oversight.
Across our Group we ensure our employees representative staff bodies, the UK Staff comply with the UK Bribery Act and the U. S. We ask Directors, employees and contractors Forum and the Netherlands Works council Foreign and Corrupt Practices Act.
A summary to confirm they understand these policies were called upon to engage in a formal of our anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy and how they are applied, once a year consultation process.
We were very appreciative can be found on our website.
As part of our through the online training platform Nebula of their professionalism and willingness to commitment to preventing bribery and reaching our global employee base of take on an additional workload and work with establishing a culture that does not tolerate around 2,000. management on this.
corruption wherever and in whatever form it takes, we ask our Directors, employees and contractors to confirm annually that they understand the restrictions outlined in the 44 Strategic Report | Resources and relationships Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 RESOURCES AND RELATIONSHIPS CONTINUED Male Female We have a worldwide anonymous telephone DIVERSITY Diversity of plc Board 10 2 service for employees to use if they have In this age of digital evolution we require new any concerns.
No calls were received by levels of innovation and creativity, which we Diversity of Executive the external provider in 2017. believe are greatly enhanced by diversity of Management Board 9 3 all forms and we are very proud that we have 65 Diversity of In addition, our internal audit team complete different nationalities within the Inmarsat Group.
senior managers 74 17 regular anti-corruption and anti-bribery risk Diversity of all other assessments as part of the ongoing internal In addition, our core purpose as an organisation employees excluding audit programme.
All third parties that are is to enable the connected world, and in delivering contingency workers 1,155 480 in contact with Inmarsat during the course of our purpose we provide connectivity to an any business matter, are also assessed for risks increasingly international and diverse customer The detail of females on the Executive Management related to corruption through visual compliance base.
In doing so we want to make sure that Board and wider number of senior managers and due diligence checks.
We have detailed we reflect the society we serve.
Not only is this the represent the definition as set out in the clauses in our contracts with agents, suppliers right thing to do, we also believe that doing it well Department for Business, Innovation and Skills and partners regarding the need to adhere will support the building of long-term relationships BIS requirements.
The data points set out to anti-bribery requirements.
which in turn drive long-term business success.
above are in line with those disclosed last year.
Internal Audit has its annual plan in Creating a great work place with an inclusive Gender pay conducting reviews of business operations, and diverse culture also helps to attract and We are committed to being a diverse and financial and internal controls, IT and cyber recruit the best people, and engage and inclusive organisation where everyone can security, and legal and regulatory compliance.
We encourage diversity, we need it Through these reviews Internal Audit assessed to manage complexity and to deliver new To support our vision, we have developed the key risks, including risks related to bribery levels of innovation and creativity demanded a three-year Diversity and Inclusion plan with and corruption, and mitigation activities by the digital world.
We are fully supportive actions at multiple stages of the employee undertaken by management, and reported of the drive to be more open and transparent life cycle from attraction to recruitment to its findings to the Audit Committee.
In 2017 about gender pay, and the focus this brings development, and there are a number of initiatives Internal Audit had not identified, or reported, on driving improvements.
focused on life at Inmarsat creating and or been aware of any incidences of corruption.
maintaining an engaging and inspiring place to At April 2017, we had 756 employees in the UK, Moreover no legal cases relating to corruption work.
Recent activities include: STEM Outreach 69% of whom are men and 31% are women, have been brought against Inmarsat or initiatives, attracting female graduates via compared to 75% male employees in a typical its employees during the reporting period.
partnership with TARGETJobs, focused recruitment high-tech company.
Our analysis shows that Moreover, no employees have been dismissed for experienced hires, mentoring, identifying high overall the gap between men and womens or disciplined for corruptions and no business potentials and accelerating careers, targeted earnings is 24.5% mean or 24.4% median partners have had their contracts terminated development programmes, introducing family based on hourly rates of pay at the snapshot or not renewed due to violations related to friendly policies including flexible working, date of 5 April 2017.
Like many other technology corruption in the reporting period.
designing a new performance management companies our gap reflects our challenge The Company has invested significant time approach with calibration to avoid unconscious to attract men and women in equal numbers.
and resources, working closely with an expert bias, promoting external and internal role In fact, our analysis shows that if we had external organisation, to review its processes models, creating International Womens Day equal numbers of men and women at each to ensure compliance with the recent new awareness and celebrations and hosting the organisational level, the gap would be reduced legislation regarding corporate tax evasion, International Womens Network.
This 8.5% differential itself is a combining the review with an updated reflection of the types of roles men and women When recruiting, we value diversity in its assessment of its anti-bribery and corruption are doing within Inmarsat we typically have broadest definition and work to provide processes.
The work has highlighted where more men than women in disciplines such opportunities for all, including for disabled improvements can be made to existing as engineering and business development, employees by reviewing the requirements of business processes and practices.
which tend to be higher paid in the market their working environment to accommodate than functional roles where we tend to have HUMAN RIGHTS practical changes as far as possible to allow more women.
In encouraging our women We are committed to respecting the human them to continue in their daily work routine.
in the workplace we equally look to offer the rights of employees, customers, suppliers, If such changes were unrealistic to implement, same opportunities to all employees.
business partners and the wider communities we would review alternative employment in which we operate.
options for the individual within the Group.
Whilst there may be understandable reasons for the gap, we are keen to rectify the balance as Inmarsat has had no incidents of We do not tolerate discrimination in any part of our new diversity and inclusion strategy.
non-compliances with labour standards or form race, gender, age, culture, nationality The strategy has been developed to create an of human rights violations including those and disability against our employees, environment that supports women to thrive relating to child labour or forced labour either from other employees or third parties.
through flexible working practices to enhance within the reporting period.
The gender split across the Group excluding their development and progression through contingency workers as at 31 December 2017 mentoring and to help accelerate their careers is illustrated in the following table.
Mercer 2016 Gender Pay in the UK High-tech Industry report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report | Resources and relationships 45 through high-potential programmes.
It also includes our active involvement and commitment to STEM education programmes, the Digital Gender Divide and the UN Equals group.
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT SURVEY In January 2017 we launched a global quarterly employee engagement survey that provides our Executive Team and line managers with information and insight about how positive our people are across a range of engagement drivers.
The survey is a dynamic and interactive tool enabling managers to monitor engagement and feedback from their teams and respond to anonymised comments.
The average response rate was 82% over the course of the last three surveys and we have received thousands of comments, showing how engaged our employees have been with the survey.
These comments have complemented quantitative data STEM City and Islington College with more qualitative commentary.
Twenty five students successfully completed the annual Inmarsat Strategy Challenge, which aims to bridge the experience gap for high performing STEM students, through tackling LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT complex, real world problems that the space sector is supporting.
The students from City and Having built strong foundations in the preceding Islington Colleges Sixth Form College and Centre for Applied Sciences were set the challenge few years, 2017 saw increased investment of how to effectively respond to natural disasters using satellite communications.
in learning and development initiatives across our global population.
We also believe that our leaders and managers are key to the engagement, retention and development of our people, We were delighted to launch the Learning Hub, HEALTH AND SAFETY so leadership development continued to be a our brand new platform for learning to provide The Inmarsat plc Board receives an annual central focus.
In addition to our existing leadership global access to online training and learning update on health and safety activity across programmes we developed and rolled out interventions.
Through the Learning Hub, our the Group.
Rupert Pearce, CEO, has been The Practical Manager a new programme for people can find resources to enhance a wide identified as having responsibility for health managers to enhance their understanding of the variety of skills: from presenting and public and safety issues within the Group and one philosophies, principles and policies for managing speaking to communication: managing of his 2018 objectives relates to ensuring people at work, and launched Great Connections, performance to leading change: project there are appropriate health and safety a programme to improve the frequency and management and much more.
measures in operation across the Group.
quality of career and performance development We have a dedicated Health and Safety We also see value in personalised learning, conversations between managers and the Manager who is located in our London and so in addition to our corporate initiatives people in their teams.
In addition, considerable headquarters and our subsidiary operations each business area carries its own budget for focus was given to our Executive Team and have identified managers responsible for role-specific training and we provide support Extended Leadership Team ELT via a series health and safety.
in the form of education sponsorship.
of development events designed to develop Our goal is to encourage strong leadership highly skilled and cohesive senior leadership.
Two of Inmarsats key principles are diversity and in championing the importance of and inclusion, and these are reflected in our attitude Inmarsat is an exciting, complex and evolving a common-sense approach to health and to learning and development.
We encourage place to work, and so we value sharing knowledge safety in the workplace.
We recognise the our people to find opportunities for growth in and insights across the business to communicate, need to provide a safe working environment a range of resources and encourage people to to educate, and to engage.
We ran a series for our employees, contractors and think beyond the classroom.
And when we are of Tech Talks to share compelling stories from any visitors.
developing new learning programmes, those our Chief Technology Office and continued principles help to ensure growth opportunities During the year we introduced a global to offer comprehensive training on Inmarsats reach all of our people, no matter where in the policy on Electromagnetic Fields EMF products and services for our staff as well as world they are located.
and there is active EMF monitoring for our customers and end-users and also used across the Group.
the opportunity of these talks to raise other key We monitor the cost efficiency of programmes changes in the business such as the new Global to implement training and therefore monitor We had 27 2016: 18 accidents or near misses Data Protection Regulations.
We also continued the business benefits of our training and reported, and again we had no fatalities.
to run our Global Induction programme to employee development programmes.
educate and welcome our new joiners.
46 Strategic Report | Resources and relationships Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 RESOURCES AND RELATIONSHIPS CONTINUED During the year we undertook the risks that may cause an emergency for our Our partners can provide local and global following activities: business and how to respond.
Areas covered expertise which supplement our own capabilities.
included flooding, pandemic flu, utility A global gap analysis was carried out to The roll-out of our Streamline Programme failures and terrorist attacks.
compare current conditions and practices for customers is well underway.
The Streamline in order to identify gaps and areas in Programme encompasses updated terms OUR SATELLITE AND need of improvement.
Opportunities for and conditions and agreements for our GROUND NETWORKS improvement have already begun and will partners which can be accessed through continue as part of our 2018 framework a partner portal which contains service and As part of our business of operating a global product information as well.
Many of our satellite network, we operate a number of We reviewed our fire strategy at HQ with a view key customers have transitioned to this new ground earth stations, VSAT and telemetry to continue this approach into 2018 for all sites way of working.
Additionally, all new customers and tracking facilities where there are satellite are using the Streamline Programme as We introduced training for shift workers dishes which generate radiation.
This roll-out will continue into 2018. these sites is restricted and there are regular Risk assessments continue to be a key health and safety checks to ensure that they The Global Procurement team has been focus of our business for different activities are in protected areas away from access working to understand its suppliers much and legislative requirements by the general public.
Personnel who work at better during the year.
This has led us to these sites are provided with relevant training Mental health first aid training and undertake a rationalisation of our supply-base as to health and safety issues.
awareness was once again arranged and and we will continue to do this by appointing was well received across our global offices preferred and approved vendors, with whom SPACE DEBRIS we have standard terms in place.
As a satellite operator, we have adopted the The annual Wellbeing Week, with a focus highest industry standards in terms of space on maintaining a healthy eating lifestyle As part of our ongoing programme of supplier debris mitigation, including end-of-life for employees, was again supported by due diligence we worked with a third party agency graveyard manoeuvre plans for the disposal offices in all our key hubs who undertook a review of our entire supply of satellites when they reach the end of their base to undertake a risk review including credit, We continued to drive improvements commercial life.
We operate our satellites in compliance and other business risk areas.
in operating in a safe operating culture geosynchronous orbit which is approximately We will use this analysis further in identifying 36,000km 22,500 miles above the Earth.
We embedded processes in our corporate and mitigating risk in our supply chain and This orbit has significantly less debris than systems for capturing staff, contractors or the supply chains of our suppliers.
at low earth orbit which is approximately interns globally who may have a disability 700km above the Earth and where several The simplification of our Procure to Pay or mobility impairment to be compliant MSS operators have their satellite constellations.
function was further supported by a number with the Disability Discrimination Act We are also a founding member of the Space of enhancements to our core finance system.
We continue to monitor the following health Data Association SDA.
Along with Intelsat, One element of this was the creation of and safety priorities based on business SES and Eutelsat we aim to improve the a Procurement Portal which enables a new activities and the potential harm to staff: satellite safety of flight and make operations way to buy across the Company, ensuring in space safer and more reliable.
we guide employees to the preferred and Musculoskeletal disorders and DSE approved suppliers we want them to use.
display screen equipment related This, in conjunction with, the further roll-out OUR TECHNOLOGY ill health of Purchasing Cards allows the business to We have identified technology as one of the Working at height acquire the goods and services they need key resources supporting our business model.
using the most cost-effective methods.
Manual handling While investment in innovation is clearly A number of corporate deals have been put in important, having talented and experienced Lone working place during 2017 including the contract for teams who understand how technology and a Group-wide travel management company.
Specific training and awareness materials innovation can work together is essential.
are provided to staff who are affected by Our teams monitor what happens in the In 2017, we published our Modern Slavery these identified areas of work.
macro environment and see how this affects Policy which can be accessed on our website.
future innovation so we produce services We are also finalising our supplier code of We introduced an on-line tool for staff to log our customers want to use.
conduct to take into account changes in incidents.
This will allow us to capture data to regulations such as corporate tax evasion monitor trends and implement corrective OUR PARTNERS so that appropriate due diligence can be action where necessary.
This is particularly undertaken as part of our onboarding and useful for our field engineers and those Our partners are critical to our business success.
ongoing relationships with our suppliers working in shipyards for installations.
Our definition of partners encompasses all and partners generally.
those we work with manufacturers, suppliers, In 2017, we participated in several UK local distributors, service providers and end-users.
government-led meetings with emergency We rely on their excellence to support the service representatives to identify and assess achievement of our business objectives and strengthen our service offering.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report | Resources and relationships 47 committed to the provision of International Civil Aviation Organisation ICAO approved satellite safety services, and are expanding our safety offerings with our SwiftBroadbandSafety service being trialled successfully and rolled-out on aircraft during 2017.
In 2017, we continued to support the telecommunications relief aid organisation, Tlcoms Sans Frontires TSF.
We paid a $240,000 cash donation and $100,000 in free airtime.
We also paid $115,000 to the World Maritime University as part of our support for the education of maritime specialists.
These two payments are our most significant charitable payments.
The total charitable donations amount paid in 2017 was approximately $420,000.
This amount excludes the free airtime and terminals we offer to multiple charities as we support their endeavours throughout the year.
Our core charitable support remains on the work carried out by TSF.
TSF runs programmes on disaster relief and preparedness, training Volvo Ocean Race other relief organisations and regional and national disaster response agencies about Inmarsat is delighted to provide onboard connectivity to the Volvo Ocean Race for the the available capabilities for emergency fifth consecutive time.
Once again, we provide support for the sailors in terms of safety, telecommunications.
We have also communications and advanced broadcasting.
The partnership with Volvo Ocean Race continued our support for the International allows Inmarsat to showcase our cutting edge, reliable technology that connects Telecommunications Union ITU.
In 2017, sailors to the rest of the world, even from the most isolated locations.
we started to provide support for Team Rubicon UK which unites the skills and experiences of military veterans with first responders to The service enables ship masters to access MEETING OUR PUBLIC rapidly deploy emergency response teams reports of pirate movements, giving them RESPONSIBILITY worldwide.
35 individuals from across the information to know which regions to avoid Inmarsat business were trained as Greyshirts, Our website provides considerable information with high pirate activity and allowing them which means they have completed training about how we connect with organisations, to re-route if necessary.
SafetyNET also courses to be able to support the charity.
We individuals and our different partners to extend broadcasts navigational and meteorological supported Team Rubicon deployments in Nepal, the reach of our services to support those who warnings and alerts to aid mariners in safety Sri Lanka, Australia, U. S. UK and the Caribbean may need assistance either for humanitarian of navigation.
by providing resources and communications needs or charitable endeavours.
You can find equipment and airtime, Our staff were encouraged The 2017-18 Volvo Ocean Race, of which out more online at inmarsat.
com and review to get involved during Company time and we Inmarsat is the official satellite communications case studies and updates in our CSR section.
launched our volunteering policy to our global provider, relies on Inmarsat safety services Our maritime heritage is a key reminder to workforce in February 2018. for the crews to maintain communication at us of how we have supported mariners and all times, wherever they are.
This year we piloted Our CEO, Rupert Pearce serves as Commissioner the wider maritime community for 39 years a new web-based system for Rescue Coordination to the Broadband Commission for Digital and remain focused on doing so in the future.
Centres RCCs which was used by Volvo Development.
It was set up by the ITU and UNESCO We remain the only approved provider of Ocean Race control and RCCs to coordinate with the aim of boosting the importance of satellite communications services for the rescue operations if needed.
FleetBroadband, broadband on the international policy agenda Global Maritime Distress and Safety System Inmarsat C and our handheld phone are all and expanding broadband access to accelerate GMDSS and we continue to invest in the standard equipment for each of the yachts.
progress towards national and international development of maritime safety services.
Our IsatPhone handheld service was used in the development targets, as proposed by the UN.
This year, we launched SafetyNET II, an last Race to provide emergency communications He is also a member of the Broadband enhancement to the Inmarsat C SafetyNET when one of the ships ran aground, with Commissions Working Groups on Digital system, providing shoreside authorities a the yacht captain praising it for saving the Entrepreneurship, Vulnerable Countries secure web-based interface with an interactive crews lives.
and Digital Health Working Group.
platform to give greater control and flexibility In addition to maritime safety services, we of their safety broadcasts.
Our Inmarsat C also promote safety services to the aviation SafetyNET service continues to be used to industry for use in the cockpit.
We remain provide vital updates on reported pirate activity.
48 Strategic Report | Resources and relationships Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 RESOURCES AND RELATIONSHIPS CONTINUED Our Universal Service Obligations seek providing information on the Inmarsat satellite education to encourage young people to be to support the use of our services, normally systems, our maritime safety services, what inspired by space-enabled communications payphones, in rural villages in remote regions being a GMDSS provider means, how accident and to follow careers in the satellite world.
of the world, where terrestrial voice services investigations are handled and how Inmarsat In 2017 we expanded our entry routes into are poor or non-existent.
supports the welfare of seafarers through Inmarsat for those at the start or early stages its services.
Our global offices support local causes of their career.
In 2018 we will see the start of at a corporate and employee level and As part of some UK Space Association funded a renewed graduate programme that consists we encourage staff to get involved in local projects, we are working with the University of three work streams: engineering, corporate community initiatives.
Employees across our of Leeds on an eHealth project in Nigeria, and functions, and business development.
offices are encouraged to support individual and work with a number of universities and Internships and work experience opportunities charities of their choice, and for employees research centres on some of our future are improved and have increased and are fully in our principal UK office, this is encouraged satellite development projects.
transparent for applicants of all backgrounds.
through the UK Governments tax approved We are also supporting the UK Governments Now into its fifth year, this years award-winning contributions scheme.
intent to increase apprenticeships and skills Inmarsat Summer Strategy Challenge concluded provision and we will have our first entry In 2017, we implemented three major well.
We work with a London exemplar STEM of apprentices in 2018. international development programmes, focused college to make opportunities available each of which is supported by the UK Space to a number of their talented students to complete Recruitment processes for these are managed Agencys International Partnership Programme a challenging programme, addressing critical to encourage and support a diverse applicant IPP.
The IPP is a fund that supports real world issues, such as the digital divide and entry pool.
international development objectives aligned to in Africa, the future of aero safety and forest Utilising TARGETJobs for graduate hiring the Sustainable Development Goals SDG it governance in south east Asia.
We are seeking we are partnering with them and other uses the unique advantages of space based to pioneer a new model of industry-college engineering employers on their Future Female systems to provide service and data to engagement.
Increasingly, experience that Engineer days to bring more women into the disadvantaged populations.
All of the projects goes beyond the norm is essential in the route sector.
More specifically they are supporting must meet defined SDG ambitions and to work and Inmarsats programme is targeted us in our desire to hire more female graduates demonstrate that the project is the most to support deserving students.
Additionally, and we have specified a certain percentage effective way of meeting the international the programme with the London-based school of female applicants for consideration.
forms part of Inmarsats promotion of STEM Indonesia fisheries: Enhancing the safety, productivity and food security of Indonesian fishers and their communities by designing and implementing innovative solutions for smart satellite technology to promote inclusive and sustainable fishing practices in Indonesia Philippines: Reducing the impact of natural disasters by prepositioning powerful but easily deployable equipment, supported by effective training to permit the operation of disaster response communications Nigeria eHealth: Raising the standard of Nigerian healthcare outcomes by extending the reach of basic medical services into remote areas of the country, delivering professional training, data collection and disease monitoring in areas with poor communications through the application of satellite connectivity Inmarsat Greyshirts Team Rubicon Training Centre, Chilmark, UK June 2017 EDUCATION Team Rubicon help those affected in the immediate aftermath of disasters, when infrastructure is overwhelmed.
Team Rubicon unites the skills and experiences of military We continued with our funding of the veterans with civilian first responders and volunteers, to deploy both domestically and Inmarsat Chair of Maritime Education and internationally.
Volunteers are given an initial two day training and those who deploy on Training at the World Maritime University.
behalf of Team Rubicon are known as Greyshirts.
Inmarsat is very proud to be the first UK Our President, Inmarsat Maritime sits on their business to partner with Team Rubicon providing airtime, hardware and employee support.
As part of this partnership we conduct a three-day Inmarsat Seminar Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report | Resources and relationships 49 We are proud to be sponsoring the Best Carbon Credentials, to quantify emissions This decrease in emissions is a result of our switch Diversity Strategy Award at the TARGETjobs from our indirect Scope 3 activities with the to a renewable electricity supply at our London National Graduate Recruitment Awards 2018. ambition of engaging with our major suppliers headquarters, our largest  We also actively engage with young people to set meaningful and ambitious emissions site, and a number of energy-saving initiatives to encourage greater awareness of careers reductions targets.
This work feeds into our rolled out across the Group.
available to those with a solid STEM education.
ongoing programme to set a science-based All new office builds, such as in St Johns Canada Our diverse range of initiatives enables a emission reduction target in line with the UKs and Batam Indonesia, are designed with energy broad variety of participants to engage with us.
commitment under the UN Paris Agreement.
We continue to improve These include students from a diverse range We have approximately 2,000 staff who operations to ensure they are fine tuned to of socio-economic backgrounds as well as work in over 50 locations around the world.
occupational usage, including the efficient highlighting a desire to have more females Of those offices, warehouses and earth stations, running of servers at our data centres.
Across entering into the sector.
We are proactive over 80% operate from eight locations.
the group LED lighting has been installed where in ensuring that the conversations we have appropriate.
Video conferencing and other with young people come before they make Our environmental principles are to: collaboration tools allowing visual connectivity important study choices that restrict future are being used to reduce the dependency Provide first-class energy and environmental career options.
We are passionate about on air transport and are a popular means of management practices highlighting the successes of women in this communication with staff working in different sector and creating inspirational role models.
Comply with all relevant global environmental locations and across different time zones.
legislation and regulatory controls Our website contains more information on At our headquarters in London we are currently the areas of education we support, including, Identify significant environmental and social undertaking a refurbishment that will help for example our continued support for World impacts and establish objectives and targets reduce energy consumption at site.
We are in Space Week, an initiative started by the for improvement the process of replacing the energy-intensive United Nations in 1999. chillers on-site with new environmentally In our main UK site, recycle a minimum of friendly machines which produce less carbon 90% of generated waste and to constantly ENVIRONMENT emissions per unit of gas input and operate review the opportunity to use recycled products 20% more efficiently.
In 2017 Inmarsat achieved a CDP formerly Actively encourage the conservation of known as the Carbon Disclosure Project COMMERCIAL WASTE energy, water and natural resources through score of B, maintaining our performance from In the London office and at our major sites, the increased efficiency and introduction 2016 and demonstrating that we are managing we continue a progressive approach to waste of new and modern technology our environmental impact, as well as climate management.
Recycling is managed locally change related business risks and opportunities.
Encourage all employees to be proactive in the larger sites with the separation of plastics, in their daily activities by separating their paper and non-recyclable materials.
In the Although the direct activities of the Group waste into dry and wet waste receptacles head office in London, which is the single are judged to have a low environmental impact, largest office for the Group, 100% of waste is we understand that unless urgent action is Ensure that printer cartridges are recycled diverted from landfill and this policy has been taken to limit global temperatures to 2C 35.6F Switch off lights, computers, phone chargers in place since 2009.
We separate our waste above pre-industrial levels, climate change and any other electrical items when not in use into four streams: recyclable, non-recyclable, presents significant and systemic risks.
Within glass and confidential waste.
Confidential our annual CDP response we provide details Reduce business travel and using more waste is shredded and pulped to be reused in on Inmarsats substantive regulatory, physical site-based technology such as video and paper products.
In 2017 our total waste from and reputational risks and opportunities relating audio conferencing and the London head office increased 72%.
For example, rising sea levels increase is something we are addressing and Replace inefficient building lighting with as a result of climate change could impact working with our London office caterers to LED technology our satellite access stations and or land earth reduce our impact on the environment and, stations which are located at strategic points We continue to monitor our energy consumption for example, cooking oils are now collected around the world and act as traffic gateways and comply with our social and legal responsibilities and converted to sustainable biofuels.
connecting customers using the Inmarsat in terms of carbon emissions.
Please see our satellites to terrestrial networks.
To manage The Strategic Report, as set out on the summary of carbon emissions within the Report this risk, we have established site selection due IFC up to page 55, has been approved by of the Directors on page 100. diligence processes which incorporate climatic the Board.
In 2017 we set an interim target to reduce absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 10% Looking beyond our direct climate impact, compared to 2016.
We have over-achieved it is important to note that our stakeholders ALISON HORROCKS this target with our absolute Scope 1 and 2 identified that working with suppliers to CHIEF CORPORATE AFFAIRS OFFICER emissions having decreased by 17% since 2016, reduce emissions in our supply chain should AND COMPANY SECRETARY and 35% since 2015 using the market-based be a priority for Inmarsat.
As a result, we are Scope 2 accountancy method.
9 March 2018 currently working with our sustainability partner,
