74 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Audit Committee Report The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
Dear Shareholder, The Group Head of Internal Audit and the external auditors attend all meetings and also meet in private with the I am pleased to present the report of the Audit Committee for Committee: they also have regular contact with the Chair 2017.
During the year the Committee continued to focus on throughout the year.
The Chair also meets with the Chief areas of significant judgement in the financial statements as Financial Officer and Group Head of Internal Audit in advance set out in the report below.
of each meeting to agree the agenda and receive a full briefing on the key agenda items.
The Committee also closely monitored the Groups preparations for IFRS 9, including key areas of interpretation Nathan Moss served on the Committee from 7 February 2017 and assumption, the impact analysis from the parallel run, the until 31 May 2017 when he resigned from the Board.
use of models and the governance and control environment.
Further details on the activities of the Committee during the The Committee also commenced a competitive tender process year and how it discharged its responsibilities are also for the external audit of the Group from 2019, against the provided in the report below.
backdrop of the UKs adoption of EU legislation to reform the statutory audit market, which became effective for the Bank Eric Anstee in 2017.
Chair of the Audit Committee 15 March 2018 Membership and meetings The Committee met six times in 2017, reflecting the workload of the Committee during the year.
All members of the Audit Responsibilities Committee are independent Non-Executive Directors.
The The primary role of the Committee is to assist the Board in Chair of the Committee, Eric Anstee, has a wealth of recent overseeing the systems of internal control and external and relevant financial and accounting experience in financial financial reporting across the Group.
Taken as a whole, the Committee has an appropriate responsibilities are set out in its terms of reference, which are balance of skills, including recent and relevant financial reviewed at least annually.
These are available on the experience.
Standing invitations are extended to the Executive Companys website www.
co. uk and cover external and Directors, Chief Risk Officer, Group Head of Internal Audit and internal audit, financial and narrative reporting, compliance, Group Head of Compliance, all of whom attend meetings as whistleblowing, fraud and internal controls.
Other non-members may be invited to attend all or part of any meeting as and when appropriate.
In addition, the Chair of the Audit Committee has informed management that he is available to meet with the Companys investors on request, in accordance with the Financial Reporting Councils Stewardship Code.
Activities during 2017 The principal activities undertaken by the Committee during the year are described below.
Significant areas of judgement considered by the Committee The following significant accounting judgements were considered by the Committee in relation to the 2017 Annual Report and financial statements.
In its assessment, the Committee considered and challenged reports from management prior to both the interim and full year results, explaining each area of judgement and managements recommended approach.
The Committee also received reports from the external auditor setting out its views on the accounting treatment and judgements underpinning the financial statements.
Loan book impairments Specific provision assessments for individually significant loans or portfolios of loans involve significant judgement in relation to estimating future cash flows, including the cost of obtaining and selling collateral, the likely sale proceeds and any rental income prior to sale.
Strategic report Governance F Financial st inancial stat atemen ements ts 75 Loan book acquisition accounting and income recognition All assets without a specific provision are assessed collectively.
Acquired loan books are initially recognised at cost.
Significant Collective provisions are calculated using 12 month judgement is required in calculating their effective interest delinquency roll rates and one year probability of default rate EIR, using cash flow models which include assumptions rates PD on different segments of the loan book.
The PD on the likely macroeconomic environment, including HPI, calculations include assumptions for emergence periods, cure unemployment levels and interest rates, as well as loan level rates and forbearance.
Loss given default LGD includes and portfolio attributes and history used to derive prepayment assumptions on forced sale discounts and the level of house rates, the probability and timing of defaults and the amount prices.
Significant judgement needs to be exercised in deciding of incurred losses.
The EIRs on loan books purchased at how to apply historic experience to current market conditions significant discounts are particularly sensitive to the in both the PD and LGD calculations.
prepayment and default rates derived as the purchase discount is recognised over the expected life of the loan book The Committee received and challenged reports from through the EIR.
New defaults are modelled at zero loss management prior to each reporting date, explaining the as losses will be recognised in profit and loss as impairment approach taken to provisioning and the resulting changes in provision levels during the period.
The Committee assessed losses and therefore have the same impact on EIR as the appropriateness of proposed enhancements to the prepayments.
Incurred losses at acquisition are calculated methodologies, judgements and estimates underpinning using the Groups collective provision model.
The Committee the collective provision calculations.
During the year the reviewed and challenged reports from management before management did not make any changes to collectively each reporting date on the approach taken.
Particular focus assessed impairment methodologies, however it did assess was given to loan books purchased at significant discounts, the ongoing appropriateness of all judgements and estimates.
including sensitivity analysis on the impact of estimated The Committee assessed and approved enhancements future prepayment rates and other assumptions on carrying proposed by management relating to forced sale discount value and the timing of the release of discounts to profit and and time to sale assumptions, which fed LGD calculations.
The Committee reviewed a comparison of actual cash flows to those assumed in the cash flow models by book to The Committee reviewed additional information by loan book challenge managements assessment of the need to update during the year including provision coverage ratios, assumed cash flow projections and adjust carrying values accordingly.
probability of default, loss given default and loan to value Based on this work, the Committee is satisfied that the ratios for loans three months or more in arrears and impaired approach taken and judgements made were reasonable.
balances to help with their assessment of the reasonableness of provisions.
Effective interest rate A number of assumptions are made when calculating the The Committee asked the Risk Committee to review and effective interest rate for newly originated loan assets.
These provide advice on the collective provision methodologies include their expected lives, likely redemption profiles and the and assumptions and to review the top 20 impaired loans anticipated level of any early redemption charges.
Certain for the half year and year end.
At least two members of the mortgage products offered by the Bank include significant Committee were also members of the Risk Committee directly attributable net fee income, in particular Buy-to-Let, throughout 2017 and as such received additional detailed and or revert to the standard variable rate SVR after an credit information on the loan book throughout the year.
initial discount or fixed period.
Judgement is used in assessing the expected rate of prepayment during the discounted The Committee is satisfied that the approach taken and or fixed period of these mortgages and the expected life of judgements made were reasonable.
The Group uses historical experience in its assessment.
Judgement is also used in assessing whether The Committee also received regular reports from and for how long mortgages that reach the end of the product management on the Groups preparations for and approach term stay on SVR.
The most significant area of judgement is to IFRS 9: Financial Instruments, which became effective from the period spent on SVR.
The Group prudently assumes no 1 January 2018.
The reports covered the classification and period on SVR before the borrower refinances onto a new measurement of financial instruments and the determination product or redeems, until a consistent trend has emerged of impairment provisions and a hedging update.
The key from the newly enhanced broker led retention programme.
focus was on IFRS 9 models, interpretation of results, key The Committee reviewed and challenged the assumptions assumptions and judgements, scenario and macroeconomic used in EIR calculations, in particular the period over which net variables used within models, the results of the 2017 parallel fee income is spread, and also received sensitivity analysis for run and the proposed ongoing business as usual as well as different product lives including a period on the Companys model governance, controls and procedures.
Based on this work, the Committee is satisfied that the approach taken and judgements made were reasonable.
Further details of the above significant areas of judgement can be found in note 2 to the financial statements.
In addition, the Committee reviewed the Groups approach to hedge accounting and received reports on the effectiveness of the Groups macro-hedging throughout the year.
76 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Audit Committee Report continued Systems of internal control and risk management The Committee also considered the results of managements The Committee received regular reports from the Internal regular reviews of the amortisation profile of fair value Audit function during 2017, which included progress updates adjustments on hedged assets associated with cancelled against the Internal Audit Plan, the results of audits swaps against the roll-off of the underlying legacy back book undertaken and any outstanding audit action points.
The of long-dated fixed rate mortgages.
Following the half year Committee approved the annual review of the Compliance review, the Group accelerated the amortisation of fair value Framework and Assurance Plan and received reports from adjustments on hedged assets in line with the mortgage the Groups Compliance function and the Annual Statement asset run-off, due to faster than expected prepayments.
of Compliance from the Group Head of Compliance.
The Committee used the Internal Audit and Compliance Reports Fair, balanced and understandable as the basis for its assessment of the effectiveness of the The Committee considered on behalf of the Board whether Groups system of internal controls and risk management.
the 2017 Annual Report and financial statements taken as The Committee also received a report on the effectiveness of a whole are fair, balanced and understandable, and whether the Groups system of controls from the CEO, which was based the disclosures are appropriate.
The Committee reviewed the Groups procedures around the preparation, review and on a self-assessment process completed by senior managers challenge of the Report and the consistency of the narrative and executives in the Group.
sections with the financial statements and the use of alternative performance measures and associated disclosures.
The Committee received and reviewed reports from management on the status of the substantiation of balance Following its review, the Committee is satisfied that the sheet general ledger accounts prior to the reporting date.
Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for shareholders and The Committee reviewed and approved a number of policies other stakeholders to assess the Groups position and following their annual refresh, including: anti-bribery and performance, business model and strategy, and has advised corruption, data protection, data retention and record the Board accordingly.
management, fraud, sanctions and whistleblowing and anti-money laundering and counter terrorist financing.
Pillar 3 disclosures The Committee approved the Groups The Committee received reports on fraud prevention Pillar 3 regulatory disclosures for publication on the Groups arrangements and fraud incidents, whistleblowing and website, following a review of the governance and control an annual report from the Groups MLRO during the year.
The Committee also received regular updates on data Internal Audit governance and controls as the Group enhances its data The Company continued to use in-house Internal Audit governance arrangements in connection with its planned resource during the year with the Group Head of Internal Audit application for an Internal Ratings Based IRB model for and her team supported by a panel of external accountancy capital requirements.
firms who provided expert resource when requested on specific internal audits, on a co-source basis.
External auditor The Committee is responsible for overseeing the Groups The primary role of Internal Audit is to help the Board and relationship with its external auditor, KPMG LLP KPMG.
executive management to protect the Groups assets, This includes the ongoing assessment of the auditors reputation and sustainability.
It assists the Company in independence and the effectiveness of the external audit accomplishing its objectives by bringing a systematic process, the results of which inform the Committees and disciplined approach to evaluate and improve the recommendation to the Board relating to the auditors effectiveness of the risk management, control and appointment subject to shareholder approval or otherwise.
Appointment and tenure The Internal Audit Charter, which formally defines internal KPMG was appointed as the first external auditor of the Group audits purpose, authority and responsibility, was approved for the period ended 31 December 2011.
Prior to that date it by the Committee in December 2017.
The Committee also fulfilled the external audit function for Kent Reliance Building approved the annual Internal Audit Plan, which was Society from the period ended 31 December 2010.
The current developed, based on a prioritisation of the audit universe lead audit partner, Pamela McIntyre, has been in role since using a risk-based methodology, including input from senior the 2016 audit.
The Audit Committee confirms that the Group management and the Committee.
A written report is prepared is in compliance with the Statutory Audit Services for Large following the conclusion of each internal audit engagement Companies Market Investigation mandatory use of competitive and distributed to the Committee and senior management.
tender processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order Responsibility for ensuring appropriate corrective action is 2014 which requires FTSE 350 companies to put their statutory taken lies with management.
The Internal Audit function audit services out to tender not less frequently than every follows up on engagement findings and recommendations ten years.
until remedial action has been completed.
New EU legislation adopted by the UK in 2016 set a maximum The Committee carries out an annual review of the audit tenure of 20 years and also requires a tender at least effectiveness of the Internal Audit function.
This was facilitated every ten years.
The new legislation is effective for financial for 2017 by a survey completed by Committee members, periods commencing on or after 17 June 2016.
Against this certain executives and the external auditors who had interacted backdrop, the Group has decided to put the external audit with the Internal Audit function during the year.
Following the contract out for tender for its 2019 financial year.
review, the Committee was satisfied that the Internal Audit function operated effectively during the year.
Strategic report Governance F Financial st inancial stat atemen ements ts 77 process, communication, reporting and support to the To that end, a formal tender process was launched in the Committee as well as the independence and objectivity of the fourth quarter of 2017 with a desk top review of audit firms, external auditor.
The assessment concluded that the external focusing on expertise and experience in FTSE 350 audits in audit process was effective.
A number of firms were then invited to take part in a request for information RFI process in December, The audit carried out by KPMG in respect of the Groups followed by face to face meetings between the proposed lead financial statements for 2016 was the subject of an in-depth audit partners and senior managers and a sub-set of the review during the year by the Financial Reporting Councils Committee in early 2018.
The Committee then selected FRC Audit Quality Review Team.
The Committee reviewed the a shortlist of two firms in March 2018 to take through to findings and discussed them with KPMG and the matters a formal request for proposal RFP process.
raised have been addressed in the planning and execution for the audit for 2017.
The Committee remains satisfied with the Effectiveness efficiency and effectiveness of the audit.
The Committee assesses the effectiveness of the external audit function on an annual basis.
In 2017, the review was facilitated through a survey completed by members of the Committee, certain Executive Directors and other key employees who had significant interaction with the external audit team during the year.
The survey assessed the effectiveness of the lead partner and audit team, the audit approach and execution, the role of management in the audit Prohibited services Approved permitted services Book-keeping and preparing accounting records General accounting advice on the application of IFRS and and financial statements training support Financial information systems design and Regulatory advice and reporting tools implementation.
Internal control or risk management procedures relating to financial information design or implementation Valuation services, including those in connection Comfort letters, accounting opinions as required by the regulator, with actuarial or litigation support services FLS TFS net lending assurance opinions, agreed upon procedures in relation to securitisations HR and payroll services Other audit-related services: interim profit verification: half year review Services linked to the financing, capital structure Such other activities as may be agreed by the Committee from time and allocation and investment strategy of the to time Company other than assurance services in relation to the financial statements such as comfort letters Promoting, dealing in or underwriting shares in the Company Legal services with respect to the provision of general counsel, negotiating on behalf of the audit entity and acting in an advocacy role in the resolution of litigation Internal audit services HR and payroll services Tax services, including tax compliance and advice Services that play any part in the management or decision making of the Company 78 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Audit Committee Report continued Non-audit services 2017 2016 Nature of service 000 000 The engagement of the external auditor to provide non-audit services to the Group could impact the assessment of its Audit-related assurance services independence and objectivity.
The Group has therefore including half year review and interim established a policy governing the use of the external auditor profit verifications 96 96 for non-audit services.
The policy specifies prohibited and Tax compliance and advice 70 approved permitted services as detailed in the table on page Regulatory advice and support 8 36 77 for 2017 and sets the framework within which permitted 1 Other 47 48 non-audit services may be provided.
Prohibited services Total non-audit services 151 250 comprise activities that are generally perceived to involve theauditor making judgements or decisions that are the 1.
O ther non-audit services included AT1 issuance and hedge accounting advice responsibility of management.
in 2017 and in 2016 related to agreed upon procedures in respect of a new securitisation vehicle and assurance work in relation to net lending for the The Groups policy governing the use of the external auditor Funding For Lending Scheme.
for non-audit services was updated in 2017 to comply with new EU statutory audit market reform legislation adopted in Training the UK.
Restrictions on the nature of permissible non-audit The Committee undertook a significant amount of training services became effective for financial periods commencing during the year, including making extensive use of the Audit on or after 17 June 2016.
These included certain restrictions Committee Institute and training programmes run by the on the use of the statutory auditor for tax compliance and major accountancy firms.
In addition, Committee members advice.
Accordingly, the Group ceased using KPMG for tax attended a number of executive level Committee meetings compliance or advice after 31 December 2016. and met with key staff during the year to increase their knowledge and understanding of the business.
The Group maintains active relationships with several other large firms and any decision to appoint the external auditor Effectiveness is taken in the context of whether their understanding of the The Committee formally considers its effectiveness annually.
Group places them in a better position than other firms to The assessment was facilitated for 2017 using a survey undertake the work and includes an assessment of the completed by members of the Committee.
The review cost-effectiveness and practicality of using an alternative firm.
concluded that the Committee operated effectively throughout 2017 with no significant improvements required.
The new EU statutory audit market reform legislation adopted in the UK also applies a cap on permissible non-audit services of 70% of the proceeding three-year average of audit fees.
This is applicable for financial periods commencing on or after 17 June 2019.
The Committee pre-approved a number of permitted services in 2017: interim profit verifications and the half year review.
The Committee also pre-approved other permitted non-audit services subject to an overall threshold of 50% of the final cost of the 2016 Group annual audit services and subject to any single item above 100,000 being pre-agreed with the Committee Chair.
The Committee reviews a schedule of year-to-date non-audit services at each meeting.
The fees paid to the external auditor in respect of non-audit services during 2017 totalled 151,000 representing 19% of 2017 Group audit services of 816,000 2016: 250,000 representing 47% of 2016 Group audit services of 535,000 and are detailed in the table below.
The 2017 audit fee includes non-recurring fees of 207,000 in respect of the audit of system migrations and the Groups adoption of IFRS 9.
The Committees assessment of the external auditors independence in 2017 took into account the non-audit services provided during the year, and confirmations given by KPMG as to its continued independence at various stages in the year.
