Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance | Governance at work 57 GOVERNANCE AT WORK This section of the LEADERSHIP ACCOUNTABILITY Annual Report shares with you how we operate IN THIS SECTION IN THIS SECTION as a Board and explains This section provides an overview of the Board Our Audit Committee Chairman has now and how it and its Committees work together.
gone through his second full annual cycle the responsibilities we and we have a new Committee member Details of the type of activity considered by the have as Directors to all our who joined in August 2017.
Board and also some of the core responsibilities for certain Directors are also explained.
The work of the Audit Committee extends stakeholders.
We describe and expands as the number of new auditing As part of the Board evaluation process, the different Board and governance requirements grows.
the Directors comment on the wide range of Committees and how they discussions it considers and this is reflected WHY THIS IS IMPORTANT in the following summary.
Two of our Board Committees have are accountable for clearly responsibility for oversight of our telecoms WHY THIS IS IMPORTANT regulatory requirements and audit reporting.
defined responsibilities, It is important to have strong leadership from the Board as a whole to support the Executive These are significant areas of focus for our each headed by a business and it is important for stakeholders Directors and management in their day-to-day running of the business.
to know that this is recognised at the highest Non-Executive Director level in the Company.
The Board supports an open and transparent It is critical to know that there is a process culture which is endorsed by the Executive The Board is committed to the highest Directors and the Executive Management Team.
of accountability running throughout the standards of governance and it does this Company with good processes in place SEE PAGES 62 TO 66 whilst being responsible for the overall and defined levels of responsibility.
conduct of the Groups business and by SEE PAGES 70 TO 74 providing leadership and guidance.
BOARD ACTIVITIES IN 2017 Managed the transition of longer-serving EFFECTIVENESS REMUNERATION Directors and welcomed a new addition to the Board Reviewed the Groups strategy to support IN THIS SECTION IN THIS SECTION additional investment in aviation In-Flight In the Report from the Nominations Committee This section of the governance report Connectivity opportunities, including Chairman, we reflect on the elements of how provides a review of what remuneration has new satellite commitments the Board is made up, how we plan to ensure been paid to Executive Directors in 2017 success in the future and how we make and what is intended to be paid in 2018 Discussions regarding future sure on an annual basis that we are being called the implementation report and how dividend planning held accountable to each other as Board we operate within an agreed remuneration members and also to our stakeholders.
Shareholders are asked to vote at Approval of investment in modernisation the AGM annually on the implementation of key operating systems to improve billing WHY THIS IS IMPORTANT report, and every three years on the and IT infrastructure to benefit customers Having an effective and contributing Board, Remuneration Policy.
with the right skills, experience and willingness and employees to contribute to the Companys culture, is WHY THIS IS IMPORTANT very important to our success as a company Our Remuneration Committee carries the and therefore to our stakeholders.
responsibility to deliver a clear articulation of our Remuneration Policy and consider It is incumbent on the Board to make sure this in the context of the pay arrangements that it is diligent in its succession planning for all our employees.
It is important for at Board level and also contributing to what stakeholders to understand how remuneration happens at the Executive Management is determined and that the appropriate Board level and understanding succession links between remuneration, strategy, planning across the Company.
