60 Leadership Board of Directors The Board comprises eight Directors.
The names of the Directors serving throughout the year and at the year end are shown here.
Philip Aiken AM 69 Leo Quinn 61 Chairman Group Chief Executive Joined the Board as Chairman in March 2015.
Appointed as Group Chief Executive in January Maureen Kempston Darkes retired as a He is non-executive chairman of Aveva Group 2015, after five years as group chief executive non-executive Director at the conclusion plc and a non-executive director of Newcrest of QinetiQ Group plc and before that five years ofthe AGM on 18 May 2017.
He was a non-executive as CEO of fide La Rue plc.
Prior to these senior director of National Grid plc, chairman of roles, he spent almost four years as COO From 6 January 2017, as part of an agreed Robert Walters plc and a non-executive of Invensys plcs production management review of Committee membership: andsenior independent director of business, headquartered in the US, and 16 Kazakhmys plc and Essar Energy plc, and years with Honeywell Inc in senior management Stephen Billingham joined the Safety a senior adviser at Macquarie Bank Ltd. roles across the UK, Europe, the Middle East andSustainability Committee Prior to that, he was group president Energy and Africa, including global president of H&BC Iain Ferguson left the Safety and BHPBilliton and president BHP Petroleum, Enterprise Solutions.
He was a non-executive Sustainability Committee.
chief executive of BTR Nylex, and held senior director of Betfair Group plc and Tomkins plc.
Following the retirement of Maureen roles in BOC Group.
He is a civil engineer, and began his career at Balfour Beatty.
He is the founder of The 5% Kempston Darkes, Stuart Doughty became 2 3 4 Club which encourages industry to increase Chairman of the Safety and Sustainability graduate training and apprenticeships.
On 6 July 2017, there was a further review of 2 3 5 6 committee membership: Iain Ferguson left the Audit and Risk Committee and joined the Safety and Sustainability Committee Stephen Billingham left the Safety and Sustainability Committee and joined theNomination Committee Barbara Moorhouse joined the Audit and Risk Committee and the Remuneration Committee Michael Lucki joined the Remuneration Committee and with effect from 1 September 2017 joined the Audit Philip Harrison 57 Iain Ferguson CBE 62 andRisk Committee.
Chief Financial officer Non-executive Senior Independent Director Appointed as Chief Financial officer in June 2015.
He was previously group finance Appointed a Director in January 2010.
Board Committees code: director at Hogg Robinson Group plc, and Until 2009, he was chief executive of Tate 1 Audit and Risk before that he was group finance director at &Lyle.
Prior to joining Tate & Lyle in 2003, VT Group plc.
Prior to that, he served as VP he spent 26 years at Unilever in a succession 2 Safety and Sustainability Finance at Hewlett-Packard Europe, Middle of roles culminating in his appointment as East and Africa region and was a member senior vice-president, corporate development.
3 Nomination of the EMEA board.
His earlier career He is non-executive chairman of Stobart Group included senior international finance roles at Limited and of Wilton Park, an independent Compaq, Rank Xerox and Texas Instruments.
4 Remuneration and non-profit making Executive Agency of He is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of the British Foreign and Commonwealth Ofce.
He is also a non-executive director of Personal 5 Group Tender and Investment Assets Trust plc.
He was formerly chairman 5 6 ofBerendsen plc and a non-executive director 6 Finance and General Purposes ofSygen International and of Greggs plc.
Chair 2 3 4 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 61 Board balance Chairman 1 Barbara Moorhouse 59 Dr Stephen Billingham 59 Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Executive Directors 2 Non-executive Directors 5 Appointed a Director in June 2017.
Barbara has Appointed a Director in June 2015.
He is nonover 30 years of business and management executive chairman of Anglian Water Group experience in the private, public and regulated Ltd and URENCO Ltd.
He was group finance Board tenure sectors and is currently a non-executive director director of British Energy Group plc FTSE 100 at Microgen plc, IDOX plc, Agility Trains, and power generator and WS Atkins plc FTSE 250, the Lending Standards Board, and is a trustee and the UKs largest engineering consultancy of Guys & St Thomas Charity.
Formerly group and ran Punch Taverns plc the UKs second finance director at Morgan Sindall plc, regulatory largest pub owner as executive chairman.
director at South West Water and chief He played instrumental roles in the financial and finance officer for two international listed IT operational turnarounds of all three companies.
companies Kewill Systems plc and Scala He spent 11 years with Balfour Beattys Business Solutions NV.
Latterly, she has been predecessor company BICC plc.
director general at the Ministry of Justice and 1 3 the Department for Transport.
Her most recent executive appointment was chief operating 02 years 2 officer at Westminster City Council.
24 years 5 46 years 0 1 4 6 years 1 Board balance Stuart Doughty CMG 74 Michael Lucki 61 Male 7 Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Female 1 Appointed a Director in April 2015.
He has over Appointed a Director in July 2017.
He has over Board geography 50 years experience in the civil engineering, 35 years of business and leadership experience construction and infrastructure sectors, and in the US and internationally in the engineering was chief executive of Costain Group PLC and construction sector.
He has held a number between 2001 and 2005.
This followed of leadership and finance roles, including chief executive positions in Welsh multi-utility financial officer, executive vice president and Hyder plc, Alfred McAlpine plc and Tarmac board member at CH2M HILL and an audit Construction, where he represented the partner at Ernst & Young LLP and their Global company on the Channel Tunnel board, Industry Leader for Infrastructure, Construction following 20 years with John Laing and Engineering Practices.
Latterly, he has acted Construction.
He has also served as a senior as a strategic advisor to companies and private non-executive director of Scott Wilson Group equity rms in the engineering and construction plc, and as chairman of Alstec Ltd, Somero Plc industry.
He is currently an advisory board and Beck and Pollitzer Limited.
com AR2017 62 Leadership continued BOARD Audit and Risk Safety and Nomination Remuneration Group Tender Finance and Committee Sustainability Committee Committee and Investment General Committee Committee Purposes Monitors and reviews Has responsibility for Has responsibility for Committee the integrity of the assisting the Board the creation, approval Monitors health and Assesses the financial statements, with succession and implementation safety practices across viability and pricing Approves various the relationship with planning and with of the Companys the organisation to of major tenders, routine banking and the external auditor, the selection of remuneration mitigate against harm and monitors and treasury matters and the Groups new executive policy under which to employees, and approves key capital andmatters relating internal operational and non-executive it determines ensures other key expenditure to ensure toshare capital.
procedures and risk Directors or Chairman.
the pay of the sustainability issues adequatereturns.
such as integrity are reviewed at Board level.
Read more p67-69 Read more p70 Read more p71 Read more p76 Read more p71 Read more p71 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE Leads the business and is responsible for its day-to-day management.
Roles Board and Committee meetings typically take place over two The roles of the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive are consecutive days with the first day allocated to Committee separate, with a clear division of responsibilities between the meetings and ending with a focus presentation by a member of running of the Board and executive responsibility for running the the leadership team.
Board meetings will usually include a deep Groups businesses.
Their respective roles are formally recorded dive presentation from one of the business units as well as an and are available to view on the Companys website as are those agenda focusing on key priorities for the Group, including: ofthe Senior Independent Director.
progress with the Build to Last transformation programme www.
com investors strategy and budgets operating structures, processes and costs Board and Committee meetings the Groups financial performance Procedures for Board and Committee meetings remain largely unchanged from previous years.
The Company Secretary is bid and project updates responsible for advising the Board on appropriate governance legacy contract out-turns matters and for ensuring a good information ow and that Board annual and interim financial statements procedures are properly followed.
He is available to individual health and safety performance Directors for advice on Board procedures.
significant human resources issues, including succession Details of the number of meetings of the Board and its Committees planning and diversity held during the year and attendance of Directors thereat are set reports from the head of the business integrity function out on page 63.
Outside the formal schedule of meetings, the non-executive Directors met without the executive Directors consideration of issues relating to major disputes, proceedings present on a number of occasions.
Meetings are normally held at or other matters of potentially adverse effect on the one of the Companys London ofces.
Groups reputation reports by non-executive Directors on site visits The Board has six standing Committees.
In the cases of the Group Tender and Investment Committee and the Finance and General the sale of investment assets Purposes Committee, membership comprises the executive the results of employee engagement surveys.
Directors and other members of the senior management team.
All non-executive Directors have an open invitation to attend Conicts of interest and contracts of signicance any Committee meeting.
A number of the Directors took this The Board has established a policy and procedures relating to opportunity during the year.
Where conicts of interest arise, theBoard has power to authorise them.
None of the Directors hada conict of interest during the year.
None of the Directors had a direct or indirect material interest in any contract of signicance with any Group company during the year.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2017
