64 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate Governance Report The statement of corporate governance practices, including the Reports of Committees, set out on pages 64 to 98 and information incorporated by reference, constitutes the Corporate Governance Report of OneSavings Bank.
Uk Corporate Governance Code the Code Dear Shareholder, Compliance Statement I am pleased to present to you the Companys Corporate During 2017, the Company applied all of the Governance Report for 2017, and to report our full compliance main principles of the Code and has complied throughout the year with the Code as updated in 2016. with all Code provisions.
The Code is available This is my first report to you as Chairman of the Board and at www.
Iam pleased to report that the Board continues to be committed to the highest standards of corporate governance and considers that good corporate governance is essential to provide the executive team with the environment and culture in which to drive the success of the business.
The Board and its Committees have undertaken a formal performance review exercise during 2017, details of which are set out in the Report below.
The review highlighted that the Board and its Committees continue to operate effectively.
Mike Fairey, Nathan Moss and Tim Hanford left the Board during 2017.
I would like to thank them for their enormous contribution towards the success of the Bank over the years.
Iwish them well in all their future ventures.
The Investor Relations function continues to assist the Board in developing a programme of meetings and presentations to both institutional and private shareholders, details of which are also set out in the Report.
We welcome shareholders to attend the AGM, which will be held at the offices of Addleshaw Goddard LLP, 60 Chiswell Street, London, EC1Y 4AG on 10 May 2018 at 11am.
David Weymouth Non-Executive Chairman 15 March 2018 Strategic report Governance F Financial st inancial stat atemen ements ts 65 The role and structure of the Board Corporate governance The Board of Directors the Board is responsible for the Review of the Groups overall governance structure long-term success of the Company and provides leadership Determining the independence of Directors to the Group.
The Board focuses on setting strategy and monitoring performance, and ensures that the necessary Board members financial and human resources are in place to enable the Changes to the structure, size and composition Company to meet its objectives.
In addition, it ensures of the Board appropriate financial and business systems and controls are Appointment or removal of the Chairman, CEO, in place to safeguard shareholders interests and to maintain SID and Company Secretary effective corporate governance.
Other The Board is also responsible for setting the tone from the top The making of political donations in relation to conduct, culture and values, and for ensuring Approval of the overall levels of insurance for the Group continuing commitment to treating customers fairly, carrying out business honestly and openly and preventing bribery, corruption, fraud or the facilitation of tax evasion.
The Board operates in accordance with the Companys Articles Accountability of Association the Articles and its own written terms of In line with the Code provisions, the Board ensures that a fair, reference.
The Board has established a number of Committees balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups as indicated in the chart on page 37.
Each Committee has its position and prospects is presented in all financial and business own terms of reference which are reviewed at least annually.
The Board is responsible for determining the nature Details of each Committees activities during 2017 are shown and extent of the principal risks it is willing to take in achieving in the Nomination and Governance, Audit, Risk and its strategic objectives and maintains sound risk management Remuneration Committee reports on pages 72 to 95. and internal control systems.
The Board has established formal and transparent arrangements for considering how they should The Board retains specific powers in relation to the approval apply the corporate reporting, risk management and internal ofthe Banks strategic aims, policies and other matters, which control principles and for maintaining an appropriate must be approved by it under legislation or the Articles.
These relationship with the Groups auditors.
powers are set out in the Boards written Terms of Reference and Matters Reserved to the Board which are reviewed at Financial and business reporting least annually.
A summary of the matters reserved for The Board is committed to ensuring that all external financial decision by the Board is set out below: reporting presents a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
To achieve Strategy and management this, the Board reviews each report and considers the level Overall strategy of the Group of consistency throughout: whether there is a balanced review Approval of long-term objectives of the competitive landscape: the use of sufficiently simple Approval of annual operating and capital language: the analysis of risks facing the business: and that expenditure budgets there is equal prominence given to statutory and underlying Review of performance against strategy and objectives profit.
The Board has established an Audit Committee to assist in making its assessment.
The activities of the Audit Structure and capital Committee are set out on pages 74 to 78.
Changes to the Groups capital or corporate structure Changes to the Groups management and control structure Risk management and internal control The Board retains ultimate responsibility for setting the Risk management Groups risk appetite and ensuring that there is an effective risk management framework to maintain levels of risk within Overall risk appetite of the Group the risk appetite.
The Board regularly reviews its procedures for Approval of the strategic risk management framework identifying, evaluating and managing risk, acknowledging that a sound system of internal control should be designed to Financial reporting and controls manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve Approval of financial statements business objectives.
Approval of dividend policy Approval of treasury policies The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal Approval of significant changes in accounting policies risks facing the business, including those that would threaten Ensuring maintenance of a sound system of internal its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
control and risk management Further details are contained in the viability statement on page 49.
Remuneration Determining the Remuneration Policy for the Directors, The Board has established a Risk Committee to which it has Company Secretary and other senior executives delegated authority for oversight of the Groups risk appetite, Determining the remuneration of the Non-Executive risk monitoring and capital management.
The Risk Committee Directors provides oversight and advice to the Board on current risk Introduction of new share incentive plans or major exposures and future risk strategy, assists the Board in changes to existing plans fostering a culture within the Group which emphasises and demonstrates the benefits of a risk-based approach to internal control and management.
66 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate Governance Report continued Further details of the Groups risk management approach, The third line of defence is the Internal Audit function.
structure and principal risks are set out in the Risk review on pages 32 to 48.
The Board has delegated to the Audit The Board is committed to the consistent application of Committee authority for reviewing the effectiveness of the appropriate ethical standards, and the conduct risk policy Companys internal control systems.
The Audit Committee is sets out the basic principles to be followed to ensure ethical supported by the internal audit function in discharging this considerations are embedded in all business processes and responsibility, and receives regular reports from internal audit decision making forums.
The Group also maintains detailed as to the overall effectiveness of the control system within the policies and procedures in relation to the prevention of bribery Group.
Details of the review of the effectiveness of the and corruption, and a whistleblowing policy.
Companys internal control systems are set out in the Audit Committee report on page 76.
Directors The Directors who served during the year are listed in the table Control environment below.
Mike Fairey, Nathan Moss and Tim Hanford retired on The Group is organised along the three lines of defence 10 May, 31 May and 31 December 2017 respectively.
The Board model to ensure at least three stages of independent currently consists of nine Directors, being the Chairman, oversight to protect the customer and the Group from two Executive Directors and six independent Non-Executive undue influence, conflict of interest and poor controls.
The biographies of Directors can be found on pages 60 to 61.
The first line of defence is provided by the operational business lines which measure, assess and control risks through the Board meetings and attendance day-to-day activities of the business within the frameworks The Board met nine times during the year.
The Board has a set by the second line of defence.
The second line of defence formal meeting schedule with ad hoc meetings called as and is provided by the risk, compliance and governance functions when circumstances require.
This includes an annual calendar which include the Board and Executive Committee.
As noted of agenda items to ensure that all matters are given due above, the Board sets the Companys risk appetite and is consideration and are reviewed at the appropriate point in the ultimately responsible for ensuring an effective risk regulatory and financial cycle.
The Board has established a management framework is in place.
The Compliance function number of Committees as shown on the table below.
The table maintains the key controls framework which tracks and below shows each Directors attendance at the Board and reports on key controls within the business to ensure Committee meetings they were eligible to attend in 2017. compliance with the main provisions of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA and the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA handbooks.
Policy documents also include key controls that map back to the key controls framework.
Nomination and Audit Remuneration Governance Risk Director Board Committee Committee Committee Committee 1 David Weymouth Chairman 3 3 n a n a 2 2 n a 2 Mike Fairey 3 5 n a n a 2 5 n a Graham Allatt 10 10 6 6 n a n a 7 7 Eric Anstee 10 10 6 6 n a n a 7 7 Andrew Doman 9 10 5 6 3 3 n a 6 7 Rod Duke 10 10 n a 7 7 8 9 n a Andy Golding 10 10 n a n a n a n a 3 Tim Hanford 9 10 n a n a 6 9 n a Margaret Hassall 9 10 n a n a n a 6 7 Mary McNamara 10 10 n a 7 7 9 9 6 7 4 Nathan Moss 5 5 4 4 3 3 3 6 n a April Talintyre 10 10 n a n a n a 7 7 1.
Joined the Board on 1 September 2017.
Retired from the Board on 10 May 2017.
Retired from the Board on 31 December 2017.
Retired from the Board on 31 May 2017.
Strategic report Governance F Financial st inancial stat atemen ements ts 67 Role of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer In October 2017, the Board attended a strategy away day.
All The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer CEO Directors are expected to attend all meetings of the Board and areheld by different people.
There is a clear division of any Committees of which they are members, and to devote responsibilities, which has been agreed by the Board and sufficient time to the Companys affairs to fulfil their duties as isformalised in a schedule of responsibilities for each.
Where Directors are unable to attend a meeting, they are encouraged to submit any comments on the meeting As Chairman, David Weymouth is responsible for setting the materials in advance to the Chairman, to ensure that their tone at the top and ensuring that the Board has the right mix views are recorded and taken into account during the meeting.
of skills, experience and development so that it can focus on the key issues affecting the business and for leading the Key Board activities during the year included: Boardand ensuring it acts effectively.
Our CEO, Andy Golding, Strategy has overall responsibility for managing the Group and Risk monitoring and review implementing the strategies and policies agreed by the Board.
Governance and compliance A summary of the key areas of responsibility of the Chairman External affairs and competitor analysis Talent review and CEO, and how these have been discharged during the Annual, interim and quarterly reporting year, are set out below and overleaf.
Customer brand product review Policy review and update Investment proposals Chairmans responsibilities Activities carried out in 2017 Chairing the Board and general meetings The Chairman chaired almost all of the Board meetings held in 2017 of the Company.
The Senior Independent Director assumed the role of Interim Chairman from May to August 2017.
Setting Board agenda and ensuring that The Chairman, in liaison with the Company Secretary, sets the annual adequate time is available for discussion of all calendar of Board business and the agendas for the individual agenda items.
Time is allocated for each item of business at meetings.
Promoting the highest standards of integrity, The Board received regular updates from its Committees and reviewed probity and corporate governance throughout its responsibilities and obligations at its meeting in May.
Ensuring that the Board receives accurate, timely The Chairman, in liaison with the Company Secretary and the CEO, and clear information in advance of meetings.
agrees the information to be circulated to the Board in advance of each meeting.
Promoting a culture of openness and debate The Chairman runs the meetings in an open and constructive way, by facilitating the effective contribution of all encouraging contribution from all Directors.
He regularly meets with Non-Executive Directors.
the Non-Executive Directors without management present so that any concerns could be expressed.
Ensuring constructive relations between Executive and Non-Executive Directors and the CEO in particular.
Regularly considering succession planning and the The Board receives regular updates from the Nomination and composition of the Board.
Details of the Committees activities are explained in the Nomination and Governance Committee report on pages 72 and 73.
Ensuring training and development needs of all The Chairman, in liaison with the Company Secretary, has reviewed Directors are met, and that all new Directors Directors training requirements.
Details of induction and training held receive a full induction.
during the year are given on page 70.
Ensuring effective communication with The Chairman, with the Board, assisted by the CEO, Chief Financial shareholders and stakeholders.
Officer and Investor Relations Manager, agrees a programme of investor relations meetings.
Details of those carried out during the year are shown on page 71.
68 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate Governance Report continued Chief Executive Officers responsibilities Senior Independent Director Andy Goldings responsibilities as CEO are to ensure that the Rod Duke is the Senior Independent Director SID.
His role is Company operates effectively at strategic, operational and to act as a sounding board for the Chairman and to support administrative levels.
He is responsible for all the Banks him in the delivery of his objectives.
This includes ensuring activities: provides leadership and direction to encourage that the views of all other Directors are communicated to, and others to effect strategies agreed by the Board: channels given due consideration by, the Chairman.
In addition, the SID expertise, energy and enthusiasm: builds individuals is responsible for leading the annual appraisal of the capabilities within the team: develops and encourages talent Chairmans performance.
within the business: identifies commercial and business opportunities for the Group, building strengths in key areas: The SID is also available to shareholders should they wish to and is responsible for all commercial activities of the Group, discuss concerns about the Company other than through the liaising with regulatory authorities where appropriate.
responsible for the quality and financial wellbeing of the Group, represents the Group to external organisations and Company Secretary builds awareness of the Group externally.
The Company Secretary, Jason Elphick, plays a key role within the Company, advising on good governance and assisting An experienced Executive team comprising of specialists in the Board to discharge its responsibilities, acting with integrity finance, banking, risk, legal, and IT matters assist the CEO and independence to protect the interests of the Company, in carrying out his responsibilities.
The biographies for the its shareholders and employees.
Jason advises the Company Executive team are set out on page 63. to ensure that it complies with all statutory and regulatory requirements and he works closely with the Chairman, CEO Executive Committee and Chairs of the Committees of the Board so that Board The CEO chairs the Executive Committee ExCo, whose procedures including setting agendas and the timely members also include the Chief Financial Officer, the Group distribution of papers are complied with, and that there Chief Operating Officer, Chief Risk Officer, Group General isagood communication flow between the Board, its Counsel and Company Secretary advisory, Group Commercial Committees, senior management and Non-Executive Director, Chief Information Officer, Group Chief Credit Officer, Directors.
Jason also provides the Directors with advice and Sales and Marketing Director and Group Head of Internal Audit support, including facilitating induction programmes and advisory.
The ExCo is supported by Management Committees.
training in conjunction with the Chairman.
The purpose of the ExCo is to assist the CEO in the Effectiveness performance of his duties, including: Balance and independence The development and implementation of the strategic plan The effectiveness of the Board and its Committees in as approved by the Board discharging their duties is essential for the success of the The development, implementation and oversight of a strong Company.
In order to operate effectively, the Board and its operating model that supports the strategic plan Committees comprise a balance of skills, experience, The development and implementation of systems and independence and knowledge to encourage constructive controls to support the strategic plan debate and challenge to the decision making process.
To review and oversee operational and financial performance To prioritise and allocate the Groups resources in The Board comprises seven Non-Executive Directors including accordance with the strategic plan the Chairman and two Executive Directors.
All of the To oversee the development of a high performing senior Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman have been management team determined by the Board to be independent in character and To oversee the customer proposition and experience judgement and free from relationships or circumstances which consistent with the Groups obligation to treat customers fairly may affect, or could appear to affect, the relevant individuals To oversee the appropriate protection and control of private judgement.
Andrew Doman is considered independent and confidential data.
notwithstanding that he is Chairman of Castle Trust Capital plc, an unlisted company whose business is focused on first The ExCos activities during the year included: and second charge Buy-to-Let mortgages, online and in-store Business review credit and residential and development finance.
The Capital and funding independence of the Non-Executive Directors is reviewed Human resources and succession planning continually, including formal review annually.
Governance, control and risk environment current and forward-looking System transformation Monitoring target operating model progress.
Strategic report Governance F Financial st inancial stat atemen ements ts 69 arenorepresentatives of OSB Holdco Limited on the Board.
The size and composition of the Board is kept under review The Directors believe that the terms of the Relationship bythe Nomination and Governance Committee and the Board Agreement enable the Group to carry on its business to ensure an appropriate balance of skills and experience is independently of OSBHoldco Limited and ensure that all represented.
The Board is satisfied that its current composition agreements and transactions between the Group, on the allows it to operate effectively and that all Directors are able onehand, and OSB Holdco Limited and its associates and or to bring specific insights and make valuable contributions to persons acting in concert with OSB Holdco Limited or its the Board due to their varied commercial backgrounds.
associates, on the other hand, are at arms length and on a TheNon-Executive Directors provide constructive challenge normal commercial basis.
So far as the Group is aware such tothe Executives and the Chairman ensures that the views terms have been complied with throughout the year.
ofall Directors are taken into consideration in the Boards deliberations.
Directors biographies can be found on pages 60and 61.
Conflicts of interest The Companys Articles set out the policy for dealing with Directors conflicts of interest and are in line with the Non-Executive Directors terms of appointment Non-Executive Directors are appointed for terms of three Companies Act 2006.
The Articles permit the Board to years, subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
The authorise conflicts and potential conflicts, as long as the initial term may be renewed up to a maximum of three terms potentially conflicted Director is not counted in the quorum nine years.
The terms of appointment of the Non-Executive and does not vote on the resolution to authorise the conflict.
Directors specify the amount of time they are expected to devote to the business which is a minimum of two and half Directors are required to complete an annual confirmation days per month, calculated based on the time required to including a fitness and propriety questionnaire, which requires prepare for and attend Board and Committee meetings, declarations of external interests and potential conflicts.
In theAGM, meetings with shareholders and training.
Their addition, all Directors are required to declare their interests commitment also extends to working such additional hours in the business to be discussed at each Board meeting.
The asmay be required in exceptional circumstances.
interests of new Directors are reviewed during the recruitment process and authorised, if appropriate, by the Board at the Non-Executive Directors are required to confirm annually that time of their appointment.
The Nomination and Governance they continue to have sufficient time to devote to the role.
Committee also annually reviews conflicts of interest relating to Directors.
Appointment, retirement and re-election of Directors The Board may appoint a Director, either to fill a vacancy or The Group has also adopted a conflicts of interest policy which asan addition to the existing Board.
The new Director must includes a procedure for identifying potential conflicts of then retire at the next AGM and is put forward for election interest within the Group.
All other Directors are put forward for re-election annually.
In addition to any power of removal No Director has a material interest in any contract of conferred by the Companies Act, any Director may be removed significance in relation to the Groups business at any time by special resolution, before the expiration of his or her period during the year or at the date of this report.
of office and, subject to the Articles, another person who is willing to act as a Director may be appointed by ordinary Directors indemnities resolution in his or her place.
The Articles provide, subject to the provisions of UK legislation, an indemnity for Directors and Officers of the Group in respect Relationship Agreement of liabilities they may incur in the discharge of their duties or in On admission of its shares to the London Stock Exchange the exercise of their powers, including any liabilities relating to following the IPO in June 2014, the Company entered into a the defence of any proceedings brought against them which relationship agreement the Relationship Agreement with its relate to anything done or omitted, or alleged to have been then major shareholder OSB Holdco Limited.
Pursuant to the done or omitted, by them as Officers or employees of the Relationship Agreement, OSB Holdco Limited has been granted Group.
Directors and Officers liability insurance cover is in the right to appoint one Non-Executive Director to the Board place in respect of all Directors.
for so long as it holds at least 10% of the Companys ordinary shares and a further Non-Executive Director for so long as itholds at least 30% of ordinary shares.
Following the resignation of Tim Hanford on 31 December 2017, there 70 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate Governance Report continued The information supplied to the Board and its Committees is Directors powers kept under review and formally assessed on an annual basis As set out in the Articles, the business of the Company is as part of the Board evaluation exercise to ensure it is fit for managed by the Board who may exercise all the powers purpose and that it enables sound decision making.
In particular, save as otherwise provided in company law or in the Articles, the Directors may allot There is a formal procedure through which Directors may with or without conferring a right of renunciation, grant obtain independent professional advice at the Groups options over, offer, or otherwise deal with or dispose of shares expense.
The Directors also have access to the services of in the Company to such persons at such times and generally the Company Secretary as described on page 68. on such terms and conditions as they may determine.
The Directors may at any time after the allotment of any share Performance evaluation but before any person has been entered in the Register as the holder, recognise a renunciation thereof by the allottee The Board undertakes an evaluation of its performance and in favour of some other person and may accord to any allottee that of its Committees and individual Directors annually with of a share a right to effect such renunciation upon and subject an external review every third year.
The last externallyto such terms and conditions as the Directors may think fit facilitated review was conducted in 2016.
In 2017, the internal to impose.
Subject to the provisions of company law, the review concluded that the Board, including its Committees, Company may purchase any of its own shares including discharges its duties effectively: and that the current Directors any redeemable shares.
have an appropriate range of knowledge and experience giving rise to open and effective challenge, scrutiny and Training and development debate and the structure of the governance arrangements The Chairman ensures that all Directors receive a tailored works well.
The relationship between the Board and senior induction on joining the Board, with the aim of providing a management is open and transparent and is reflected in new Director with the information required to allow him or her Board discussions.
The Board were satisfied that no individual to contribute to the running of the Group as soon as possible.
or group of Directors dominated the discussions or had undue The induction programme is facilitated and monitored by the influence in the decision making process.
It has been a Company Secretary to ensure that all information provided is particularly busy year for the Group and the focus in 2018 will fully understood by the new Director and that any queries are be on continuing to enhance and embed the performance dealt with.
Typically, the induction programme will include improvement actions taken during 2017. a combination of key documents and face-to-face sessions covering the governance, regulatory and other arrangements An update of the actions disclosed in our 2016 Annual Report of the Group.
Theme Action taken As senior managers, under the Senior Managers Regime operated by the PRA and FCA under the FSMA, all Directors The frequency of meetings The Board has reviewed the have had to maintain the skills, knowledge and expertise and the breadth and frequency of its meetings and required to meet the demands of their positions of significant frequency of matters the timings of meetings of its influence within the Bank.
As part of the annual fitness and discussed Committees.
A revised propriety assessment, Directors are required to complete a calendar is now in place to self-certification that they have undertaken sufficient training enhance the flow of during the year to maintain their skills, knowledge and recommendations from expertise and to make declarations as to their fitness and Committees to the Board.
The Company Secretary supports the Directors to Alignment of terms All terms of reference relating identify relevant internal and external courses to ensure of reference to the Board and its Directors are kept up-to-date with key regulatory changes, Committees were reviewed their responsibilities as senior managers and other matters and substantially updated impacting on the business.
Information and support The length and quality A series of improvement The Company Secretary and the Chairman agree an annual of papers initiatives was introduced in calendar of matters to be discussed at each Board meeting 2017.
Training has been to ensure that all key Board responsibilities are discharged provided to the preparers of over the year.
Board agendas are then circulated with papers and a revised template accompanying detailed papers to the Board in advance of is now used to assist those each Board meeting.
These include reports from Executive preparers when drafting.
Directors and other members of senior management, and all Directors have direct access to senior management should they require additional information on any of the items to be discussed.
The Board and Audit Committee also receive further regular and specific reports to allow the monitoring of the adequacy of the Groups systems and controls.
Strategic report Governance F Financial st inancial stat atemen ements ts 71 The Group introduced a new OneSavings Bank website during Treasury operations 2017 which provides relevant information to both institutional The Board has approved a treasury policy setting out the and private shareholders, including performance updates and Groups approach to the management of risks from treasury presentations made to analysts and investors.
Day-to-day responsibility for management of www.
the Groups treasury function is delegated to the Assets and Liabilities Committee ALCO which reports to the Annual General Meeting Risk Committee.
The AGM will be held at the offices of Addleshaw Goddard LLP, 60 Chiswell Street, London EC1Y 4AG on 10 May 2018 at 11am.
Whistleblowing The Chairs of each of the Committees of the Board will be The Group has established procedures by which employees present to answer questions put to them by shareholders.
may, in confidence, raise concerns relating to possible TheAnnual Report and Accounts and Notice of the AGM will be improprieties in matters of financial reporting, financial control sent to shareholders at least 20 working days prior to the date or any other matter.
The whistleblowing policy and procedure of the meeting.
applies to all employees of the Group.
The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the Groups whistleblowing arrangements and the policy.
The Chair of the Audit Committee Shareholders are encouraged to participate in the AGM has overall responsibility for whistleblowing arrangements.
process, and all resolutions will be proposed and voted on at the meeting on an individual basis by shareholders or their The Group is confident that the arrangements are effective, proxies.
Voting results will be announced and made available facilitate the proportionate and independent investigation of on the Companys website www.
reported matters, and allow appropriate follow up action to be taken.
Shareholders may require the Directors to call a general meeting other than an AGM as provided by the Companies Relations with shareholders Act 2006.
Requests to call a general meeting may be made Dialogue with shareholders by members representing at least 5% of the paid-up capital The Company has a dedicated Investor Relations function of the Company as carries the right of voting at general to liaise with institutional investors and analysts.
Investor meetings of the Company excluding any paid-up capital held relations activity and a review of the share register are regular as treasury shares.
A request must state the general nature items on the Board agenda.
There will be additional focus on of the business to be dealt with at the meeting and may investor relations during 2018 given greater liquidity in OSB include the text of a resolution that may properly be moved stock following the significant sales by JC Flowers in 2017, and is intended to be moved at the meeting.
A request and, as the impact on research availability caused by the EU may be in hard copy form or in electronic form and must be regulatory reforms known as MiFID II becomes apparent.
authenticated by the person or persons making it.
A request may be made in writing to the Company Secretary to the An ongoing dialogue with the key stakeholders continued registered office or by sending an email to company.
throughout the year with topics relating to the performance secretariat@osb.
At any general meeting convened of the Group including strategy and new developments.
In on such request no business shall be transacted except that 2017, the Company has engaged in active discussion with stated by the requisition or proposed by the Board.
shareholders and investors, both on an individual basis and through attendance at investor conferences and events.
Following full year and interim results presentations, senior management undertake results roadshows and meet with larger investors.
The Investor Relations team and management held a total of 136 meetings with existing and potential investors during 2017.
A comprehensive plan of Investor Relations activity is in place for the coming year.
The Chairman, Senior Independent Director and other Non-Executive Directors are available to discuss any matter stakeholders might wish to raise and to attend meetings with investors and analysts.
In addition, shareholders are able to question the Company through the Investor Relations function or the Company Secretariat.
