Strategic report Governance F Financial st inancial stat atemen ements ts 79 Risk Committee Report Responsibilities Dear Shareholder, The primary objective of the Committee is to provide oversight and advice to the Board on current risk exposures and future I am pleased to present the report of the Risk Committee.
risk strategy, and to assist the Board to foster a culture within the Group that emphasises and demonstrates the benefits The Risk Committee meets at least six times a year, with of a risk-based approach to internal control and management additional meetings scheduled as required depending on the of the Group.
The Committees specific responsibilities are set out in its Only members of the Committee are entitled to attend terms of reference, which are available on the Companys meetings, however the Chief Risk Officer CRO, Chief website at www.
Executive Officer CEO and Group Chief Credit Officer CCO have standing invitations to the Committee, unless the Activity during 2017 Chairman of the Committee informs any that they should In 2017, the Group continued to implement its enhanced not attend a particular meeting or discussion.
strategic risk management framework, which represents the overarching framework established to manage its risk profile The Committee reviewed and commented on various reports, in line with its business strategy and objectives.
The strategic including the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process risk management framework of the Group is set out in detail ICAAP, Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process on pages 34 to 38.
ILAAP and Recovery Plan, before recommending the documents to the Board for approval or noting.
The Committee spent an appropriate proportion of its time In order to discharge its duties and responsibilities, the reviewing a number of inorganic transactions, as well as its Committee receives reports from those responsible for specific other advisory and oversight responsibilities.
areas of risk within that framework.
Examples of how the Committee has discharged its responsibilities during the year Further information on the wide range of the role and are set out below.
activities of the Committee is provided in the following Report.
Credit risk Graham Allatt The Committee received and reviewed regular detailed credit Chair of Risk Committee reports during the year, identifying large exposures, loan to 15 March 2018 values and arrears within various categories e. g. residential loans, Buy-to-Let.
The Committee also reviewed forwardlooking credit risk data including debt service coverage ratios for Buy-to-Let and external bureau data covering credit quality and affordability levels.
The reports also highlight early warning indicators, which allow the Committee and the risk function to address potential credit issues before they develop into significant Risk areas.
The Committee reviewed and approved updates to policies including the Group Lending Policy, the Arrears, Repossession and Forbearance Policies and the Loan Loss Provisioning Policy.
The Committee also reviewed model governance updates from the Risk function.
During 2017, the Committee oversaw and was involved in the Group making further developments to model governance, particularly in light of the IFRS 9 and IRB programmes.
The Committee reviewed and approved methodologies underpinning impairment calculations on collectively assessed accounts under IAS 39 and also reviewed and approved key judgement and estimate assumptions which feed IFRS 9 expected loss calculations.
The Committee also assessed and approved the Groups provision adequacy levels throughout the year.
80 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Risk Committee Report continued Risk appetite Market risk and liquidity risk The Committee reviewed and commented on the Groups Market risk and liquidity risk are continually monitored by enhanced risk appetite framework resulting in a number of the Assets and Liabilities Committee ALCO which reports refinements being made to the process.
The Committee also to this Committee.
The Committee reviewed ALCOs regular reviews the Groups position against risk appetite across all assessments of the UK macroeconomic environment and principal risks at each meeting.
potential impacts on the Groups assets and liquidity.
In addition to the specific examples given above, the The Committee also reviewed and commented on updates Committee reviewed various transaction proposals, assessing tothe Funding Risk Policy and the Interest Rate Risk in the their potential impact on the risk profile of the Group.
It also Banking Book Policy prior to submission to the Board approved the policy updates.
Risk Committee Key Responsibilities Operational risk The Committee received reports on operational risks at each of its meetings.
The reports cover risk incidents that have Risk appetite and assessment arisen to allow the Committee to assess managements Advise the Board on overall risk appetite, tolerance and response and remedial action proposed.
The reports also strategy cover key risk indicators KRI, which can be quantitative or Review risk assessment processes that inform the Boards qualitative and provide insights regarding changes in the decision making Groups operational risk profile.
Review the Groups capability to identify and manage new risks Although there were operational incidents during the course Advise the Board on proposed strategic transactions, of 2017, the Committee was satisfied that the action taken including acquisitions or disposals, ensuring risk aspects was appropriate and that the control of operational incidents and implications for risk appetite and tolerance are continued to improve.
considered The Committee reviewed and commented on the Group-wide Risk monitoring and framework risk and control self-assessment exercise and an enhanced Review credit risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk, market operational risk management framework.
risk, compliance and regulatory risks, solvency risk, conduct risk, reputational risk and operational risk Compliance and regulatory risk exposures by reference to risk appetite The Committee received reports covering compliance and Review strategic risk management framework financial crime KRIs, which can be quantitative or qualitative Review the ICAAP framework and provide insights regarding changes in the Groups Monitor actual and forecast risk and regulatory capital compliance and regulatory risk profile.
The Committee also positions reviewed the Compliance and Financial Crime Target Recommend changes to capital utilisation Operating Model.
Review the ILAAP framework Monitor the actual and forecast liquidity position Conduct risk Review reports on material breaches of risk limits and the The Committee reviewed the conduct risk profile against adequacy of proposed actions the conduct risk appetite and approved the conduct Review the Recovery Plan framework risk framework.
CRO and risk governance structure ICAAP Consider and approve the remit of the risk management The Committee was involved with the design and approval function of appropriate macroeconomic scenarios to be used in the Recommend to the Board the appointment and removal Groups ICAAP.
The ICAAP demonstrates how the Group of the CRO would manage its business and capital during adverse Review promptly all reports of the CRO macroeconomic and idiosyncratic stresses.
The Committee Review and monitor managements responsiveness to reviewed the results of all risk assessments and stress testing the findings of the CRO before finally endorsing the full ICAAP document.
Receive reports from the Assets and Liabilities and Risk Management Committees The Board is engaged in the preparation of the ICAAP and the ongoing assessment of risks.
Following the Committees review and comment the ICAAP was submitted to the Board for approval.
Recovery Plan The Recovery Plan process is designed to ensure that in a time of stress the Group has a credible recovery plan that can be implemented in a timely manner.
The Committee reviewed and commented on the proposed Recovery Plan prior to its submission to the Board for approval.
