50 Governance report Board of Directors Rupert Robson was appointed to the Director of OJSC Nomos Bank, Global Head, Boardin January 2007 and to NonFinancial Institutions Group, Corporate executive Chairman in March 2013.
Investment Banking and Markets at HSBC HeisChairman ofthe Nominations and Head of European Insurance, Investment andGovernance Committee.
Banking at Citigroup Global Markets.
He has held a number of senior roles He is also Non-executive Chairman of infinancial institutions, most recently EMFCapital Partners Ltd, Sanne Group plc, Chairman of Charles Taylor plc, Nona Non-executive Director of Savills plc and Rupert Robson executive Director of London Metal aGovernor of Sherborne School.
Chairman Exchange Holdings Ltd and Non-executive N theNomura acquisition in 2009 and held John Phizackerley was appointed to anumber of positions, including Chief theBoard and as Chief Executive in Operating Officer of Nomura International September 2014. and Chief Executive Officer of Nomura Bank From 1986 to 2009 he held various positions International, serving as Chief Executive in Lehman Brothers including Head of Equity Officer of Nomura International plc until 2013.
Research, Head of Equity Sales in Europe, Global Head of Pan-European Cash Equities, Co-Head of European Equities and Chief John Phizackerley Administrative Officer, Europe and Middle Chief Executive East.
He remained with the firm following Angela Knight CBE was appointed to the serving as a Treasury Minister from 1995 to Board in September 2011.
Her previous Non-executive Director ofthe Audit, Remuneration and Nominations appointments include Lloyds TSB plc, and Governance Committees.
Scottish Widows, LogicaCMG plc, Transportfor London, Port of London She was formerly the Chief Executive of Authority and Brewin Dolphin Holdings plc.
Energy UK until 31 December 2014, the Chief Executive of the British Bankers Association Angela was appointed as a Non-executive from 2007 to 2012 and the Chief Executive of Director of Taylor Wimpey Plc on Angela Knight the Association of Private Client Investment 1November 2016 and Arbuthnot Latham Senior Independent Non-executive Director Managers and Stockbrokers from 1997 &CoLtd in October 2016.
She was also the Member of ofTilman Brewin Dolphin and the Office of Parliament for Erewash from 1992 to 1997, Tax Simplification.
Roger Perkin was appointed to the Board in April 2015 and Nationwide Building inJuly 2012.
He is Chairman of the Audit Society until July 2016.
Committee and a member of the Risk and He is a Non-executive Director of Electra Nominations and Governance Committees.
Private Equity plc, Hargreaves Lansdownplc He was a partner at EY and spent 40 years and AIB Group UK plc.
He is also a trustee inthe accounting profession before retiring of three charities, Chiddingstone Castle, from the firm in 2009.
He was formerly a TheConservation Volunteers and the Non-executive Director at The Evolution Charities Aid Foundation.
Roger Perkin Group plc until its acquisition in December Independent Non-executive Director 2011, Friends Life Group until its acquisition A N Ri A Audit Committee Re Remuneration Committee Chairman Ri Risk Committee N Nominations and Member Governance Committee TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 51 Stephen Pull was appointed to the ofCorporate Broking.
He has also held BoardinSeptember 2011.
He is Chairman anumber of other senior roles in the City, oftheRemuneration Committee and including Managing Director of Corporate amember ofthe Nominations and Broking at Merrill Lynch and Head of UK Governance Committee.
Equity Sales at Barclays fide Zoete Wedd.
He is currently a director of Trust Associates Ltd.
He was Chairman of Corporate Broking at Nomura between 2008 and 2011 following its acquisition of Lehman Brothers Europe Stephen Pull forwhom he worked from 2002 as Head of Independent Non-executive Director Corporate Broking, and then as Chairman N Re David Shalders was appointed to the decade in senior operations and IT roles, Boardin February 2014 and is a member most recently as Global Chief Operating ofthe Remuneration, Nominations and Officer for Global Banking and Markets.
Healso led the divisions regulatory response toBasel 3.
Prior to that, he led the Groups He is Group Operations & Technology integration with ABN Amro and held roles as Director at Willis Towers Watson plc, Head of London and Asia Operations and responsible for IT, operations, real estate and Head of Derivative Operations for NatWest.
He joined David Shalders Willis Towers Watson from the Royal Bank of Independent Non-executive Director Scotland Group where he served for over a N Re Ri Carol Sergeant CBE was appointed to the England, Managing Director at the Board in July 2015.
She chairs the Boards FinancialServices Authority and Chief Risk Committee and is also a member RiskOfficer at Lloyds Banking Group.
oftheAudit and Nominations and She is the Chair of the Standards Policy GovernanceCommittees.
andStrategy Committee of the British She was a Non-executive Director at Secure Standards Institute and Trustee of the Trust Bank plc until December 2015.
She is also enjoyed a distinguished City career, holding currently a Non-executive Director at Carol Sergeant various senior positions, including Head of DanskeBank Group and BNY Mellon SA NV.
Independent Non-executive Director Major Banks Supervision at the Bank of A N Ri Edmund Ng was appointed to the Board Hong Kong Monetary Authority HKMA inNovember 2017 and is a member of between May 2007 and May 2015, theRemuneration, Nominations and responsible for managing the regions Governance, and Risk Committees.
Prior to that, he spent 20 years atJ.
P. Morgan, where he worked in He is currently Chief Investment Officer and varioustrading functions and served as co-founder of Eastfort Asset Management, aManaging Director of Asia Ex-Japan which was established in mid-2015 with trading for a number of years.
Before Edmund Ng setting up his own fund house, he was the Independent Non-executive Director Head of the Direct Investment Division of N Re Ri Michael Heaney was appointed to the anddistinguished career in financial Boardin January 2018 and is a member services, having spent 28 years at ofthe Remuneration, Nominations and MorganStanley in New York and London.
He most recently served as Global Co-Head He is currently a Non-executive Director of of the Fixed Income Sales and Trading Legal & General Investment Management Division and was also a member of Americas and Chairman of the SEC Fixed MorganStanleys Operating Committee, Income Market Structure Advisory Management Committee and Risk Michael Heaney Committee.
Before this, he had a long Management Committee.
Independent Non-executive Director N Re Ri www.
