HEAD 0 2ND LINE HE AUAD DIt C 0 1 oSM T L MIINE ttee rePort Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 48 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 AUDIt CoMMIttee rePort Annual chairmans statement Financial reporting reviewed the Groups hotel performance Dear Shareholders, the Committee monitors the integrity, prior with reference to average room rate, to submission to the Board, of periodic occupancy and revPAr: on 22 May 2017, I joined the board of the financial statements, annual accounts, Company as an Independent Non-executive monitored the Groups performance reports to shareholders and any other public Director.
Iwas appointed the Chairman against the previous years results and announcements concerning the Groups of the Audit Committee on 4 August 2017 budget: financial position, corporate governance replacing Gervase MacGregor who stepped monitored the performance of newly statements and statements on the Groups down from chairing, but he continues to be refurbished hotels: system of internal controls and reports its a member of the Audit Committee.
In order reviewed the capital expenditure of the views to the Board to assist in its approval of for me to be familiar with the issues at hand, Group: the results announcements and the annual I had handover sessions with Mr MacGregor: report.
and discussed relevant matters with our reviewed the selection and testing of finance function, our Head of Internal Audit, assets for impairment purposes: the Committee performs a detailed review our Company Secretary, our senior statutory assessed whether material judgemental of the content of the annual and half-yearly auditor and our brokers.
assumptions that were used in the results announcements and annual report valuations were within reasonable and accounts, as well as trading updates.
this report provides an overview of what parameters: the Committee has satisfied itself that the Committee has done during the year, monitored transactions with the controls over the accuracy and consistency including the significant issues considered, Companys majority shareholder: of information presented in the annual report and shares some of the details from and accounts are robust, and has confirmed reviewed the Groups cash position and the executive updates presented to the to the Board that it believes this annual future commitments, borrowings, facilities Committee from across the business.
report and accounts is fair, balanced and and covenants: and understandable.
the Committees review of reviewed debt recoverability and agree the financial statements for the year ended on write-off, if deemed necessary.
31December 2017 focused on the following areas of significance: Our objectives the key objective of the Committee throughout the year has remained the provision of effective governance over the appropriateness of the Groups financial reporting including the adequacy of related disclosures, the performance of both the internal audit function and the external auditor, and the oversight of the Groups systems of internal control, business risks and related compliance activities.
Our members the Board believes that amongst the members of the Committee who are Martin Leitch Chair, Gervase MacGregor, Daniel Desbaillets and Christian fide Charnac they have suitable broad commercial knowledge and significant business experience.
the Interim Group Chief executive officer, Chief financial officer, senior finance managers, Company Secretary and Head of Internal Audit, although not members of the Committee, also attend the meetings, as do the senior statutory auditor from our external auditor, who are not present when we discuss the auditors performance and or remuneration.
As part of this process of working with the Board and to maximise effectiveness, meetings of the Committee generally take place just prior to Company Board meetings.
the Chairman of the Committee reports to the Board as part of a separate agenda item, on the activity of the Committee and matters of particular relevance to the Board in the conduct of their work.
Our role the Committees terms of reference are available from the Groups website at https: investors.
the Audit Committee holds regular, structured meetings and consults with senior management.
the Committee frequently requests that senior operational and functional heads attend meetings in order to update the Committee with events in the business.
occasionally external business consultants were also invited to attend the meetings to present specific projects.
these meetings provide the Committee an opportunity to understand the projects and assess managements decisions.
the Committee regularly reviews strategic and operational risks and the associated controls and mitigating factors.
the Committee receives regular reports and briefings from internal audit and has reviewed the level of internal audit resource available within the Group and believes that it is adequate for the size, structure and business risks of the Group and is supplemented with appropriate external resources where expertise is needed.
HEAD 0 2ND LINE 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Annual Report & Accounts 2017 49 Impairment of hotel assets Classification of an asset as investment the Committee ensures that arrangements Note 12 to the consolidated financial property requires judgement, and are in place for employees to raise statements states that the carrying amount is determined by reference to future concerns, in confidence, about possible of assets as at 31 December 2017 is 3,129m intentions and the Groups business model.
fraud risk or wrong-doing in financial 2016: 3,238m.
the Group continues to the total carrying amount of investment reporting or other matters.
Where a engage external valuation experts to assist properties as at 31December 2017 is 577m whistleblowing incident occurs, this with the valuation exercise and impairment 2016: 534m as shown in Note 14 to the is investigated by Internal Audit on a review.
financial performance and consolidated financial statements.
confidential basis and in a proportionate sensitivity of the valuation models to the manner.
Appropriate actions are other key inputs means that the valuation During the year, the Committee examined recommended and undertaken which are remains inherently subjective.
the managements recommendations in reported to the Committee which then property, plant and equipment assets are respect to the classification and valuation reviews the recommendations and focuses carried at historical cost, which mitigates of investment properties and agreed that: on possible trends and potential systematic the risk of impairment of these assets.
there was appropriate classification of During the year, the Committee examined assets as investment properties: the Committee had discussions with managements recommendations in the external auditor on audit planning, there was appropriate use of third respect of the valuation of the Groups fees, accounting policies, audit findings, party valuation expertise: hotel and property portfolio and agreed internal controls and non-audit services sufficient robust challenge was given to that: rendered by them.
the external auditor management by the external auditors: attended all of this years Committee material judgemental assumptions that the selection of assets to be tested was meetings.
Meetings are also held with were used in the valuations were within done appropriately, taking into account the auditor without management present.
reasonable parameters: and indicators of impairment risk and the effectiveness of audit was assessed materiality: through the review of audit plans, reports conclusions have been appropriately and conclusions and through discussions drawn.
there was the appropriate use of third with management and the external party valuation expertise: auditor.
the Committee was satisfied that Internal controls and risks sufficient robust challenge was given to the audit was effective.
Accepting that risk is an inherent part of management by the external auditors: doing business, the Committee reviewed material judgemental assumptions that the Groups risk management strategy to were used in the valuations were within ensure that any required remedial action reasonable parameters: and on any identified weaknesses is taken.
conclusions have been appropriately drawn.
Where specific actions are agreed to mitigate risks to a level deemed Valuation and classification of investment acceptable, these are agreed with specific properties timeframes for delivery and are monitored In general, the carrying amount of closely until fully implemented.
investment properties is the fair value of the properties as determined by a the system of internal controls audited registered independent appraiser.
fair by Internal Audit and commented on by values were determined having regard the external auditor from time to time to recent market transactions for similar encompasses all controls including those properties in the same location as the relating to financial reporting processes, Groups investment properties.
Where a fair operational and compliance controls value cannot be reasonably determined, and those relating to risk management the property is held at cost.
HEAD 0 2ND LINE 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 50 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 AUDIt CoMMIttee rePort CoNtINUeD External auditor process In light of new requirements issued in the exposure relating to borrowings: the Committee acknowledges the recent revised ethical Standard for eU auditors, Discussed quarterly reports relating to change in the law requiring mandatory with effect from financial year commencing health and safety, litigation, treasury auditor rotation.
there has been regular from 1January 2017, KPMG is further and tax: and partner rotation, and Jonathan Downer prohibited from providing tax compliance Discussed other areas of compliance, took over from Steve Masters after services and other conflicting non-audit including Preventing tax evasion Policy completion of the 2015 audit in february services directly or indirectly to the Groups and building cladding standards.
2016. the Committee is satisfied that controlled entities in the eU.
In this respect, KPMG continues to possess the skills and PwC was appointed to act as the tax Martin Leitch experience required to fulfil its duties adviser for the european region in 2017 Chair of the Audit Committee effectively and efficiently.
whilst KPMG was retained for the other regions.
28 March 2018 the Committee is responsible for recommending the appointment, During the year ended 31 December 2017, re-appointment and removal of the KPMGs audit fee amounted to 3m 2016: external auditor.
A resolution to re-appoint 2m and KPMGs non-audit fees were 1m KPMG as the Groups external auditor will 2016: 1m.
be proposed at the Companys forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Effectiveness of the Audit Committee the Board is satisfied that Martin Leitch, Consideration is given each year to an Gervase MacGregor and Christian fide audit tender process as KPMG LLP has Charnac have recent and relevant been the Groups auditor since the listing financial experience as required by of the Company on the London Stock the provisions of the UK Corporate exchange in 1996.
Under the current Governance Code.
the other member is transitional rules, the latest year in which Daniel Desbaillets.
KPMG would be able to undertake an audit of the Company is to 31December the Committees performance is reviewed 2022. annually through a facilitated evaluation conducted by Lintstock Limited, the results Non-audit services of which showed that the Committee was In order to ensure the continued effective.
During the year, the Committee independence and objectivity of the has also undertaken the following: Groups external auditor, the Group has strict policies regarding the provision Discussed changes in accounting of non-audit services rendered by policies and initial work indicated that the external auditor.
the Committees the impact on the Groups financial approval is required in advance for the statements due to IfrS 15 revenue provision of non-audit services if the from Contracts with Customers is not fee exceeds 30,000 for an individual significant: assignment.
the Committee reviews nonContinued to receive updates from audit fees regularly.
the Groups external executives managing key areas that are auditor is prohibited from providing any loss making such as the US region: service that would conflict with their reviewed the schedule of Board statutory responsibilities or which would reserved matters: otherwise compromise their objectivity or Discussed the foreign exchange independence.
