60 Governance report Report of the Nominations and Governance Committee Rupert Robson Over the following months there was Dear shareholder, Chairman, Nominations long-listing of candidates, then shortlisting, and Governance Committee and interviews were conducted by the I am pleased to have the opportunity of Chairman, Chief Executive and other summarising the various matters that the Non-executive Directors beforefinal Committee has been dealing with during 2 Committee members Meetings attended selection.
In the case of both searches, a abusy year.
Rupert Robson 3 3 considerable effort was made to ensure Angela Knight 3 3 thatthe final shortlists included women.
Succession planning 1 Edmund Ng 1 1 TheCommittee thenrecommended to the An important responsibility of the Stephen Pull 3 3 Board theappointment of Edmund Ng, Committee is to oversee succession planning.
David Shalders 3 3 whowasappointed on 1 November 2017, The Committee recognises the importance Roger Perkin 3 3 andMichael Heaney, who was appointed ofsuccession, notonly at Board level but at Carol Sergeant 3 3 on15 January 2018. all levelsofsenior management, to ensure thereis a talent pipeline to draw from.
The search is continuing for suitable 1 Edmund Ng was appointed as a member of the Committee on 2 November 2017. candidatesfor the Executive Director At our meeting in March 2017, the 2 In addition to the scheduled meetings, two further position of Chief Financial Officer, Committee was joined by the Chief Executive meetings were held at short notice, one in September followingAndrew Baddeley stepping and the Group Head of HR to review and one in October.
All members except for David downfrom the Board in November 2017.
Shalders were able to attend the two additional succession, talent development and meetings.
Mr Shalders was unable to attend these recruitment initiatives at broker level, meetings due to previous commitments relating to As previously mentioned, Stephen Pull, through senior management levels and his external executive position.
chairman of the Remuneration Committee, ultimately at Executive Director level.
The will be retiring from the Board in the first few meeting reviewed and discussed a formal How the Committee spent months of 2019.
A search has begun recently senior management development its time during the year for his replacement and we are considering programme and potential successors to % appropriate further refreshment of the those in the Global Executive Committee.
non-executive membership of the Board There was also a detailed review ofpotential overthe coming 12to 24 months.
successors to the Executive Directors and anyleadership development requirements identified for those individuals.
During 2018, The transition to becoming and beyond, the Committee intends to a Nominations and conduct a succession review twice a year.
Governance Committee Recruitment and appointment of directors will help us to ensure I advised in last years report that a search would commence for two new Non-executive ourBoard is as effective Directors, one from the Americas and NED recruitment 25% aspossible.
another from Asia, to provide the Board Executive director 25% withmore global representation and recruitment Succession planning 22% culturaldiversity.
Early in 2017, the Committee considered candidates other Routine matters 13% desirable attributes, and discussed the Governance 9% selection process, including the appointment Election Re-election 6% of directors of an independent recruitment consultant, Korn Ferry, which has no other connection withthe Company.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website: www.
com TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 61 Induction Election and re-election of Directors Key responsibilities of the Committee Each of the new Non-executive Directors The Committee takes into account the results The Board has delegated responsibility received a comprehensive induction of the evaluations of individual Directors tothe Committee for: programme.
Prior to their first meetings, seepage 58 for further information to assist each was taken through a briefing with in determining whether to recommend to the reviewing the balance and skill, external legaladvisers on Directors duties, Board the election or re-election of Directors knowledge and experience of the roles andliabilities.
Each received access to at the Annual General Meeting, asrequired in Board, and considering membership the Board and Committee packs including accordance with the Companys Articles of of the Board Committees: minutes and papers from previous Board Association.
The Committee has considered overseeing Board and senior cycles, and had one-to-one induction the mix of skillsand background of the management succession meetings with GEC members and other members of theBoard and considers that this planningprocesses: senior managers, including the Company mix is currently appropriate to the Companys making recommendations to the Secretary.
Company constitutional, requirements, subject to thepoints made Board on all proposed new compliance and governance documentation, earlier about further refreshing the Board over appointments, elections and as well as information relating to the Group the coming 12to 24 months.
Inparticular, the re-elections of Directors atAGMs: structure and the expenditure control Board exhibits gender andcultural diversity, overseeing the Board performance framework, was also provided.
and the range ofskills and backgrounds review process: encompasses commercial, operating, control, considering various governance Governance political andinternational attributes.
Further matters, including compliance with Towards the end of the year, the Committee information on the Boards approach to theUK Corporate Governance Code: recommended for adoption, and the Board diversity can be found on page 53. reviewing conflicts: approved, new Terms of Reference, which considering social and significantly widened the Committees remit The Committee is pleased to recommend environmentalmatters: and responsibilities to include overseeing allDirectors for election or re-election at reviewing theCompanys code governance matters.
This followed a review theAGM in 2018. ofconduct: and of how the governance framework might reviewing and approving the Rupert Robson need to be organised and resourced, Companys share dealing code and Chairman toensure it was fit for the future, and related policies.
Nominations and recognising the benefits ofa more focused Governance Committee forum one with a comprehensive forward 13 March 2018 agenda mapping areas of significant change both in the corporate governance and the regulatory environment.
Iam convinced that the transition to becoming a Nominations and Governance Committee will help us ensure our Board is as effective as possible.
