Directors' Report Corporate Governance Report Board of Directors Sir Roy Gardner Rupert Soames Angus Cockburn Edward J. Casey, Jr Mike Clasper CBE Chairman Group Chief Executive Group Chief Financial Group Chief Operating Non-Executive Director Officer Officer and Senior Independent Director A N R C E GR A N R C E GR A N R C E GR A N R C E GR A N R C E GR Appointed to the Board: Appointed to the Board: Appointed to the Board: Appointed to the Board: Appointed to the Board: June 2015 Chair since July May 2014 October 2014 October 2013 as Acting March 2014.
was a member of the Group Chief Operating Remuneration Committee Officer from May 2014.
Ed until December 2017. retired from the Board on 31 December 2017.
Key skills and experience: Key skills and experience: Key skills and experience: Key skills and experience: Key skills and experience: Previously Chairman of Previously Chief Executive Previously Chief Financial Joined Serco in 2005 as Previous roles have included Compass Group PLC, at Aggreko plc, and Chief Officer and Interim Chief Chief Executive Officer of Group Chief Executive Chief Executive of Centrica Executive of Misys plc Executive at Aggreko plc, the Americas Division of BAA plc, Chairman of plc, Managing Director of Banking and Securities Managing Director at Pringle Her Majesty's Revenue Prior to Serco, worked for GEC-Marconi Limited and Division of Scotland, senior finance and Customs, Chairman nine years in the energy a Director of GEC plc, Nonpositions at PepsiCo Inc. of Which?
Limited, Senior Rupert was also business and over ten years Executive Director of Willis including Regional Finance Independent Director of previously Senior in investment banking and Group Holdings Limited and Director for Central Europe ITV plc and President of the Independent Director of private equity Laporte plc, Non-Executive Chartered Management Electrocomponents plc until Honorary Professor at the Chairman of Manchester Until December 2016 a Institute July 2016 and a member University of Edinburgh United, Plymouth Argyle Director at Talen Energy of their Remuneration, MA in Engineering from Football Club and Corporation and a member Nomination and Audit Cambridge University Connaught plc of their Audit Committee Committees Honorary Doctorate from and the Compensation, Sir Roy was also previously Sunderland University Studied Politics, Philosophy Governance and Nominating Chairman of the Advisory Board and Economics at Oxford Committee of the Energy Futures Lab University and was at Imperial College London, President of the Oxford Chairman of the Apprenticeship Union Ambassadors Network, Chairman of Mainstream Visiting Fellow at Oxford Renewable Power Limited and University Senior Adviser to Credit Suisse Fellow of the Chartered Association of Certified Accountants, the Royal Aeronautical Society, the Royal Society of Arts and the City and Guilds Institute Honorary Doctorate from Thames Valley University Current External Current External Current External Current External Current External Commitments: Commitments: Commitments: Commitments: Commitments: Senior Independent Director None Senior Independent Chairman of Coats Group None of Mainstream Renewable Director and a member of plc and BIOSS International Power Limited the Audit, Remuneration Limited and Nomination Senior Independent Director Trustee of the Chartered Committees of GKN plc of William Hill plc Management Institute Governor of the Royal Key Red highlight denotes Chair Shakespeare Company Advisory Board Member for Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Corporate Responsibility Committee A C Arora International Member of the Nomination Committee Member of the Executive Committee N E Member of the Remuneration Committee Member of the Group Risk Committee R GR 86 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Board Members Ralph D. Crosby, Jr was a Non-Executive Director until his retirement from the Board on 1 July 2017.
Angie Risley was a Non-Executive Director and a member of the following Committees until her retirement from the Board on 15 September 2017: Nomination Committee, Remuneration Committee and the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
Rachel Lomax John Rishton Lynne Peacock Ian El-Mokadem Kirsty Bashforth Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director A N R C E GR A N R C E GR A N R C E GR A N R C E GR A N R C E GR Appointed to the Board: Appointed to the Board: Appointed to the Board: Appointed to the Board: Appointed to the Board: March 2014 September 2016 1 July 2017 1 July 2017 15 September 2017 Key skills and experience: Key skills and experience: Key skills and experience: Key skills and experience: Key skills and experience: Rachel has deep experience Previous roles have included Lynne is a Non-Executive Ian became the Chief Kirsty was a senior executive of government and Chief Executive of Rolls Director of Standard Life Executive Officer of V. Group at BP plc having spent over economic policy.
Rachel's Royce Group plc, Chief Aberdeen plc and a member Limited in October 2017.
24 years with the company previous appointments Executive and President of its Nomination and Prior to joining V. Group, Ian in a variety of commercial include Deputy Governor, of the Dutch international Governance Committees, was Chief Executive Officer roles, including Group Monetary Stability, Bank retailer, Royal Ahold NV and Non-Executive Chair of Exova Group plc and, Head of Organisational of England, and a member and prior to that, its Chief of Standard Life Assurance before that, he was Group Effectiveness, where she of the Monetary Policy Financial Officer and Chief Limited.
Lynne is also a Managing Director, UK & led BPs global agenda Committee, Permanent Financial Officer of British Non-Executive Director Ireland of Compass Group on culture, diversity and Secretary in the Department Airways plc and Senior Independent plc, where he was also a change management.
for Transport, Department Director, Chair of the member of the Groups Subsequently, Kirsty Fellow of the Chartered for Work and Pensions and Remuneration Committee Executive Committee.
Ians has been running her Institute of Management the Welsh Office, and senior and member of the Audit, earlier career included own corporate advisory Accountants posts at the Cabinet Office, Risk and Nomination positions with Centrica plc business, QuayFive Limited, HM Treasury and World Bank Committees of Nationwide and the global management since 2015 Building Society consultancy, Accenture Rachel was also previously Senior Independent Director Previously she was Chief and Chair of the Conduct Executive of National and Values Committee at Australia Bank Limited's UK HSBC Holdings plc and a businesses, Chief Executive Trustee Board Member of Officer of Woolwich plc and Imperial College, London a Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Audit Committee of Scottish Water Current External Current External Current External Current External Current External Commitments: Commitments: Commitments: Commitments: Commitments: Non-Executive Director of Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Chair of Chief Executive Officer Non-Executive Director Heathrow Airport Holdings and Chair of the Audit Standard Life Assurance of V. Group Limited and a member of the Limited Committee of Unilever plc Limited Nomination, Remuneration, Risk Management and Audit, Non-Executive Director Director of SETL Non-Executive Director and and Safety, Health and and a member of the Development Limited Chairman-Elect of the Audit Environment Committees of Nomination and Governance Committee of Informa plc Governor of the Ditchley Kier Group plc Committees of Standard Life Foundation Non-Executive Director Aberdeen Plc Governor of Leeds Beckett at Associated British Ports Member of the Board of University and Ashville Senior Independent Breugel College Director, Chair of the Remuneration Committee Director of QuayFive Limited and member of the Audit, Risk and Nomination Committees of Nationwide 87 Building Society Directors' Report Corporate Governance Report Chairmans Governance Overview This report sets out how Serco is governed and the key activities of the Board of Directors in promoting effective governance during 2017.
Further information on how the Company complied with the UK Corporate Governance Code during 2017 is set out on pages 108 and 109.
Dear Shareholder In addition, Angie Risley notified the Board of her intention to step down with effect from 15 September.
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Angie joined the Board in April 2011 and in May Corporate Governance Report for the year ended 2012 was appointed as Chair of the Remuneration 31 December 2017.
The Board believes that good Committee.
I would like to thank both Ralph and Angie governance is key to the long-term success of the for their valuable contributions since joining the Board Group and is committed to achieving high standards in 2011. of governance.
Upon Angies departure, Lynne succeeded Angie as As in previous years, we report against the UK Chair of the Remuneration Committee owing to her Corporate Governance Code the 'Code' issued by extensive experience of chairing other Remuneration the Financial Reporting Council 'FRC'.
Following a further selection we have fully complied with the provisions of the process, Kirsty Bashforth joined the Board.
Details of Code, with the exception of provision B.
6.2 concerning the selection process in respect of all the new Nonexternal evaluation of the Board.
Executive Director appointments are contained in the Effectiveness Nomination Committee Report on page 102.
Each In 2016, we committed to undertake an external of the new Non-Executive Directors bring valuable evaluation of the Board and its Committees during 2017. experience and relevant skills to the Board.
In the latter half of 2017, we appointed three new NonEd Casey, our Chief Operating Officer, retired from Executive Directors and, in view of this, the Board agreed the Board at the end of December following 12 years to defer its external evaluation until 2018 to provide of service at Serco.
I would like to reiterate my sincere opportunity for our new Board members to settle into thanks to Ed for his contribution to Serco and wish their new roles.
This year, the Board conducted an him every success in the future.
Following detailed internal Board evaluation with support from the Group discussion, the Board agreed there would be no need General Counsel and Company Secretary, taking into to find a successor for Ed and instead his role and account the recommendations from the 2016 review responsibilities would be best achieved and delivered and changes in the Code.
A summary of the findings between Rupert, Angus and the other members of the are set out on page 92.
Changes in the Board Contract site visits The Board continued to review Board composition The most recent additions to our Board have visited a and succession planning with assistance from the number of our contract sites as part of their induction Nomination Committee.
In July 2017, Ralph Crosby programme and have enjoyed the opportunity to stepped down from the Board.
A considered selection witness the excellent day-to-day service provided by process to appoint a successor to Ralph was undertaken our contract teams.
The visits have given our newest and led to the appointment of both Lynne Peacock and Board members a deeper level of understanding of the Ian El-Mokadem in July.
risks and opportunities faced by our contract teams on a daily basis, together with the Group-wide challenges regarding the scale and variety of our operations.
A number of our existing Non-Executive Directors have also visited our contract sites during the year.
88 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Diversity Further to our commitment to improve gender diversity at the Board, I am pleased to report that we have increased female representation on our Board from 22% to 30% in 2017.
At the same time, through the work of the Nomination Committee, the Board reviewed and updated its Board Diversity Policy, taking into account the guidance of the Hampton-Alexander Review and the Parker Review along with any other factors, objectives and target dates.
The Board is equally committed to ensuring the development of gender and ethnic diversity amongst Sercos senior management population and to that end will annually review its recommendations on gender and ethnic diversity for senior management roles.
Corporate Responsibility Framework The Board has continued to refresh and strengthen Sercos corporate responsibility agenda through development of a new corporate responsibility framework forming a foundation for how we conduct our business whilst ensuring its relevance to our strategy and governance.
The new framework clearly defines our principal areas of responsibility structured around our Values, purpose and key stakeholders and will help to guide action and behaviour whilst facilitating measurement of our performance.
For further information, please refer to our corporate responsibility update on page 69.
Shareholder engagement The Board continued to engage in an open and meaningful way with its shareholders during the course of 2017.
In particular, since her appointment as Chair of the Remuneration Committee, Lynne Peacock has met with each of our major shareholders, together with a number of advisory bodies and other institutional shareholders, to discuss our approach to Directors Remuneration and the new policy we have proposed to shareholders from 2018 onwards, set out on pages 115 to 128.
In addition, I attend the results announcements in the City and meet many of our stakeholders.
I hope shareholders will take the opportunity to meet with Board members at the 2018 AGM.
Sir Roy Gardner Chairman 21 February 2018 89 Directors' Report Corporate Governance Report Chairmans Governance Overview What the Board has achieved in 2017 Reviewed and challenged the strategy of the Spent time with the Divisional management teams and Group and supported the Chief Executive and the met regularly with senior management responsible other Executive Directors in the Groups strategic for the delivery of the Groups key opportunities and development.
existing contracts, including a number of contract visits in the UK.
Received, discussed and reviewed regular reports Received a number of operational deep dives from from the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer.
Reviewed the Operating Model and Finance Transformation plans.
Reviewed and challenged the Centres of Excellence.
Focused on the ongoing performance of the Group.
Ensured that the introduction of the Group Risk Reviewed employee engagement, as well as receiving Committee operated effectively to oversee and regular HR reports.
strengthen the Companys risk management processes Reviewed Health and Safety and risk reports.
and continued to receive appropriate attention at Reviewed and began to embed the Corporate Board level.
Considered succession planning both for the Board Focused on further embedding the Corporate and the senior management team.
Reviewed the Gender Pay position.
Reviewed and challenged management on the progress Reviewed and updated the Board Diversity Policy.
of the Groups business development pipeline.
Reviewed, challenged and refreshed the Tax and Received regular legal and governance reports, Treasury Policy.
including diversity and governance developments and A number of contract site visits were undertaken by received training as a Board.
Focused on and reviewed a number of key individual Engagement with the Company's stakeholders.
material bids and acquisitions over the year.
Appointed three new Non-Executive Directors, including a new Remuneration Committee Chair, and re-allocated the duties of the Chief Operating Officer following the resignation of Edward J. Casey, Jnr.
Board priorities for 2018 Continue to assess and challenge the Group's strategy.
Continue to drive improvements in Health and Safety and, specifically, to challenge measures put in place to Continue to support and challenge improvements in support the reduction in physical assaults in prisons.
contract execution and cost efficiency, together with seeking to ensure the utilisation of capabilities across Further review of Divisional operations as the Board the Group.
continues to focus its time on ensuring the ongoing transformation and strengthening of the Group.
Ongoing review and challenge of the bid pipeline and new business opportunities, together with the To support and challenge management on embedding development of the Centres of Excellence.
the Group's transformation initiatives.
Continued focus on enhancing risk management.
Budget and financial performance reviews.
Focus on Board and Senior Management succession Monitor changes to relevant legal, regulatory and planning, including diversity.
Implement an effective external Board evaluation Continue to oversee employee engagement.
Continued focus on governance developments and Further embedding of the Serco Values within the training.
90 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
