Directors' Report Corporate Governance Report Audit Committee Report In 2017, the Committee has continued to focus Attendance 2017 Scheduled Committee Meetings eligibility on the critical accounting judgements especially Onerous Contract Provisions OCPs, tax and Chairman pensions, the Finance Transformation programme, John Rishton 5 5 financial controls, the use of Alternative Performance Committee Members Measures APMs and the reporting of exceptional items.
In 2018, the Committee will continue to Mike Clasper 5 5 focus on the critical accounting judgements made Rachel Lomax 5 5 including OCPs and financial controls, support 1 Lynne Peacock 2 3 the implementation of the Finance Transformation programme and will review the impact of new 1 Lynne Peacock was unable to attend the August 2017 Committee Meeting due to an unavoidable scheduling conflict.
accounting standards, most notably IFRS 15 and IFRS 16.
Dear Shareholder I will be present at the 2018 AGM to answer any I am pleased to present the Committees report for questions from shareholders on this report and the year ended 31 December 2017 following my first the activities of the Committee.
full financial year as Chairman of the Committee.
The Audit Committee has a fundamental role to play in reviewing, monitoring and challenging the effectiveness of the Groups financial reporting and internal control processes.
Details of the work John Rishton carried out by the Committee and in addressing Chair of the Audit Committee significant issues are reported to the Board as a matter of course and are described in this report.
21 February 2018 Committees responsibilities bring strong international, service and public sector expertise and experience which is highly relevant to The Committee supports the Board in fulfilling its the Company.
John Rishton is a Fellow of the Chartered responsibilities in respect of overseeing the Groups Institute of Management Accountants and has served financial reporting processes: reviewing, challenging as Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer of large and approving significant accounting judgements businesses, providing assurance to the Board that at proposed by management: the way in which least one member of the Committee has recent and management ensures and monitors the adequacy of relevant financial experience, as required by the Code.
financial and compliance controls: the appointment, Biographical details for each member of the Committee remuneration, independence and performance of the are provided on pages 86 and 87.
Groups External Auditor and the independence and performance of Internal Audit.
The Committee met five times during the financial year.
Attendance at these meetings is set out above.
The Terms of Reference for the Committee were In addition to the members of the Committee, the reviewed and amended this year to reflect the Chairman, the Chief Financial Officer, the Group requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code Financial Controller, the Head of Internal Audit, the and the ICSA Guidance Note for Audit Committees.
Group General Counsel and Company Secretary and The Terms of Reference can be found on our corporate representatives of the Companys External Auditor, website www.
com KPMG LLP, attended and received papers for each Membership and attendees meeting.
The Committee retain time at the end of The Committee consists solely of Non-Executive each meeting to meet separately without management Directors.
The Board considers that each member of the present and invite the Head of Internal Audit and KPMG Committee is independent within the definition set out LLP to attend for part of this session.
The Committee in the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and also meet privately with the Chief Financial Officer.
that, between them, the members of the Committee 96 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Performance review the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures designed to ensure that the Annual The Audit Committees performance was assessed as part of the Boards annual effectiveness review.
Report and Accounts complies with all relevant In terms of enhancement to the Committee's overall legal and regulatory requirements: and effectiveness, it was felt that the Committee worked the process designed to ensure the External effectively but should reflect further on annual training Auditor is aware of all relevant audit information, needs and continue to visit contracts to help improve as required by Sections 418 and 419 of the business understanding.
Activities of the Committee during the year Internal controls The Committee has an annual forward agenda developed Assessing the effectiveness of the Groups internal from its Terms of Reference with standing items control environment and making recommendations to considered at each meeting in addition to any specific the Board: matters arising and topical business or financial items on Assessing the findings and directing the work of the which the Committee has chosen to focus.
The work of the Groups financial assurance function: Committee in 2017 principally fell into three main areas: Receiving reports from Internal Audit on the audit Accounting, tax and financial reporting programme and resulting recommendations: Reviewing the integrity of the half-year and annual In conjunction with the Group Risk Committee, financial statements and the associated significant considering the level of alignment between the financial reporting judgements and disclosures: Group's key risks and Internal Audit programme: Considering the liquidity risk and the basis for Reviewing the proposed 2018 Internal Audit plan: preparing the half-year and annual financial statements Reviewing the adequacy of resources of the Internal on a going concern basis, and reviewing the related Audit function and considering and approving the disclosures in the Annual Report and Accounts: scope of the Internal Audit programme: Considering the provisions of the Code regarding Considering reports from the External Auditor on going concern and viability statements and reviewing their assessment of the control environment.
emerging practice and investor comment: Reviewing updates on accounting matters and new External Auditor accounting standards, including the new accounting Considering and approving the audit approach standards on financial instruments IFRS 9, revenue and scope of the audit undertaken by KPMG LLP IFRS 15 and leasing IFRS 16 : as External Auditor and their fees: Reviewing the processes to assure the integrity of the Agreeing reporting materiality thresholds: Annual Report and Accounts as well as reviewing: Reviewing reports on audit findings: the management representation letter to the Considering and approving letters of representation External Auditor: issued to KPMG LLP: and the findings and opinions of the External Auditor: Considering the independence of KPMG LLP and the disclosures in relation to internal controls their effectiveness, taking into account: and the work of the Committee in discharging non-audit work undertaken by the External Auditor: its responsibilities: feedback from a survey targeted at various that the information presented in the Annual stakeholders: and Report and Accounts, when taken as a whole, is the Committees own assessment.
fair, balanced and understandable and contains the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Making a recommendation to the Board on the Groups position and performance, business model appointment of the External Auditor.
and strategy: 97 Directors' Report Corporate Governance Report Audit Committee Report continued Financial controls and significant financial Following review and challenge, the Committee judgements believes that, to the best of their knowledge and belief, the financial control framework and the monitoring of The Group aims to have a strong and well monitored this framework has worked effectively during the year, control environment that minimises financial risk and, as and that in cases of non-compliance, the Group has not part of the Committees responsibilities, it reviews the been exposed to critical, severe or significant risk.
The effectiveness of systems for internal financial control Committee was also encouraged to note that where and financial reporting.
Where relevant, the Committee weaknesses in the financial control framework were also works with the Group Risk Committee to consider identified they continued to be addressed.
During the year, the Financial Reporting Council 'FRC' Financial control risk is monitored through one of the wrote to the Company in relation to the thematic Group's Principal Risks, 'financial control failure'.
The review of Alternative Performance Measures provided Committee has reviewed this risk during 2017 and has in the Companys annual report for the year ended 31 focused in particular on: December 2016.
No major financial reporting changes The impact of the Groups ongoing Finance were identified however, some clarified descriptions and Transformation programme, with briefings received explanations have been included within the 2017 Annual at every Committee meeting on the progress of Report and Accounts to provide greater transparency in theproject: relation to exceptional items, in particular the treatment and disclosure of restructuring costs.
Updates to the risk mapping framework to document key financial control risks being managed by the The FRCs review only covered the specific disclosures Divisions and Business Units and the assurance relating to this thematic review and provides no activity undertaken to mitigate those risks: assurance that the report and accounts are correct in Reviews of the controls and judgements on the all material respects: the FRCs role is not to verify the information provided but to consider compliance with Groups balance sheet: and reporting requirements.
Managements review of the adequacy of the Group Finance function's first and second lines of defence.
Issue and Significance How the Committee addressed this Comments and Conclusion Contract performance, including Onerous Contract Provisions OCPs As part of the 2014 Strategy Review, The Committee has regularly reviewed and challenged The Committee agreed with the Contract & Balance Sheet Review Managements assumptions and main areas of Management and the External Auditor led to the establishment of material judgement in relation to the performance of the that the overall level of provision was OCPs.
appropriate when taking into account the range of possible outcomes.
The Audit Committee gives particular focus to material The Committee also concluded that the OCP positions and, with the support of the External Auditor, agreed that, while accounting for OCPs assumptions and judgements made by remained an area of judgement, the view formed by Management in the calculation of OCPs Management regarding each individual material OCP were consistent with those prepared and the aggregate view was considered reasonable.
by Management for forecasting future As part of their review, the Committee also considered profitability and cash flows.
how the assessment of OCPs reflected other key judgements made by Management in respect of asset impairments, deferred tax asset recognition and future liquidity and viability.
Finance Transformation Programme Management has developed and The Committee was briefed on the new finance The Committee concluded that the commenced implementation of the operating model prior to implementation and has new finance operating model was Groups Finance Transformation been updated on performance against the plan appropriate and progress was in line programme.
The new finance through the course of the year.
operating model relies on a Through its oversight of the Finance Transaction The Committee were satisfied that new provider of finance function programme the Committee considered the potential Management has taken sufficient steps outsourcing and greater leveraging risks associated with the new finance operating model to mitigate the risks associated with the of centres of excellence using an and challenged Management on the processes put in Finance Transformation programme.
place to mitigate those risks.
98 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Issue and Significance How the Committee addressed this Comments and Conclusion Use of Alternative Performance Measures APMs The Groups performance measures The Committee considered whether the The Committee agreed with Management continue to include some metrics performance measures used by Management that Underlying Trading Profit continued to which are not defined or specified provided a meaningful insight into the results of be a reasonable basis for the comparison of under IFRS.
In particular, following its the Company for its shareholders.
the performance of the business.
introduction in 2015, Management The Committee reviewed the treatment of items The Committee also continued to support continued to use Underlying Trading considered as being exceptional and requiring the judgements made by Management Profit, as a key measure to review separate disclosure.
regarding the items considered as being current performance against the exceptional and requiring separate prior year by removing the impact The Committee also reviewed the proposed disclosure.
The Committee concluded of adjustments to OCPs, material disclosure of APMs in both the 2017 Half and Full that, in relation to the Half and Full Year charges and releases of other items Year results and the 2017 Annual Report ahead of 2017 results and the 2017 Annual Report, identified during the 2014 Contract & their approval by the Board.
clear and meaningful descriptions had Balance Sheet Review, together with been provided for the APMs used.
It other significant non-trading items.
was also concluded that the relationship between these measures and the statutory IFRS measures was clearly explained and supported the considered understanding of the financial statements.
The Adoption of New Accounting Standards in 2018 During the year, Management The Committee challenged the approach The Committee were satisfied with the performed an impact assessment taken by Management and reviewed in detail approach taken by Management and with of the two new accounting with Management and the External Auditor the results of the impact assessment.
standards required to be adopted the expected impact of the new accounting The impact of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 is with effect from 1 January 2018. standards.
disclosed within Note 2 of the Financial The new accounting standards Due to the significance of IFRS 15 the Committee Statements.
are IFRS 9 regarding Financial members took part in an IFRS 15 education instruments and IFRS 15 regarding session held with the External Auditors and Revenue from contracts with senior members of the Group Finance team.
Neither accounting standard is expected by Management to fundamentally change the presentation of the Groups previously published Financial Statements, but a detailed exercise was performed in order to arrive at this conclusion.
Goodwill Impairment A key area of judgement made The methodology and the results of the The Committee were satisfied that the by Management in recent years impairment testing were presented to the assumptions underlying the impairments has been in the assessment of Committee and were subject to scrutiny and made in the year were appropriate.
the holding value of goodwill.
The Committee placed particular focus on Following review of the disclosures in 2014, 2015 and 2016 Management changes in discount rates applied and ensuring the financial statements, the Committee proposed impairment charges that the underlying cash flows are consistent with concluded that the disclosures were and core to the assessment of the the Board-approved forecasts.
transparent, appropriate and in value of goodwill is Managements The Committee also reviewed the disclosures compliance with financial reporting estimate of future cash flows.
included in the financial statements to ensure that requirements.
This estimate is dependent on they provide an appropriate level of information circumstances both within and to users.
outside of their control, and discount rates that are adjusted to reflect the risks specific to individual assets.
No impairment of goodwill has been identified in 2017.
99 Directors' Report Corporate Governance Report Audit Committee Report continued Issue and Significance How the Committee addressed this Comments and Conclusion Defined Benefit Pension Schemes The Groups defined benefit pension The Committee considered both the process Following review, the Committee scheme obligations are an area of undertaken by Management to finalise the concluded that the process followed was Management focus, in particular assumptions for the main schemes, and how these appropriate and the resulting conclusions regarding the identification of assumptions benchmark against the market.
reached and calculations performed were obligations arising from customer Advice was taken from independent actuaries on appropriately balanced.
contracts and the calculation the appropriateness of the assumptions used.
of financial impact of any such liabilities.
Viability Statement Internal Audit gives particular regard to the ongoing evaluation of the efficacy of the Groups financial During the course of 2017, the Committee, along with controls and reporting processes.
Internal Audit is the Board, has received general guidance from the headed by the Group Head of Internal Audit who FRC on preparing annual reports for the 2017 2018 reports functionally to the Chair of the Audit Committee reporting season, including suggestions regarding ensuring independence is maintained.
The Committee has reviewed the work with a co-sourced partner, PwC, to supplement 2017 Viability Statement in light of these comments and and enhance in-house skills and resources where have addressed more specifically the justification of the required.
During 2017, Internal Audit has delivered a time period over which the statement is based and the full programme of audits making recommendations to sensitivity and scenario testing performed.
management for improvements to risk, governance and The Viability Statement is set out on page 30. controls.
Reports have been discussed with the parts of business they relate to and management actions Independent assurance agreed have been tracked for progress.
Key themes The Group's Independent assurance structure is formed and management action progress have been included of Internal Audit and External Audit.
in regular written updates to the Audit Committee.
Internal audits may focus on individual contracts, Internal Audit processes, functions or risk themes.
"Internal Audit acts as a ""third line of defence"" providing independent assurance to the Board, Audit Committee The 2018 Internal Audit programme will continue to and management, and in particular: focus on the key risks across the business including key risks around the Group's Finance Transformation Provides objective, independent assurance and programme as it progresses."
advice to management and the Audit Committee on the design and operating effectiveness of the External Auditor governance and internal control processes in place to The Audit Committee manages the relationship with identify and manage business risks: the Companys External Auditor on behalf of the Board.
As a result of an external competitive tender Delivers an annual programme of risk-based internal process, KPMG LLP were appointed by the Board as the audits, reporting findings and recommendations Companys external auditor for the 2016 2017 audit, the for management actions to improve governance, appointment being approved by shareholders at the risk management and controls to each Audit 2017 AGM, and have served as the Companys auditor Committee:and for one year.
Since appointment, Stephen Wardell has Reviews the annual Internal Audit programme served as audit engagement partner.
In 2017, Stephen regularly throughout the year to ensure it remains informed the Committee of his intention to retire from focused on key risks, recommending changes to the KPMG LLP and John Luke will replace him as the new Audit Committee for their approval.
In accordance with the Audit Practices Board Ethical Standard 3, the Company will continue the practice of the rotation of the audit engagement partner at least every five years, and all other partners and senior management will be required to rotate at least every seven years.
100 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements The Audit Committee keep the assessment of the Non-audit fees need to tender the auditor under ongoing review The Committee believes that non-audit work may and the Company confirms that it complied with the only be undertaken by the External Auditor in limited provisions of the Competition & Markets Authoritys circumstances.
The Committee monitors the non-audit 2014 Order on mandatory use of competitive tender fees.
For the financial year ended 31 December 2017, processes and Audit Committee responsibilities.
the non-audit fees paid to KPMG LLP were 0.1m 2016: The Committee evaluates the effectiveness of the 1.3m, 0.5m of which arose prior to appointment.
external audit annually, using feedback obtained from The majority of the fees related to either tax advisory, management associated with audits undertaken in compliance services or other  Group Finance and in the Divisions and by assessing matters.
36k of fees related to advisory services which the performance of the External Auditor against a had been engaged prior to KPMG LLPs appointment range of criteria including calibre of the audit team, as auditors.
An analysis of fees paid in respect of knowledge of the Group, and the quality of planning, audit and non-audit services provided by the external review, testing, feedback and reporting.
The feedback auditor for the past two years is disclosed on page 190. received was reviewed by management and reported The Committee regularly reviews the nature of nonto the Committee.
After taking these reports into audit work performed by the External Auditor and the consideration, the Committee concluded that the volume of that work.
Focus is given to ensuring that auditor demonstrated appropriate qualifications and engagement for non-audit services does not i create a expertise and remained independent of the Company, conflict of interest: ii place the auditor in a position to and that the audit process was effective.
audit their own work: iii result in the auditor acting as a manager or employee: or iv put the auditor in the role The Committee also reviewed External Auditor's of advocate for the Company.
engagement letter and determined the remuneration of the External Auditor in accordance with the authority Having undertaken a review of the non-audit services given to it by shareholders.
The Committee considered provided during the year, the Committee is satisfied the External Auditor's remuneration to be appropriate.
that these services were provided efficiently by the External Auditor as a result of their existing It is proposed that KPMG LLP be re-appointed as knowledge of the business and did not prejudice External Auditor of the Company at the next AGM in their independence or objectivity.
May 2018 and, if so appointed, that they will hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting of the Company at which accounts are laid.
Further details are set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting which is available on our corporate website www.
com The Independent Auditors report to shareholders is set out on pages 152 to 157.
101 Directors' Report Corporate Governance Report Nomination Committee Report Following the decision by Ralph Crosby, Tamara Attendance 2017 Scheduled Committee Meetings eligibility Ingram, and Angie Risley to stand down from the Board, I together with the Nomination Committee, Chairman continued to focus on refreshing the talent and Sir Roy Gardner 5 5 experience on the Board and the search for new Committee Members independent Non-Executive Directors which we 1 commenced in 2016.
Following that process, it led Mike Clasper 4 5 to the appointment of three new Non-Executive 2 Lynne Peacock 2 2 Directors.
I am pleased to welcome Lynne Peacock, 3 Angie Risley 2 3 Ian El-Mokadem appointed with effect from 1 July 2017 and Kirsty Bashforth appointed with effect from 1 Mike Clasper was unable to attend the January 2017 meeting due to an unavoidable scheduling conflict.
Lynne, Ian and Kirsty are settling in to their roles and have made valuable 2 Lynne Peacock joined the Committee with effect 1 November 2017. contributions to Board and Committee discussions.
3 Angie Risley was unable to attend the June 2017 Committee Meeting due to an unavoidable scheduling conflict and stepped down from the Lynne Peacock chairs the Remuneration Committee Board with effect from 15 September 2017. and is a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
Ian El-Mokadem is a member of the Dear Shareholder Corporate Responsibility and Group Risk Committees and Kirsty Bashforth is a member of the Remuneration The Committee led the process for Board appointments and made recommendations to the and Corporate Responsibility Committees.
Further information concerning this process is provided in my Board.
In fulfilling this role, the Committee considered the diversity of and evaluated the balance of skills, report below.
experience, independence and knowledge on the I will be present at the 2018 AGM to answer any Board.
questions from shareholders on this report and the During the year, the Committee reviewed the voluntary activities of the Committee.
recommendations provided in the Hampton-Alexander Review on Women in Leadership Positions and the Parker Report into Ethnic Diversity and considered the voluntary recommendations when reviewing the Board Diversity Policy.
Further details on our Board Diversity Policy are provided below.
Sir Roy Gardner Chair of the Nomination Committee 21 February 2018 102 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Committees responsibilities Activities of the Committee during 2017 The Board values diversity and when recruiting new During the year the Committees key activities included: Board members the issue of diversity is addressed The appointment of three new Non-Executive by the Committee, with particular regard to the Directors The Committee concluded the search percentage of women on the Board which currently for Non-Executive Directors commenced in 2016 stands at 30% 2016: 22%.
following the resignation of Tamara Ingram and as The key responsibilities of the Committee are: part of the ongoing succession planning process for refreshing of the Board.
Particular consideration was Reviewing the size, structure and composition of given to succession planning for the Remuneration the Board: Committee and for suitable candidates for succession Recommending membership of Board Committees: of the Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
The Undertaking succession planning for the Chairman, services of an external search consultant, Lygon Group Chief Executive and other Directors: Group, were retained to assist in identifying potential candidates.
Lygon Group is independent and is Searching for candidates for the Board, and also a signatory to the Voluntary Code of Conduct recommending Directors for appointment: on Gender Diversity.
The Committee agreed the Determining the independence of Non-Executive specification and reviewed the proposed candidates Directors: against objective criteria including diversity, ethnicity, Assessing whether Directors are able to commit cultural, professional and educational backgrounds enough time to discharge their responsibilities: to ensure the selected candidates enhanced the skill Reviewing induction and training needs of set and strengthened the diversity of thought and Directors: and experience on the Board.
The Committee members then conducted interviews with shortlisted candidates Recommending the process and criteria for assessing before making recommendations to the Board.
the effectiveness of the Board and Board Committees Lynne Peacock, Ian El-Mokadem and Kirsty Bashforth and the contribution of the Chairman and individual have all been through a comprehensive induction Directors to the effectiveness of the Board and programme including contract visits and meetings helping to implement these assessments.
with members of the Executive Committee and other The Terms of Reference for the Committee were key senior managers in Serco and its advisers.
reviewed and amended during the year to reflect The appointment of a new Remuneration Committee the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Chair During the search for new independent NonCode the 'Code' and the ICSA Guidance Note for Executive Directors, the Committee gave particular Nomination Committees.
The Terms of Reference can consideration to the search for, selection and be found on our corporate website www.
com appointment of a suitable successor for the position of Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
The Membership and attendees Committee as a whole agreed the specification and The Committee is comprised of solely independent considered, after interviewing a number of candidates Non-Executive Directors.
The Board considers that each member of the Committee is independent within from an agreed short list, that Lynne Peacock, being a the definition set out in the Code.
The Committee very experienced Chair of Remuneration Committees, met on five occasions during the year and details of would be a suitable successor to Angie Risley and Committee membership and attendance at meetings is unanimously recommended Lynne's appointment to provided on page 102.
Meetings of the Committee are the Board.
normally attended by the Chief Executive, the Group HR Director and the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary.
Biographical details for each member of the Committee are provided on pages 86 and 87.
103 Directors' Report Corporate Governance Report Nomination Committee Report continued Developing the Board Diversity Policy Serco Gender diversity: Board strongly supports the principle of boardroom diversity and values the benefits that diversity of thought can bring to its Board and throughout Serco and believes that a mix of expertise, experience, skills and backgrounds including age, ethnicity, disability, gender, sexual orientation, religion, belief, culture, education and professional backgrounds allows Serco to deliver a great service that is valued by our customers and meets the needs of those who use the services we provide.
Serco will always seek to appoint board members and senior management on merit against objective criteria, including diversity.
In developing the Board Diversity Policy, the Committee Male 70% considered the voluntary recommendations provided Female 30% in the Hampton-Alexander Review on Women in Leadership Positions and the Parker Report into Ethnic Diversity and recommended that the Board commit to improving gender and ethnic diversity Gender diversity: senior management on the Board and in the senior management roles within Serco.
The Nomination Committee will review and assess the Board Diversity Policy annually and recommend any revisions to the Board for approval.
Details of the Group's Gender Diversity Policy and how we support development of female talent within Serco are provided on page 73 of the 2017 Annual Report.
The Board Diversity Policy is available on our corporate website, www.
com Performance review The Committees performance was assessed as part of the Boards annual effectiveness review.
It was Male 90% concluded that the Committee operated effectively Female 10% however, it was felt that the Committee could improve its role around the following areas: to review the content of its annual agenda and training programme: further enhance the recruitment process for appointing new members of the Board and re-consider the format in which updates are provided to the Board following Committee meetings.
2018 priorities and focus During 2018, the Committee will continue to focus on succession planning both at the Board and amongst senior management and continue to maintain the diverse composition of the Board.
104 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance Report Corporate Responsibility Committee Report clarity in regards to corporate responsibility and its Attendance 2017 Scheduled Committee Meetings eligibility alignment to corporate strategy and will be the focus of future activities of the Committee.
Chairman Mike Clasper 4 4 Alongside this, the Committee has engaged with and received detailed briefings from Divisional Committee Members CEOs on specific areas around safety and ethical Sir Roy Gardner 4 4 risks.
This included: the challenges faced by the 1 Ian El-Mokadem 2 2 Justice & Immigration business in regard to physical 2 assaults and a range of positive initiatives being Angie Risley 2 2 implemented by the business: Saudi Railways 3 Kirsty Bashforth 2 2 operations with safety of the first passenger trains 4 Edward J. Casey Jr 4 4 being a priority : the Anti-Bribery and Corruption toolkit trial in the UK: and, employee engagement 1 Ian El-Mokadem was appointed to the Committee on 1 July 2017. around our Values following refinements to the 2 Angie Risley resigned from the Committee on 15 September 2017. culture index in our employee engagement survey, 3 Kirsty Bashforth was appointed to the Committee on 15 September 2017.
During 2018, the Committee will continue 4 Edward Casey resigned from the Committee on 31 December 2017. to engage the business in all of these areas.
Dear Shareholder Finally, the year also witnessed a change in the membership of the Committee with the appointment This year has been a busy year for the Corporate of Ian El-Mokadem and Kirsty Bashforth.
I would like Responsibility Committee as we sought to align our to thank Angie Risley, who stepped down when she Corporate Responsibility Framework CRF with the left the Board, for her valued contribution over a Group strategy and maintain engagement with the number of years.
business to better understand some specific areas of safety and ethical risks.
During 2017, Sercos CRF has been redefined to better reflect the Groups strategy, what matters to us and the manner in which we conduct our business.
The CRF defines our key corporate responsibility principles, reflects our inherent attitudes, guides our Mike Clasper future behaviours and facilitates the measurement Senior Independent Director and Chair of the of our performance.
The CRF is structured around Corporate Responsibility Committee Serco's key stakeholder groups and has at its core 21 February 2018 Our Values of Trust, Care, Innovation, and Pride which are central to everything we do.
Agreeing the CRF is a significant step forward in providing 105 Directors' Report Corporate Governance Report Corporate Responsibility Committee Report continued Committees responsibilities Membership and Attendees The Committee is responsible for overseeing the The Committee is comprised of both Executive Group's approach on all aspects of Corporate and Non-Executive Directors.
This includes the Groups ethics and membership and attendance at meetings are provided business conduct: its treatment of its people: its on page 105.
Biographical details for each member contribution to the communities in which its people of the Committee are provided on pages 86 and 87. live and work: and its approach in managing its The Committee met on four occasions during the year.
relationships with customers and suppliers.
Meetings of the Committee are normally attended by the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, The Committee also reviews and scrutinises the the Director, Business Compliance and Ethics, and the Groups continued approach to Corporate Renewal Managing Director, Group Operations.
matters and also focuses on forward-looking corporate responsibility matters.
Activities of the Committee during 2017 During the year, the Committees key activities included: The Board has agreed that the Committees focus will continue to be on the following four criteria: Changes to Committee membership The Committee concluded the search for Non-Executive Health and Safety while overall Health and Safety Directors in 2017, and Ian El-Mokadem was appointed will remain a matter reserved by the Board, the to the Committee on 1 July 2017 and Kirsty Bashforth Committee is charged with considering the Groups was subsequently appointed to the Committee on approach to Health and Safety in practice and 15September 2017, following the resignation of will review in detail any key trends and patterns of AngieRisley: behaviour that emerge, escalating any matters of The Committee reviewed and updated the Corporate importance to the Board.
Responsibility Framework to ensure it reflected the People the Committee considers the Groups policies Group's public purpose and responsibilities: relating to its people and matters of relevance to its Health and Safety performance the Committee management of people, such as the Viewpoint survey considered the Groups Health and Safety and the Groups Human Rights policy.
performance and reviewed health, safety and Ethics the Committee reviews Speak Up reports: environment reports at each of its meetings.
This the Groups whistleblowing processes: and any included: lessons learnt and action plans from relevant metrics or themes arising in relation to the particular incidents: an overview of HSE governance Groups whistleblowing, bribery or fraud processes.
and oversight: and specific initiatives to drive Where relevant these matters will be considered in continuous improvement such as zero harm week, conjunction with the Group Audit Committee.
safety culture assessment and Just Culture: Corporate Responsibility Framework the Committee HSE Deep Dives a series of deep analysis in the provides oversight, guidance and challenge on following areas: serious physical assaults, with a the implementation of the Groups Corporate particular focus on UK Justice & Immigration: rail Responsibility Framework and considers related safety, the management of Saudi Arabia Railways policies and strategies on how the Group conducts its where operations had expanded from running freight business and guards its reputation, including matters trains to running passenger trains: and aviation safety relating to human rights and slavery.
with a particular focus on operations within our FAA contracts in the US: The Terms of Reference of the Committee were reviewed and amended during the year to reflect Ethics and Speak Up activities and performance the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance the Committee reviewed reports detailing trends, Code and to update the Committees reporting resolution times, investigation outcomes, lessons responsibilities.
The Terms of Reference can be found learnt, implementation of the third party due on our corporate website, www.
In addition, the Committee also considered the outcomes from the UK Anti-Bribery and Corruption toolkit and the Gifts and Hospitality and Conflicts of Interest registers: 106 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Corporate Renewal Programme the Committee continued to review and progress its Corporate Renewal Programme including: the findings of the annual SMS self-assessment process: implementation and findings from compliance assurance: and ongoing contract management performance and reporting: Received a briefing on the Culture Index included within the Viewpoint engagement survey to monitor the ongoing culture of the Group: and Anti-Bribery and Corruption the Committee reviewed the Anti-Bribery and Corruption procedures across the Middle East and UK & Europe Divisions.
Performance review During the year, the Committee was assessed as part of the Board's annual effectiveness review.
Following that review, the Committee concluded that the Committee was performing effectively however, it was felt that the Committee should review the content of its annual training programme, continue to consider the remit of the Committee and re-consider the format in which updates are provided to the Board following Committeemeetings.
2018 priorities and focus During 2018, the Committee will continue to focus on the embedding of the refreshed Corporate Responsibility Framework and undertake detailed deep-dive reviews into key areas within its remit to ensure that the appropriate focus, control and rigour remain in place throughout the Group.
