Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Group Risk Committee Report Include a new risk 'failure of business critical Attendance 2017 Scheduled Committee Meetings eligibility partners, suppliers and sub-contractors': Chairman Separate 'failure to build reputation or act with integrity' into two discrete risks: Rachel Lomax 4 4 Combine the risk of 'contract non-compliance and Committee Members non-performance' with the risk of 'misreporting of Mike Clasper 4 4 performance': and 1 Ian El-Mokadem 2 2 Remove 'failure to attract and retain key resources John Rishton 4 4 and skills fit for the future' as a principal risk.
This reflects the success of mitigation actions in 1 Ian El-Mokadem joined the Board on 1 July 2017. this area.
Dear Shareholder The Committee is taking a continuing interest The Board continues to attach great importance to in the Groups ongoing review of its exposure to improving risk management across the Group.
The catastrophic risks and relevant mitigations.
Committee's aim in 2017 was to challenge Sercos In 2018, the Committee will continue to oversee the capabilities for assessing and managing risk.
In Group's efforts to upgrade its risk management particular, it has sought to understand and test capabilities and the way the RMF has been the extent to which the formal Risk Management embedded at divisional level.
In its regular review Framework 'RMF' has been effectively embedded of principal risks, it intends to pay particular throughout the Group.
To that end, it has received attention to monitoring progress in constructing and discussed presentations from each geographical and implementing effective risk mitigation plans.
division describing how, in practice, they are implementing the RMF and has sought to understand I will be present at the 2018 AGM to answer any how the Groups principal risks are mapped to the questions from shareholders on this report and risks that are being actively managed at divisional the activities of the Committee.
The Committee has also given in-depth consideration to the Groups principal risks focusing in particular on the effectiveness of mitigating actions and how any gap between the current risk status and the Groups risk appetite is being managed.
Following a comprehensive review of the Group's Rachel Lomax principal risks by the Executive Committee, the Chair of the Group Risk Committee Committee considered and agreed the Executive 21 February 2018 Committees proposals to: 93 Directors' Report Corporate Governance Report Group Risk Committee Report continued Committees responsibilities Activities of the Committee during 2017 The Committee advises the Board on the Groups During the year the Committees key activities included: overall risk appetite, tolerance and strategy, taking Receiving updates regarding the Groups principal account of the current and prospective macroeconomic risks, detailing key changes and trends, and and financial environments.
The key responsibilities of emerging risks: the Committee are: Undertaking, as planned, an in-depth review of the Overseeing the effectiveness of the Group's risk following risks: failure to grow profitably, failure to management framework, including the assessment attract and retain key resources and skills fit for the of the principal risks facing the Group and the action future, major information security breach, contract being taken by management to mitigate risks that are non-compliance and non-performance, and material outside the Group's risk appetite: legal and regulatory compliance failure: Challenging and advising the Board on the current Reviewing and refining the definition of a catastrophic risk exposures of the Group and future risk strategy, risk event to ensure the right level of understanding and reviewing regular risk management reports of this risk and assign appropriate focus on risk from management which enable the Committee mitigation activities: to consider the process for risk identification and Receiving presentations, as planned, from members management: of the Serco UK Central Government, Serco Middle Assessing how key Group risks are controlled and East and Serco Asia Pacific Executive teams on their monitored by management: Divisional Risk Management process.
These included In conjunction with the Audit Committee, reviewing a review on a safety critical event from Serco Middle the Groups overall risk assessment processes that East, failure perceived failure of a critical national inform the Boards decision-making, ensuring both service from Serco UK Central Government and the qualitative and quantitative metrics are used: and underperformance of contracts due to sub-contractor management failures from Serco Asia Pacific: and Reviewing the Groups capability to identify and manage emerging risks, in conjunction with the other On-going challenge and support of the Group Board Committees as appropriate.
Risk and Compliance Director in his work plan for improving, enhancing and embedding the risk The Terms of Reference were reviewed and amended management framework.
this year, materially to reflect the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the ICSA Guidance Performance review Note for Risk Committees the 'ICSA Guidance Note'.
The Group Risk Committees performance was assessed The Terms of Reference for the Committee can be as part of the Boards annual effectiveness review.
found on our corporate website, www.
com Following that review, the Committee concluded that the Committee worked effectively with some areas Membership and attendees of improvement in relation to its remit and allowing The Committee consists solely of independent Nontime for the Committee to report its deliberations to Executive Directors.
The Board considers that each theBoard.
member of the Committee is independent within the definition set out in the UK Corporate Governance 2018 priorities and focus Code the Code.
Details of Committee membership During 2018, the Committee will continue with a and attendance at meetings are provided on page 93. focus on undertaking detailed deep-dive reviews Biographical details for each member of the Committee into other Group principal risks and meeting with the are provided on pages 86 and 87.
Attention will be on the progression met on four occasions during the year.
All Committee of mitigation actions and their effectiveness to drive meetings are held in advance of Board meetings, with the Risk Management agenda.
the Committee Chair updating the Board directly on the outcomes of each meeting.
Meetings of the Committee We will continue the development of our Risk were attended by the Chairman of the Board, the Management Model, with a focus on refinements to Chief Operating Officer, the Group General Counsel our Key Risk Indicators, Corporate Risk Management and Company Secretary and the Group Risk and Tool and the supporting policies and standards Compliance Director.
94 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Sercos approach to managing business risks and internal control Serco has an internal control framework which Roles and responsibilities The Group Risk and includes financial, operational, compliance and Compliance Function is responsible for managing the risk management controls.
These are designed to SMS and for the development and implementation manage and minimise risks that would adversely of policies and standards associated with Risk affect services to our customers and to safeguard Management and Compliance Assurance.
The shareholders investments, our assets, our people Function is the custodian of the Group's Risk Register and our reputation collectively business risks.
and provides risk management oversight, assurance and challenge.
It is also custodian of the Group Internal controls and key processes are defined within Compliance Assurance Programme, again providing the Serco Management System SMS together with oversight, assurance and challenge to ensure the clear definitions of those individuals responsible Programme is risk-based and that material controls, for ensuring compliance.
To provide management mitigating the Group principal risks, are being assurance that these controls are effective, a 'three effectively implemented.
lines of defence' compliance model has been implemented to test business compliance.
The Third line of defence Together with external audits Group's Compliance Assurance Programme defines undertaken across the Group, Internal Audit provides and reports on second line of defence compliance an independent assessment of the design and activity and the Internal Audit Programme defines and operating effectiveness of the Group's governance, reports on Internal Audit activity which forms part of risk management and control frameworks that are the third line of defence.
The Internal Audit team carries out an annual programme of risk-based audits First line of defence We seek to minimise the reporting findings to the Audit Committee.
The audit probability and impact of business risks through programme is approved by the Audit Committee and the consistent implementation of the SMS, seeking is continually revised throughout the year to ensure it to ensure that appropriate processes and controls remains focused on appropriate areas.
The in-house are in place, and that appropriately trained staff Internal Audit team uses PwC as a co-sourced resource seek to ensure that customer, legal and regulatory where appropriate.
requirements are being adhered to, and if not, that adequate plans are in place to mitigate.
In 2017 we Roles and responsibilities The Group Head of completed the annual SMS self-assessment process Internal Audit reports functionally to the Chair of the for the third time to enable Contract Managers and Audit Committee and is responsible for the delivery other Leaders across the Group to self-assess their of the Internal Audit programme, ensuring that it is compliance with SMS requirements.
Self-assessment risk-based and aligned with the overall strategy of recipients are now working to address any gaps the Group.
identified, through the completion of action plans.
The first and second line of defence is reviewed and While SMS controls are designed to mitigate and challenged by the Executive Committee and the minimise business risks, these risks cannot be Board, which undertake a review of the Group Risk completely eliminated.
Consequently, while SMS Register and review individual risks as required.
controls can provide reasonable assurance against misstatement or loss, this cannot be absolute.
The third line of defence is fully independent, with review and challenge carried out by the Audit Roles and responsibilities Functions, Divisions, Committee.
The Board has overall responsibility Business Units and Contracts within the Group are for risk management and internal control and responsible for identifying and managing risks in line is supported in these duties by the Group Risk with SMS policy and standards and for implementing Committee and formally reviews the findings associated controls.
of the overall Internal Audit programme, via the Second line of defence A Group Compliance AuditCommittee.
Assurance Programme has been implemented which The Board confirms that there has been a focus on the seeks to ensure that a consistent approach is applied three lines of defence for the year under review and across the Group in assuring compliance with key up to the date of approval of the 2017 Annual Report controls.
There is a centrally mandated minimum and Accounts.
requirement for each Division to include in their Compliance Assurance Plans, in order to address principal risks, which include a minimum sample of completed SMS self-assessments to be validated.
