52 Governance report Corporate governance report Board meeting attendance Leadership At the start of each meeting, theDirectors For the majority of the year, the Board areinvited to advise of any conflicts or Meetings comprised two Executive Directors, five potential conflicts in respect ofany item 3 Director attended independent Non-executive Directors and onthat meetings agenda.
Well over half John Phizackerley 8 8 The Nominations and Governance theBoard was composed of independent 1 Andrew Baddeley 6 6 Committee will review at each of its Non-executive Directors throughout 2017.
This Angela Knight 8 8 meetings the Companys Conflicts and remains thecase as at the date of this report.
Roger Perkin 8 8 Relevant Situations Register, which sets out Stephen Pull 8 8 The Chairman, Rupert Robson, was information on Directors conflicts that have Carol Sergeant 8 8 independent of the Company and either been authorised in accordance with David Shalders 8 8 management at appointment but, as s175 of the Companies Act 2006 or declared 2 Edmund Ng 2 2 Chairman, is not classified as independent in accordance with s177 of the Companies under the Code.
His other significant Act 2006, as well as setting out Directors 1 Andrew Baddeley resigned as a director of TP ICAP commitments are noted in his biography other directorships.
2 Edmund Ng was appointed as a director of TP ICAP The Board believes that thereare no plc on 1 November 2017.
The Directors biographies demonstrate the relationships, conflicts of interest or 3 In addition to the scheduled meetings, one further depth and breadth of the Boards experience othercircumstances which are likely meeting was held at short notice in February to discuss the Remuneration Policy.
All members were and skills.
Eight of the current Directors toaffect, or could appear to affect, able to attend this meeting except for Carol including sixof the Non-executive Directors anyDirectors judgement.
Sergeant and David Shalders due to previous and the Non-executive Chairman have commitments that could not be rearranged.
The Senior Independent Non-executive extensive experience at senior levels in the Director is responsible for discussing with financial services sector, including at an How the Board spent shareholders any concerns they have failed international level.
With the most recent two its time during the year to resolve through the normal channels of appointments of Non-executive Directors, the % Chairman, Chief Executive or Chief Financial Board has added extensive experience of Officer, or for which such contact is financial markets in the Americas and Asia.
The Senior Independent One Non-executive Director is a chartered Non-executive Director also provides a accountant andwas an audit partner in a sounding board for the Chairman and is major firm ofaccountants.
available to act as an intermediary for Independence otherDirectors when necessary.
The Board has determined that all of the Non-executive Directors are independent incharacter and judgement.
Strategy and M&A 21% Routine matters 15% CFO update 14% CEO update 13% Business Management 8% updates Investor relations 8% Governance and policy 7% Legal and compliance 5% Risk management and audit 5% NED only meetings 2% Dividend and tax matters 2% TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 53 Composition of the Board Terms of appointment We continue our commitment to increase the as at 31 December 2017 The terms of the Directors service percentage of female Board members as agreements and letters of appointment quickly as we are able.
Although we appear Gender aresummarised in the Report on Directors tohave weakened gender diversity in terms Remuneration on page 69.
The letters of ofproportionality, in fact the dilution has Male 6 appointment ofeach of the Non-executive been the result of initiating asearch and Female 2 Directors in office throughout the year and appointing two additional Non-executive that of the Chairman were refreshed in Directors has brought wider geographic November 2017, not only toreflect increased expertise as well as cultural and ethnic fees as a result ofincreased workloads, but diversity to the Board.
The search was also to update terminology and references.
basedon objective criteria, though with due Each of the Directors is subject to annual regard to the Boards diversity goals.
The service that search, we also considered female agreements and the letters of appointment candidates.
The two appointments were are available for inspection during normal made on merit and on the basis that they Nationality business hours atour registered office, and were considered the best candidates to at the AGM from15minutes prior to the promote the success of the Company.
Further British 7 meeting until itsconclusion.
detail about the recruitment of the two new Canadian 1 Non-executive Directors is set out on page 60.
External appointments The Directors other directorships are set Our ability to increase our female outin the biographies on pages 50 and 51. representation at Board level depends The Boardallows Executive Directors to take ontheavailability of suitable candidates.
upappointments with other companies During2018, the Company will be reviewing provided the time involved is not too its approach to diversity at all levels of the onerousand would not conflict with their organisation, including at senior management duties at TP ICAP.
level, to determine what further action we cantake to improve diversity within TP ICAP.
Skills mapping Board succession planning and diversity The continued entry of diverse candidates The Board recognises that a balanced Board, toour sector is vital, as is the retention and Banking 8 with a broad range of skills, experience, development of current talent within the Accounting 1 knowledge and diversity, is more likely to be Company.
As a Board, we are committed to Regulatory 2 an effective Board.
The Nominations and increasing further the percentage of women Technology 1 Governance Committee, led by the Chairman, and the broader diversity of the Board.
Broking 2 makes recommendations to the Board on Risk 1 Board appointments and succession planning, having regard to diversity aspirations, to theneed to ensure there is an appropriate balance of skills and experience, and to ensure progressive refreshing of the Board.
Tenure Inconsidering diversity, we look at it in its widest sense, not just in respect of gender, 0-3 years 2 butalso age, experience, ethnicity and 3-6 years 3 geographical expertise.
com 54 Governance report Corporate governance report continued Governance framework Board The Board has principal responsibility for promoting the long-term success of the Company.
Provides strategic leadership Establishes and promotes the Companys culture, values and ethics Sets the Groups strategy, against which it monitors managements performance Determines the Groups risk appetite and nature and extent of the principal risks Ensures that controls and risk management systems are rigorous Determines what matters are reserved for decision of the Board Chairman Chief Executive The Chairman leads the Board by ensuring its effectiveness The Chief Executive is accountable to, and reports to the in all aspects of its role, setting the cultural tone and Board and is responsible for developing and implementing ensuring high standards of corporate governance.
the strategy and providing coherent executive leadership inrunning the Companys operations and activities.
Committees Audit Nominations and Risk Remuneration Governance The Committee ensures the The Committee is responsible The Committee reviews and The Committee is responsible governance and integrity of for reviewing the balance of makes recommendations to for developing, maintaining financial reporting and skills, knowledge, experience the Board on the Groups risk and recommending to disclosures, reviewing the and diversity of the Board, appetite, risk principles and the Board formal and controls in place.
It oversees making recommendations policies so the risks are transparent policies on the internal audit function for Board and committee reasonable and appropriate remuneration for the and therelationship with appointments and for the Group, and can be Companys employees, the external auditors.
managed and controlled including the Remuneration It also has responsibility within the limits of Policy.
It makes forreviewing and making the Groups resources.
recommendations to the recommendations It ensures adherence to risk Board on the remuneration onallmatters of principles and thresholds.
packages of the Executive corporategovernance.
Directors and other members of senior management, in compliance with policy.
Global Executive Committee The Committee is responsible for ensuring the successful implementation of strategy, and monitors and governs the commercial and financial performance across the regions, global business lines and global corporate functions.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 55 Role of the Board and its committees All members of the Board and committees Global Executive Committee The Board has a formal Schedule of Matters have access to the services of the Company Chaired by the Chief Executive, the Global reserved to it for decisions.
The roles of the Secretary.
The Company maintains liability Executive Committee GEC oversees the Chairman and the Chief Executive are insurance for its Directors and officers, strategy and management of TP ICAP.
The separate and a formal Statement of Division andtothe extent allowed by law and the GEC is experienced in strategic and change of Responsibilities has been adopted by Companys Articles of Association, the management, building high-performing theCompany.
The Board has Audit, Company provides a standard indemnity teams, managing risk and setting Nominations and Governance, Risk and against certain liabilities that a Director highstandards of professionalism and Remuneration Committees, to which it mayincur in their capacity as Director of accountability.
As part of a continuing delegates some of its responsibilities theCompany.
review of the senior management structure, throughagreed Terms of Reference.
regional leadership was consolidated during The Company has clearly defined policies, 2017 so that in each of EMEA, Americas and The Schedule of Matters Reserved, the processes, controls and procedures which APAC regions there is a sole regional chief Statement of Division of Responsibilities aresubject to continuous review in order to executive officer.
The GEC membership andeach committees Terms of Reference meet the requirements of the business, the wasconsequently reduced.
The names, aresubject to annual review to ensure regulatory environment and the market.
responsibilities and biographies of members theycover best practice in their respective Aframework is in place, approved by the of the GEC can be found on the Companys areas and are available on the Companys Board, setting out authority levels delegated website at www.
by the Board to individual Directors and senior management.
Board meetings Board meetings Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Compliance with the Code The Board reviewed the principles and provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and its compliance with the Code throughout 2017.
Following this review, the Board is pleased to confirm that throughout the year ended 31 December 2017, the Company has fully complied with the Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in April 2016.
A copy of the Code can be found on the FRCs website: www.
com 56 Governance report Corporate governance report continued intoeach regions performance, objectives, internal and external audit.
Budgets, regular Effectiveness opportunities and risks during this critical forecasts and monthly management accounts period of integration, and to interact with including KPIs, income statements, balance The Boards activities regional management and staff.
A meeting sheets and cash flows are prepared and the The Board has a schedule of eight meetings with only Non-executive Directors present Board reviews consolidated reports of these.
a year to discuss the Groups ordinary course was also held in Singapore to discuss of business in accordance with a detailed All Board meetings are minuted and variousgovernance matters, including the annual forward agenda developed by the anyunresolved concerns are recorded development of the Nominations and Chairman and the Company Secretary, and inthe minutes.
The Company Secretary Governance Committee.
The Board and agreed by the Board.
Every effort is made to isresponsible for ensuring the Board stays senior management also helda Strategy arrange Board meetings so all Directors can upto date with keychanges in legislation Day in May 2017.
One additional meeting attend: additional meetings are occasionally which affect the Company, and there are ofthe Board was heldat short notice in arranged as required.
The diagram onpage procedures in place for taking independent February in order to discuss necessary 55 shows the cycle of meetings, thetable on professional advice at the Companys adjustments to the Remuneration Policy page 52 shows the Board attendance record expense, if required.
during the year and the pie chart on that page shows how the Board spent its time Key agenda items discussed by the Board Keeping the Board informed during the year.
During the year, main areas of focus of The Board and its committees are provided Boardmeeting discussion and review were with appropriate and timely information.
During 2017, the Board held its June meeting performance against the integration plan, AllDirectors receive written reports before in New York and its September meeting in progress on planned synergy savings and each meeting, helping them make informed Singapore.
The locations of these meetings process optimisation.
There are regular decisions on corporate and business issues.
were chosen as they are the principal head business and management presentations.
office locations of theAmericas and Asia The Group has a comprehensive system for The other key areas discussed and reviewed Pacific regions, and gave the Board the financial reporting, subject to review by by the Board in 2017 were as shown below: opportunity to focus on and gain insight Board subjects 2017 Key activities and discussions Strategy formulation and monitoring Regular Chief Executives reports Acquisition strategy Regular reports on integration People and culture CSR strategy Culture measurement and staff engagement People, development and succession planning Finance, including results, Regular Chief Financial Officers reports including financial performance capital and liquidity Approval of year end results, the Annual Report and Accounts, the AGM circular and dividends Approval of interim results and review of trading statements Capital Markets Day Governance and risk, including Reports of the activities of the Audit, Risk, Remuneration and Nominations and regulatory outcomes GovernanceCommittees Review of principal risks faced by the Company Regular legal and compliance reports Conflicts of interest Corporate governance updates Other Withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union and consequences for the Company Review of defence strategy Board evaluation Investor relations reports Board Strategy Day In May 2017, the Board held a Strategy Day to discuss key areas of focus related to future strategy.
The Board was joined by members of the Global Executive Committee and advisers, and considered and deliberated upon presentations on the following key strategic themes: MiFID II Acquisition and investment strategy, and the impact of regulation The Institutional Services strategy The Data & Analytics strategy TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 57 Board development during 2017 The outcome of the 2016 Board evaluation exercise, which was externally facilitated by Independent Audit, was reported in detail in last years Annual Report.
The main action points arising from that exercise, and action taken in respect of each, are set out in the table below.
2016 evaluation recommendations Action taken during the year The Board to make progress on The appointment of Edmund Ng, a Hong Kong resident, as an independent its culturaland international diversity Non-executive Director in November 2017 The appointment of Michael Heaney, an American citizen, as an independent Non-executive Director in January 2018 The Board to refine the way it conducts Increased delegation to Committees, for example the broadening of the remit and business to allow explicitly for a greater responsibilities of the Nominations and Governance Committee, thus reducing the degree of business and strategic discussion, amount of routine oversight required by the Board as well as more sectoral and competitive A formal forward agenda of business and management presentations allowing a data insight and discussion.
This will moreeven distribution of topics per meeting includemore interaction of theBoard with Visits by the Board to all regions and events designed to encourage interaction with management and staff below Board level regional senior management and other staff Formal Non-executive Director and GEC member pairing Board evaluation The 2017 Board and committees evaluation process was internally facilitated and is illustrated in the following diagram: 1 2 3 4 5 Detailed and Electronic completion Collation of the responses Review by the Chairman Presentation of the comprehensive web-based and return by individual by the Company Secretary ofthe Board or respective findings and proposed bespoke questionnaires Directors and other and preparation of chairman of the committee actions to the Board designed by the Company designated senior anonymised reports of each performance area, and committees on a Secretary in consultation managers proposing potential action non-attributable basis with the Chairman of plans designed to address fordiscussion at meetings theBoard and respective the findings, for discussion in January and March chairmen of each at each forum 2018, and agreement committee ofaction plans While the evaluation confirmed that the Board and its committees operate effectively, it did identify areas for refinement and optimisation.
The main recommendations arising from the Board evaluation for 2017, and actions planned during 2018, are set out in the table below.
2017 evaluation recommendations Actions to be taken during 2018 Optimise Board and senior management succession planning Chairman to discuss tenure with each Non-executive Directorindividually Board to consider a policy on Non-executive Director tenure as a norm HR to consider a more detailed succession-mapping exercise at management level below GEC Consider systematic timetabling of post-implementation or Secretariat to automatically schedule post-implementation reviews post-investment reviews 12 months after acquisitions Enhance monitoring of achievement of our strategic objectives, A review conducted on main KPIs, in particular appropriate metrics including information structured around the main integration as integration moves to transformation objectives and performance drivers As regulations change, ensure a continuing development The set up of a governance working party to undertake a holistic programme is in place for the Board, including training governance review, to report regularly to the Board andtechnical briefings linked to our business issues Continuous development of the Nominations and Governance Committees training programme, with assistance from legal advisers Delivery in February 2018 of a Board crisis escalation briefing to assist Directors understanding of their role and responsibilities in a crisis www.
com 58 Governance report Corporate governance report continued Individual performance evaluation Professional development As a separate part of the annual evaluation and corporate awareness process, there is a review of the effectiveness All Directors receive a comprehensive and commitment of individual Directors and induction on joining the Board.
Further detail the need for any training or development is with regard to the induction provided to the assessed.
This is carried out as follows: two Non-executive Directors appointed since the last AGM is set out in the Nominations The Chairman meets with the and Governance Committee Report on Non-executive Directors to evaluate page60 and 61. theperformance of the Chief Executive Getting around the business: The Chairman meets each Non-executive The Chairman is responsible for ensuring A view from Carol Sergeant Director individually Directors continually update their skills The Senior Independent Non-executive andknowledge, and familiarity with the I have been fortunate in the last 12 Director and the other Non-executive Company, so as to fulfil their role.
Each of months to have the opportunity of Directors meet to evaluate the Chairmans themain Board committees receives regular visiting the head offices in each of our performance, having first obtained briefings on relevant current developments.
three regions more than once, not only feedback from the Chief Executive The Board is kept informed of any material as part of the main Board cycle visits shareholder correspondence, broker reports during the year, but also leveraging As part of the evaluation, an individuals on the Company and sector, institutional myown personal travel itinerary to commitment of time to the Company in light voting agency recommendations and visitregional risk function colleagues of their other commitments, as noted in their documents reflecting current shareholder and learn more about local issues biographies on pages 50 and 51, is reviewed.
In addition, members of the andchallenges.
Angela Knight and Stephen Pull were subject GECmake regular presentations to the Board.
to rigorous evaluation, in line with the Code, TP ICAP continues to make good given that each will have served over six The Non-executive Directors take advantage progress strengthening risk policies years by the time of the AGM in May 2018. of relevant conferences, seminars and andinfrastructure, and I have seen for training events, and receive training myself how some of the new monitoring materials from the Company and other and control processes work in practice.
They are also able It is pleasing to see so many colleagues tomeet members of the management embracing change.
teamsregularly, and periodically visit the Companys international offices, usually inconnection with other activities.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 59 Engagement is typically with the FCAs The Board uses the AGM to communicate Stakeholder engagement supervisory team but depending on the issues with shareholders and welcomes their to be discussed we may meet with theFCAs participation.
We send notice of the AGM As a Board, we endeavour to maintain policy or competition teams.
In addition to and related papers to shareholders at least goodcommunication with a range of this close dialogue, we frequently engage 20 working days before the meeting.
The ways we do this with with the FCA and other regulatory bodies via Chairman aimsto ensure all Directors, someof our key stakeholders are set sector consultation and round table exercises.
including chairs ofthe committees of the outinthe following paragraphs.
Other engagement with relevant agencies Board, are available at AGMs to answer and the form of that engagement depends questions and meet shareholders.
The proxy Shareholders onthe issues to be discussed.
votes cast on each resolution proposed at The Board recognises the general meetings are disclosed at those importance ofcommunicating with Through engagement with various trade meetings.
TheCompany website, bodies, we also actively share our experience participation, shareholders whose shares www.
com investors, provides and expertise to help to raise standards and areheld on the CREST system are offered information for shareholders approaches across the sector.
We advocate thefacility to submit their proxy votes andprospective investors on the positions on a number of issues relevant to through CREST.
Groupsactivities, results, products our business via the trade bodies or on our andrecent developments.
Employees Engagement with employees across the We enjoy regular dialogue with institutional The Board is kept apprised of discussions Group happens in a number of different investors, fund managers and analysts, with the regulator through presentations ways.
Employees are asked to complete which includes providing presentations of from the Group General Counsel and Global anengagement survey that asks a broad the results announcements, and meetings Head of Compliance.
Summaries of the range of questions to help us understand onrequest.
The Company held a number of meetings and discussions are also included employee sentiment.
The outputs of this investor roadshows in the UK and USA, inthe regular legal and compliance updates survey have been shared with the Board, aswell as individual meetings with that the Board receives.
themanagement team and all employees.
Inaddition to the survey, in the UK we have Clients The Company also recorded a webcast created an employee representation forum Our relationships and engagement with ofits2017 interim results presentation, made up of elected individuals.
This forum ourclients are fundamental to the success of whichisavailable to download on the provides a regular opportunity for two-way TP ICAP.
We recognise that we need to have Companyswebsite.
dialogue on a number of topics.
In every regular and effective dialogue with our region, the Chief Executive holds frequent clients to understand what their needs are In November 2017, the Company held listening sessions in order to engage and and how satisfied they are with our business, itsfirstCapital Markets Day since the answer questions from employees.
We have and to identify any areas that we could acquisition of ICAP.
This presented also held town hall meetings in all regions improve in order to serve them more institutional shareholders, potential at which the Chief Executive presented on a comprehensively.
Progress has been made investorsand analysts with a good number of topics to employees and held throughout 2017 to foster and institutionalise understanding of what TP ICAP does Q&A sessions.
The Board also receives relationships, not just between traders and andthecontext in which we operate, periodic reports from HR on matters such brokers, but also between firms at a senior presented the wider management team asemployee engagement and culture.
The Board receives regular updates on andprovided a high-level view of the possible changes to the Code, the Board is our clients through the Chief Executive and Companys three-year strategy.
A webcast considering other potential approaches to specific reports from our client relationship ofthe day and slides are also available to workforce and employee engagement.
management team are periodically download on the Companys website.
Regulators The Chairman calls the top 15-20 shareholders As the Group is lead regulated by the Financial each year to offer a telephone conversation Conduct Authority FCA, there is a pro-active ora meeting.
All Non-executive Directors system of engagement with the FCA: arealso available to meet shareholders, ifrequested, and the Board is regularly to better understand their views and updated on shareholder feedback and, in concerns and respond accordingly: particular, any specific comments from to receive valuable feedback on our institutional shareholders.
policies, procedures and our ways ofworking: and to enable us to put our views across such that the FCA understand our positions.
