62 Governance report Report of the Audit Committee Roger Perkin Effectiveness Dear shareholder, Chairman, Audit Committee I am pleased to say the Committee has continued to be effective throughout 2017, as As Chairman of the Audit Committee, I am reflected in theannual effectiveness review of pleased to introduce this report setting out Committee members Meetings attended our performance.
The review did not identify how we have discharged our responsibilities any particular areas of concern.
However, we Roger Perkin 4 4 during the year.
The Committees primary are not complacent.
In the coming year, for Carol Sergeant 4 4 focus is to ensure the integrity of financial example, we will task internal audit under its Angela Knight 4 4 reporting byreviewing the controls in place, new Head, with ensuring that management and thoseareas where judgement is required.
always takes full ownership and accountability for required improvements We have focused on a number of key areas How the Committee spent andto work with the Risk and Compliance thisyear including the recruitment of a new its time during the year functions to build a combined assurance map Chief Internal Auditor, as well as continuing to % of the organisation.
The Committee as a assist the Board with integration matters.
whole hassolid recent and relevant financial Further in this report, I give an update on the experience and has competence relevant to action the Committee has taken in relation to the sector that the Company operates in.
its significant judgements inconnection with the 2017 financialstatements and how the Outside of formal Committee meetings, Committee made its fair, balanced and Iengage regularly with members of financial understandable recommendation to the and risk management, as well as with Board.
I also provide regular reports to the external and internal audit, both in the Boardon the activities of the Committee UKand our principal overseas locations.
andhow we have discharged our duties.
Thisreinforces my understanding of the External auditor 25% challenges facing the Group.
Internal auditor 24% Annual reporting cycle 23% Routine matters 14% Key responsibilities of the Committee developing a policy for nonAd hoc projects 5% The Board has delegated responsibility auditservices provided by the Governance 4% tothe Committee for: externalauditor: considering the effectiveness of the Risk management 3% and internal controls considering significant financial Groups systems of risk management Tax matters 2% reporting judgements: andinternal control, including all reviewing the Annual Report material controls: andFinancial Statements and approving the internal audits risk half-yearresults: assessment, internal audit charter and The Committees primary considering Group tax matters: annual audit plan: focus is to ensure the reviewing the going concern and the considering the results and findings longer term viability statement: ofinternal auditswork: integrity of financial reviewing the effectiveness of reviewing the effectiveness of reporting by reviewing externalaudit: internalaudit: and assessing external auditorindependence: reviewing whistleblowing arrangements.
thecontrols in place andthose areas where judgement is required.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website: www.
com TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 63 Financial reporting Significant financial reporting These judgements, how the Committee The Committee has reviewed the integrity judgements in 2017 addressed them and theconclusions we ofthe Consolidated Financial Statements We considered a number of judgements reached, are set out in the table below: included in the half year and year end inconnection with the 2017 Consolidated announcements of results.
Judgement Note Action the Committee took Conclusions Finalising the 30 Understood the judgements taken by management in finalising We are satisfied with the accounting for the the accounting for the acquisition of ICAP as required by IFRS 3. accounting for the acquisition acquisition of ICAP Considered whether the information provided to the Groups of ICAP, including the related external valuation specialists was complete and accurate.
disclosures included in these Reviewed the procedures performed by the external auditor, financial statements.
including the involvement of its own valuation specialists.
Presentation of 2 c Challenged management on the rationale for exclusion of items The Committee is satisfied that exceptional and 6 from underlying results and ensured the subsequent presentation the definition and presentation acquisition, disposal was appropriate.
of items excluded from and integrationReviewed the Annual Report to ensure that undue prominence underlying results were related items was not given to non-statutory measures in line with guidance appropriate.
from the European Securities and Markets Authority.
Sought the view of the external auditor and reviewed its procedures as set out in its report.
Impairment of 13 Reviewed the basis on which goodwill was allocated to CGUs The Committee is satisfied goodwill and and discussed managements annual impairment assessment.
with the process undertaken, other intangibles Considered the basis for determining the recoverable amount that no impairment charge is of each CGU.
required in the year and that Challenged the methodology and valuation assumptions used.
Considered whether the information provided to the Groups external valuation specialists was complete and accurate.
Reviewed the procedures performed by the external auditor, including the involvement of its own valuation specialist.
Considered whether management and the external auditor had examined potential stress outcomes, particularly in respect of sensitivities to a reasonably possible change in assumptions.
Reviewed the carrying amounts of other intangible assets and discussed managements annual review of impairment triggers.
Accounting for the 3 y Discussed the purchase of the bulk annuity policy and considered The Committee is satisfied defined benefit managements assessment of whether the purchase triggered the that the accounting for the pension scheme buy-in need for settlement accounting.
Considered the impact on the value of the schemes assets.
Considered the facts and substance of the transaction.
Considered the work performed by the Groups external auditor.
com 64 Governance report Report of the Audit Committee continued To safeguard the external auditors Fair, balanced and understandable External auditor independence and objectivity, the Company In addition, as requested by the Board prior Effectiveness does not engage Deloitte for any non-audit to its approval, we have reviewed and The Committee has a discussion with the services except where it is work that they must, considered the processes and controls in external auditor at least once a year, without place to help ensure that the 2017 Annual or are clearly best suited to, perform.
All the Executive Directors being present, to Report presents a fair, balanced and proposed services must be pre-approved in ensure that there are no unresolved issues understandable view of the business.
When accordance with the non-audit services policy, ofconcern.
This helps ensure that the conducting these reviews, the Committee: which is reviewed and approved annually.
external auditor is able to operate effectivelyand challenge management examined the preparation and The Committee reviewed the level of fees sufficiently when required.
reviewprocess: paid to the external auditor for the various considered the level of challenge non-audit services provided during 2017 During the year as part of the 2017 provided through that process and which are disclosed in Note 6 to the effectiveness review of both the whether the Committee agreed with Consolidated Financial Statements.
externalauditor and the 2017 audit, theresults: and theCommittee considered: considered the continuing Audit and non-audit fees appropriateness of the accounting the quality of Deloittes 2017 external audit: policies, important financial reporting the effectiveness of the external audit 4,657 judgements and the adequacy and process including the expertise, efficiency, appropriateness ofdisclosures.
global service delivery and cost effectiveness of the auditor: 3,497 We concluded that the processes and the external auditors plans and controls were appropriate, and were feedbackfrom senior management: and therefore able to make the following effectiveness of management in relation assurance to the Board: to the timely identification and resolution 1,488 of areas of accounting judgement, 1,076 in our view, the Annual Report, taken analysing those judgements, the quality as a whole, is fair, balanced and and timeliness of papers, managements understandable and provides the approach to the value of independent information necessary for shareholders to audit and the booking of any audit Audit Non-audit assess the Groups position, performance, adjustments arising, and the timely 2017 business model and strategy.
provision of draft public documents 2016 forreview by the external auditor Going concern and viability statement andtheCommittee.
The assumptions relating to the going During the period under review, the concern review and viability statement were non-audit services performed by the external The Committee is pleased to report that the considered, including the medium term auditor amounted to 1.08m, 19% compared effectiveness review of the external auditor projections, stress tests and mitigation plans.
Non-audit did not note any significant findings.
services primarily relate to regulatory On the basis of the review, we advised reporting, the interim review of the Groups In addition, the Committee concluded that the Board that it was appropriate for the half year financial statements and audits the 2017 external audit had been effective.
Annual Report and Financial Statements ofsubsidiary financial statements not to be prepared on a going concern basis.
Independence and non-audit services mandated by law.
These services are We also reviewed the long-term viability When considering the 2017 Annual Report, typically, or required to be, performed by statement taking into account the Groups the Committee reviewed the objectivity theexternal auditor.
More information current position and principal risks and andindependence of the external auditor.
canbe found in Note 6 to the Consolidated uncertainties, and advised the Board that We also considered the professional Financial Statements.
the viability statement and the three-year andregulatory guidance on auditor period of theassessment were appropriate.
independence and Deloittes policies and procedures for managing independence.
TheCommittee was satisfied with the auditors representations.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 65 The Committee reviewed and approved the External audit tenders The Board is also responsible for the Groups internal audit plan for the new internal audit Deloitte has been the Companys auditor system of internal control and for reviewing year, running from 1 July 2017 to 30 June 2018, since the listing of its predecessor company its effectiveness.
The system is designed to prepared by the Head of Internal Audit, and in 2001.
In 2013, the Board put the external manage rather than eliminate the risk of reviewed the work and reports of internal audit contract outfor tender and concluded failure to achieve business objectives, and can audit since 1 January 2017.
Subsequent to that Deloitte should be re-appointed and provide only reasonable and not absolute theyear end, the Committee has approved that a new leadaudit partner, Robert Topley, assurance against misstatement or loss.
theupdated internal audit plan for the would beappointed to the Companys audit The Audit Committee carried out an annual combined business for the first half of 2018. by Deloitte in 2014, in accordance with normal rotation practices.
The Committee review of the effectiveness of the internal In addition to the review conducted last year, will monitor legal requirements and control and risk management systems and the Committee further considered the developments in best practice with reported back to the Board to enable it to internal audit arrangements.
The decision regard to audit tender arrangements.
We conducted was made to move to a co-source aformal review of the effectiveness of the In the context of the acquisition of the ICAP arrangement with an in-house head of Groups internal control systems for 2017, business, the Committee considered the audit internal audit to work alongside the considering reports from management, arrangements for the combined Group going outsourced internal audit provider.
external audit and the work of the Group Risk forward.
It concluded that in light of the and Internal Audit functions.
The process for Consequently, we are also pleased to recent audit tender referred to above, and identifying, evaluating and managing the announce the appointment of Bernadine taking into account the results of the review of principal risks faced by the Company is Burnell as our new Chief Internal Auditor.
She the effectiveness of the external audit above, reviewed regularly by the Board and has been has significant experience in leadership roles the Committee would recommend to the in place for the year under review and up to with a number of major financial institutions Board the re-appointment of Deloitte as the date of approval of the Annual Report.
It and, under her leadership, we expect our external auditor of the newly enlarged Group.
is also in accordance with the FRCs Guidance internal audit function to evolve alongside, on Risk Management, Internal Control and The Company confirms its compliance with and in response to, our growing business.
Related Financial and Business Reporting.
the requirements of the Statutory Audit Whistleblowing Services for Large Companies Market Internal audit The Committee reviewed arrangements by Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive The Committee is responsible for monitoring which employees may, in confidence, raise Tender Processes and Audit Committee and reviewing the effectiveness of the concerns about improprieties in matters of Responsibilities Order 2014 throughout internal audit function.
We approve the financial reporting or other matters.
In theyear ended 31 December 2017. internal audit plan and keep it under review conducting the review, the Committee during the year, to reflect the changing Risk management and internal control ensured that the policies remained in business needs and to ensure it considers The Board is responsible for: linewith guidance published by the relevant newand emerging risks.
setting the Groups risk appetite: During 2017, to ensure the audit plan ensuring the Group has an appropriate Roger Perkin hadbeen completed effectively, the and effective enterprise risk management Chairman Committee reviewed: framework ERMF : and Audit Committee monitoring the ongoing process for 13 March 2018 the work and reports of internal audit: identifying, evaluating, managing and how internal audit recommendations reporting the significant risks faced by hadbeen implemented: and theGroup.
monitored progress against the internal audit plan during 2017.
The ERMF and principal risks are described in the Risk Management section of the Strategic report on pages 36 to 41. www.
