66 Governance report Report of the Risk Committee Carol Sergeant andapproved a new Enterprise Risk Dear shareholder, Chairman, Risk Committee Management Framework and risk taxonomy: a new organisational structure and As chairman of the Risk Committee, I am operating model for Risk and Compliance: pleased to report how the Committee Committee members Meetings attended anew suite of policies and riskappetites, discharged its responsibilities during 2017.
Carol Sergeant 5 5 taking the opportunity to improve and As I said last year, the Committees role is not Roger Perkin 5 5 streamline the legacy policies of TP and to eliminate risk, but to ensure that the risks TP 1 David Shalders 4 5 ICAP: and considered the adequacy of ICAP takes in achieving its business objectives 2 Edmund Ng 1 1 resourcing of the Risk and Compliance are reasonable and appropriate for the functions post-merger.
There was a strong Group, can be managed and controlled 1 David Shalders was unable to attend one meeting focus on the underlying culture of the new within acceptable limits and are adequately during the year due to previous commitments organisation in order to build a solid supported by capital, liquidity, technology relating to his external executive position.
foundation for risk and compliance, as 2 Edmund Ng was appointed as a member of the and skilled and committed people.
wellas the effectiveness of training and Committee on 1 November 2017. communication necessary to embed them The work of the Risk Committee this year was and make them part of the DNA of TP ICAP.
dominated by integration and the need to respond to significant regulatory changes, How the Committee spent A great deal has been achieved in 2017, but notably MiFID II.
At the same time the its time during the year the focus will continue in 2018 to ensure that essential work on culture, conduct, and % the new approach is fully embedded and systems and process resiliency including working as intended.
The key immediate cyber risk continued and we maintained our risks of integration will also remain under oversight of capital, liquidity and regulatory close scrutiny as 2018 will likely see some compliance.
I am pleased to say that the ofthe more challenging aspects of the organisation remained comfortably within integration programme.
risk appetite throughout this period, and in compliance with regulatory requirements.
Regulatory changes MiFID II has required significant changes Integration tothe way the Company operates and has The significant immediate integration risks Routine matters 20% been closely scrutinised by the Committee.
loss of key staff, client retention, operational Update from CRO 20% Itwas made more challenging by the lack issues, clarity of accountabilities, resource ofregulatory clarity and certainty around Business risk reviews 20% stretch, potential distraction from business somekey aspects until fairly late in the Legal and compliance 18% as usual were regularly monitored and update process.
However, as reported elsewhere, the challenged.
At the same time there was a Challenge to business 16% necessary regulatory approvals were secured major re-build of the Risk and Compliance leaders and TP ICAP is successfully operating 11 infrastructure to meet the needs of the new Governance 6% compliant trading venues.
As I write this enlarged organisation.
This report, all of these trading venues are was supported by a risk based review of the operating well.
However it is early days and combined activities of TP and ICAP, with the Committee will continue to monitor aparticular focus on the more complex MiFID II implementation closely to ensure activities and those businesses and activities that any snags that may arise are promptly that were new to either of the predecessor and effectively addressed.
The Committee reviewed The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website: www.
com TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 67 Although MiFID II was the dominant Capital and liquidity risk were examined Review of Committee effectiveness regulatory challenge in 2017, the Committee regularly and showed that the Group had As mentioned earlier in the Annual Report, also spent time reviewing the Companys adequate capital and liquidity even in the Board and Committees undertook readiness for the General Data Protection stressed scenarios.
aninternally facilitated self-assessment, Regulation GDPR and the Senior whichfor Risk included the non-executive We reviewed and responded to interactions Managers and Certification Regime committee members, other non-executive and feedback from our regulators.
I can report good progress attendees and senior executives who withour lead regulator the Financial on both of these initiatives.
Conduct Authority last year and again Finally it is worth noting that in addition to thisJanuary, which enabled me to hear The Committee considered the evaluation the continuing enhanced supervision that theirviews first hand and brief the Risk report and concluded that the Committee regulators world-wide are implementing Committee accordingly.
isworking well with no significant areas of inthe financial services industry in general, concern but identified some areas of focus Because of the workload associated with the merger of TP and ICAP has made us for the forthcoming year including: integration and MiFID II, our programme of thebiggest in our industry and therefore more detailed business and cross functional continuing to focus on cultural inevitably subject to increased regulatory reviews was somewhat curtailed, however underpinnings for risk, conduct and attention.
The Committee is very conscious we still managed to conduct in-depth compliance and ways to monitor that the Company will be held to the highest reviews of the Energy business, the Exchange corporate culture: regulatory standards and is mindful of this in Give Up business model, client on-boarding developing the ways we systematically our oversight and challenge.
processes, IT and Operations and the Risk assess the risks in our corporate strategy: Other key issues considered and Compliance functions in Asia Pacific.
and IT and operational resilience were regularly continuing to focus on our technology and During the year the Risk Committee held on the agenda.
We considered end of life data security risks.
meetings in Asia Pacific and the Americas systems issues and undertook a review alongside the Board meetings in the regions, ofcyber risk, including an independent which gave us all the opportunity to meet external review of the robustness of the with Risk, Compliance and business leaders Companys defences and a review of in those regions, on a one to one basis.
contingency planning in the event of a successful attack.
In addition, the Company There was a strong focus I have continued to hold regular meetings conducted a full crisis management with the Risk and Compliance staff in EMEA, simulation exercise hosted and observed by on the underlying culture based in the UK and took the opportunity an external specialist consultancy on which of the new organisation ofnon TP ICAP related visits to Singapore the Committee received positive feedback.
andNew York to spend time with the Risk, in order to build a solid Compliance and Business staff there, As part of our work on culture and conduct foundation for risk including meeting a number of our new wereviewed with HR how job descriptions, colleagues from ICAP.
I have also spent time andcompliance.
objective setting and performance scorecards with our monitoring team and seen for myself incorporate appropriate assessment of the key monitoring tools in action.
I was able cultural behaviours and compliance with to report positively to the Committee on riskand conduct requirements.
theincreasing effectiveness of the systems andthe knowledge and experience of the monitoring team personnel.
In 2018 I plan toattend and observe a meeting of each thekey executive risk and compliance committees throughout the Group and reportback to the Risk Committee.
com 68 Governance report Report of the Risk Committee continued Conclusion But we are not complacent.
We can always Key responsibilities of the Committee Overall I am satisfied with the developments do better and the expectations of our various The Board has delegated responsibility and achievements this year and congratulate stakeholders are not diminishing.
At our last tothe Committee for: the executive team in particular on finding meeting in 2017 we agreed a substantial agood balance between the considerable work plan for 2018 which starts from a reviewing and reporting on the demands of integration and MiFID II detailed bottom up risk mapping of all our Groups risk appetite: implementation and achieving businesses by type of activity and location.
overseeing the development, successfuloutcomes for both in 2017.
This will support more detailed work on risk implementation and maintenance costs and risk appetite, which should provide oftheGroups risk management I am grateful to Committee members for their commercial as well as deeper risk insight andcompliance framework: contributions and support.
There will also be significant reviewing new risk principles Committee members have deep experience newregulatory challenges to address.
andpolicies: and knowledge in financial services, risk, considering future and emerging compliance, regulation, IT, operations and Carol Sergeant risksandproviding information audit, and with Edmund Ng and Michael Chairman andrecommendations to the Board Heaney joining the Committee, we will have Risk Committee asappropriate: the added benefit of first hand and current 13 March 2018 overseeing the independence experience in Asia Pacific and the Americas.
andeffectiveness of the Risk : providing input to the Remuneration Committee on the alignment of remuneration to risk performance: considering the risks arising from any strategic initiatives and advising the Board accordingly: reviewing the appointment of the ChiefRisk Officer: and reviewing the Groups culture monitoring arrangements.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2017
