HEAD 0 2ND LINE NoMINAtIoNS CoMMIttee rePort Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Annual Report & Accounts 2017 67 NoMINAtIoNS CoMMIttee rePort Chairmans Statement Dear Shareholders, August 2017, respectively.
Martin has of hands as we work to fill the skills gaps valuable corporate finance experience in our regional and functional leadership I am pleased to present the Companys in the U. K. whilst Christian brings deep teams.
Nominations Committee report for international financial and investment 2017. this report provides a summary of banking experience to the Board.
Whilst the Board believes that the the Committees responsibilities and its Biographies of these new directors are appointment of a permanent Chief activities throughout the year.
available on page 33. executive officer is vitally important for the Group, given the need and During the year the focus of the Committee As a result of these retirements and new time required to find an appropriate was on Board and committee composition, appointments, the Committee considered candidate, it was critical to address the the role of the Group Chief executive succession planning within, and changes operational and other issues impacting officer, which currently is filled by Mr tan to, the Boards committees.
first, His our operations in the U. S. New York in Kian Seng as the Companys interim Group excellency Shaukat Aziz succeeded particular, Singapore and elsewhere as Chief executive officer, and the succession Nicholas George as the Companys Senior a matter of priority.
However, recruitment of senior individuals within the business.
Independent Director as from 5 May 2017. for the role was put on hold in August Given his experience and knowledge of 2017 following the approach by Agapier the progress made in these areas is the Company, his appointment helped Investments Limited, a wholly owned outlined below and it is worth noting to bring continuity to the role.
Second, subsidiary of City Developments Limited that the Committee also is committed to Susan farr was appointed as Chair of the CDL, with regard to a possible cash embedding inclusion and diversity at the remuneration Committee and Gervase offer to acquire all of the remaining shares Board and executive levels and generally MacGregor was appointed Chair of the in the Company not then held by CDL or throughout the Group.
these efforts will risk Committee, also with effect from 5 parties acting in concert with it.
With the continue to be a focus of the Committee May 2017.
Both Directors had served on lapse of the final offer in January 2018, and Board going forward.
and meaningfully participated in each the Committee has once again picked up respective committee prior to taking on this baton and recommenced the search Board and committee composition their new chair responsibilities.
this was a significant year of change on Leitch assumed the role of Chair of the the Board.
With Aloysius Lee, Alexander Audit Committee on 4August 2017. finally Senior management succession Waugh and Nicholas George stepping Christian fide Charnac was appointed as As described above, one of the objectives down from the Board during the first half a member of the Audit Committee effective assigned to Kian Seng, with the support of the year, those retirements created an 23March 2018. of the Committee and the Board, was to opportunity to refresh the composition of review the senior leadership team and the Board and its committees.
the first new Additional changes were made as management structure and engage appointment during the year was Howard announced throughout the year and the appropriate talent where necessary, to Wu, in february 2017.
Given Howards Committee will continue to keep under help put in place the foundation that background and experience, it became review the composition of the Board and would allow the Group to tackle the clear that he could best support the Group its committees and may consider new various challenges it faces and drive the in an executive capacity.
on 5 May 2017 we appointments as and when appropriate.
business to the next level.
this review announced that he would be leading the has resulted in, among other things, the Groups information technology function Role of the Group Chief Executive Officer appointments of a new President of the and he has since taken on leadership of following the retirement of Aloysius Lee at U. S. a new President of UK europe, a the Companys North American operations the end of february 2017, the Committee, new Chief technology and Solutions as its President.
He stepped down from the together with the wider Board, took time officer, a new Chief Marketing officer Board on 3 August 2017. to consider the role of the Group Chief and a new Global Senior Vice President executive officer.
Mr tan Kian Seng, who of Human resources.
the former head of In addition to Howards appointment, the first joined the Group as Chief of Staff operations for europe, who had been with Committee identified and recommended and interim President of Asia in october the Company for many years, took on a two additional appointments to the Board, 2016, was elevated to serve as the interim newly created role of Chief Commercial Martin Leitch and Christian fide Charnac, Group Ceo from March 2017, and has officer and has been busy reorganising who joined the Board in May 2017 and proven to be competent and a safe pair the Groups global sales function.
HEAD 0 2ND LINE 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 68 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 NoMINAtIoNS CoMMIttee rePort CoNtINUeD With these direct reports to the Chief executive officer largely in place, the team has been focused on assessing and filling out the senior team below that level.
However, this process is an ongoing exercise that must evolve as our business evolves.
Future priorities the Committees primary objectives for the coming year are to: Kick-start the process to recruit and appoint a permanent Group Chief executive officer: Continue to review the balance of skills, experiences and diversity of the Companys Directors to determine if any further changes or appointments are needed to ensure the Board has the talent necessary to help the Group deliver its strategic objectives: and Identify ways to improve the effectiveness of the Board and its committees.
Kwek Leng Beng Chairman of the Nominations Committee 28 March 2018 HEAD 0 2ND LINE 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Annual Report & Accounts 2017 69 Overview each candidate.
Careful consideration proposed revisions to the Code, which are the Nominations Committee reviews was given to ensure proposed appointees being analysed by the financial reporting the composition of the Board and its had sufficient time available to devote Council, a Director would be deemed committees and oversees succession to the roles and that the balance of to be non-independent once his or her planning of the Companys Directors.
By skills, knowledge and experience on the appointment exceeds nine years.
However, identifying and recommending candidates Board would be maintained.
When the the Directors believe that in certain as Directors.
the Committee aims to ensure Committee found a suitable candidate for circumstances having Non-executive that the Board and its committees are fit a role, a proposal was made to the Board, Directors remain on the Board beyond for purpose and have the appropriate which has retained the responsibility to nine-years could help to provide continuity balance of skills, experience and diversity approve all such appointments.
and constructive and informed debate, to be able to meet the challenges facing with the appointment of new Directors the Group.
on appointment to the Board, each from time to time providing an opportunity Director undergoes a comprehensive to add new perspectives.
As such, the Membership and meetings induction programme as appropriate.
the Committee may determine that it is in the the Committee is comprised of a majority programme is tailored to each Directors Companys best interests for a Directors of Independent Non-executive Directors.
individual needs, but is intended to provide appointment to remain in effect for longer During the year the following Directors an introduction to the Groups business, than nine years.
It is along these lines that were members of the Committee challenges and risks.
Newly appointed the Committee will be rigorously assessing Directors also receive an overview of Mr Azizs appointment around his ninth Kwek Leng Beng Chairman their duties, the corporate governance anniversary.
Kwek Leng Peck landscape applicable to listed companies His excellency Shaukat Aziz in the U. K. and Board processes and None of the other Independent NonSusan farr policies.
During the year, Martin Leitch executive Directors will reach nine years in 1 Nicholas George and Christian fide Charnac received such tenure in 2018.
Time commitment the Company Secretary acts as secretary Nominations Committee performance All Directors are required to commit to the Committee and attends all meetings.
review sufficient time to fulfil their responsibilities.
other Directors or members of senior As part of the Boards annual performance the Nominations Committee monitors management and external advisers may review, an assessment of the Committees the extent of the Directors other interests attend the meetings at the invitation of the performance was commenced inMarch to ensure that the effectiveness of the chair.
in respect of the year ended 31 December Directors and the Board as a whole is not 2017. the results of the performance compromised.
the Nominations Committee the Nominations Committee met twice assessment were discussed and presented is satisfied that each of the Non-executive during the year.
at the Board meeting held on 23March.
Directors commits sufficient time to their the key findings of the evaluation were duties.
Appointment and induction of new that the Committee was considered to Directors be effective and remains independent in Role of the Committee During the year, the Committee reviewed nature.
the role of the Committee is, among other role requirements and prepared job things, to: specifications for the appointments of Tenure the interim Group Chief executive officer As at the date of this report the Committee review the structure, size and and new Non-executive Directors.
As acknowledges that His excellency Shaukat composition of the Board, including part of that process, Committee members Aziz will, on 16 June 2018, be nearing the skills, knowledge, experience and interviewed suitable candidates who his ninth anniversary on the Board.
the diversity of the Directors: were proposed, either by existing Board Committee is mindful that under Code members, senior executives or by an provision B.
1.1, a term of longer than external search firm or contacts, and nine years is a factor that may impact extensive referencing was undertaken on a Directors independence, and under 1 Nicholas George stepped down from the Board at the conclusion of the Companys annual general meeting on 5 May 2017.
2 Martin Leitch was appointed to the Committee on 22 May 2017.
HEAD 0 2ND LINE 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 70 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 NoMINAtIoNS CoMMIttee rePort CoNtINUeD consider succession planning for Board diversity Advisors directors and other senior executives, the Board embraces diversity in its the Committee did not utilise any external taking into account the challenges and broadest sense, believing that a wide advisors or agencies during 2017.
However, opportunities facing the Company and range of experience, background, management did engage recruitment the skills and expertise needed: perspective, skills and knowledge, firms from time to time during the year, as combine to contribute towards a high necessary, to identify qualified candidates identify and nominate for approval performing, effective Board, which is able to fill senior executive positions within the by the Board candidates to fill Board to support and direct the Company.
vacancies when they arise: Company continues to make good progress keep under review the leadership in terms of diversity.
Including Susan farr, Terms of Reference needs of the organisation, with a view the percentage of women on the Board is the Nominations Committees terms of to ensuring the continued ability of the at 11%.
the Company acknowledges that reference are available at: organisation to compete effectively in more needs to be done in order to meet the marketplace: the aspirational target set by Lord Davies www.
com corporate review the time required from Nonin his report on Women on Boards and investors.
executive Directors: the voluntary target, set by the Hampton Alexander review, of boards of ftSe 350 in consultation with the Chairmen of companies to be comprised of 33% of the Board committees, review and if women by 2020. this goal remains a top appropriate recommend changes to priority for the Nominations Committee.
the composition of the committees: consider the re-appointment of Nonthe Board and Committee also are executive Directors at the conclusion committed to strengthening the pipeline of their specified terms of office, giving of senior executives within the business due regard to their performance and and have taken steps to ensure that there ability to continue to contribute to the are no barriers to women succeeding Board: at the highest levels of the organisation.
assess the appointment of any Director the Company currently has 115 females in to an executive or other office: and senior management positions.
review the Committees terms of reference from time to time.
