HEAD 0 2ND LINE CorPorAte GoVerNANCe StAteMeNt Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 40 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 CorPorAte GoVerNANCe StAteMeNt Dear Shareholders, and externally, and that the Board and the Independent Non-executive Directors Group have the proper mix of talent and had been set up to assess the merits of As I remarked in last years Corporate resources to allow the Company to execute the approach from CDL.
After the Possible Governance Statement, an effective its strategy and develop the business offer was announced, the Independent governance regime must be practical and over the coming years.
New Director Committee received a wide range of tailored to the needs of each business.
It appointments may be considered as part feedback from minority shareholders, cannot exist in a vacuum, but instead must of this proposal.
held constructive dialogue with CDL and evolve and help support the growth of continued to carefully consider the merits the business.
that is why over the course Board evaluation of the transaction.
following continued of 2017 we implemented changes to the this year we conducted an internal Board engagement between the parties, on 8 composition of our Board to help refresh, evaluation which supported the findings December 2017, a further announcement and enhance the skills and experience of, of the external Board evaluation which was made indicating that CDL and the our Directors.
was conducted in 2016 and we found that Independent Committee had reached the Board is collegiate, transparent and agreement on the terms of an increased Sustainable governance effective.
A summary of the key findings recommended final offer of 600pence per this was a year of change on the Board.
from the internal board evaluation is share, in cash, together with an increased With Aloysius Lee, Alexander Waugh and set out on page 46 of the Corporate special dividend of 20pence per share.
Nicholas George stepping down from the Governance Statement.
the process concluded on 26January 2018, Board during the first half of the year, we when CDL confirmed that the possible offer were pleased to welcome Martin Leitch Board priorities had lapsed.
to the Board in May 2017 and Christian fide Given the geopolitical events we are Charnac in August 2017.
Both Christian experiencing around the world, such the Board therefore has recommenced and Martin have a proven track record as the tensions in Korea and proposed examining its strategic priorities whilst of delivering results and bring a wealth withdrawal of the U. K. from the european taking into consideration the detailed of experience to the Board.
As previously Union in 2019, and other challenges facing shareholder feedback that was received reported, Howard Wu, who joined the the Group, including the performance of during and after the offer period.
the Board in february 2017, stepped down in our New York hotels and increasing market Board has determined that the following August 2017 to lead our U. S. operations share of online travel agencies, the Board are some of the key areas of focus for the and our global information technology and management team have spent a Group, among others: department as part of our executive considerable amount of time considering management team.
the possible effects these will have on our Governance business and will continue to keep these Succession planning for the Board and these retirements and appointments matters under review and assess ways Committee membership, the Group created an opportunity for us to examine in which their impacts can be mitigated.
Chief executive officer and senior and adjust the membership of our Board I believe that our entrepreneurial and management committees.
Susan farr and Martin Leitch innovative culture will help the Company the dedication of more time to were appointed to chair the remuneration become more resilient and tackle these reviewing and setting the high-level Committee and Audit Committee, challenges in 2018 and beyond.
strategy and priorities for the Group respectively, taking over from Alexander Waugh and Gervase MacGregor.
Mr Proposed takeover offer Operational MacGregor took on the chair of the risk on 9th october 2017 an announcement Increased capital investment to Committee in place of Mr Kwek Leng Peck, was made in respect of a possible offer by transform and reposition the Groups and His excellency Shaukat Aziz assumed Agapier Investments Limited, a company hotel estate the role of Senior Independent Director indirectly and wholly-owned by City further investment into and after Nicholas George stepped down.
Developments Limited CDL, for the enhancement of the Companys Christian fide Charnac was appointed as entire issued and to be issued ordinary website, e-commerce capabilities, a member of the Audit Committee effective share capital of the Company not already loyalty programmes and its digital 23 March 2018. held by CDL and its subsidiaries and strategy overall, with a particular focus persons acting in concert with them on business-to-business initiatives In 2018 I will work with the Directors the Possible offer.
It was disclosed to ensure that we continue to focus on that prior to this announcement an the challenges we face, both internally Independent Committee comprising of all HEAD 0 2ND LINE 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Annual Report & Accounts 2017 41 People half of the year and was put on hold assessment of the Groups principal risks Strengthening the senior management pending the outcome of the offer by CDL.
and the development of a risk framework team in the US and elsewhere With the offer having lapsed in January below those risks, at the regional, 2018, the Board has determined that functional and hotel levels.
this work is Development of a more comprehensive filling the role on a permanent basis will further described in the our risks section strategy to deal with the possible be a key consideration in 2018, although on page 23. effects of the UK leaving the european the Directors remain confident that the Union management of the Group is in safe Despite all of the change and activity the restructuring of key functions, such hands with Mr tan in his interim role in the during the year, I am pleased to say as the Groups global sales team, to meantime.
that the Board has determined that the help drive the business forward Company has complied with the provisions Diversity and inclusion of the UK Corporate Governance Code in over the coming year, the Board will seek the Board believes that it is important to 2017, as further detailed in this Corporate to devise a more detailed strategy for the have an appropriate balance of skills, Governance Statement.
Companys short and long-term priorities.
experience, knowledge and backgrounds on the Board and at the senior I would like to thank the Directors for Succession planning management level.
this is vital to enable their diligent efforts over the course of Board and senior management succession different perspectives to be brought to the year, particularly as they had to take are key considerations for the Board.
We on additional responsibilities and time Succession planning is essential to help are mindful of the recommendations commitments in connection with the minimise or avoid instability and ensure made by Lord Davies and his Women takeover offer.
As we get ready to head an appropriate level of quality within the on Boards report, which initially stated into the second half of 2018, we remain Board and management team.
following that there should be at least 25% female focused and ready to make difficult the retirement of Aloysius Lee at the representation on the Boards of ftSe 350 decisions in order to turn around the end of february 2017, the Nominations listed companies, but which subsequently Groups U. S. and Singapore regions and Committee, together with the Board, has been revised to recommend that onepush the performance of our global hotel identified that Mrtan Kian Seng, who first third of the members of boards of ftSe portfolio.
joined the Group as Chief of Staff and 350 companies be comprised of females interim President of Asia in october 2016, by 2020. the Nominations Committee Kwek Leng Beng would be an ideal successor to Mr Lee.
acknowledges that there is further work Chairman Mrtan was appointed to the role of interim to be done in respect of increasing Group Chief executive officer with effect gender diversity on the Board and this 28 March 2018 from March 2017 and with the support of remains an on-going priority for the the Board set to task in reshaping and Nominations Committee and the Board.
strengthening the senior management further information on the Groups diversity team.
A number of key appointments were efforts is contained on page 70 of the made in order to address some of the Nominations Committee report.
skill gaps within the team and challenges facing the Group.
More information on Risk management the key appointments made to date is In 2016 the Group established a dedicated available on page 67 of the Nominations risk Committee to carry out a robust Committee report.
assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that With Mr tan serving as the interim Group would threaten its business model, future Chief executive officer since March performance and solvency.
In 2017 the 2017, the Board has been mindful of the main objectives of the risk Committee were need to appoint a permanent successor to build on the work completed in 2016 and balanced against the need to find the also to continue developing a more robust right candidate, with the best skills and Group risk management framework.
this experience to take the Company forward.
included a comprehensive review and the search continued through the first HEAD 0 2ND LINE 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 42 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 CorPorAte GoVerNANCe StAteMeNt CoNtINUeD Compliance with the UK Corporate Company as stewards for the Companys Directors remuneration report: Governance Code stakeholders, with good governance, Dividend policy, declaration of the Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc M&C strong values and a safety-driven and interim dividend and recommendation or the Company is the holding company ethical culture.
of the final dividend: of the Millennium Hotels & resorts group Significant changes in accounting of companies the Group.
M&C is a the activities of our Audit, remuneration policies or practices: premium listed company with equity and Nominations Committees are set out the Groups treasury policies: shares traded on the Main Market of the in the reports of each committee, which London Stock exchange and therefore the reports are deemed to be part of this Capital expenditure above 5m and Company is subject to the UK Corporate report.
Details on the risk Committee can material contracts and leases: Governance Code the Code.
the be found in the our risks section of the Any acquisition of land, property, Company has applied the main principles Strategic report on page 23. the Company or any addition of a hotel into the of the April 2016 edition of the Code, a Secretary acts as secretary to all standing portfolio by acquisition or by means of copy of which is available at www.
for the year ended 31 December 2017.
Major investments, including the It is the Boards view that the Company there is a formal schedule of matters acquisition or disposal of interests of has complied with all of the provisions reserved specifically for decision by the more than five per cent of the voting of the Code.
the Board also is mindful Board.
A summary of the matters reserved shares of any company or the making of of the proposed revisions currently being for the Board is detailed below.
these are any takeover offer: contemplated by the financial reporting matters that are significant to the Group Marketing campaigns or sponsorships Council in respect of the 2016 edition of the as a whole because of their potential where expenditure exceeds 500,000: Code.
As the revisions are in consultation strategic, financial and reputational stage, and if adopted would apply for consequences.
the Board has four main Approval of resolutions and accounting periods on or after 1 January committees to deal with specific activities corresponding documentation to 2019, the Board is not required to report of the Groups affairs.
the chair of each be put forward to shareholders at a in this years Annual report and Accounts committee provides detailed reports to general meeting: as to the Companys application and the Board on the matters discussed at Approval of all circulars, prospectuses compliance with the newly proposed Code each committee meeting to ensure that and listing particulars: requirements.
all Directors have visibility of, and the Changes to the structure, size opportunity to discuss, the matters being and composition of the board, the Strategic report on pages 4 to 30 considered by each committee.
following recommendations from the provides information about the Groups Nominations Committee: strategy and outlook, its businesses, the Long term objectives and commercial financial and operating performance strategy: Appointments to the board, following during the year, the principal risks recommendations by the Nominations oversight over the Groups operations and uncertainties and its corporate Committee: and internal controls: responsibility initiatives.
A description of Membership and chairmanship of Annual operating and capital the Groups business model is included on Board committees: expenditure budgets: page 6 as required by provision C. 1.2 of the Appointment, re-appointment and extension of the Groups activities into Code.
removal of the external auditor to new business or geographic areas: be put to shareholders for approval, The role of the Board and its committees Changes relating to the Groups capital following the recommendation of the the Board provides leadership to the structure, corporate structure and Audit Committee: Group.
It sets the Groups strategy and listing status: oversees implementation of that strategy, the half-yearly report, interim ensuring that acceptable risks are taken management statements and any and mitigated where possible.
the Board preliminary announcement of the final ensures that adequate resources are in results: place in order to deliver long-term value the Annual report and Accounts, to shareholders and benefits to the wider including the corporate governance communities in which the Group operates.
statement and the Boards overriding duties are to run the HEAD 0 2ND LINE 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Annual Report & Accounts 2017 43 Determining the remuneration policy for Board and committee attendance Board membership the directors, company secretary and the Board generally has up to eight At the date of this report, the Board is other senior executives: and regularly scheduled meetings per year and comprised of nine directors, who will each convenes ad hoc meetings as necessary.
seek re-election by shareholders at the the introduction of new share incentive the actual number of regularly scheduled forthcoming Annual General Meeting plans or major changes to existing Board and Committee meetings attended AGM, except for Christian fide Charnac plans, to be put to shareholders for by each Director during the year is shown and Martin Leitch, who will be seeking approval.
below next to the maximum number of such election at this years AGM.
the Directors meetings that each Director could have possess a variety of skills and have a mix of Copies of the terms of reference for each attended during the year.
regional and global experience, as can be committee can be found on the investor seen from the biographical details of the relations section of the Groups website at In addition to the regularly scheduled Directors set out on pages 32 to 33. https: investors.
meetings shown above, the Board held one ad hoc meeting, the Audit Committee the Group Chief executive officer, held one ad hoc meeting, and the supported by the regional heads of remuneration Committee held two ad hoc operation and key functional heads, is meetings.
Attendance for those meetings is responsible to the Board for the Groups not reported.
operational performance, including: Audit remuneration Nominations risk implementing the Group strategy as Board Committee Committee Committee Committee determined by the Board: Kwek Leng Beng 6 6 2 2 maintaining adequate internal Shaukat Aziz 6 6 4 4 2 2 control systems and risk management 1 processes: Christian fide Charnac 3 3 2 Daniel Desbaillets 6 6 3 3 2 2 2 2 monitoring operational performance 3 against plans and targets and Susan farr 6 6 2 2 4 4 2 2 reporting to the Board any significant 4 Nicholas George 2 2 2 2 1 2 2 2 1 2 variances: and 5 Aloysius Lee 0 1 0 1 maintaining an effective management 6 Martin Leitch 4 4 3 3 0 0 team and succession planning.
2 8 Gervase MacGregor 4 6 4 5 1 2 4 4 2 9 Kwek Leng Peck 5 6 2 2 2 2 the respective responsibilities of the Chairman and Group Chief executive Kwek eik Sheng 6 6 4 4 officer are set out below and have been 4 Alexander Waugh 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 approved by the Board this year without 7 Howard Wu 2 2 1 1 1 significant change.
the Board currently is comprised of nine directors including the 1 Christian fide Charnac was appointed to the Board with effect from 16 August 2017.
Chairman, six Independent Non-executive 2 on 5 May 2017, Kwek Leng Peck stepped down from the risk Committee, Gervase MacGregor stepped Directors and two other Non-executive down from the remuneration Committee and Daniel Desbaillets joined the Audit, remuneration and Directors who, like the Chairman, are risk Committees.
appointees of the majority shareholder, 3 Susan farr stepped down from the Audit Committee on 22 May 2017.
each Director 4 Nicholas George and Alexander Waugh retired from the Board with effect from 5 May 2017. is expected to fulfil his or her duties for the 5 Aloysius Lee retired as the Group Chief executive officer and a Director at the end of february 2017. benefit of all shareholders.
6 Martin Leitch was appointed to the Board and to the Audit and Nominations Committees on 22 May 2017.
7 Howard Wu served as a Director from 17 february 2017 until 3 August 2017.
Mr Wu was a member of the risk Committee from 17 february 2017 until 5 May 2017.
8 Gervase MacGregor was unable to attend two Board meetings due to a conflicting appointment.
9 Kwek Leng Peck was unable to attend a Board meeting due to a conflicting appointment.
1 the responsibilities assigned to tan Kian Seng, as the interim Group Chief executive officer, are substantially as set out in this report.
HEAD 0 2ND LINE 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 44 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 CorPorAte GoVerNANCe StAteMeNt CoNtINUeD Division of responsibilities develop the top management team, in Senior Independent Director there is a clear division of responsibilities particular the Group Chief executive His duties are to: between the Chairman, Chief executive officer, and establish a succession plan officer and Senior Independent Director.
for the Group Chief executive officer Provide a channel of communication the roles of the Chairman, Chief executive position.
between the Chairman and the Nonofficer, Senior Independent Director are executive Directors: clearly defined so that no single individual there have been no material changes Act as an intermediary for shareholders has unfettered powers of decision.
to the Chairmans other significant who wish to raise concerns that were Summaries of the roles and responsibilities commitments during the year.
not able to be raised through the of the Chairman, Chief executive officer normal channels of communication: and Senior Independent Director are set The Group Chief Executive Officer Act as a sounding board for the out below.
the Group Chief executive officer Chairman and serve as an intermediary reports to the Board and has ultimate for the Non-executive Directors, where The Chairman accountability for the day-to-day running necessary: the Chairman provides leadership to the of the Group.
He is responsible for leading Meet with the Non-executive Directors Board on all aspects of its role.
His key the management team, operational at least once a year to appraise the duties are to: activities and performance of the Group, performance of the Chairman and on including the effective delivery of the such other occasions as are deemed formulate and set the strategic Companys strategy and business plan, as appropriate: and direction and organisational structure agreed by the Board, while managing and of the Group, subject to the Boards mitigating the principal risks faced by the Meet with a range of shareholders approval: Group.
when requested, to develop a better set a clear vision for the Group: understanding of their issues and His duties are to: mentor the Group Chief executive concerns, and provide their feedback officer as and when required: to the Board.
develop the strategic plan, business balance the interests of management plan and budget and deliver the same and the Board as well as the needs of Non-Executive Directors to the satisfaction of the Board: shareholders and management: the Independent Non-executive Directors lead and act as an advocate for the are responsible for helping to develop act as a liaison between management executive management team of the the Companys strategy and providing and the Board as well as between the Group: rigorous, objective and constructive Company and its shareholders: oversee the execution of the strategic challenge to create accountability and manage communications and vision and plans, and assess the drive performance.
Among them, the information dissemination processes Groups performance and progress in current Independent Non-executive between the Company and its meeting them: Directors have the appropriate balance shareholders and work closely with promote the growth of the Group: of skills, experience, knowledge and the Companys public relations team to independent judgement gained through develop the management team and achieve this objective: varied backgrounds and experiences, establish a succession plan for key establish the agenda and manage within the business world and without.
management appointments: Board meetings: act on the feedback of the Chairman: the responsibilities of the Independent offer advice to and draw on the be responsible for the day-to-day Non-executive Directors include: collective wisdom and experience of management of the Groups business Board members: and affairs and ensure that significant Helping management to develop take a proactive role in the issues that arise are resolved in an the Companys strategic objectives appointment of Directors and, efficient and timely manner: and by drawing on their own business following such appointments, oversee and commercial experience and lead the management team to improve the development of individual challenging assumptions: performance in every division.
Directors: and Scrutinising managements performance in delivering against the strategy: HEAD 0 2ND LINE 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Annual Report & Accounts 2017 45 Satisfying themselves on the integrity of and share dealing restrictions.
Such letters Diversity and inclusion financial information and ensuring that of appointment are subject to termination the Board continues to recognise that the Groups risk and control systems are by either party giving one months notice.
diversity is key for introducing different robust: and Appointment and any subsequent perspectives into Board debate and reappointment of a Non-executive Director for better anticipating the risks and Determining appropriate levels of are subject at all times to the Articles opportunities in building a long-term, remuneration and reviewing succession of Association of the Company and sustainable business.
Whilst relevance of planning for executive Directors and any necessary shareholder approval or skills is key, a balance between the skills participating their appointments.
represented is sought to ensure that there is an appropriate mix of members from the Board considers that each of the Based on the principles outlined in diverse backgrounds.
this contributes Independent Non-executive Directors provision B.
1.1 of the Code, the Board to minimising the risk of group think by continues to have: regularly assesses the independence of promoting a healthy culture of challenge each of the Companys Non-executive and scrutiny.
the time required to undertake the Directors, taking into account whether the responsibilities of their roles: Non-executive Director is independent Director training and information Unquestioned honesty and integrity: in character and judgement, and All Directors have access to the advice of An ability to provide strategic and whether there are any relationships or the Company Secretary, who is responsible pragmatic thought to the relevant circumstances that are likely to affect, or for ensuring the Board procedures and matters: could appear to affect, their judgement.
applicable corporate governance rules Since the Chairman of the Board, Kwek and regulations are observed.
In addition, An ability to manage and consider Leng Beng, Kwek Leng Peck and Kwek eik the Directors are able, if necessary, to take materiality and risk tolerance as key Sheng are appointees of the controlling independent professional advice at the considerations in decision-making: and shareholder, CDL, for the purposes of Code Companys expense.
the Non-executive An understanding of the risk provision B.
1.1 they are not considered to be Directors also have the opportunity to meet environment of the Group, including independent.
separately with the Chairman during the the potential for internal and external year.
events to impact on health and the Directors were satisfied that Martin safety, environmental, reputational, Leitch and Christian fide Charnac met the Chairman, in conjunction with the regulatory, market and financial the independence requirements under Company Secretary, is also responsible for matters the Code upon their appointments.
In ensuring that Directors receive appropriate addition, the Board conducted its regular training at the Companys expense where The Independent Non-Executive Directors independence review in December 2017 specific expertise is required in the course In accordance with the Code it is the and determined that there had not been a of the exercise of their duties.
All Directors Companys policy that at least half of the change to the independent status of all of receive a Board compendium detailing Board comprises of Independent Nonthe Independent Non-executive Directors.
matters relating to Board procedures.
the Independent their diverse business backgrounds, skills A bespoke induction programme is Non-executive Directors have wide and experience enable all of them to established for any new directors who ranging international experience at senior continue to bring independent judgement are appointed, based on their needs and levels in areas of finance, accounting, to bear on issues of strategy, performance, experience.
hospitality, investment banking, media, resources, key appointments, standards of branding and international affairs.
they conduct and other matters presented to Conflicts of interest bring strong, independent judgement to the Board.
the Board has established agreed the deliberations of the Board, particularly procedures for managing potential in respect of the Groups corporate At least once during the year the Chairman operational conflicts of interest.
and Independent Non-executive Directors procedures and any potential conflicts met, without management being present, authorised in accordance with section 175 on appointment, each Independent to discuss the performance of senior of the Companies Act 2006, as permitted Non-executive Director receives a letter management, the Board and other matters by the Companys Articles of Association, of appointment setting out the terms of importance.
In 2017, that meeting took are reviewed by the Board at least of their appointment, fees to be paid place in May 2017, following the Companys annually and other potential conflicts and matters such as confidentiality of annual general meeting.
are reviewed as they may arise from information, potential conflicts of interest HEAD 0 2ND LINE 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 46 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 CorPorAte GoVerNANCe StAteMeNt CoNtINUeD time to time.
the Board is satisfied that the Board evaluation is an important part of focus, arising from the survey results, the procedures for managing potential of the corporate governance framework included further opportunities for Directors conflicts remain effective.
and both the process and outcome are to meet and hear from management, taken seriously by the Board.
Pursuant particularly on key strategic initiatives: Co-Operation Agreement to the UK Corporate Governance Code, increased awareness of employee and the Co-operation Agreement between the Company was required to undertake customer views and developments with the Company and its majority shareholder, an internal board evaluation for 2017. the Companys peers: and continued CDL, which originally had been entered the evaluation was conducted in two focus on succession planning at the senior into at the time of the Companys listing parts.
In the first part, Mr Aziz, as the management level.
in 1996 was subsequently amended Senior Independent Director, met with and restated in November 2014 in order the Independent Non-executive Directors An action plan will be developed to to ensure compliance with the revised individually to discuss the operation of address these and other areas with Listing rules for the protection of minority the Board generally.
for the second part, measures to be implemented in due course shareholders, which came into force in Lintstock Limited, which had no other to help improve the operation of the Board.
the primary purpose of the connections with the Company, prepared Co-operation Agreement is to ensure that a tailored and targeted survey focusing Internal control and risk management the Group is able to carry on business on key themes identified by the Lintstock system in relation to preparation of independently of CDL and its associates team following the individual interviews consolidated accounts and that all agreements and transactions conducted by Mr Aziz, including: the Board is responsible for the Groups between the Company, on the one hand, internal control and risk management and CDL and or any of its respective board composition, expertise and systems, including oversight over the group undertakings, on the other hand, dynamics: processes and procedures that are in will be at arms length and on a normal place in connection with the preparation time management and Board support: commercial basis.
Under the terms of the of the Groups consolidated accounts.
In the operation of all of the Board Amended and restated Co-operation establishing these systems, the Directors committees: Agreement, CDL and its associates have have considered the nature of the Groups strategic oversight: agreed not to take any action that would business, the principal risks to which the prevent the Company from complying with business is exposed, the likelihood of such risk management and internal controls: its obligations under the Listing rules.
risks occurring, their potential impact and furthermore, the Board and Nominations and the costs and resources associated succession planning and human Committee will at all times consist of a with mitigating or protecting against resource management.
majority of Directors who are independent such risks.
In most instances such systems of CDL.
Whilst the remuneration and are designed to manage these principal the survey was completed by all the Audit Committees shall at all times risks, rather than eliminate them.
As part of the survey, an be comprised solely of Non-executive they can provide only a reasonable, and evaluation of the Chairman was completed Directors, CDL is entitled to nominate not absolute, assurance against them.
by the Independent Non-executive for appointment to the Board up to five the Groups principal risk factors and Directors and individual performance Directors.
As the Board is comprised of a mitigating activities are described on reviews were submitted by the Directors as majority of Independent Non-executive pages 26 to 30. well as the performance reviews of each Directors and the Companys ability to committee.
operate independently of CDL is protected the main features of the Groups internal by the Co-operation Agreement, the control and risk management framework the Companys 2017 Board effectiveness Board considers that there are adequate are set out below.
evaluation confirmed that the Board and safeguards for the protection of minority the Board committees were functioning shareholder interests.
Strategy effectively, there is a good balance of skills the Groups strategic direction is and experience on the Board and that the Evaluation process reviewed by the Board, generally on Board provides constructive challenge to the effectiveness of the Board is of an annual basis.
often as part of that management.
A report summarising the paramount importance to the overall process, a dedicated Board strategy findings from the survey was prepared by success of the Group and the Company session is held with the Group Chief Lintstock and circulated to the Directors undertakes a formal and rigorous annual executive officer and other senior and discussed by the Board at its meeting review of the Board and its committees.
Some of the principal areas HEAD 0 2ND LINE 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Annual Report & Accounts 2017 47 details about the Groups business Operation addition, the Senior Independent model and strategy can be found on Primary responsibility for the dayDirector often conducts meetings with page 6. to-day operation of the internal a range of major shareholders during control and risk management systems the year: other Non-executive Directors Management prepares an annual is delegated to the Groups Chief have the opportunity to attend such budget for each year, in line with the executive officer, who chairs the meetings.
Significant feedback Groups strategy, and that budget is management-level risk committee.
expressed by shareholders during those submitted to the Board for its review the heads of the Companys operating meetings is then provided to the Board and approval.
regions and global functions carry out in a timely manner.
the Board reviews, at least quarterly, regular reviews to ensure appropriate As part of the Companys regular managements progress in executing actions are implemented to meet the investor relations activities, the Group the Groups strategy and how the Groups objectives and manage its Chief executive officer, the Company Groups performance is tracking principal risks appropriately.
Secretary and senior finance personnel against the annual budget.
Assurance are available to answer queries raised the effectiveness of the internal by analysts and institutional investors Internal controls control and risk management systems from time to time.
the Company reviews and confirms its is reviewed by an internal audit level of compliance with the Code on the Groups website provides regular function and, where appropriate, an annual basis.
updates for investors and contains all by the Groups external auditor and announcements made by the Group.
the matters reserved to the Board or external consultants, who report require that significant transactions, At the annual general meeting, all to management and to the Audit projects and programmes must have shareholders have the opportunity Committee.
As part of that process, specific Board approval.
to question the Chairman and other the internal audit department Directors, including the Chairs If Board approval is not required, produces individual reports, which of the Audit, remuneration, risk authority levels are prescribed and are issued to appropriate members and Nominations Committees.
delegated to ensure segregation of the management team who are the Company prepares individual among management and proper accountable to rectify any deficiencies resolutions on each substantially escalation of approval limits.
separate issue to be put to these reports are summarised and Group financial and treasury policies, shareholders and does not combine distributed, as appropriate, to the Audit controls and procedures are in place resolutions together inappropriately, Committee members, the Group Chief and regularly reviewed and updated.
and the Annual report and Accounts executive officer, senior management All financial information published by is laid before the shareholders at the and the external auditors and, where the Group is subject to the approval of annual general meeting.
Notice of the necessary, issues are drawn to the the Audit Committee and the Board.
annual general meeting and related attention of the full Board.
papers are sent to shareholders at least Risk management 21 working days prior to the date of the Communications with shareholders the principal risks of the Group meeting, and the Company encourages the Board and executive management are assessed annually by the risk all shareholders to make positive use team regularly interact with shareholders Committee and confirmed by the Audit of the opportunity to communicate and analysts.
A schedule of the proxy votes cast at the meeting is then made During the year, there is an ongoing Presentations are made after the available on the Companys website process for identifying, evaluating announcement of the Groups final after the conclusion of the meeting.
and managing those risks and, if and half-yearly results.
During these appropriate, modifying the risks in light presentations, analysts have the of changing conditions.
this process opportunity to ask questions of the is reviewed by the risk Committee on Group Chief executive officer and behalf of the Board and has been in Chairman of the Board.
place for the year under review and up Management meets with institutional to the date of approval of the Annual shareholders on an ongoing basis report and Accounts.
to review the Groups performance, business model and objectives.
