64 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Board of Directors Chairman Executive Directors N R Sidney Taurel Chairman John Fallon Chief Executive Coram Williams Chief Financial Officer aged 69, appointed 1 January 2016 aged 55, appointed 3 October 2012 aged 44, appointed 1 August 2015 Sidney has over 45 years of experience in John became Pearsons Chief Executive on Coram joined Pearson in 2003 and has held business and finance, and is currently a board 1 January 2013.
Since 2008, he had been a number of senior positions including Finance director and chairman of the compensation responsible for the companys education and Operations Director for Pearsons English committee at IBM Corporation.
Sidney is an businesses outside North America and Language Teaching business in Europe, Middle advisory board member at pharmaceutical a member of the Pearson management East & Africa, Interim President of Pearson firm Almirall.
He was chief executive officer committee.
He joined Pearson in 1997 as Education Italia and Head of Financial Planning of global pharmaceutical firm Eli Lilly and Director of Communications and was and Analysis for Pearson.
In 2008, Coram Company from 1998 until 2008, chairman appointed President of Pearson Inc. in 2000. became CFO of The Penguin Group and was from 1999 until 2008, and has been chairman In 2003 he was appointed CEO of Pearsons latterly appointed CFO of Penguin Random emeritus since 2009.
He was also a director educational publishing businesses for Europe, House in 2013, where he oversaw the integration at McGraw Hill Financial, Inc. a role which he Middle East & Africa.
Prior to joining Pearson, of the two businesses.
Coram trained at Arthur held from 1996 until April 2016, and at ITT John was director of corporate affairs at Andersen, and subsequently worked in both Industries from 1996 to 2001.
Sidney has Powergen plc and was also a member of the the auditing and consulting practices of the firm.
received three US presidential appointments companys executive committee.
Earlier in his He is a non-executive director and chairman to: the Homeland Security Advisory Council, career, John held senior public policy and of the audit committee for the Guardian the Presidents Export Council and the communications roles in UK local government.
Advisory Committee for Trade Policy and He is an advisory board member of the Global Negotiations, and is an officer of the Business Coalition for Education, a member French Legion of Honour.
of the Council of the University of Hull, and trustee and director of the Oracle Cancer Trust.
Non-Executive Directors A N Pearson Board members bring RR RR a wide range of experience, skills and backgrounds which complement our strategy.
Linda Lorimer Non-Executive Director Harish Manwani Non-Executive Director aged 65, appointed 1 July 2013 aged 64, appointed 1 October 2013 Executive experience of Chairman and Linda spent almost 40 years serving higher Harish has an extensive background in emerging Non-Executive Directors education.
She retired from Yale in spring markets and senior experience in a successful Digital technology 2016 after 34 years at the university where she global organisation.
He was previously chief experience served in an array of senior positions including operating officer of consumer products vice president for Global & Strategic Initiatives.
company Unilever, having joined the company She oversaw the development of Yales in 1976 as a marketing management trainee 56% burgeoning online education division and the in India, and held senior management roles expansion of Yale international programmes around the world, including North America, Education learning and centres.
During her tenure, she was Latin America, Europe, Africa and Asia.
He is experience responsible for many administrative services, non-executive chairman of Hindustan Unilever ranging from Yales public communications Limited in India, and serves on the boards of 33% and alumni relations to sustainability, human Whirlpool Corporation, Qualcomm Inc. and resources and the university press.
He is also on the board of International Linda was president of Randolph-Macon the Indian School of Business and the Economic markets experience Womans College and chair of the board of Development Board EDB of Singapore, the Association of American Colleges and and is global executive advisor at Blackstone 89% Universities.
She also served on the boards Private Equity.
of several public companies, including as Sustainable business presiding director of the McGraw-Hill practice experience companies.
She is a member of the Trilateral Commission and the Council 67% on Foreign Relations.
A N RR R Key to Committees Audit Nomination & Governance Reputation & Responsibility Remuneration Committee chair Section 4 Governance Leadership & effectiveness 6 65 5 Board of Directors Non-Executive Directors A A N N R N R RR Elizabeth Corley, CBE Non-Executive Director Vivienne Cox, CBE Senior Independent Director Josh Lewis Non-Executive Director aged 61, appointed 1 May 2014 aged 58, appointed 1 January 2012 aged 55, appointed 1 March 2011 Elizabeth was CEO of Allianz Global Investors, Vivienne has wide experience in energy, natural Joshs experience spans finance, education initially for Europe then globally, from 2005 to resources and business innovation.
She worked and the development of digital enterprises.
2016, and continues to act as a senior adviser for BP plc for 28 years in global roles including He is the founder of Salmon River Capital LLC, to the firm as vice-chair.
She was previously at executive vice president and chief executive of a New York-based private equity venture Merrill Lynch Investment Managers and Coopers BPs gas, power and renewables business and capital firm focused on technology-enabled & Lybrand.
In addition to Pearson, Elizabeth its alternative energy unit.
She is non-executive businesses in education, financial services and serves on two other company boards as a director of Stena International and chairman other sectors.
Over a 25-year career in active, non-executive director BAE Systems plc and of the supervisory board of Vallourec, a leader principal investing, he has been involved in a Morgan Stanley.
She has various financial in the seamless steel pipe markets.
She is also broad range of successful companies, including services industry roles including as a member non-executive director at pharmaceutical several pioneering enterprises in the education of the FICC Markets Standards Board, the ESMA company GlaxoSmithKline plc and an sector.
In addition, he has long been active stakeholder group and the TheCityUK Advisory advisory board member of the African in the non-profit education sector, with Council.
Additionally she is a member of the Leadership Institute.
associations including New Leaders, New Committee of 200 and a trustee of the British Classrooms and the Bill & Melinda Gates Museum.
Elizabeth currently chairs a group Foundation.
He is also a non-executive director advising the UK government on social impact of several enterprises in the fin-tech data, investing.
She is also a crime fiction author.
A A N RR R Tim Score Non-Executive Director Lincoln Wallen Non-Executive Director Michael Lynton Non-Executive Director aged 57, appointed 1 January 2015 aged 57, appointed 1 January 2016 aged 58, appointed 1 February 2018 Tim has extensive experience of the technology Lincoln has extensive experience in the Michael served as CEO of Sony Entertainment sector in both developed and emerging markets, technology and media industries, having been from 2012 until 2017, overseeing Sonys global having served as chief financial officer of ARM CEO of DWA Nova, a  entertainment businesses.
He also served Holdings plc, the worlds leading semiconductor company spun out of DreamWorks Animation as chairman and CEO of Sony Pictures IP company, for 13 years.
He is an experienced Studios in Los Angeles, a position he held until Entertainment from 2004.
Prior to this, he held non-executive director and currently sits on the 2017.
He worked at DreamWorks Animation for senior roles within Time Warner and AOL, and boards of The British Land Company plc and nine years in a variety of leadership roles earlier served as chairman and CEO of Penguin HM Treasury, in addition to being on the board including chief technology officer and head of Group where he extended the Penguin brand of trustees of the Royal National Theatre and animation technology.
He was formerly CTO at to music and the internet.
Michael is chairman chairman of the group audit committee of the Electronic Arts Mobile, leading EAs entry into of Snap, Inc. and currently serves on the Football Association.
He served on the board of the mobile gaming business internationally.
boards of Pandora Media Inc. IEX and Ares National Express Group plc from 2005 to 2014, He is currently a visiting associate in Computing Management, L. P. He is also a member on the including time as interim chairman and six years and Mathematical Sciences at the California Council on Foreign Relations, the Harvard as the senior independent director.
Earlier in Institute of Technology Caltech.
Lincoln is also Board of Overseers and serves on the boards his career Tim held senior finance roles with a non-executive director of the Smith Institute of the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, the Rebus Group, William Baird, LucasVarity plc for Industrial Mathematics and Systems Tate and the Rand Corporation.
Michael holds a and BTR plc.
A. in History and Literature from Harvard 20 years of professional IT and mathematics College, where he also received his M. B.
A. research, including as a reader in Computer Science at Oxford.
66 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Board governance and activities Board of Directors Chairman and Chief Executive There is a defined split of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
Composition of the Board As at the date of this report, the Board The roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and Chief Executive consists of the Chairman, Sidney Taurel, two Executive Directors: are clearly defined, set out in writing and reviewed and agreed the Chief Executive, John Fallon, and Chief Financial Officer, by the Board on an annual basis.
Coram Williams, and eight independent Non-Executive Directors.
As previously disclosed, Harish Manwani will step down from the Chairmans significant commitments On 1 January 2017, Mr Taurel Board at the forthcoming AGM.
stepped down from his role as a senior adviser at the global investment bank, Moelis & Co, and on 30 November 2017 he stepped down from his role on the advisory Board of Takeda Pharmaceutical.
Roles and composition of the Board Gender split Nationality Role Name Responsibility of Board of Directors Chairman Sidney Taurel The Chairman is primarily responsible for the leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness.
He ensures the Board upholds and promotes the highest standards of corporate governance, setting the Boards agenda and encouraging open, constructive debate of all agenda items for effective decision-making.
He regularly meets the Chief Executive to stay informed.
He also ensures that shareholders views are communicated to the Board.
Chief John Fallon The Chief Executive is responsible for the operational management Men 8 British 6 Executive of the business and for the development and implementation of the Women 3 USA 4 companys strategy as agreed by the Board and management.
He is Singapore 1 responsible for developing operational proposals and policies for approval by the Board, and promotes Pearsons culture and standards.
Chief Financial Coram Williams The Chief Financial Officer is responsible for the preparation and Officer integrity of Pearsons financial reporting and statements and also oversees other functional areas including tax, treasury, internal audit and corporate finance.
He supports the Chief Executive in developing and implementing the strategy of the company as agreed by the Board and management.
Senior Vivienne Cox The Senior Independent Directors role includes meeting regularly Independent with the Chairman and Chief Executive to discuss specific issues, Director as well as being available to shareholders generally should they have concerns that have not been addressed through the normal channels.
She also leads the evaluation of the Chairman on behalf Ethnicity Length of of the other Directors.
tenure of Committee Elizabeth Corley The Committee Chairmen are responsible for leading the Board Non-Executive Chairmen Vivienne Cox committees and ensuring their effectiveness.
They set the Directors Linda Lorimer Committees agendas, in consultation with the companys Tim Score management, and report to the Board on Committee proceedings.
They lead on engagement with shareholders regarding matters within the remit of the Committees, alongside senior management.
The Non-Executive Directors contribute to the development of Non-Executive Elizabeth Corley Directors Vivienne Cox our strategy and scrutinise and constructively challenge the Josh Lewis performance of management in the execution of strategy Linda Lorimer and risk planning.
They also engage with various stakeholders Asian 1 Under 3 years 2 Michael Lynton of the company and provide guidance and independent Mixed 1 3 to 6 years 4 Harish Manwani perspective to management.
White 9 Over 6 years 2 Tim Score Lincoln Wallen Asian Indian 1 Mixed White & Company Stephen Jones The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Board and its Black Caribbean 1 White English Secretary committees, ensuring compliance with Board procedures and Welsh Scottish advising on governance matters.
He is responsible, under the Northern Irish direction of the Chairman, for ensuring the Board receives accurate, British 6 White Any other timely and clear information.
The Company Secretary supports White Background 3 the Chairman in delivery of the corporate governance agenda and organises Director inductions and ongoing training.
Section 4 Governance Leadership & effectiveness 67 67 Board governance and activities Governance at Pearson Board of Directors Board Committees Audit Nomination & Governance Remuneration Reputation & Responsibility Committee Committee Committee Committee Appraises our financial Reviews corporate governance Determines the remuneration Considers the companys impact management and reporting matters, including Code and benefits of the Executive on society and the communities and assesses the integrity compliance and Board Directors and oversees in which Pearson operates, of our accounting procedures evaluation, considers the remuneration arrangements including to ensure strategies and financial control.
appointment of new Directors, for the Pearson Executive.
are in place to manage and Board experience and diversity, improve Pearsons reputation.
and reviews Board induction and succession plans.
Pearson Executive management PEM PEM consists of John Fallon Chief Executive and his direct reports.
They are the leadership group for Pearson, responsible for delivering Pearsons strategy under clearly defined accountabilities and in line with agreed governance and processes.
Chief Executive General Counsel and Chief Legal Officer Chief Financial Officer President, Core markets Chief Technology and Operations Officer President, Growth markets Chief Corporate Affairs and Global Marketing Officer President, North America Chief Human Resources Officer President, Assessments Chief Strategy Officer President, Global Product There were no other changes to the Chairmans significant to a rigorous review, including with regard to their independence.
The Board has determined that Josh Lewis and Vivienne Cox continue to be independent, nothwithstanding their length of Independence of Chairman In accordance with the Code, service, taking into account their valuable contribution to Board Sidney Taurel was considered to be independent upon his discussions and constructive challenge of management.
appointment as Chairman on 1 January 2016.
Conflicts of interest Under the Companies Act 2006 the Act, Independence of Directors All of the Non-Executive Directors Directors have a statutory duty to avoid conflicts of interest with who served during 2017 were considered by the Board to be the company.
The companys Articles of Association Articles allow independent for the purposes of the Code.
The Board reviews the Directors to authorise conflicts of interest.
The company has the independence of each of the Non-Executive Directors annually.
established a procedure to identify actual and potential conflicts This includes reviewing their external appointments and any of interest, including all directorships or other appointments to, potential conflicts of interest as well as assessing their individual or relationships with, companies which are not part of the Pearson circumstances in order to ensure that there are no relationships Group and which could give rise to actual or potential conflicts of or matters likely to affect their judgement.
In addition to this interest.
Once notified to the Chairman or Company Secretary, such review, each of the Non-Executive Directors is asked annually to potential conflicts are considered for authorisation by the Board complete an independence questionnaire to satisfy requirements at its next scheduled meeting.
The relevant Director cannot vote on arising from Pearsons US listing.
an authorisation resolution, or be counted in the quorum, in relation to the resolution relating to his her conflict or potential conflict.
Josh Lewis and Vivienne Cox have served on the Board for more The Board reviews any authorisations granted on an annual basis.
Accordingly, their performance has been subject FLOW OF INFORMATION 68 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Board governance and activities Board meetings Boston, USA The Board and the Pearson Executive visited Boston in October The Board had seven formal meetings in 2017, with discussions and debates focused on the key strategic issues facing the for a three-day meeting where they were joined by members of the company.
This included two meetings each of three days duration North American senior management team to consider leadership, in So Paulo, Brazil and Boston, USA at which the Board considered culture and the change agenda in Pearson North America.
The growth markets and strategy.
Major items covered by the Board in Board also spent time considering Pearsons vision and strategy, 2017 are shown in the table below.
including a financial overview and consideration of synergies and our product investment portfolio, US higher education courseware In addition to the formal meetings, the Board meets as necessary and key strategic initiatives and opportunities, before taking some to consider matters of a time-sensitive nature.
time to review organisational health.
So Paulo, Brazil The Board and Executive participated in a range of engagement opportunities with a variety of Pearson stakeholders, including an At a three-day meeting at So Paulo in June, the Board and Pearson event on Employment in 2030 The Future of Skills, and customer Executive focused primarily on the Pearson business in Brazil, panel sessions.
On the final day of the three-day meeting, the Board while also taking a wider look at our Growth geographic markets, attended a facilitated breakfast meeting with top talent and new including time focusing on India and South Africa.
They engaged employees and gained insight into employees views on Pearsons with the Brazilian leadership team and wider employee population current challenges and opportunities.
Read more about the Boards throughout the visit, and spent time gaining an insight into the engagement with these stakeholders on p89.
The Board participated in demonstrations for three products in the learning and assessment sectors.
In two groups, the Board and Executive then visited schools where they met students and teachers, considered the school culture and classroom innovations, and discussed the students perspectives on the value of learning.
Board meeting focus during 2017 Area of responsibility Activity Training on Market Abuse Regulation Approval of division of responsibilities between Governance Chairman and Chief Executive Compliance with UK Corporate Governance Code & risk Annual review of conflicts of interest Income statement and Going concern and viability Pension scheme derisking Shareholder activism and defence plan Approval of Committee terms of reference Enterprise risk management review Penguin Random House, WSE, GEDU and K-12 Communications strategy and positioning Strategy courseware updates Capital structure Strategy meeting in So Paulo focusing on local Product, technology and operations strategies Brazilian businesses and wider Growth strategy Digital advisory network update Efficiency and simplification initiatives Operating and strategic plan updates US higher education courseware Tax update Interactive product demonstrations 2016 preliminary results and annual report and accounts 2017 operating plan Performance Interim results and trading updates Final and interim dividend proposals Monthly dashboard and milestone reports Draft 2018 operating plan and 2017 and 2018 goals Chief Executives goals Dinner with senior local management and facilitated Leadership & breakfasts with key talent at overseas strategy meetings.
Talent and succession planning people Read more on employee engagement on p27.
Organisational health including review of Pearsons culture Share buyback programme Major shareholders and share register analysis Shareholders Investor relations strategy and share Shareholder issues and voting & engagement price performance Focus on forthcoming AGM Section 4 Governance Leadership & effectiveness 69 69 Board governance and activities Board in action US higher education courseware those changes, and to consider and assess Pearsons strategic response, including the impact of the new digital and print rental models on both customer and competitor activity and on the traditional sales channel.
At its October meeting in Boston, the Board viewed an early stage product demonstration of the Global Learning Platform which would initially be focused on the higher education portfolio.
The Board also engaged with panels of students and faculty members in order to gain a greater insight into how Pearsons higher education products and services are viewed by those that use them.
Throughout the year, including between scheduled meetings, the Board also monitored progress through a monthly dashboard which enabled them to track Pearsons Robin Baliszewski, Managing Director, Higher Education Sales, leads delivery of agreed strategic, performance and customer-focused a panel of student ambassadors at the Boards meeting in Boston metrics in the higher education courseware market.
At the Boards request, US higher education courseware was an area of focus at each Board meeting during 2017 as Pearson looked to respond to and proactively mitigate against challenges in that market sector.
At each meeting, the Board was joined by the Presidents of North America and Global Product and by the Chief Technology and Operations Officer to review the Link to strategic priorities, See p14 market and associated financial model, changes in the trading environment, possible shortand longer-term implications of 1 Grow market share through digital transformation Structural growth opportunities Portfolio changes Pearson considers Online Program Management OPM and Following the announcement of Pearsons strategy of reducing virtual schools to be among its biggest growth opportunities.
exposure to large-scale direct delivery businesses, the Board During the year, the Board considered Pearsons prospects in had considered its portfolio for strategic alignment, and had these areas, how to measure success, and what differentiates determined that its English test preparation business in Pearson and provides real competitive advantage.
The Board China, Global Education GEDU, and English language learning also considered what Pearson might look like in the medium business, Wall Street English WSE, were no longer aligned with term as these and other opportunities come to fruition, and the Pearsons core strategy and accordingly that exits from these characteristics for these businesses in terms of revenues and business would be explored.
At a number of meetings during profits.
At its strategy meeting in October, the Board held a 2017, the Board considered input from the President, Growth deep dive into each of these areas with the responsible markets, with responsibility for Pearsons business in China, Executives.
In respect of OPM, the Board reviewed the global and from the SVP Corporate Finance & Strategic Development, market opportunity, and considered how Pearsons expertise both of whom provided updates as the negotiations proceeded in courseware and assessment could continue to support and the transactions took shape.
The Board considered the partners in the development and delivery of online potential terms of the transactions, the status of interested programmes that deliver demonstrable learner outcomes parties, and in light of all relevant factors including the impact and superior student learning experience.
The Board discussed of the potential divestments on Pearson, its shareholders and how to deliver that strategy, and considered managements wider stakeholders gave approval for the sales of GEDU and recommendations for next steps.
Regular reporting to the WSE businesses in line with agreed terms.
Board of progress in this market has been introduced and OPM will be a particular item for the Boards ongoing consideration in 2018.
Link to strategic priorities, See p16 Link to strategic priorities, See p18 Invest in structural growth markets 3 Become simpler and moreefficient 2 70 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Board governance and activities The role and business of the Board Culture and values The Board is deeply engaged in developing and measuring the Pearsons core values to be brave, imaginative, decent and companys long-term strategy, performance and values.
We believe accountable go to the heart of our mission to improve learning that it adds a valuable and diverse set of external perspectives outcomes, and the Board and employees are committed to and that robust, open debate about significant business issues demonstrating these characteristics throughout their work and brings an additional discipline to major decisions.
The Board monitors the culture of the company and levels of employee engagement and advocacy with the assistance A schedule of formal matters reserved for the Boards of its Reputation & Responsibility Committee and through regular decision and approval is available on our website, at updates from the Chief Human Resources Officer.
a culture of collaboration, diversity and inclusion at all levels, including by engaging with employees from across Pearson at The key responsibilities of the Board include: various events throughout the year.
Pearsons Code of Conduct Overall leadership of the company and setting the companys outlines how we work to our mission and values in an ethical and values and standards responsible manner.
Determining the companys strategy in consultation with Board attendance management, reviewing performance against it and overseeing management execution thereof Directors are expected to attend all Board and committee meetings but in certain exceptional circumstances, such as due to pre-existing Major changes to the companys corporate, capital, management business or personal commitments, Directors may be unable to and control structures attend.
In these circumstances, Directors receive relevant papers Approval of all transactions or financial commitments in excess and, where possible, will communicate any comments and of the authority limits delegated to the Chief Executive and other observations in advance of the meeting for raising as appropriate Executive management.
They are updated on any developments after the meeting by the Chairman of the Board or committee, as The Board receives timely, regular and necessary financial, appropriate.
Individuals attendance at Board and committee management and other information to fulfil its duties.
meetings is considered, as necessary, as part of the formal Comprehensive meeting papers are circulated to the Board and annual review of their performance.
There was a high level of committee members at least one week in advance of each meeting attendance by Directors at Board and committee meetings in 2017. and the Board receives a monthly dashboard and key milestones report and regular updates from the Chief Executive and CFO.
The following table sets out the attendance of the companys In addition to meeting papers, a library of current and historic Directors at scheduled Board meetings during2017: corporate information is made available to Directors electronically Board meetings attended to support the Boards decision-making process.
Directors can Chairman obtain independent professional advice, at the companys expense, Sidney Taurel 7 7 in the performance of their duties as Directors.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
Executive Directors John Fallon 7 7 Standing Committee Coram Williams 7 7 A Standing Committee of the Board is established to approve certain operational and ordinary course of business items such Non-Executive Directors as banking matters, guarantees, intra-group transactions and Elizabeth Corley 7 7 to make routine approvals relating to employee share plans.
Vivienne Cox 7 7 The Committee has written terms of reference, reviewed Josh Lewis 7 7 and approved each year, which clearly set out its authority Linda Lorimer 7 7 and duties.
These can be found on the company website at Harish Manwani 7 7 www.
1 Tim Score 6 7 Lincoln Wallen 7 7 1 Unable to attend one meeting due to pre-existing commitment.
Ahead of the meeting, Mr Score communicated his comments on the business of the Board to the Chairman.
Section 4 Governance Leadership & effectiveness 71 71 Board governance and activities Succession planning The induction programme for Michael Lynton, our most recently appointed Non-Executive Director, will take place in 2018.
The initial The Board considers oversight of succession planning as one of its phase will include meetings with other Board members, business prime responsibilities, assisted by the Nomination & Governance area familiarisation with members of the Pearson Executive, Committee.
As well as Board and Executive management succession, a briefing on Directors duties and sessions with the SVP Internal the Board oversees the process for all key positions throughout the Audit, Compliance and Risk and SVP Investor Relations, with the business with a particular focus on high potential talent.
remainder of the induction tailored to Michaels particular areas of interest and aligned with the Boards focus areas.
The company has formal contingency plans in place for the temporary absence of the Chief Executive for health or other Directors indemnities reasons.
The matter of Chief Executive succession is a standing item for discussion and review by the Chairman and the Board A qualifying third-party indemnity QTPI, as permitted by the annually.
Succession planning for the Board and Chairman is also Articles and sections 232 and 234 of the Act, has been granted by considered annually by the full Board and on an ongoing basis by the company to each of its Directors.
Under the provisions of the the Nomination & Governance Committee.
There is also discussion QTPI, the company undertakes to indemnify each Director against and oversight of key positions at Executive management level, liability to third-parties excluding criminal and regulatory penalties including the recent appointments of Jonathan Chocqueel-Mangan and to pay Directors costs as incurred, provided that they are as Chief Strategy Officer and Anna Vikstrm Persson as Chief reimbursed to the company if the Director is found guilty, the court Human Resources Officer.
refuses to grant the relief sought or, in an action brought by the company, judgment is given against the Director.
The indemnity Directors training and induction has been in force for the financial year ended 31 December 2017 and is currently in force.
All Directors receive training in the form of presentations about the companys operations, through Board meetings held at operational The company has purchased and maintains Directors and Officers locations and by encouraging the Directors to visit local facilities insurance cover against certain legal liabilities and costs for claims and management as and when their schedule allows, including if in connection with any act or omission by such Directors and they are travelling to a country or region on non-Pearson business.
Officers in the execution of their duties.
The Company Secretary and General Counsel, in conjunction with Pearsons advisers, monitor legal and governance developments Board Committees and update the Board on such matters as agreed with the The Board has established four formal Committees: Audit, Chairman.
In 2017, the Directors and other senior managers Nomination & Governance, Remuneration, and Reputation & were briefed on: Responsibility.
The chairmen and members of these committees T he EU Market Abuse Regulation, including the impact of are appointed by the Board on the recommendation where regulatory guidance introduced during the year appropriate of the Nomination & Governance Committee and inconsultation with each relevant committee chairman.
Inaddition T he latest regulatory framework, corporate governance to these formal Board Committees, the Standing Committee reporting and Directors remuneration report as part of a also operates with Board-level input.
training session led by PwC Learnmore about Pearsons governance structure on p67 R egular market updates for the Remuneration Committee on industry practice and regulation received from external advisers.
More Committee information: Our Directors can also make use of external courses.
Audit Committee p76 Directors receive a significant bespoke induction programme Nomination & Governance Committee p74 and a range of information about Pearson when they join the Remuneration Committee p90 Board.
This includes background information on Pearson and details of Board procedures, Directors responsibilities and various Reputation & Responsibility Committee p86 governance-related issues, including procedures for dealing Standing Committee p70 in Pearson shares and their legal obligations as Directors.
The The Committees focus on their own areas of expertise, enabling induction also typically includes a series of meetings with members the Board meetings to focus on governance and risk, strategy, of the Board, external legal advisers and brokers, the Pearson performance, and leadership and people, thereby making the Executive and senior management, presentations regarding the best use of the Boards time together as a whole.
The Committee business from Senior Executives and a briefing on Pearsons chairmen report to the full Board at each Board meeting investor relations programme.
immediately following their sessions, ensuring a good communication flow while retaining the ability to escalate items to the full Boards agenda if appropriate.
72 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Board governance and activities Board evaluation A number of actions were taken during 2017 in response to findings arising from the 2016 Board evaluation process.
You can read The Board evaluation for 2017 was an externally facilitated process more about progress on these in the table below.
led by Heidrick & Struggles JCA Group, which was selected following a review by the Nomination & Governance Committee of various Individual evaluation providers and consideration of the potential scope of the evaluation.
In addition to the evaluation of the Board as a whole, Executives In addition to facilitating the Board evaluation, Heidrick & Struggles are evaluated each year on their performance against personal JCA Group was also engaged by Pearson in relation to Non-Executive objectives under the companys annual incentive plan.
These Director and Senior Executive search activity during the year.
objectives are linked to certain strategic metrics, including efficiency In reporting back to the Board, the evaluator reported that and cost savings initiatives, driving the digital agenda, and growing conversations with Board members were positive, with unanimous market share in US higher education courseware.
Progress against agreement that the Board operates effectively.
The evaluator each of these metrics is reviewed by the Board on a monthly basis, noted that the Board had acknowledged the management teams as part of the dashboard of KPIs which we believe to be central to commitment which has put the business in a much more positive Pearsons turnaround.
position at the end of the year than it was at the beginning of the The Chairman meets with each Non-Executive Director individually year.
This was the first external evaluation since the appointment on a regular basis and, in assessing the contribution of each, of Sidney Taurel as Chairman, and it was noted by the other Board has confirmed that each Director continues to make a significant members that he had created a different and positive dynamic, contribution to the business and deliberations of the Board.
The with his leadership style and experience.
The evaluator reported Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, that the relationship between the Executive and Non-Executive also conduct an annual review of the Chairmans performance.
Directors remains positive, with the additions of Coram Williams and Lincoln Wallen to the Board further complementing that dynamic.
Committee evaluation The evaluator noted that the Board was particularly appreciative of Elizabeth Corleys commitment throughout 2017 in her engagement All committees undertake an annual evaluation process to review with investors in respect of remuneration matters.
For 2017, the process was facilitated externally by Heidrick & Struggles JCA Group as part More detail on the evaluation process and the priorities arising of the Board evaluation.
The Committees were considered to be from it is given opposite, and the Nomination & Governance working effectively, led well by their respective chairmen with Committee will consider Heidrick & Struggles JCA Groups findings appropriate agendas and a strong work ethic from each committee and recommendations in greater detail throughout 2018. member.
Read more on this in the pages that follow.
Progress on findings of 2016 evaluation Finding Response Action taken Continue to focus on US higher education US higher education courseware is a standing item at each Board meeting, with the responsible courseware at every meeting, and build Executives providing updates on progress and initiatives.
The regular monthly dashboard has been additional measures into the monthly refined and provides more detail on US higher education courseware.
The dashboard is kept under dashboard to monitor this business.
review and evolves as necessary with business and Board requirements.
Drive to increase use of external Building on a scoping session involving Directors and members of the Pearson Executive, we launched expertise in digital technologies.
a digital advisory network in 2017 to bring together a diverse cross-section of people with experience and knowledge of digital disruption.
Learn more about the digital advisory network on p88.
Experience identified as valuable in An agreed candidate specification was drawn up for any potential new Non-Executive Director new Board members, including digital appointments, resulting in the appointment of Michael Lynton.
Agree most appropriate format and These sessions are a standing item at each Board, Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee scheduling for Non-Executive and meeting, to enable open discussion of issues and ensure the Board or committee continues to work Chairman only sessions effectively as a group.
The Chairman also held a number of Non-Executive Director dinners in 2017.
Desire to build a compelling narrative Building on research with teachers and learners, a set of insights-driven communications about the role for Pearson in the future principles and practices has been developed about who we are, what we do, and what that means of learning.
Creation of a strategic framework This was discussed and agreed by the Board at a strategy session in late 2016 and the framework to guide disposals.
Increase visibility of ROIC-style Additional ROIC-style measures were introduced into the Boards reporting during 2017, and both metrics in each part of portfolio.
gross and net ROIC were reported publicly in our 2017 full year results.
Continued focus on retention of Key talent and regretted leavers report considered regularly by Remuneration Committee.
key talent, both at senior levels A managers toolkit has also been developed to encourage and enable retention of key employees.
Section 4 Governance Leadership & effectiveness 73 73 Board governance and activities External Board evaluation process 2017 Preparation One-on-one meetings Feedback to the Feedback to the Board Final review with Chairman and Senior another Independent Independent Director Director Following discussions with The evaluator met The evaluator submitted The evaluator facilitated For the purposes of good the Chairman, Senior individually with each of the a draft report to the an open discussion with the governance, the evaluator Independent Director Directors and the Company Chairman and Senior Board in December 2017 spoke with another and Chief Executive, Secretary for an open, Independent Director.
on the findings of the Independent Non-Executive Heidrick & Struggles JCA confidential, unattributed This was followed by a evaluation process.
Director following the Group the evaluator conversation using the discussion of the findings Board meeting to confirm prepared a framework for framework for discussion and a number of all information provided discussion, as set out below, as a prompt on proposed recommendations was a fair reflection of the which formed the basis for topics.
The discussion was arising therefrom.
feedback from each of all one-on-one meetings.
not limited to these topics the Directors, and was not if participants wanted to influenced inappropriately raise additional subjects.
Discussion framework A framework for an open discussion with Directors Chairman and roles Organisation Dynamics Strategy Performance Succession Risk management Communications management and Committees Composition planning Key themes arising from the evaluation The Board and Effective processes and Board succession planning Ongoing Board education Ensure continued Committees work monthly reporting have should consider future to continue to focus on understanding by the effectively, led well by helped the Board ensure committee chairs, and competitive landscape Board of significant their respective chairs, the company achieves and other desirable expertise and digital technologies shareholders views to with a clear and significant maintains operational in new Board members encourage constructive A desire for additional personal commitment to control and stability dialogue and clear Ensure ongoing strategic informal joint Board and Pearson demonstrated by communication The Board members development aligned with Executive sessions to all Board members of strategy appreciate the sequencing business transformation permit open dialogue The Non-Executive of meetings, including activity.
New Chief and discussion in a less New Chief Human Directors recognised the overseas meetings, Strategy Officer to structured format Resources Officer to inclusive and thoughtful which afford them the facilitate, enabling all continue executive approach of the Executive opportunity to engage Board members strategic succession planning and Directors in ensuring with the wider senior perspectives to be complete a talent review transparent communication management team and captured and considered aligned to the strategic between the Board to meet employees, needs of the business.
and the Executive customers and other stakeholders 74 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Nomination & Governance Committee report Role and business of the Committee Committee Chairman Vivienne Cox The Committee monitors the composition and balance of the Board Members Elizabeth Corley, and of its Committees, identifying and recommending to the Board Vivienne Cox, Josh Lewis, the appointment of new Directors and or Committee members.
The Harish Manwani, Committee also oversees talent and succession plans for senior roles.
Tim Score and Sidney Taurel As the remit of the Committee expanded in 2017, the Committee now also oversees the companys compliance with, and approach to, all applicable regulation and guidance related to corporate governance matters, including Board diversity, oversight of the annual Board evaluation processes, the companys corporate governance policies and practices, compliance with the Code, Committee responsibilities include: and oversight of Director induction and training.
In respect of its Identifying and nominating governance remit, the Committee primarily has the role of reviewing Appointments candidates for Board vacancies.
current practices on behalf of the Board, and recommending actions or changes for the Boards formal approval.
Ensuring that the Board and its Committees Balance The Committee is comprised of five independent Non-Executive have the appropriate balance of skills, Directors and the Chairman of the Board.
The Chief Executive and experience, independence, diversity and other senior management attend Committee meetings by invitation.
Appointment of Michael Lynton Reviewing the companys leadership Succession needs with a view to ensuring the continued During the 2016 Board evaluation process, the Board considered ability of the organisation to compete in the experience it would require in its next Non-Executive Director.
Accordingly, the Committee met in early 2017 and agreed the specific skills and experience required in potential candidates, which Review and oversight of Pearsons corporate Governance included: a current or former CEO of a mid-to-large sized company: governance framework, Board evaluation and training plans, and Board diversity policy.
experience in an industry which has undergone digital disruption: and global experience, including of the US market.
Other desired experience included marketing or branding and experience in the Terms of reference service sector.
Pearson also expects all Non-Executives to The Committee has written terms of reference which clearly set out demonstrate the highest level of integrity and credibility, its authority and duties.
These are reviewed annually and can be independence of judgement, maturity, collegiality, a high interest in found on the company website www.
com governance education and the commitment to devote the necessary time.
Based Attendance on these criteria, candidates were then shortlisted for the proposed role at the Committees next meeting and were interviewed by Attendance by Directors at Nomination & Governance Committee Heidrick & Struggles JCA Group and then the Committee.
As a result meetings throughout 2017: of this process, the Committee was satisfied that Michael Lynton Meetings attended met the required skills and experience and also possessed the Elizabeth Corley 3 3 personal attributes that we would expect to see in any Pearson Vivienne Cox 3 3 Non-Executive Director.
Josh Lewis 3 3 Diversity Harish Manwani 3 3 The Board embraces the Codes underlying principles with regard to Tim Score 3 3 Board balance and diversity, including in respect of ethnicity, gender Sidney Taurel 3 3 and age.
In May 2017, the Committee adopted the Board diversity and inclusion policy.
The objectives set out in the policy and our progress towards these objectives are shown in the table opposite.
Board search The Committee ensures that the Directors of Pearson demonstrate Pearson uses a number of leading firms in its Board search activities a broad balance of skills, background and experience, and and ensures that we retain good relationships with them.
During 2017, nationalities, to support Pearsons strategic development and reflect the services of Heidrick & Struggles JCA Group were availed for the the global nature of our business.
The Committee also ensures that appointment of Michael Lynton, Non-Executive Director, who joined appointments are made on merit and relevant experience, while the Board on 1 February 2018.
During 2017, Heidrick & Struggles JCA taking into account the broadest definition of diversity.
Group also led the externally facilitated evaluation of the Board and As at 31 December 2017, the gender diversity of the Board, exceeded its Committees, and was engaged in Senior Executive search activity.
Lord Davies 2015 target with 30% female representation on the Heidrick & Struggles JCA Group is a signatory to the voluntary code Board.
However, as noted in the Board diversity and inclusion of conduct for executive search firms.
policy, we are committed to work towards the recommendations Section 4 Governance Leadership & effectiveness 75 75 Nomination & Governance Committee report suggested by the Hampton-Alexander Review aimed at having at Nomination & Governance Committee meeting least 33% female representation on the Board by 2020. focus during 2017 Our Code of Conduct sets out our global standards and responsibilities with regard to diversity & inclusion D&I at all Area of responsibility Activity employee levels, including the Pearson Executive, and covers many aspects, including gender, age, disability and sexual orientation.
This Appointment of Michael Lynton as Appointments Non-Executive Director is underpinned by a global statement on D&I along with country and business specific policies.
We are a founder member of the 30% Club and the Chief Executive has also signed a personal commitment Agreement of desired Board diversity and Balance to set an aspirational target of 30% women in Pearsons senior skills and experience inclusion policy of new Non-Executive management team by 2020.
The Chief Executive and the Chief Director Financial Officer are both members of the Board.
Among the other ten members of the Executive team there are currently two women Contingency Succession planning Succession succession planning and updates on 20% although for most of 2017 the percentage was 22% two for temporary search for Nonmembers out of nine.
The senior leadership team, comprising the absence of CEO Executive Director members of the Pearson Executive and their direct reports, has 30% Succession planning female representation.
We believe that we have a strong pipeline of for senior executives women in leadership and senior management positions, and the including CEO Committee will monitor their development, and the development Approval of Compliance with UK of all key talent, with care.
The sustainability section provides more Governance committee terms of Corporate detail on how we implement our standards on D&I on p28.
reference Governance Code Further, in the UK, the government has introduced new regulations Consideration of designed to help address the gender pay gap.
Pearson has Board evaluation published its gender pay gap report in Great Britain and has made a feedback commitment to extend our reporting globally by 2020.
View details of the Boards diversity and breadth of professional experience on p64 & 66 Committee aims for 2018 Committee evaluation We will have a full agenda for 2018, with a particular focus on Non-Executive Directors succession planning activity, Board and The Committee undertook an annual evaluation to review its own senior management diversity and inclusion plan, findings of the Board performance and effectiveness.
This evaluation was facilitated by evaluation and review of the corporate governance framework in light Heidrick & Struggles JCA Group as part of the wider Board evaluation of changes to the Code expected to come into effect during 2018. process.
The Committee was considered to have operated effectively throughout 2017 with a clear agenda and effective leadership.
In response to the findings of the 2017 evaluation, the Committee will consider succession planning as a priority in 2018, particularly Vivienne Cox for Committee chair roles.
Chairman of Nomination & Governance Committee Board diversity & inclusion objectives The Committee has agreed the following objectives to support the Board diversity & inclusion policy: Objectives Progress We will strive to maintain a Board composition of: 25% female Directors achieved At least 25% female Directors, with a target of at least 33% female Directors by 2020 Achieved At least one Director of colour All Board appointments will be made on merit, in the context of the skills and relevant Achieved.
Rigorous process used during recent experience that are needed for the Board to oversee Pearsons strategic development search for Michael Lynton who has relevant and that reflect the global nature of our business.
The Board will prioritise use of search firms which adhere to the Voluntary Code of Achieved.
Availed services of Heidrick & Struggles Conduct for Executive Search Firms when seeking to make Board-level appointments.
JCA Group, which has signed the Voluntary Code.
The Board will continue to adopt best practice, as appropriate, in response to the Suggestions noted by the Board.
Davies Review, the Hampton-Alexander Review and the Parker Review.
Where appropriate, we will assist with the development and support of initiatives Adopted the Board diversity & inclusion policy.
that promote all forms of diversity and inclusion in the Board, Pearson Executive and Board members personally sponsor Women in our senior management.
