Governance Report 55 Nomination Committee Report Jock Lennox Chairman, Nomination Committee Nomination Committee composition recruitments.
All Non-executive Directors are independent, as is the During the year the Committee comprised myself as the Groups Chairman on appointment although not counted as such under the Chairman, having been appointed as such on 11 May 2017, the Code following appointment.
The Board believes this has created Non-executive Directors Annette Kelleher, Mark Reckitt and Alan an effective group of Executive and Non-executive Directors able to Giddins appointed 3 October 2017, and the Group Chief Executive, provide the required range of skills, knowledge and experience see Derek Muir.
Prior to resigning on 11 May 2017, the Companys page 49 to ensure development of the Group, implementation of previous Chairman, Bill Whiteley also served on the Committee.
The its strategy and sound governance.
The Committee will continue to Committee met three times in the financial period under review monitor any need to make any further changes to the composition of with all eligible members of the Committee being present on each the Board, in the context of the Companys strategy.
Following an initial three-year term, the terms of Non-executive Chairman succession Directors are reviewed annually, in line with their annual retirement at During the year I took over as Chairman of the Company from Bill the AGM.
The letters of appointment for the Non-executive Directors Whiteley.
Bill had been Chairman since January 2010 in which time are available for inspection at the Companys registered office and the the business has experienced strong growth under his leadership AGM.
and I feel privileged to be given this opportunity and look forward to working with management and the Board as part of Hill & Smiths Length of service at 31 Date of Appointment December 2017 exciting future.
Jock Lennox 12 May 2009 8 years 7 months Other principal activities as Chairman 11 May 2017 7 months During the year, and the period up to the date of this report, the Committee also considered: Annette Kelleher 1 December 2014 3 years 1 month Mark Reckitt 1 June 2016 1 year 7 months Board succession and diversity recognising the desire to maintain the right balance of expertise both at Executive Alan Giddins 3 October 2017 3 months Director and Non-executive Director level, the Committee discussed and planned for any other forthcoming changes.
Non-executive Directors letters of appointment set out the time commitments normally required.
Such time commitments can involve Non-Executive appointments and changes in roles and peaks of activity at particular times and all Directors are expected to responsibilities on the Board.
be flexible in managing these.
Any significant changes to their other commitments are notified to the Board before they arise.
The Board Board evaluation the Board commissioned Professor Colin remains satisfied as to the time availability and commitment of the Mayer of Sad Business School at the University of Oxford to Non-executive Directors.
facilitate an external Board Effectiveness evaluation and his findings were discussed at the Boards meeting in January 2018, More information on the Nomination Committees terms of reference a summary of which is contained on page 50. can be found on the Companys website.
The appointment of Alan Giddins as a Non-executive Director On behalf of the Board and Senior Independent Director see page 51.
The role of the Nomination Committee is to assist the Board in the key Jock Lennox areas of Board composition, performance, succession planning and Chairman, Nomination Committee recruitment.
Having the appropriate range of high calibre Directors on our Board is key to determining and achieving the Groups strategic objectives and ensuring that success is sustained over the long-term.
7 March 2018 The Committee will consider candidates on merit and against objective criteria and with due regard for the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender, taking care that appointees have enough time available to devote to the position.
All Non-executive Directors, as well as the Chairman and the Group Finance Director, were selected through externally facilitated www.
