Strategic Report Governance Financials esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 Effectiveness THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS SUCCESSION PLANNING AND BOARD APPOINTMENTS The Nomination Committee has continued to work on ensuring The Board currently comprises eight members: The Chairman, one Executive Director and six Non-Executive Directors.
an appropriate mix among both the Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
It also kept under review the Alan Rubenstein and Peter Shaw were appointed as Nonsuccession planning for Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors and other senior executives.
Peter Ward stepped down as a Non-Executive Director at the conclusion of the Annual On 18 January 2018, Stuart Vann stepped down as Chief General Meeting on 17 May 2017.
Mara Dolores Dancausa will step down as a Non-Executive Director at the conclusion of the Annual General The Chairman, Sir Peter Wood, has served in this role since 2000 and, on appointment, was not independent.
All six Non-Executive Meeting on 17 May 2018.
Directors are considered by the Board to be independent for the purposes of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
In 2017 Peter Ward stepped down as a Non-Executive Director at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on The Group therefore considers that it complies with the 17 May 2017.
As part of succession planning the Nomination Committee, having reviewed the skills required, recommended relevant requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code in relation to the balance of Executive and independent Nonto the Board the appointments of Alan Rubenstein and Peter Shaw as Non-Executive Directors: the Board subsequently Executive Directors on the Board and with the requirements for the composition of the Groups Audit, Remuneration and approved the appointments and they were appointed to the Board on 8 March 2017.
The Committee also recommended to Nomination Committees.
the Board the appointments of Alan Rubenstein as a member of the Audit and Nomination Committee and Peter Shaw DIRECTORS ELECTION AND RE-ELECTION At the Annual General Meeting in 2017, all continuing Directors as a member of the Risk and Remuneration Committees.
Following Peter Wards retirement on 17 May 2017, Peter Shaw offered themselves for re-election.
Each Director was reelected and no Director received less than 90% in favour of was appointed Chairman of the Risk Committee.
A search is currently underway for a new Chief Executive Officer the total votes cast.
At the Annual General Meeting in 2018, all continuing Directors will again retire and all will offer and a Non-Executive Director.
The Board believes that it will continue to possess the relevant skills and competencies for the future under its succession plan.
Biographical details of each of the Directors, together with details of their skills and experience, may be found on pages BOARD INDUCTION AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT 32 and 33.
Following a formal performance evaluation in 2017, the Board has concluded that each Directors performance On joining the Board, Directors take part in an induction programme to increase their knowledge and understanding of continues to be effective and that the Directors continue to demonstrate commitment to the role and, accordingly, the the Group.
In line with the normal process, Alan Rubenstein and Peter Shaw were provided with information about the Board recommends that shareholders approve the resolutions to be proposed at the 2018 Annual General Meeting relating to Group, the role of the Board and the matters reserved for its decision.
They were also provided with the Terms of Reference the re-election of the Directors.
and membership of the main Board Committees, as well as corporate governance policies and procedures.
As part of the EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS SERVICE CONTRACTS AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS TERMS OF APPOINTMENT induction programme, meetings were held with each of the Executive Directors, members of the Group Executive and The Chairman and the Executive Director have a service contract with the Group.
The service contracts of the Chairman senior managers across the Group.
and the Executive Director can be terminated by not less than 12 months notice by the Chairman or the Executive Director The induction programme also included: as appropriate and 12 months notice by the Group.
Company structure and strategy: key people and succession plans: As the Chairman is also a controlling shareholder in the Group, Board procedures including the governance framework, a Relationship Agreement between Sir Peter Wood and the Board calendar, minutes from previous meetings, Group is in place to ensure that the independence provisions as effectiveness reviews and action plans: set out in the Listing Rules are complied with.
finances, performance, operating plans, operational The Non-Executive Directors have a letter of appointment that overview of all business areas: Group risk profile and our sets out the terms and conditions of their directorship, including approach to risk: the fees payable and the expected time commitment.
Each insight into key internal audits and areas of focus: Non-Executive Director is expected to commit sufficient time, share register and voting history and an overview of our as is reasonably necessary, for the proper performance of his Remuneration Policy: and or her duties.
Additional time commitment is required to fulfil the roles of Deputy Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Market Abuse Regulations and the Companys Share Dealing Committee Chairman or Board Committee member.
3 36 3 6 37 7 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 Effectiveness continued EVALUATION OF BOARD PERFORMANCE The Group has established procedures to ensure the timely release of inside information and the publication of financial The assessment of the Boards performance was conducted in accordance with the guidance set out in the UK Corporate results and regulatory financial statements.
The Disclosure Committee, a Committee of senior executives and chaired Governance Code.
As the 2015 review was conducted by an external facilitator, the 2016 and 2017 reviews were undertaken by the Company Secretary, also reviews all significant announcements for accuracy and compliance requirements.
internally by the Chairman and Company Secretary, using comprehensive questionnaires.
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS The evaluation was based around a number of key areas: The holdings of our major shareholders can be found in the Directors Report on page 67.
Board composition, role, skills, diversity, balance and experience: SHAREHOLDER SERVICES succession planning: The share register is managed on the Groups behalf by Equiniti Board leadership and culture: Ltd. Shareholders are able to carry out a number of online administrative transactions, such as checking their holdings and agenda, information and papers: dividend accounts, changing address details and arranging for strategic oversight: dividends to be paid directly into a bank account.
governance, regulatory compliance and support: and WEBSITE Committee performance.
com provides a source of information for shareholders about the Group and contains The Board also assessed its progress against the action plan financial presentations and investor publications, including the from the 2016 review, and concluded that good progress had online Annual Report and recent press releases.
been made against the plan.
Further information about our registrars, shareholder services, The final report on the Board and its Committees was presented investor relations and our principal shareholders can also be and discussed with the whole Board at its meeting in December found on the website.
The Chairman met individually with each Director to discuss the findings.
The Senior Independent Director also ADDITIONAL INFORMATION met with the Directors to review the Chairmans performance.
The following information, which is required to be disclosed This review was then shared with the Chairman.
Having gone within the Corporate Governance Report, can be found in the through the effectiveness review, the Directors are satisfied Directors Report and is incorporated by reference: that the Board and each of its Committees are operating effectively.
The review has identified some actions that will help Substantial shareholdings page 67. maintain and improve its effectiveness.
Areas for improvement Special rights page 68. included: more contact with senior management below Group Appointment, retirement and removal of Directors Executive level and to further develop strategic oversight.
Overall, the evaluation process confirmed that the Board was Purchase of own shares page 67. operating effectively with a culture that supported open and challenging debate and that all Directors individually made ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING valuable contributions and demonstrated commitment to the The Annual General Meeting AGM provides all shareholders role.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, with the opportunity to develop their understanding of the the 2018 evaluation will be conducted by an independent Groups strategy and operations, and to ask questions of the external facilitator.
full Board on the matters to be put to the meeting, including the Annual Report.
All Board members attend the AGM and, SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT in particular, the Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination and The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Finance Officer and the Remuneration Committees are available to answer questions.
Senior Independent Director and Deputy Chairman, as well as other senior executives, held meetings with a number of the All resolutions proposed at the 2017 AGM, which were Groups shareholders and prospective shareholders to discuss considered on a poll, were passed with votes ranging the Groups strategy and financial performance.
All Nonfrom 83.37% to 100% of the total votes cast.
Executive Directors, including the Senior Independent Director, have an invitation to attend investor meetings if they wish.
The Directors are provided with regular reports on shareholders and analysts views and of changes in the holdings of the principal shareholders.
During the year, the Chairman, Martin Pike as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, and Shirley Garrood, as the Senior Independent Director, had meetings with several of the Groups largest institutional shareholders to discuss our remuneration report and the governance of the Group.
