Governance Report 56 Audit Committee Report Mark Reckitt Chairman, Audit Committee Dear Shareholder Development.
As part of the continual improvement process, senior operational management also provided the Risk Committee It is a pleasure to make my report as the Audit Committee Chairman information on risks that were apparent across all subsidiaries and of Hill & Smith Holdings PLC.
I currently hold similar positions at Mitie that might affect the Groups ability to deliver its strategic plan.
Group PLC and Cranswick plc.
I look forward to working with my fellow committee members and the Companys senior management This Audit Committee report explains how the Committee has team as we continue to develop and enhance our risk management discharged its responsibilities, and takes into account the specific processes and internal audit programmes.
areas of: During the year the Committee considered the increased scale Primary areas of judgement considered by the Committee in of Hill & Smith and asked for a Group Internal Audit Manager to relation to the 2017 accounts: be appointed.
This new role, commencing September 2017, was Internal controls: considered by the Committee to be instrumental in ensuring an effective capability to review the Groups internal control and Risk assessment, management and mitigation: risk management systems.
The Committee also approved an Assessment of effectiveness of external audit: and internal audit plan for 2018, put forward by the Group Internal Audit Manager, that focuses on Group-wide thematic reviews, risk Whistleblowing.
mitigation reviews and Group policy compliance, and engaged with I trust you find this report helpful as an insight into the activities third-party advisors to provide assessment of the extent to which subsidiary businesses are at risk from cyber-based attacks.
I should be delighted to answer any questions you might have and I look forward to seeing you at our As reported on last year, the executive team, with the support of the AGM in May 2018.
Audit Committee, has continued to build upon the risk assessment methodology which was implemented across the Group in which training sessions on risk identification and definition were delivered Mark Reckitt to all senior executives across the Group.
The subsidiaries have Chairman, Audit Committee access to an online reporting tool to enable the production of business unit specific risk registers in a consistent format for review 7 March 2018 and challenge by the Group Risk Committee.
During the year the Committee comprised the Group Company Secretary, the Group Financial Controller, the Group Assistant Company Secretary, the Group Internal Audit Manager and the Groups Director of Corporate www.
com | Stock Code HILS Governance Report 57 Roles and composition of the Committee The Audit Committee reviews the Groups accounting policies and procedures, its Annual and Interim Financial Statements before submission to the Board and its compliance with statutory requirements.
The Committee monitors the integrity of the Groups Financial Statements and announcements relating to financial performance and reviews the significant reporting judgements contained therein.
It also reviews the scope, remit and effectiveness of the risk management and internal control systems and internal audit function.
At different times during the year the Audit Committee consisted of Mark Reckitt, Alan Giddins, Annette Kelleher and Jock Lennox.
1 January 2017 11 May 2017: Mark Reckitt Chairman : Annette Kelleher: and Jock Lennox.
12 May 2017 2 October 2017: Mark Reckitt Chairman : Annette Kelleher.
3 October 2017 31 December 2017: Mark Reckitt Chairman : Annette Kelleher: and Alan Giddins who was appointed to committee on 3 October 2017 Mark Reckitt, having held the position of Group Strategy Director at Smiths Group plc from February 2011 to April 2014 and Chief Strategy Officer at Cadbury plc from 2004 to 2010 as well as being the current Audit Committee Chairman at Mitie Group PLC and Cranswick plc, has been specifically identified, in keeping with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, as the Committee member having recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committees terms of reference can be found on the Companys website.
Meetings The Committee meets according to the requirements of the Companys financial calendar and during 2017 met on three occasions: in March to consider the Annual Report together with the external audit findings, in August to review the interim results report and in September to approve the external auditors plan and approve their fees.
A meeting held in January 2018 reviewed the Subsidiaries Risk Registers, and internal audit activities and approved the internal audit plan for the year ahead.
Reports on the Groups principal risks and uncertainties, including updates on the risk management process, were reviewed at each of the meetings.
Attendees at each of the meetings are the Committees members as well as, by invitation, the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Group Financial Controller, the recently appointed Group Internal Audit Manager and, where appropriate, the external auditor, KPMG.
A record of the meeting attendance by Committee members is set out on page 48.
Time is allowed for the Committee to speak with the external auditor and the Group Internal Audit Manager without the presence of the Executive management.
As Audit Committee Chairman, Mark Reckitt has maintained regular contact with the external audit partner and the Group Internal Audit Manager outside Committee meetings and without the management of the business present.
In these meetings a wide range of matters are discussed, including the change in financial reporting and governance landscape, the Companys readiness to accommodate these developments, the approach to auditing activities, especially outside the UK, and the robustness of our assurance approach generally.
Responsibilities To ensure governance and control over the Groups financial reporting and risk management processes with assurance provided by internal activities and external auditors.
During the year and to the date of this report the Committee considered the following items: Financial Statements and Reports Risk Management Internal Audit External Audit and non-Audit Work Reviewed the 2017 Annual Report, the Reviewed the outputs from the Assessed the adequacy Considered, along with the external 2017 Interim Report and other trading Groups risk management process of the internal control auditor, the significant risks to the updates issued during the year.
to ensure that subsidiaries were environment and the audit and their approach to these risks Reviewed the effectiveness of the identifying, articulating, evaluating processes in place to risk of fraud in revenue recognition: Groups risk management and internal and mitigating risks and monitor this, including fraud risk from management override controls and disclosures made in the considered changes to encourage reviewing the performance of controls: valuation of goodwill in 2017 Annual Report.
both bottom-up and top-down risk of the internal audit relation to France Galva S. A. : provisions Advised the Board on whether it assessments.
for uncertain income tax positions: and is appropriate to adopt the going Reviewed proposals to enhance Recommended the UK post-retirement benefits obligations.
concern basis of accounting in the Groups whistleblowing policy appointment of a Group Reviewed, considered and agreed the preparing the Groups Financial and process and implemented Internal Audit Manager methodology of the 2017 audit work to Statements see page 52. an externally managed reporting reporting to the Group be undertaken by the external auditor.
Advised the Board on whether facility for employees.
Finance Director and Oversaw the relationship with the the Annual Report and Financial Reviewed the Groups proposed the Audit Committee external auditors, reviewing their Statements, taken as a whole, are fair, approach to compliance with Chairman.
performance and advising the Board on balanced and understandable see the requirements of the Modern Evaluated the Internal their appointment and remuneration:.
Audit Plan for 2018 that Evaluated the independence and Reviewed areas of the accounts which Advised the Board on whether, was submitted with objectivity of the external auditor.
require particular judgement including given an assessment of the reference to the risk Reviewed the level and nature of nonthe carrying value of goodwill and Companys current and forecast management reporting audit services provided by the external indefinite life assets: the defined position and principal risks, the process.
benefit pension scheme valuation: and Board can approve its viability Reviewed and approved updates to the taxation see page 58. statement see page 52. non-audit services policy.
com | Stock Code HILS Governance Report 58 Audit Committee Report continued Primary areas of judgement considered by the Committee in providing regular reports to the Audit Committee summarising relation to the 2017 accounts its work and progress with the Internal Audit Plan: and In order to discharge its responsibility to consider accounting and providing an annual report to the Audit Committee summarising financial reporting integrity, the Committee carefully considers key the themes arising from work performed during the year, and judgements applied in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial assessing the level of Internal Audit resource and access to Statements which are set out on pages 87 to 131.
review included consideration of the following key accounting judgements: The Audit Committee and Hill & Smith executive management ensure that the Group Internal Audit Manager has free access to Valuation of goodwill and indefinite life assets the businesses, information and management within the Group and The value of goodwill and indefinite life assets amounts to remains free from inappropriate management influence or other 132.3m at 31 December 2017.
The review of such assets is restrictions on their ability to perform their work in an objective and based on a calculation of value in use, using cash flow projections effective manner.
based on financial budgets and strategic plans prepared by senior management and approved by the Board of Directors.
The Internal controls uncertain economic conditions around the world increase the risk The Committee continued to review a more risk-based approach of impairment and the Committee addresses this by receiving to the internal control environment and expanded its coverage of reports from management outlining the basis for the assumptions the Groups subsidiaries.
As part of the plan to continue to focus used for cash generating units.
The Committee also considers and on the most appropriate areas, the Group Company Secretary was challenges managements assessment of the sensitivities to these asked to take responsibility for the Groups Risk Committee, which assumptions and the impact that those sensitivities may have, and also included on a regular basis the Group Financial Controller, the further considers the disclosures made in respect of sensitivities, in Group Internal Audit Manager and the Group Corporate Development particular in respect of France Galva SA, in note 10 to the Financial Director together with annual attendance of the Executive Directors.
Statements on page 105 to 112. Business plans are signed off by the The Risk Committee reviewed the work undertaken, supported Board and assessment models are reviewed and challenged as part by external risk specialists during the course of 2017.
This work of the audit, for which the external auditor, KPMG, provides reporting examined all areas of the business from Board governance to to the Committee.
subsidiaries day-to-day business activities and included Board policies, contract and project management, procurement and supply Defined benefit pension scheme valuation chain management, sales and credit management, compliance Net defined benefit pension obligations under IAS19 amount to and financial reporting.
Subsidiary businesses were re-familiarised 25.6m at 31 December 2017.
The Committee reviews benchmarks with the risk management cycle and required to identify, define and assumptions that are provided by the Groups actuaries and and formalise their mitigation controls as well as self-assess their used to value the pension liabilities for the Groups defined benefit compliance with Group-wide policies.
The reports generated by the schemes.
The underlying assumptions based on market conditions subsidiaries and validated by the Risk Committee were reviewed and and the characteristics of the schemes are reviewed by management discussed at the Audit Committee, which concluded that the reports, and the external auditors and reported on to the Committee.
collectively, provided a balanced overview across the Group, taking Taxation into account the level of risk and previous coverage.
Assessment of judgements made in relation to uncertain tax At meetings throughout the year, progress against the annual positions, regarding the outcome of negotiations with and enquiries internal audit plan was reviewed and additional areas of concern from HM Revenue & Customs and other tax authorities in other as determined by the Risk Committee were added to the plan as jurisdictions.
Judgements have been made by management required.
Any changes to the approved audit plan were agreed by following discussion with the Groups tax advisors and internal the Committee.
The Committee received an update from the Group review.
The Committee has reviewed the analysis behind these Financial Controller and or the Group Internal Audit Manager at each judgements and confirms its agreement that the Groups tax meeting summarising the findings of the internal audits undertaken provisions are adequate.
and the progress made against actions agreed from previous audits Internal audit as well as progress made in the assessment and management of risk During the year the Audit Committee reviewed the arrangements for both at Group and subsidiary level.
internal audit and, having regard for the increased scale of the Group, Detailed updates on specific areas were provided at the request of decided that the effectiveness of Internal Audit would be further the Committee and for the period covered by this report the following improved by the appointment of a Group Internal Audit Manager.
were considered: This role was effective from September 2017 and was responsible for preparing the annual audit plan for 2018, in conjunction with Cyber risk: the Groups Risk Committee, for approval by the Audit Committee.
Modern slavery: This ensures that the annual audit plan is a risk-based programme concentrating on reviewing the Groups assurances and controls Appropriateness of the carrying value of goodwill and intangible over its principal risks.
The Group Internal Audit Manager may also assets of France Galva, SA: and perform special investigations and ad hoc reviews, as directed by the Audit Committee, or requested by Executive Management and Third-party whistleblowing hotlines.
approved by the Audit Committee.
Once approved, the Group Internal In addition the Audit Committee considered the effectiveness of Audit Manager implements the plan and reports back to the Audit controls relating to payments due from customers, those due to Committee on the outcomes of the individual audits carried out: suppliers, the suitability of suppliers and the adherence to Hill & identifying improvements that can be made to internal controls, Smith policies and practices by recently acquired businesses.
A review of Cyber Risk was commissioned during the course of 2017 risk management and governance processes: and during 2018 the Audit Committee will review and advise the verifying that such improvements are implemented within a Board on the implementation of agreed recommendations from reasonable timeframe: www.
com | Stock Code HILS Governance Report 59 this review.
For 2018 the Committee is continuing to develop with In January 2018 the Committee considered a report from the the Group Internal Audit Manager and the Groups Risk Committee Group Finance Director on the effectiveness of the performance of an enhanced and expanded internal audit plan that aligns with the the external auditor.
This report included a detailed assessment Groups identification of risks and mitigating activities: assurances compiled from the individual businesses and head office finance and controls, and also assesses conformance against the compliance team feedback and covered, amongst other things: and policy initiatives that the Group has issued.
The calibre of the external auditor including size, resources, Risk management geographical representation and reputation: The risk management process is continually reviewed throughout The external audit team in terms of the requisite skills, the year to ensure that it is set up to deliver appropriate risk professional and industry knowledge: management across the Group.
Every year the Committee seeks to improve the Groups risk management processes to ensure that the The scope of the external audit to adequately address the Groups principal risks and uncertainties are correctly identified by financial reporting risks facing the Company and its key virtue of a top-down bottom-up approach utilising the experiences operations: of the Audit Committee and the Groups 29 subsidiaries.
This led in The approach taken in assessing the adequacy of management 2016 to the approval of a model for consideration of principal risks representations: and that included the implementation of a Group-wide risk assessment process across all subsidiaries.
During 2017 this risk assessment Communication and interface with internal audit activities and and management process, which focused on risk assessment the Audit Committee on matters affecting critical accounting and mitigation within the subsidiaries, was further developed policies and treatment, governance and risk management.
with a programme of training for senior management across the Group: delivered through face-to-face seminars in the UK, USA and The Committee reviewed this feedback together with the 2016 17 Audit Quality Inspection review undertaken by the FRC on KPMG, and Sweden and through a training manual to the other international jurisdictions.
Almost 100 senior managers attended the seminars discussed the broader topic of the perceived quality and effectiveness which gave both a refresher of the theory of risk and the Groups of external audits generally.
Following this discussion the Committee concluded that KPMG had continued to deliver an effective external framework as well as practical exercises.
These sessions were led by members of the Risk Committee with support from third-party risk audit of the Groups financial controls, performance reporting and risk identification and management.
professionals and will continue throughout 2018.
The Committee believes that these improvements will further strengthen the way The external auditor prepared a detailed report of their findings that the business understands and manages risk.
The Committee discussed the issues During 2017, subsidiaries have been required to identify, articulate raised in the report, particularly in relation to the areas highlighted, at their meeting in February 2018.
A similar discussion of the and report into an online database the risks to their individual strategies these are aligned with the Audit Committees review of external auditors report, following their review, is undertaken by the the Groups principal risks and uncertainties and reviewed, validated Committee at the half year.
As part of this review the Committee questions and challenges the work undertaken, the findings and the and filtered by the Risk Committee to ensure that appropriate subsidiary risk matters are escalated to the Board and Audit key assumptions made, with particular attention to the areas of audit risk identified.
Any risks submitted by subsidiaries that do not align with the Groups principal risks are individually reviewed and taken into Auditor independence and rotation account in current and subsequent reviews of the Group principal The external auditor confirmed its policies on ensuring auditor risks.
The Audit Committee has monitored the resultant key risks independence and provided the Committee with a report on their on the corporate risk register and during the year received reports own audit and quality procedures.
This report was reviewed during and minutes from the Risk Committee, detailing the Group-wide risk the period under review and the Committee remained satisfied of the assessment process and the movements in major risks and provided auditors independence and with the rotation of the external audit updates on risk mitigation activity undertaken in relation to those personnel, which complied with the professional guidelines.
A summary of the principal risks and uncertainties to which the business is exposed, can be found on pages 28 to 30.
To maintain auditor independence the Group has a policy whereby, before any former employee of the external auditor may be employed by the Group, careful consideration is given to whether the Assessment of effectiveness of external audit independence of the auditor will be adversely affected and approval There are a number of areas that the Committee considers in relation of the Audit Committee is required.
to the external auditor: performance in discharging the audit and interim review of the financial statements: independence and KPMG have been the Groups auditors since 1999, having been objectivity: and reappointment and remuneration.
appointed following a competitive tender process.
The external auditors are required to rotate the lead partner every five years.
External auditor performance Such changes are carefully planned to ensure business continuity The external auditor, KPMG, provided the Committee with their plan without undue risk or inefficiency.
The last partner rotation occurred for undertaking the 2017 year-end audit during the Committee in December 2016 when Darren Turner, recommended by KPMG and meeting in September 2017.
This highlighted the proposed approach approved by the Audit Committee took over for the 31 December and scope of the audit and identified the key issues in detail, being 2016 year-end audit.
This years audit will be his second.
the risk of fraud in revenue recognition: fraud risk from management override of controls: valuation of goodwill in relation to France Following the EU Audit Directive which took effect from June 2016, Galva S. A: provisions for uncertain income tax positions and UK the Group has adopted a policy that no external auditor appointed post-retirement benefits obligations.
The Committee debated, and after June 2016 can remain in post for longer than twenty years and appropriately challenged, the basis for these areas before agreeing there will be a tendering process every ten years, and that KPMG, as the proposed approach and scope of the external audit.
the currently appointed external auditor, may remain so until the completion of the 2023 annual audit.
However the Committee will www.
com | Stock Code HILS Governance Report 60 Audit Committee Report continued continue to consider annually the need to tender the audit for audit That the information given represented the whole story of quality or independence reasons and may seek to tender the audit the business performance in 2017 and did not mislead the at any time prior to the next partner rotation in 2021.
There are no reader by excluding appropriate bad news.
That the disclosures contractual obligations in place that restrict our choice of statutory of the Groups business segments and key messages are auditor.
The Committee also reviewed its Non-Audit Services policy consistently delivered throughout the document, KPIs are clear in January 2018 to ensure it meets the detailed requirements of the and appropriate and linked to both the Groups strategy and EU Audit legislation, which restricts the use of the external auditor remuneration incentives: for activities including compiling accounting records, certain aspects That it was a suitable document to inform both existing and of internal audit, IT consultancy, tax services except in exceptional prospective shareholders about the financial and non-financial circumstances, and advice to the Remuneration Committee.
performance of the business, with the messages delivered in the For any non-audit services which are not excluded under the policy, Directors Report, including the Operating and Financial Review the policy provides for approval, by the Group Finance Director, of and the Financial Statements being balanced and consistent expenditure below 50,000, and above that level by the full Audit and that the report set out a detailed and fair representation of Committee.
A report is also submitted to the Audit Committee of any the Groups activities and performance and that certain matters non-audit services carried out by the external auditor, irrespective of have been identified and discussed between management, the value to ensure that the aggregated spend with the external auditor Audit Committee and KPMG in order to correctly disclose the will not exceed 70% of the audit fee.
performance, controls and prospects of the Group: and Where the Committee believes it is cost effective for non-audit That the document allowed shareholders to follow the whole services to be provided by the external auditor, such as those relating story of the Groups financial and non-financial performance to acquisition due diligence work, it will consider the engagement of in 2017 giving them a clear and understandable picture of the the external auditor, subject to application of the principles of the Groups business model, key drivers and commercial operations.
policy, including the financial limits.
Following the review, the Committee confirmed that the Annual During 2017, there were fees of 122,600 2016: 343,100 paid Report was fair, balanced and understandable and reported to the to the auditor for non-audit services.
The fees paid covered due Board accordingly.
diligence on acquired businesses and aborted acquisition costs Summary 92,400 2016: 241,500, pension advice Nil 2016: 45,000, We aim to continue to develop responsibilities for financial reporting assurance reviews 13,500 2016: 40,100 and restructuring and the related governance and assurance and we will continue work 16,700 2016: 16,300.
Audit fees for 2017 were 793,000, to make improvements to our risk management processes and representing a 1:6 ratio between non-audit and audit fees 2016: approach to our internal control environment.
Further details of these amounts are included in note 6 of the accounts on page 102.
Mark Reckitt Whistleblowing Chairman, Audit Committee The Group has a written policy which states that if any employee in the Group has reasonable grounds to believe that the Groups Code of 7 March 2018 Business Conduct is being breached by any person or group of people, they are able to report such incidents through a third party provided whistleblowing hotline or if necessary, to the Company Secretary or the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
During the year the Committee received reports from the Group Company Secretary on matters reported under the Groups whistleblowing policy, which supports the provision of an externallyhosted internet and telephone based whistleblowing hotline.
Any incidents reported whether through the whistleblowing hotline or direct to the Company Secretary or any other member of Group-level management are investigated under the supervision of the Company Secretary and resolved appropriately.
Fair, balanced and understandable The Committee examined the 2017 Annual Report and was specifically tasked by the Board to advise it on whether the 2017 Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable.
Prior to recommending to the Board that they were able to sign the Annual Report and Accounts the Committee reviewed a report received from the management responsible for the preparation of the Annual Report detailing how the report had been compiled.
The Committee considered the information laid out in the Annual Report and concluded: That the process by which the allocation of responsibility for the preparation of certain sections of the Annual Report to individuals in the head office team and their review by external advisors was fit for purpose: www.
com | Stock Code HILS Governance Report 61 61 Top: ZoneGuard installed on E4 at Hggvik north of Stockholm, at the start of the new Stockholm ring road.
Below: Single-sided Varioguard installed on the Clyesdale Expressway, Glasgow.
