Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information Members of the Nomination Committee as at the date Nomination Committee Report of this report: Jamie Pike Chairman Tracey Graham Jonathan Nicholls Justin Read Lynn Minella was also a member of the Nomination Committee Jamie Pike until she stepped down from the Board on 31 December 2017.
Nomination Committee Chair Please see pages 50 and 51 for detailed biographies.
Responsibilities The key responsibilities of the Nomination Committee are as follows: Develop and maintain a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for making recommendations to the Board on appointments and on the structure, size and composition of the Board: Succession planning for Directors and other senior managers: Evaluate the balance of skills, diversity, knowledge and experience of the Board: Prepare a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment and lead the recruitment process: Dear Shareholder, Identify and nominate, for the approval of the Board, candidates I am pleased to present to you the report of the Nomination to fill Board and senior management vacancies as and when Committee the Committee for the year ended they arise: 31 December 2017.
2017 Key achievements Review the time commitment required from Non-Executive Recruitment process for, and selection of, the CEO designate.
Directors and evaluate the membership and performance of the Board and its Committees: and Reviewed succession planning.
Recommend, where appropriate, the re-election of Directors.
During the year, the Committee reviewed its Terms of Considered time commitment required of the Non-Executive Reference, a copy of which can be found on our website at Directors.
Areas of focus in 2018 Nomination Committee activities Continued development and monitoring of succession plans Succession planning for both the Board and senior management.
The composition of the Board is constantly under review with the aim of ensuring that it has the depth and breadth of skills to Development of the Diversity Policy.
The Nomination Further strengthening the Board with the recruitment of Committee, through its review of succession planning, applies a additional Non-Executive Directors, to replace Lynn Minella and similar approach to the layer of management that sits immediately Jamie Pike.
Nomination Committee calendar and agenda discussion items During the year the Committee met formally on two occasions.
2017 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Recommended the appointment of the CEO designate, following the recruitment process described on page 56 Reviewed Directors training and development needs Reviewed Committees Terms of Reference Reviewed size, structure and composition of the Board Reviewed time commitment required from Non-Executive Directors Reviewed the independence of Non-Executive Directors Conducted an evaluation of the Committees performance Reviewed succession planning arrangements Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 55 Effectiveness continued During the year, and as at the date of this report, no conflicts were Nomination Committee Report continued reported to the Board.
We reviewed the independence of Non-Executive Directors and formed the conclusion that the independent Non-Executive Directors named on pages 50 and 51 continue to be regarded as independent.
We reviewed the training requirements of the Board and The aim of the Nomination Committee is to ensure that the Board agreed upon a suitable regime.
The Chairman and the and senior management are well balanced and appropriate for Company Secretary continue to identify broader areas of training the needs of the business, the achievement of its strategy, and for the Board as a whole and the Chairman will discuss and that the Board comprises Directors who are appropriately agree the training requirements with individual Directors as and experienced and are independent of character and judgement.
Before recommending new candidates, the Nomination We considered the time commitment required from the NonCommittee takes account of the balance of skills, knowledge, Executive Directors.
The Nomination Committee concluded, experience and diversity of psychological type, educational and through discussions with the Chairman and the Board and professional background and gender.
However, all appointments Committee evaluation process, that the Non-Executive Directors will always be made on merit.
Additional information is included had committed sufficient time to fulfil their duties and that their in the Strategic Report on page 27. performance continued to be effective.
We engaged Zygos Partnership, the external search firm, which Re-election of Directors has no connection to the Company, other than assisting with The composition of the Board has been reviewed by the recruitment arrangements, to identify potential candidates to Nomination Committee to ensure there is an effective balance succeed Wayne Sheppard who, in October 2017 notified the of skills, experience and knowledge.
Board of his intention to retire in 2018.
Zygos Partnership worked with us to create a long list of candidates suitably qualified to All Directors will retire at the AGM and those that wish to undertake the role, taking into account our policy on diversity.
continue in office will offer themselves for election or re-election A short list of suitable candidates was compiled, based on their by shareholders.
industry and executive experience, and the Nomination Diversity Committee, together with the Executive Directors, met with the The Board acknowledges the aims, objectives and candidates.
Following those meetings we were able to formulate recommendations outlined in the Hampton-Alexander Review our recommendation to the Board, which culminated in the which is focused on ensuring talented women succeed by appointment of Joe Hudson as CEO designate with effect from removing barriers to their success, and continuing to drive 2 January 2018. forward the momentum of the Davies Review Women on Lynn Minella stepped down from the Board on 31 December Boards.
We are aware of the need to achieve an appropriate 2017, having relocated to the USA.
Having reviewed the size and balance of women on our Board and in senior positions structure of the Board, the Nomination Committee engaged an throughout the Group.
The Board also acknowledges the aims, external firm to commence a search process for a new Nonobjectives and recommendations of the Parker Review on ethnic Executive Director.
diversity and the increased emphasis in the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules on disclosure around diversity with We also conducted an in-depth review of the Groups succession regard to aspects such as age, gender and educational and plan and considered the talent available below the Board level.
The Nomination Committees review concluded that the Company has robust succession planning arrangements in place.
The Board does not, however, consider that it is in the best interests of the Group, or its shareholders, to set prescriptive As announced on 14 February 2018, I will step down from the diversity targets on the Board, or at senior management level, Board following the conclusion of the Companys AGM on 24 and we will continue to make appointments based on merit, May 2018 and Jonathan Nicholls will become Chairman of the against objective criteria to ensure we appoint the best individual Board.
Jonathans proposed appointment as Chairman follows for each role.
a rigorous and detailed process conducted by the Nomination Committee, assisted by Zygos Partnership.
Tracey Graham Approximately 17% of the Board are female, as at the date of this chaired the Nomination Committee when it was dealing with Report, and 14% of a population of senior managers are female.
the appointment of a successor to the chairmanship.
Additional information regarding the gender split across the Group can be found on page 27 of the Strategic Report.
Ensuring the Directors independence and commitment to their roles Board and Committee effectiveness In making recommendations to the Board on Non-Executive The Nomination Committee arranged an annual performance Director appointments, the Nomination Committee specifically evaluation to be undertaken of the effectiveness of the Board, each considers the expected time commitment of the proposed Committee of the Board and of the contribution of each Director.
Non-Executive Director and their existing commitments.
The evaluation process took the form of a questionnaire Agreement of the Board is also required before a Director may completed by all members of the Board and the Company accept any additional commitments to ensure possible conflicts Secretary.
A report on the outcome of the evaluation of the of interest are identified and that they will continue to have Nomination Committees effectiveness was presented to the sufficient time available to devote to the Company.
Any other Board and its Committees in December 2017.
The conclusion potential conflicts of interest are also considered at each drawn from the review was that the Nomination Committee had Board meeting.
The Companys Articles of Association, which are in line with the Companies Act 2006, allow the Board to authorise potential conflicts of interest that may arise and to impose limits or Jamie Pike conditions, as appropriate, when giving any authorisation.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee 5 March 2018 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 56
