esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 Group Executive Team Darren Ogden Darren Boland Graham Bolton Steve Long Interim Chief Executive Chief Technology Officer Interim Chief Finance Officer Chief Risk Officer Officer Appointed to the Board Darren joined esure in March Graham joined esure in November Steve joined esure in January Darren was appointed to the 2013 as Head of Risk and was 2015.
He was promoted to Board as Chief Finance Officer promoted to Chief Risk Officer in position of Chief Information Deputy Chief Finance Officer in in November 2012.
During this time he Officer in July 2016, then to Chief September 2016 and became appointed as Interim Chief has developed the Risk function, Technology Officer in January Interim Chief Finance Officer Executive Officer on 19 January working with the business to 2018. on 19 January 2018.
During his 2018. identify opportunities around risk tenure with the Group, Steve Background and experience and reward.
has taken a leading role in the Prior to joining esure, Graham See biography in full on page 32. development of the Finance Background and experience spent 25 years at Aviva in various function.
Prior to joining esure, Darren IT positions, including IT & change spent three years at Aspen director and global technology Background and experience Insurance as head of insurance service director, within Life, Steve is a qualified Chartered risk.
Darren also spent 12 years GI and Asset Management.
In Accountant with over ten years at , addition, Graham worked in IT experience in the insurance initially within the audit practice, consultancy as delivery director industry.
He previously spent a then spending the last eight at the Co-Op GI, Old Mutual in number of years at KPMG where years within the actuarial Cape Town.
he worked with a variety of clients team supporting the general within their financial services Grahams digital, data and insurance clients, focusing on audit and advisory function.
technology strategy aligns to risk management, underwriting, support the growth of the Group.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants.
David Pitt Helen Taylor Jon Wilshire Chief Operating Officer HR Director Chief Underwriting Officer David Pitt joined esure in October Helen joined esure in September Jon joined esure in 2000 within 2014 as Chief Operating Officer, 2014 as HR Director and has the Corporate Analysis team, focusing on operational delivery.
responsibility for HR policies, leading the Companys pricing operations, reward, recruitment, analysis for its car and home Background and experience engagement, talent and insurance products.
He was David has almost 30 years succession planning.
In 2016 promoted to Head of Corporate of insurance management Helen took over responsibility Analysis in 2003 and then his experience, primarily across for Facilities and Internal role was broadened to cover personal lines, operational and Communications.
underwriting and pricing in claims functions.
Jon was promoted to Chief esure he had spent his career at Background and experience Underwriting Officer in 2013.
As RSA in a variety of roles, including Helen has worked in HR for most well as being a member of the most recently claims director, UK of her career and has latterly Group Executive Committee, he and Western Europe as well as UK worked at executive level and chairs the Pricing Committee.
He also spent with the board in a regulated time overseas as chief executive environment.
Most of Helens Background and experience officer of RSAs Greater China career has been spent in financial Prior to joining esure, Jon spent business.
services and in the past she has six years in a variety of analytical held senior HR positions at RSA, positions in the insurance and Next and Co-operative Financial retail sectors, including Eagle Services.
He is a first class Mathematics Other current appointments graduate with a Masters degree in Member of the Council at the Operational Research.
