esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 Board of Directors Sir Peter Wood Darren Ogden Mara Dolores Dancausa Shirley Garrood Sir Peter Wood Darren Ogden Mara Dolores Dancausa Shirley Garrood Chairman Interim Chief Executive Non-Executive Director Deputy Chairman and Officer Senior Independent Director Darren joined esure Group in Mara Dolores was appointed to Sir Peter Wood founded the Group Shirley was appointed to the 2003.
He was promoted to the the Board as a Non-Executive in February 2000.
Board as a Non-Executive Director position of Head of Finance in Director in December 2013. in July 2013.
Background and experience 2007 and was appointed to the Background and experience Sir Peter has served as the Background and experience Board as Chief Finance Officer in Mara Dolores has financial Groups Chairman since February Shirley has extensive nonNovember 2012.
On 19 January services insurance experience, 2000 and was the Groups Chief executive and executive financial 2018 he was appointed as Interim with her career in the financial Executive Officer from 2006 until services experience and has Chief Executive Officer.
and insurance sector having been 2012.
Sir Peter has extensive chaired a number of committees Background and experience spent mostly in the Bankinter executive financial services and of listed companies and a G15 Darren is a qualified accountant Group.
She is with over 25 years of experience a chartered accountant and Prior appointments Prior appointments in the insurance industry.
corporate treasurer, having She was appointed general Previously, Sir Peter founded trained with KPMG LLP.
Prior appointments secretary and to the board of Direct Line insurance in 1985, He previously spent 13 years at Lnea Directa in 1994, the year it retiring as chairman in 1997.
Prior appointments Legal & General, primarily in the was founded.
Mara Dolores was Sir Peter also founded Privilege She was appointed chief operating general insurance division.
appointed CEO of the Lnea board Insurance with Royal Bank of officer of Henderson Group plc in 2008 and it went on to become Scotland, together with two other in 2001 and then chief financial Other current appointments the fifth largest car insurer in insurance companies in the US officer from 2009 until 2013.
At the end of 2010, she and one in Spain.
Shirley was an executive director Committee membership was appointed CEO of Bankinter.
at Morley Fund Management In 1996, Sir Peter received the Darren is a member of the During these years, Bankinter was Aviva from 1998 to 2001 and honour of Commander of the Group Executive and Disclosure confirmed as one of the healthiest also chief operating officer from British Empire in recognition of Committee.
and most creditworthy institutions 2000 to 2001. his services to the UK financial in Europe.
In 2016 he Other current appointments Other current appointments was awarded a knighthood in the Shirley is a non-executive director Mara Dolores is currently CEO Queens birthday honours list.
and senior independent director of of Bankinter, Spain having been Hargreaves Lansdown plc.
Other current appointments appointed in 2010.
Sir Peter is Chairman of Committee membership Committee membership Gocompare.
Shirley chairs the Audit Mara Dolores is a member of the Committee and is a member of Committee membership Nomination Committee.
the Remuneration and Nomination Sir Peter chairs the Nomination Committees.
Committee and is a member of the Disclosure Committee.
COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP 1 Audit 2 Nomination 3 Risk 4 Remuneration 5 Disclosure 6 Group Executive Committee Chair Strategic Report Governance Financials esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 Martin Pike Alan Rubenstein Angela Seymour-Jackson Peter Shaw Martin Pike Alan Rubenstein Angela Seymour-Jackson Peter Shaw Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Alan was appointed to the Board Angela was appointed to the Martin was appointed to the Board Peter was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director in Board as a Non-Executive Director as a Non-Executive Director in as a Non-Executive Director in March 2017. in October 2015.
Background and experience Background and experience Background and experience Background and experience Alan has had a long and Angela has considerable Martin has a wealth of experience Peter has a wide range of distinguished career in investment insurance, financial services, in the financial services insurance experience in both risk and banking and asset management.
marketing and operational sector as a strategy and risk business roles throughout a experience and holds a number of consultant, and actuary.
career in financial services of Prior appointments non-executive directorships in the He spent just under 30 years over 30 years.
He was the chief executive of the FTSE 100 financial services and with Willis Towers Watson, where Pension Protection Fund PPF Prior appointments business services sectors.
he held a number of senior from 2009 until January 2018.
He spent the majority of his positions, culminating in the Prior appointments career at Royal Bank of Scotland Prior to this he was a managing post of managing director, Risk She was the managing director of and NatWest having joined as a director at Lehman Brothers from Consulting & Software EMEA.
the Workplace division of Aegon graduate, progressing through a 20062008 and before that at UK plc and has held various senior Prior appointments number of business roles before Morgan Stanley from 19972006. marketing and distribution roles He was the managing director, spending his last eight years in He began his career with Scottish from 1989 to 2011 at Norwich Risk Consulting & Software the risk function, latterly as chief Widows, where he qualified as a Union Insurance, General Accident for the EMEA region at Willis risk officer for the Retail, Wealth Fellow of the Faculty of Actuaries Insurance, CGU plc and Aviva.
She Towers Watson to 2013. and Ulster Bank businesses.
He before moving into senior was chief executive officer of RAC formerly also held the role of Other current appointments executive positions with BZW Motoring Services Limited from interim chief risk officer at the Martin is a non-executive director Asset Management and Lucas 2010 until 2012 and she conducted Co-operative Banking Group and of Standard Life Aberdeen plc, Varity Fund Management.
the sale of RAC to Carlyle.
From non-executive director at Bank of where he chairs the Risk & Capital 2016 until 2017 she was adviser to Ireland UK plc.
Alan is a former vice-chairman Committee and is a member of Lloyds Banking Group insurance.
of the National Association of the Audit Committee.
He is also on Other current appointments Pension Funds, and former Other current appointments the board of Faraday Underwriting Peter is a non-executive director chairman of its Investment Angela is deputy chairman and Limited and is Chairman of of Willis Limited and Aldermore Council.
He is a former member senior independent director Greencore Construction Limited, Bank plc.
of the Council and Management of Gocompare.
com Group plc, a company of which he is joint Committee membership Board of the Institute and Faculty and a non-executive director of founder.
He is a non-executive Peter chairs the Risk Committee of Actuaries, a former member of Henderson Group plc, Rentokil adviser to Travers Smith LLP.
and is a member of the the Takeover Panel and a former Initial plc and PageGroup plc.
member of the supervisory board Committee membership Martin chairs the Remuneration of Robeco Groep NV.
Angela is a member of the Risk Committee and is a member of the Other current appointments and Remuneration Committees.
Alan is a director of the British Coal Staff Superannuation Scheme Trustees Ltd and chairman of their investment sub-committee.
Committee membership Alan is a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
