esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 Risk Committee DIRECTORS ATTENDANCE Meetings Possible Director attended attendance 1 Peter Shaw Chairman 6 6 Martin Pike 6 6 Angela Seymour-Jackson 6 6 2 Peter Ward 2 3 1 Peter Shaw was appointed as a member of the Committee with effect from 8 March 2017 and took over as Chairman with effect from 17 May 2017.
2 Peter Ward stepped down as Chairman of the Committee and a Director on 17 May 2017.
Peter Shaw Chairman of the Risk Committee COMPOSITION The Committee was provided with updates on the General Data The Risk Committee currently has three members, all Protection Regulation GDPR provisions due to come into independent Non-Executive Directors, and has been chaired by force in May 2018.
Peter Shaw since 17 May 2017, following the resignation of Peter Ward as a Director of the Company.
The Committee members MEETINGS and attendance at scheduled meetings in 2017 are set out in The Committee meets at least four times a year, or more the table above.
The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Finance frequently if required, and any two members constitute a Officer, Chief Risk Officer, Deputy Chief Risk Officer, Head of quorum.
Risk & Capital and Company Secretary attend each meeting.
The Committee meets with the Chief Risk Officer without the TERMS OF REFERENCE Executive Directors or other management present, at least The Risk Committees Terms of Reference can be viewed on once a year.
RESPONSIBILITIES The responsibilities of the Committee are to advise the Board on the Groups risk strategy, risk policies and current risk exposures, including any prudential risks, overseeing the implementation and maintenance of the overall risk management framework and management systems, and reviewing the Groups risk assessment processes and capability to identify and manage new risks.
The Committees Chairman reports formally to the Board on its proceedings after each meeting.
KEY ACTIVITIES The activities of the Risk Committee during 2017 included review and oversight of the ORSA processes and Governance and Risk Framework.
This included the consideration of the strategic risk objectives and risk appetite, risk policies, risk and compliance plan, reinsurance, reportable events and emerging risks and opportunities, stress and scenario testing, and assessing the adequacy and effectiveness of risk management systems.
The Committee also reviewed the impact of changes to the Ogden discount rate and whiplash reforms Civil Liberty Bill to be implemented in 2019, Solvency II, the Rating environment and Reserving reviews.
The Committee agreed the validation framework for the preparation of technical provisions for yearend reserving.
During the year the Risk Committee reviewed cyber risk due to the cyber crime threat increasing, in particular ransomware attacks, and to view extreme scenarios which have been seen at other companies and how these might affect data in the business.
The Committee also confirmed their commitment to drive top-down culture of risk awareness around financial crime to minimise avoidable reputational, regulatory or other risks arising from it.
