Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information Accountability Highlights Internal controls The Board remains responsible for the effectiveness of internal control and risk management and keeps the systems under Assessed risk management and internal regular review.
controls systems as being effective The Board as a whole discusses, challenges and approves the Reviewed the significant judgements made Annual Report and Accounts.
by management in preparing the 2017 The Groups systems of internal control are based on assessment financial statements of risk and a framework of control procedures to manage risks and to monitor compliance with procedures.
The internal control Oversaw the successful transition of the systems are designed to meet the Groups particular needs and external auditor the risks to which it is exposed and, by their nature, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material loss to the Group or material misstatement in the financial accounts.
Financial reporting The Group has an ongoing process for the identification, The Group maintains a financial control environment that is evaluation and management of significant business risks, which regularly reviewed by the Board.
The principal elements of the has been in place for the year under review and up to the date control environment include comprehensive management and of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts.
The Board has, financial reporting systems and processes, defined operating during the year, identified and evaluated the key risks and has controls and authorisation limits, regular Board meetings, clear ensured that effective controls and procedures are in place to subsidiary board and operating structures, and an outsourced manage these risks see pages 32 to 37.
The Executive Directors meet regularly with representatives from Internal control and risk management systems relating to the businesses to address financial, human resource, legal, risk the financial reporting process and the process for preparing management and other control issues.
consolidated accounts ensure the accuracy and timeliness of internal and external financial reporting.
The Board also retains its responsibility to approve the annual budget.
Monitoring of the annual budget, following approval, is Throughout each year, monthly detailed reforecasts, covering the carried out through regular updates against budget circulated income statement, cash flow and balance sheet are performed as part of the Chief Financial Officers report to the Board.
In by each area of the Group and are consolidated to provide an addition, the Board reviews all significant capital expenditure updated view of expected performance for the current year.
requests separately, after a general approval for the quantum of Ongoing financial performance is monitored through regular the capital expenditure budget has been granted.
Measures such weekly reporting and monthly reporting cycles to Executive as these ensure that adequate levels of control and scrutiny are Directors and monthly reporting to the Board, which allows maintained over the budget and capital expenditure at Board management to assess performance, and identify risks and level.
The Board recognises that its Committees are generally opportunities at the earliest opportunity.
only empowered to make recommendations to the Board for their approval, unless a specific authorisation to approve certain Capital investment and all revenue expenditure is regulated by a matters is granted.
To facilitate information flows, a verbal update budgetary process and authorisation levels, with post-investment is given by the Chairman of the relevant Committee in the and period end reviews as required.
A comprehensive budgeting subsequent Board meeting following a Committee meeting.
system allows managers to submit detailed budgets which are reviewed and amended by the Executive Directors prior to The Audit Committee, on the Boards behalf, has conducted submission to the Board for approval.
a review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of risk management and internal control during the year, in accordance The Group has an established and well understood management with the FRCs guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control structure with documented levels for the authorisation of business and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
Details of the transactions and clear bank mandates to control the approval of review can be found in the Audit Committee Report on page 61. payments.
The Groups cash resources are managed by a centralised Treasury function.
Risk management The Groups risk management process includes both top-down Internal management reporting and external statutory reporting and bottom-up elements to the identification, evaluation and timetables and delivery requirements are well established, management of risks.
documented and controlled at the Group centre.
Risk arises from the operations of, and strategic decisions taken The Group maintains computer systems to record and by, every business and our approach to risk management is not to consolidate all of its financial transactions.
These ledger systems eliminate risk entirely, but rather provide the structural means with are used to produce the information for the monthly management which to identify, prioritise and manage the risks involved in our accounts, and for the annual statutory financial statements.
The Board of Directors is ultimately responsible for the trading subsidiaries within the Group prepare their accounts Groups risk management processes and internal control systems.
under Financial Reporting Standard FRS 102.
The Board has considered the nature and extent of risks it is The accounts production process ensures that there is a clear willing to take in pursuit of the Groups strategic objectives.
It has audit trail from the output of the Groups financial reporting assessed the Groups risk appetite, which is set to balance systems, through the conversion and consolidation processes, opportunities for business development and growth in areas of to the Groups financial statements.
potentially higher risk, whilst maintaining our reputation and high levels of customer satisfaction.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 57 Accountability continued The Groups appetite for risk is set depending upon the particular Risk management framework risk associated with our Group strategy: To effectively manage risk, operational level controls are embedded across the Group and form a key part of day-to-day Safety there is a low tolerance for health and safety related processes.
risks and no appetite for non-compliance with related health and safety legislation and statutory requirements: During 2017, a key component of the Directors assessment of risk was managements review of the risk matrices prepared by Invest the criteria for investment allocates the Groups each subsidiary entity.
resources in a manner consistent with the Groups strategy and The Board maintained its ultimate responsibility for the Groups planned internal rates of return: and control monitoring and provided direction to management in its Innovate whilst delivering activity aimed at introducing assessment of Group-wide risk.
innovative products, the Group accepts short-term margin Fair, balanced and understandable a matter for the dilution, but aims for market-leading operating margins and entire Board returns on capital.
As part of its considerations as to whether the 2017 Annual Following the appointment of RSM LLP as the Groups Report and Accounts are fair, balanced and understandable, outsourced Internal Auditor during 2016, an independent and provide information necessary for shareholders to assess the programme of audits was approved by the Audit Committee for Companys position, performance, business model and strategy, completion in 2017.
At each of its meetings, the Audit Committee the Board took into account the following: received an update from the outsourced provider as to progress the Chairman and Chief Executive provided input to and agreed in completion of the approved Internal Audit plan, details of any on the overall messages and tone of the Annual Report and findings noted to date in completion of reviews, and managements Accounts at an early stage: responses to recommendations resulting from the audits.
individual sections of the Annual Report and Accounts were The internal audit reviews conducted by the outsourced provider drafted by appropriate senior management with regular review supplemented managements own operational audit activities.
meetings to ensure consistency of the entire document: The results of these management activities were reported to the Audit Committee throughout the year.
detailed reviews of appropriate draft sections of the Annual Report and Accounts were undertaken by the In considering the risks to which the Group is exposed, risk Executive Directors: matrices are maintained and reviewed by each subsidiary entity within the Group.
These matrices are the result of input and an advanced draft was reviewed by the Audit Committee and challenge undertaken by the senior managers within the entity the auditors on a timely basis to allow sufficient consideration and the Groups Executive Directors, and are refreshed at least and was discussed with the Chief Financial Officer and senior once per annum.
At a Group level, the Board reviews these management prior to consideration by the Board: and matrices and the analysis of potential exposures which exist within them.
Risks are reviewed and monitored on an on-going the Chief Financial Officer, in his February 2018 Board paper, basis using consistent measurement criteria.
included a checklist of areas that the Board should take into account in considering the fairness, consistency and balance The Audit Committee supports the Board in monitoring the risk of the final draft of the Annual Report and Accounts including exposures and is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of whether the Board considers that there are any omissions our risk management and internal control systems.
Committee is assisted by the Groups outsourced Internal Audit function in evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of The Fair, Balanced and Understandable Statement appears on our risk strategies and the internal controls implemented by page 63. management.
During 2017, no significant failings or weaknesses in the Groups internal controls were identified.
Jamie Pike The Audit Committee reviewed and approved the Group-wide Non-Executive Chairman risks and mitigation prepared by management and informed by 5 March 2018 the subsidiary risk matrices.
This review formed a key component of the Directors robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
These are set out in the table on pages 34 to 37.
The Groups Risk Management Framework is illustrated on page 33.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 58
