Effectiveness Highlights Development and advice Justin Read was appointed a Director on 1 January 2017.
His induction programme included visits to the principal operations of Completed actions arising from the 2016 the Groups three UK based businesses where he met members Board evaluation of the management team.
He was given guided tours of the factories and was introduced to the businesses products and Completed Justin Reads induction manufacturing operations.
Meetings were also held with the programme Executive Directors and senior members of the Group head office team.
Performed an evaluation of the effectiveness Joe Hudson was appointed a Director, and CEO designate, on of the Board and its Committees 2 January 2018.
A tailored induction programme was prepared for him similar to that outlined above.
In addition, Joes Board evaluation programme included meetings with the Groups brokers.
An internal performance evaluation of the Board and its principal External directorships Committees was undertaken during the year.
Any external appointments or other significant commitments of The performance evaluation process was undertaken in the final the Directors require the prior approval of the Board.
The external quarter of 2017 and took the form of a questionnaire which commitments of the Board are set out in their biographies on included questions about Board administration, the role of the pages 50 and 51.
The Board is content with the level of external Chairman, strategy, risk oversight, succession planning and the directorships held by the Chairman and the independent structure of the Boards Committees.
The process also provided Non-Executive Directors, as these do not impact on the time that the Board with the opportunity to make specific comments in any Director devotes to the Company.
Furthermore, the Board response to a series of open questions.
The questionnaire was believes that this external experience serves to enhance the completed by all Directors and the Company Secretary.
A report capability of the Board.
on the outcome of the evaluation exercise was prepared and was As anticipated in last years report, Jamie Pike stepped down as presented to the Board at the December 2017 meeting.
Non-Executive Chairman and a Director of Tyman PLC at that As a result of conclusions drawn from the Board evaluation Companys AGM held in May 2017. report, the Board has agreed to hold an annual Board strategy As announced on 14 February 2018, Jamie Pike has accepted an away day and to implement actions designed to support the appointment as Chairman of Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc with newly appointed CEO designate.
effect from 15 May 2018 and will step down from the Board of the Overall, the Board considered the performance of each Director Company on 24 May 2018, following conclusion of the AGM.
to be effective and concluded that the Board and its committees continue to provide effective leadership and exert the required levels of governance and control and that each Director continues to contribute effectively and demonstrate commitment to his or her role.
The Board will continue to review its procedures, effectiveness and development in the year ahead.
The Senior Independent Director met with the independent Non-Executive Directors, in the absence of the Chairman, to appraise the Chairmans performance, taking into account the views of Executive Directors.
The review concluded that the Chairmans performance continued to be effective and that he demonstrates commitment to the role.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 54
