Governance Report 46 Governance Report Leadership framework The Hill & Smith Holdings PLC Group consists of the Company and the principal subsidiary companies, listed on pages 150 to 152, and during 2017 operated in seven different countries.
The Groups businesses are directly supervised by local operating boards and performance is monitored at individual operating company and divisional levels.
Details of the Groups business model and strategy can be found on pages 6 to 11.
The Groups subsidiary companies hold monthly board meetings, regularly attended by the Executive Directors and there is liaison across divisions to ensure, where appropriate, the consistent application of governance, operational procedures and Group policies and practices.
The two Executive Directors are accountable to the Board for the operational application of these controls.
The Board is collectively responsible for ensuring that the business acts in the best interests of its shareholders and ensures that the Group delivers sustainable profitable growth through the supply of infrastructure products and galvanizing services: generating sustainable value for shareholders, whilst preserving the interests of its customers, employees and other stakeholders.
The main facets of this responsibility comprise: consideration of the long-term direction and strategy of the Company: the values and standards within the business: subsidiary company management performance: resources: health and safety: risk management: and internal controls.
The Board has established processes designed to help maximise its performance.
These processes operate from within the following framework: Operation of Board meetings are scheduled to ensure adequate time for discussion of each agenda item.
the Board Board discussions are held allowing for questions, scrutiny and constructive challenge where appropriate.
Full debate allows decisions to be taken by consensus although any dissenting views would be minuted accordingly.
Other members of senior group management regularly attend and give presentations at Board meetings.
Local managers may also attend when matters of particular significance or country relevance are proposed or are being reviewed.
Strategic The development of strategy is led by the Chief Executive Officer together with the Group Finance Director, and with focus input, challenge, examination and ongoing testing from the Non-executive Directors.
Group strategy is regularly addressed by the Board, with strategic matters being reviewed and updated as appropriate at each main meeting.
In addition, the Board holds at least one annual strategy meeting.
The Board has particular responsibility for ensuring that the business strategies proposed are fully discussed and critically reviewed.
The Executive Directors and members of the senior management team draw on the collective experience of the Board.
Board Comprehensive reporting packs are provided to the Board, which are designed to be clear, accurate and analytical, whilst information avoiding excessive and unnecessary information.
Reporting packs are normally distributed electronically five days in advance of Board meetings, enabling them to be as up-to-date as possible, whilst allowing sufficient time for their review and consideration in advance of the meeting.
Clarification or amplification of reports or proposals are sought in advance of, or at, meetings as appropriate.
Management accounts with commentary are distributed to the Board on a monthly basis.
Board The Board regularly reviews its appetite for, and the management of, risk in the context of the strategy and the periodic knowledge review of the Group risk register.
The Chief Executive Officer and Group Finance Director have a programme of visits to the Groups business locations to review the operational performance and to engage and support local management.
In the financial year, at least one Hill & Smith Holdings PLC Board meeting is held at the operational site of a subsidiary.
All Directors have open access to the Groups key advisors, senior management and the Company Secretary.
Statement of compliance with UK Corporate Governance Code Hill & Smith Holdings PLC is a premium listed issuer on the London Stock Exchange.
In accordance with the listing rules, during 2017 the company applied the main principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 the Code : leadership, effectiveness, accountability, remuneration and relations with shareholders.
In doing so, the organisation has complied with all provisions of the Code, except during a period of 5 months, whilst recruitment for a new Non-executive Director extended for longer than predicted, see page 49 for more details.
The search began in March 2017 and a candidate of suitable calibre was identified and appointed in October 2017.
Application of the principles was still maintained during this period and more detail can be found on our compliance in the sections below.
com | Stock Code HILS Governance Report 47 A.
Leadership The Role of the Board The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Company and is focused on ensuring its own effectiveness.
The Board manages the overall control of the Groups affairs with reference to a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board for decision: in particular the Board takes decisions on and reviews: Group strategy and operating plans: Business development, including acquisitions and divestments, major investments and disposals: Risk management: Financial reporting and audit, including announcements for year end and interim results and trading updates: Financing, treasury and taxation: Corporate governance: Compliance with laws, regulations and the Companys Code of Business Conduct: Corporate sustainability and responsibility, ethics, health and safety, the environment: and Pension benefits and liabilities.
In addition to its normal business, the Board received, reviewed and approved various matters, during 2017 and up to the date of this report: Regular updates on the reorganisation of VMS Group: The schedule of matters reserved for the Board and all Committee terms of reference: Acquisition integration plans: Conclusion of the external review of board effectiveness: Succession planning and talent management updates: Goodwill and Intangible Asset carrying values: Pension scheme master trust arrangements and trustee reports: Viability Statement: and Corporate activity including the acquisitions of Kenway Corporation and Tower Tech and the sale of CA Traffic.
The Board also received budget presentations from the management of Creative Pultrusions, Carpenter & Paterson, the V&S Group, Hill & Smith Ltd and Joseph Ash Ltd.
These budget presentations are initially challenged by the Executive Directors before being presented to the Board which approves the businesses individual budgets, having reviewed and discussed the plans submitted.
Where appropriate the Board offers additional challenges in order that the final budgets are a realistic representation of the expected financial performance of the businesses taking onto account historical performance and future economic conditions.
com | Stock Code HILS Governance Report 48 Governance Report continued Board structure During 2017 the Board constituted the individuals listed below and these Directors made up three Board committees as described below.
Each Committee reports to the Board.
J F Lennox - Chairman appt 11 May 2017 previously Senior Independent Director W H Whiteley - Chairman retired 11 May 2017 D W Muir - Group Chief Executive M Pegler - Group Finance Director & MD, UK Utilities Group A C B Giddins Senior Independent Director appt 3 October 2017 A M Kelleher - Non-executive Director M J Reckitt - Non-executive Director C A Henderson - Company Secretary Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee The Audit Committee has responsibility The Remuneration Committee is responsible The Nomination Committee has responsibility for planning and reviewing the Companys for creation, approval and implementation of for assisting the Board with succession interim and preliminary reports and the Companys Remuneration Policy in respect planning and with the selection of a new accounts, and its internal controls and risk of Executive Directors, Company Secretary Executive Director, Non-executive Director or management systems.
Chairman Chairman Chairman M J Reckitt A M Kelleher J F Lennox Other members Other members Other members A M Kelleher M J Reckitt D W Muir A C B Giddins appt 3 October 2017 A C B Giddins appt 3 October 2017 A M Kelleher J F Lennox resigned 11 May 2017 J F Lennox resigned 11 May 2017 M J Reckitt A C B Giddins appt 3 October 2017 Secretary Secretary W H Whiteley resigned as Committee C A Henderson C A Henderson Chairman 11 May 2017 Secretary C A Henderson Board meeting attendance During the year attendance by Directors at Board and Committee meetings was as follows: Board Audit Nomination Remuneration Jock Lennox 9 3 3 2 1 Derek Muir 9 3 3 1 Mark Pegler 9 3 - - Mark Reckitt 9 3 3 3 2 Alan Giddins 2 0 1 1 Annette Kelleher 9 3 3 3 3 Bill Whiteley 2 1 1 1 Total meetings held 9 3 3 3 indicates attendance of whole or part of the meeting by invitation.
1 The Executive Directors were not present when elements of their remuneration were discussed.
2 A C B Giddins attended all meetings he was eligible to attend.
3 W H Whiteley retired from the Board on the 11 May 2017. www.
com | Stock Code HILS Governance Report 49 All Directors of the Board except A C B Giddins attended the AGM on The biographies of the Directors of the Board are shown on pages 11 May 2017: A C B Giddins was not appointed to the Board until 3 44 and 45, along with any significant other commitments and October 2017. appointments they may have.
The Chief Executive maintains a programme of visits to the Groups Skills and business experience subsidiary businesses, throughout the world.
The Group Finance International Mergers & Marketing Director, regularly visits the US and France and in 2017 also visited markets Acquisitions 5 Culture & Australia, Sweden and India.
6 6 Ethics 6 Chairman and Chief Executive There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive which is set out in writing and available at www.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and Leadership Supply effective working of the Board.
The small size of the Board ensures 6 chain Digital 2 all Directors contribute fully to the discussions and decisions.
The Human 4 Chairman drives the Board agenda and determines how the Board Resources should use the time available to it during Board meetings.
The Chief 5 Executive is responsible for the management of the Company, executing the Groups strategy and development, meeting financial Health & Safety objectives, implementing policies and maintaining controls.
The 6 Risk Executive Directors provide information to the Board via their regular Business management written reports and the presentation of proposals for Board approval.
integration and assurance 6 The Chairman met the independence criteria set out in the Code on 6 appointment and was not previously the Chief Executive.
Operating Non-executive Directors performance & The Non-executive Directors take an active role in challenging Financial delivery Planning strategy and monitoring the performance of the Company.
J F Strategy 6 6 Lennox was the Senior Independent Director at the start of 2017 until 5 he became Chairman in May 2017.
A C B Giddins was appointed as Senior Independent Director in October 2017.
During the intervening Conflicts period, the recruitment which had been started in advance of J F The Companies Act 2006 sets out Directors general duties Lennox becoming Chairman of a new Non-executive Director who concerning conflicts of interest and related matters.
The Board would also be appointed as the Senior Independent Director was has agreed an approach and adopted guidelines for dealing with continuing.
4.1. was not complied with during this conflicts.
The Board confirmed that it was not aware of any situations period as the Board considered that it was appropriate to wait for a that conflicted with the interests of the Company, other than those candidate of suitable skill and experience to be identified.
However, that may arise from Directors other appointments, as disclosed Code principle A.
4. was still applied as the Company ensured that in their biographies on pages 44 and 45.
In accordance with the it maintained support for the Chairman and a route of resolution Articles, the Board authorised the Company Secretary to receive for shareholders through the Company Secretary and other Nonnotifications of conflicts of interest on behalf of the Board and to executive Directors.
make recommendations as to whether the relevant matters should be authorised by the Board.
The Company has complied with these The Non-executive Directors meet independently without the procedures.
Chairman present and also meet with the Chairman, independent of management.
Nomination Committee The Board has appointed a Nomination Committee, composed of No concerns regarding the running of the company or any proposed a majority of independent Non-executive Directors.
In addition action were received or recorded from Directors.
to leading the process of Board appointments, the Nomination B.
Effectiveness Committee supports the Board in succession planning for the Composition of the Board Board and senior management.
The terms of reference of the The Directors are experienced and influential individuals from varied Nomination Committee can be found at www.
com and commercial industries, professional backgrounds and international more information on the work of the Committee can be found in the involvement.
Their diverse and balanced mix of skills and business Committee Chairmans report at page 55. experience see opposite, are key elements to the effective Appointments to the Board functioning of the Board and its Committees, ensuring matters are Alan Giddins was appointed as Non-executive Director and Senior fully and effectively debated and challenged and no individual or Independent Director on 3 October 2017.
Korn Ferry who have no group dominates the Boards decision-making processes.
other connection with the Company were engaged by the Company Taking into account the provisions of the Code, the Board has to conduct a search for a suitable candidate based on the description determined that during the year under review none of the Nonof the required capabilities prepared by the Nomination Committee executive Directors had any relationship or circumstance which and in April a list of prospective candidates was drawn up.
Following would affect their performance and the Board considers all of this the Nomination Committee met to discuss the skills and the Non-executive Directors to be independent in character and experiences of the potential candidates and their relevance to the judgement.
Half of the Board consists of independent Non-executive Groups business model, strategy and the requirement to balance Directors.
the long-term sustainability of the business with the expectations of shareholders.
com | Stock Code HILS Governance Report 50 Governance Report continued Following further meetings with a shortlist of candidates the Secretary and are able to take independent professional advice, Nomination Committee subsequently met to discuss the potential when necessary, at the Companys expense.
The Committee, in considering the existing balance From time to time, other members of the management team attend of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board, the merit and Board meetings to present annual budgets, updates and proposals capabilities of the candidates and the time they were able to relating to their areas of responsibility and reporting on regulatory devote to the role in order to promote the success of the Company, compliance, risk management and internal controls.
recommended the appointment of Alan Giddins to the Board.
The Directors and management of the Group businesses are also The service agreements and terms of appointment for the Executive supported by the central function which includes compliance, risk Directors and Non-executive Directors respectively, are discussed on management, internal audit, treasury, taxation, acquisitions and pages 68 and 71 of the Directors Remuneration Report.
directors insurance cover is kept by the Company.
Evaluation of the performance of the Board Board Development The Chairman has overseen the induction of Alan Giddins, which was The Board recognises that a performance evaluation is important full, formal and tailored.
Following his appointment Alan met with to optimise Board effectiveness and that the evaluation should be the Executive Directors, the Group Company Secretary and the Group appropriate to both the size of the Board and the Company.
Financial Controller and visited major companies within the Groups The results of the 2016 internal Board evaluation concluded: UK-based Roads and Galvanizing businesses, as well as speaking to the Groups External Auditors.
An increased proportion of Board time should be focused on future strategy and direction: The Chairman has discussed training and development needs with all Board members, as part of individual performance evaluations.
The formality of succession planning and Board oversight on this All Directors are provided with the opportunity and are encouraged topic should be increased: to attend regular training to ensure they are kept up-to-date on Board discussions could benefit from an improved balance of relevant legal developments or changes, best practice and changes to commercial and financial risks.
Typical training experiences for detailed information and subsidiary specific KPIs: and Directors includes attendance at seminars, forums, conferences The continuous improvement around risk and internal audit and working groups, as well as the provision of information from the should be maintained.
The Board has responded to these matters by: Board support The Board is supported by the Company Secretary who, under Altering Board agendas to ensure strategic focus and increasing the direction of the Chairman, ensures that communication and the number of Board meetings with a specific strategic remit: information flows between Board members.
The Company Secretary Increasing Board reporting on succession planning progress, is also responsible for assisting the Chairman in all matters relating supported by the work of the Nomination Committee: to corporate governance, including the Board evaluation process.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Refreshed the KPI report to the Board: and Image: Hill & Smith Ltds QUEST-GEN crash cushion installed on the A90 near Forfar, Fife.
com | Stock Code HILS Governance Report 51 Continued to improve the risk management framework and CEO and Group Finance Director undertake meetings with system of internal control, more detail of which can be found on shareholders work well.
In the context of the Companys successful strategy and its growth In 2017 the Board commissioned an external Board Effectiveness in recent years the Report made recommendations in the following evaluation, facilitated by Colin Mayer CBE FBA, Professor of areas: Management Studies at Sad Business School, University of Oxford, The Board should continue to focus on the Groups strategic and who has no other connection to the Company.
The evaluation long-term sustainability: centred around the requirements of the Code and with particular focus on the following: Existing work around succession planning should be extended further: Board composition: The Board should build on existing mechanisms to further The Chairman and Non-executive Directors: embed culture and values: and Board processes: and Improvements could be made to the presentation and format Communication with investors.
The evaluation process concluded, Following this evaluation, the Chairman met with all Board members, individually, in February 2018, to discuss the Evaluation Report and to The Company comfortably satisfies the requirements of the determine what actions should be considered in response and we will Corporate Governance Code.
report on these steps in next years Annual Report.
and commented further on: Following these meetings Alan Giddins, as Senior Independent Director met with his Board colleagues to discuss the performance Leadership A highly effective board that is collegiate and works of the Chairman and the Chairman met with the Non-executive as a team: Directors, in the absence of the Executive Directors, to discuss the Effectiveness Board members are highly experienced and performance of the Executive Directors.
knowledgeable, with a good spread of skills that cover its main Annual re-election of Directors requirements: In compliance with the Code and the Companys Articles of Accountability Financial performance is extensively reviewed, Association, Directors retire at every AGM and, if deemed appropriate there is central oversight of controls and risk management has by the Board, Directors are proposed for re-appointment by recently been strengthened: shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
In reaching its decision to propose re-election, the Board acts on the advice of the Nomination Remuneration A well run committee, that sets the Companys Committee, taking account of the results of the Board evaluation remuneration policy and considers the remuneration of senior referred to above.
executives: Investor Relations The arrangements whereby the Group www.
com | Stock Code HILS Governance Report 52 Governance Report continued Following the formal evaluation of the performance of the Board, A reduction in revenues in the Groups Utilities businesses in the Alan Giddins is being proposed for election and the remaining UK and USA.
Directors for re-election at the 2018 AGM.
The biographies of the In making this viability statement the Directors considered the Directors of the Board are shown on pages 44 and 45. mitigating actions that would be taken by the Group in the event that C. Accountability the principal risks of the Company become realised.
The Directors Financial and business reporting also took into consideration the Groups financial position at 31 The respective responsibilities of the Directors and External Auditor December 2017 with an undrawn committed facility headroom of in connection with the Financial Statements are explained in 111.4m and a history of strong cash generation, and noted that the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 80 and the the Companys principal financing facilities are committed until April Independent Auditors Report on pages 82 to 86.
2021 thus covering the period of review.
Fair, balanced and understandable The Directors have assessed the viability of the Group and, based on The Directors consider that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is the procedures outlined above in addition to activities undertaken fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information by the Board in its normal course of business, confirm that they have necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in business model and strategy.
More information can be found on page operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to 31 60 of the Audit Committee Report.
Going concern Risk Management and Internal Control The Directors have assessed the future funding requirements of Overall responsibility for ensuring that there is a process to identify, the Group and the Company and compared them to the level of evaluate and manage any significant risks that may affect the committed available borrowing facilities.
The assessment included achievement of the Groups strategic objectives and for internal a review of both divisional and Group financial forecasts, financial control, and reviewing the effectiveness of these processes, lies with instruments and hedging arrangements, for the 15 months from the Board.
Major assumptions have been compared The process has been in place throughout 2017, and up to the date to external reference points such as infrastructure spend forecasts of approving the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
The key across our chosen market sectors, government spending plans elements of this process are: on road infrastructure, zinc and steel prices and economic growth forecasts.
The forecasts show that the Group will have sufficient A comprehensive system of monthly reporting from key headroom in the foreseeable future and the likelihood of breaching executives, identifying performance against budgets and banking covenants in this period is considered to be remote.
forecasts: Having undertaken this work, the Directors are of the opinion that the Analysis of variances, major business issues, key performance Group has adequate committed resources to fund its operations for indicators and regular forecasting: the foreseeable future and so determine that it is appropriate for the Well-defined policies governing appraisal and approval of capital Financial Statements to be prepared on a going concern basis.
expenditure and treasury operations: Viability statement Regular meetings to identify and discuss key risks and In preparing this statement of viability, the Directors have considered mitigations with a broad sample of the senior management the prospects of the Group over the three-year period immediately team and the Executive Directors: following the 2017 financial year.
This longer-term assessment process supports the Boards statements on both viability, as set Review of the corporate risk register in terms of completeness out below, and going concern, above.
A three year period was and accuracy with the senior management team and the determined as the most appropriate as it is the period covered by Executive Directors: the Groups annual strategic planning process, which sets the longterm direction of the Group and is reviewed at least annually by the Audit Committee discussion of the corporate risk register and Directors.
The Board concluded that a period of longer than three the risk management system with subsequent reports to the Board: years would not be meaningful for the purpose of concluding on longer-term viability.
The use of a Risk Committee to monitor, validate and report on the Group-wide risk assessment process: and The strategic planning process considered metrics which enable assessment of the Groups key performance indicators see pages 24 The introduction of a senior management top-down approach and 25 in addition to net debt, liquidity and financing requirements.
to complement the work of the Risk Committee.
In conducting the review of the Groups prospects the Directors More information on the Groups key risks and uncertainties is shown assessed the three-year plan alongside the Groups current financial on pages 28 to 30. position, the Groups strategy and the principal risks facing the Group all of which are detailed in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 40.
The Board and the Audit Committee have reviewed the effectiveness This robust assessment considered the impact of the principal risks of the Groups risk management and internal control systems in on the business model and on future performance, liquidity and accordance with the Code for the period ended 31 December 2017, solvency.
Stress tests were applied to the Groups three-year plan, and up to the date of approving the Annual Report and Financial whereby risks associated with the economic risks faced by the Group Statements.
The risk management and internal control system is were applied to the plan in a number of diverging scenarios.
The designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failing to developed scenarios were designed to be plausible, yet severe: achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The A decrease in the UK Governments road infrastructure spend: assessment and control of risk are considered by the Board to be A fall in galvanizing volumes across all geographies: and fundamental to achieving corporate objectives.
com | Stock Code HILS Governance Report 53 An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the The Chairman met directly with institutional shareholder significant risks faced by the Group and assessing the effectiveness representatives, and plans to continue this annually: of related controls has been established by the Board to ensure The Board regularly receives reports from the Companys an acceptable risk reward profile across the Group.
This routinely brokers and financial public relations agency on feedback from identifies areas for improvement, but the Board has neither identified institutional shareholders following the Executive Directors nor been advised of any failings or weaknesses which it has presentations.
determined to be material or significant.
The Companys Annual Report and Notice of AGM are published Audit Committee as soon as the time required for their printing allows, to provide The Board has appointed an Audit Committee, which at the beginning the maximum time in advance of the AGM for feedback, which and end of the year composed of three independent Non-executive is shared with the Board of Directors.
However there was a period of 5 months, incorporating one meeting where the committee comprised of only two independent A presentation is given to shareholders attending the Companys Non-executive Directors whilst the process of recruiting a new AGM at which shareholder participation is encouraged.
All Non-executive Director was completed, see page 49 for details.
The Directors are present and questions and feedback are invited.
terms of reference of the Audit Committee can be found at www.
The Secretary engages with shareholders and the investor hsholdings.
com and includes the main responsibilities as outlined community as and when required.
More information on the work of the Committee can be found in the Committee Chairmans report on pages 56 to 60.
Proxy votes of shareholders for the AGM are tabulated independently by the Companys registrars, provided at the AGM D. Remuneration and published on the website shortly after the conclusion of Remuneration Committee that meeting.
The Board has appointed a Remuneration Committee, which at the beginning and end of the year composed of three independent No concerns regarding the running of the company or any Non-executive Directors.
However there was a period of 5 months, proposed action were received or recorded from shareholders.
in which there were no Remuneration Committee meetings, where the committee comprised of only two independent Non-executive All Directors are available to meet with shareholders to discuss matters and can be contacted through the Company Secretary.
The Directors whilst the process of recruiting a new Non-executive Director was completed, see page 49 for details.
The terms of Chairman and Senior Independent Director are available to meet reference of the Remuneration Committee can be found at www.
with shareholders concerning corporate governance issues, if so required.
The Remuneration Committee Report on pages 62 to 71 explains how the Company applies the Code principles relating Copies of all trading updates and Interim and Annual Reports are to remuneration.
posted on the Companys website, together with details of key E. Relations with shareholders financial and shareholder information, governance statements, Group policies and corporate and organisational structure.
The Board is managing the Group ultimately on behalf of its shareholders and it undertakes this responsibility in such a way as to On behalf of the Board maximise shareholder value over the long-term and to advance the interests of all of the Groups stakeholders.
In this respect: During the year the Chief Executive Officer and Group Finance Jock Lennox Director regularly meet with institutional shareholder representatives both in the UK and USA, as well as hosting a site 7 March 2018 visit at Hill & Smith Limited, Bilston, UK.
Asset International Structures provides a solution to the Rail Industry using the Asset BaFix 70 Ballast Retention System.
com | Stock Code HILS Governance Report 54 54 Adaptation and modification of existing rail depot facilities, by Lionweld Kennedy, for Eurostar maintenance within the Temple Mills International Rail Depot.
