Strategic Report Governance Financials esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 Audit Committee DEAR SHAREHOLDER The Audit Committee has remained at the heart of the Groups governance process this year, working in tandem with the Risk Committee to ensure that the Group maintains a strong internal control environment.
The Committee has, this year, focused on outstanding claims reserves, Financial Reporting, including the change in segmental reporting, the effectiveness of internal controls and challenged the work of both internal and external audit.
Looking forward, the Committee expects its key focus over the next year to be on outstanding claims reserves, new reporting required under Solvency II and the challenges and opportunities presented to the Group by IFRS 17.
Shirley Garrood Chairman of the Audit Committee During the year I was delighted to be able to meet, along with the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, shareholders The members of the Audit Committee at 31 December 2017 to answer any questions they had relating to the governance of and attendance at the six Committee meetings held during the Group and our role as Non-Executive Directors.
the year were: As Chairman of the Audit Committee I will be at the Annual Meetings Meetings eligible to General Meeting to answer any questions from shareholders attended attend about the activities of the Committee.
Shirley Garrood Chairman 6 6 AUDIT COMMITTEE COMPOSITION AND MEETINGS The Audit Committee currently has three members, all of whom Martin Pike 6 6 are independent Non-Executive Directors, in keeping with the 1 requirements of the Code.
Alan Rubenstein 5 6 2 Peter Ward 2 3 During the year, Alan Rubenstein was appointed to replace Peter Ward, who has retired after giving exceptional service to the Committee.
2016 17 ACHIEVEMENTS To discharge its functions effectively, the Audit Committee Publication of the first Solvency II reporting in has unrestricted access to the Groups external and internal May 2017. auditors, with whom it also meets without the Executive Robust challenge of significant financial Directors or other management present.
Committee to ensure that there are no restrictions on the Effective scrutiny and follow up of internal and scope of these audits and allow discussions on any matters external audit reports.
that the auditors might not wish to raise in the presence of management.
During 2017 four such meetings were held.
The Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Finance Officer, the Chief Risk Officer, the Chief Operating Officer and 2017 18 FOCUS the Company Secretary, along with the external and internal auditors, are invited to attend meetings of the Committee.
Other members of senior management are invited to present New reporting required under Solvency II.
Challenges and opportunities presented to the Group by IFRS 17.
Cross-membership of the Committee and the Risk Committee has permitted both Committees to ensure that their Terms of Reference remain appropriate to cover both the internal control and risk management framework of the Group.
The Committee has reviewed the Financial Reporting Council FRC guidance on audit committee competencies and 1 Alan Rubenstein was appointed as a member of the Committee on 8 March 2017. can confirm that all three members of the Committee have 2 Peter Ward stepped down as a Director and Committee member on extensive commercial insurance experience see pages 32 and 17 May 2017.
33 for full details therefore satisfying the requirements.
In addition, the Committee has identified the Chairman as the Committees designated financial expert.
3 38 3 8 39 9 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 Audit Committee continued RESPONSIBILITIES TERMS OF REFERENCE The key responsibilities of the Committee are to assist the The Audit Committees Terms of Reference can be viewed on Board in discharging its duties in respect of: our website at www.
com  audit-committee, and are reviewed annually.
These were last agreeing the scope of the external audit, receiving and updated on 5 March 2018. reviewing reports from the Groups external auditor, monitoring its effectiveness and independence, and making OVERVIEW OF THE ACTIONS UNDERTAKEN BY recommendations to the Board in respect of the auditors THE AUDIT COMMITTEE remuneration, appointment and dismissal: The Audit Committee has concentrated on six key areas in monitoring and reviewing Internal Audit activities: the current year, with the table below detailing the key topics approving the annual Internal Audit plan and updates addressed at each meeting: to that plan: Mar Apr May Aug Sept Dec reviewing the Annual Report and Accounts of the Group and Financial reporting other announcements relating to its financial performance: reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal Internal Audit controls: and External Audit the Groups Whistleblowing Policy.
Internal controls The Committee is authorised to investigate any activity Audit Committee within its Terms of Reference and to seek any information effectiveness that it requires from any employee.
It has the right to consult Outstanding claims professional advisors and, if it is not satisfied with the advice reserves received, seek further independent professional advice.
The Committees Chairman formally reports to the Board on its proceedings after each meeting.
SIGNIFICANT ISSUES AND KEY JUDGEMENTS MATTER CONSIDERED OUTCOME Outstanding claims reserves This remains the most significant financial judgement The Committee is satisfied that the outstanding claims for the Groups financial reporting.
The Committee reserves included in these financial statements provide an challenged both managements processes and appropriate margin over projected ultimate claims costs.
controls and the key judgements made.
Segmental reporting The Committee considered and challenged the view The Committee agreed that the new segmental reporting that the Group should adjust its operating segments reflects the way in which the Group is now managed.
Internal controls The Committee was provided with controls The Committee was satisfied that there were no observations by both internal and external audit.
significant failings or weaknesses identified and that The Committee considered these, alongside updates any other matters had been satisfactorily addressed from management, to satisfy itself that appropriate by management.
actions or mitigating controls are in place in response to any findings.
Strategic Report Governance Financials esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 1.
Financial Reporting The Group has in place arrangements to ensure that the Annual The Committee, with support and input from the external Report, as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and auditor, has challenged and reviewed the financial reporting provides shareholders with the information necessary to assess for the Group, including the Annual Report and Accounts, the Groups position and performance, business model and Interim Report and Solvency II reporting.
The Board asked the Committee to review the Groups viability statement and to advise whether the report as a whole As part of these reviews, the Committee has assessed whether is fair, balanced and understandable.
suitable accounting policies have been adopted, whether management has made appropriate estimates and judgements The Committee examined and challenged reports from and whether disclosures in this Annual Report and Accounts are management and the external auditor relating to the Annual fair, balanced and understandable.
Report and Accounts, including discussions with the Interim Chief Executive Officer, the Interim Chief Finance Officer, the The first Solvency II reports, for the year ended 31 December Chief Actuary and the Chief Risk Officer.
The Committee 2016, were published in May 2017 and the Committee focused on the overall tone of the Annual Report and Accounts considered and reviewed both the public reporting and the and consistency with internal reports and other information more detailed reporting to the PRA and recommended these presented to the Committee throughout 2017. to the Boards of the Group and esure Insurance Limited for approval.
The Committee challenged the appropriateness of the threeyear period used by the Directors in their assessment of the The Groups control environment underpins the integrity of Groups viability, as discussed on page 19, and noted that the financial statements and the Solvency II reporting.
The longer-term strategic developments and emerging risks had Committee has considered reports from the Chief Risk Officer, been considered over the longer time period.
Internal Audit function and external auditor to satisfy itself that the control environment supporting the financial statements is The Committee reviewed and challenged the disclosure of Alternative Performance Measures APM within the Annual properly designed and operating effectively.
The Committee concluded that the APMs disclosed were relevant and useful to stakeholders and that Significant financial judgements and financial reporting for 2017 As part of its review of the Annual Report and Accounts, the the explanations provided allowed users of the accounts to reconcile the APMs to the IFRS performance metrics.
Interim Report and financial statements, and the Groups significant annual regulatory returns, the Committee has After challenge and debate with both management and the considered the following key areas: external auditor, the Committee concluded that it could recommend to the Board that the 2017 Annual Report and Outstanding claims reserves Outstanding claims reserves continue to be the most significant Accounts are fair, balanced and understandable.
financial judgement relating to the Groups financial statements.
As part of its consideration of this, the Committee received The Committee reviewed the Whistleblowing Policy and ensured any concerns raised were properly investigated.
reports throughout the year from the external auditor, the internal actuary and the external actuary Willis Towers 2.
The Committee also meets with the Chief Actuary without management present at least once a year two such The Group has outsourced its Internal Audit function to Mazars LLP since 2010.
The Committee supports the Board in meetings took place in the 2017. fulfilling its responsibilities to review the activities, resources, organisational structure and the operational effectiveness of More detail on the key judgements around claims outstanding is provided on page 85 and 105 to 106.
After preliminary discussions with the Chairman, Mazars LLP presents its internal audit plans for approval to The Committee, after challenging and debating the process, the Committee before the start of each year and provides an update and further plans mid-year.
These plans are agreed in key judgements and assumptions and noting the inherent uncertainties associated with reserving for claims, is satisfied the context of a three-year rolling plan.
In addition, Mazars LLP attend each Audit Committee meeting to report to the that outstanding claims reserves included in these financial statements provide an appropriate margin over projected Committee on a more regular basis.
As part of its review of the Internal Audit work plans, the Committee concluded that it ultimate claims costs.
was satisfied with the plans and that they were addressing the key risks.
Segmental reporting The Committee considered and challenged the view that The Committee has performed its annual review of the Internal the Group should adjust its operating segments from those reported in 2016 to more closely reflect the management of the Auditor and, having also considered managements opinion, the Committee was satisfied that the Internal Audit function business after the demerger of Gocompare.
com with Motor and Home as the two segments.
It was agreed that the new remains independent, effective and fit for purpose.
The Internal Audit Statement of Intent can be viewed on our website at www.
segmental reporting reflects the way in which the Group is now managed.
This was last updated on 7 December 2017.
The work performed by Internal Audit Other matters during the year is discussed further below.
The Committee also considered a number of less significant matters, including: 3.
External Audit The Committee oversees the Groups relationship with the new accounting standards which may impact the Group in external auditor and conducts an annual, formal review of the the next few years including IFRS 9, IFRS 15 and IFRS 16, relationship, policies and procedures to ensure independence.
and most significantly, IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts: the classification of and accounting for new investment The Groups policy on non-audit work is updated annually classes: and and can be viewed on our website at www.
com the new requirement for the Group to publish its Tax .
This was last updated on 7 December Strategy.
This policy ensures that external auditor independence is preserved, and sets out when it may be appropriate for the 4 40 4 0 41 1 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 Audit Committee continued external auditor to provide other services and the governance General Data Protection Regulation GDPR a review and safeguards in place around such appointments.
of project plans in place to ensure compliance with the new regulation coming into force in May 2018: The Committee receives reports twice a year detailing the Procurement a review of processes and controls around fees paid to the external auditor for the provision of non-audit third party relationships and expenditure: services.
Non-audit fees paid to the external auditor in 2017 Underwriting a review of underwriting processes and were 0.1m.
Total audit fees for the Group were 0.4m.
The controls, including authorisations: and Committee notes that this is in keeping with best practice Business Continuity Planning & Disaster Recovery and the requirement to be below 70% of the average Group Planning a review of processes and controls in place to statutory audit fee cap.
ensure ongoing business activity in the event of a disaster or potential business interruption.
A full breakdown of non-audit fees paid during the year is disclosed within the Notes to the financial statements on Internal Audit also followed up and reported to the Audit page 91.
Committee on all outstanding actions from previous internal audits.
Internal Audit assesses corporate culture during each The Committee concluded that no conflicts of interest were of its audits and any significant cultural indicators or trends are found to exist between the work performed for the purpose of reported directly to the Audit Committee.
an external audit and the non-audit services provided by KPMG.
Audit Committee effectiveness KPMG has been the Groups auditor since 2000, with Philip During the year the Committee undertook an internal Smart, the current external audit engagement partner, being evaluation of its effectiveness and the results were discussed appointed to lead the audit in 2015.
Philip Smart will rotate off at the Board meeting in December 2017, concluding that the after the 2019 audit.
Committee remains effective and was functioning well.
The Committee considers the requirements of the UK Corporate CONCLUSION Governance Code and the appropriateness of tendering the As a result of its work during the year, the Committee has external audit contract as part of normal business practice.
concluded that it has acted in accordance with its Terms of The Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the external Reference.
auditor, including consideration of the quality of the external auditors report to the Committee, the interaction of the audit On behalf of the Audit Committee.
partner with the Committee and the findings of the AQR review of KPMG for 2016, and is satisfied with the performance and Shirley Garrood effectiveness of KPMG and has concluded that KPMG continues Chairman of the Audit Committee to display the necessary attributes of independence and objectivity.
The Committee therefore has not considered it necessary to require the audit to be put out to tender this year.
As the Groups listing was in 2013, the transitional rules under EU legislation allow the Group to tender no later than 2023.
The Committee is minded, subject to the ongoing assessment of effectiveness and independence, to tender following the implementation of IFRS 17 in 2021.
Internal controls As previously stated, the Committee has cross-membership with the Risk Committee to support the Board in its responsibility for the Groups approach to risk management and internal controls.
The Committee receives updates from the Chief Risk Officer and Internal Audit throughout the year.
The Committee challenged the Group Executive on the content and reliability of these reports and has been satisfied that appropriate actions or mitigating controls are in place in response to the findings from Internal Audit and the Chief Risk Officer.
No significant failings or weaknesses were identified.
The Committee reviewed all internal audits, and of these the most significant internal audits addressing key risk areas during the year were: Own Risk & Solvency Assessment ORSA a review of the ORSA Report and the process for its production: Fraud a review of processes and controls to detect and prevent internal and external fraud: Change Management a review of Change Management processes and controls, focusing on a sample of significant projects: Information Security & Cyber Risk a review of infrastructural and other IT information security controls to protect the Group against, inter alia, data breaches and cyber attacks, including IT risk assessments, incident response plans and escalation processes:
