Strategic Report Governance Financials esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 Leadership The Board is responsible for leading and controlling the esure All Board appointments are made on merit, in the context of the skills, experience, independence and knowledge which the Group and has overall authority for the management and conduct of the Groups business, strategy and development.
Board as a whole requires to be effective.
The Board is also responsible for ensuring the maintenance of a sound system of internal control and risk management We are committed to carrying out candidate searches across the widest possible pool of talent against a set of objective including financial, operational and compliance controls, and for reviewing the overall effectiveness of systems in place, and criteria based on merit, but with due regard to the benefits of diversity, including gender.
Currently, 37% of the Board are for the approval of any changes to the capital, corporate and management structure of the Group.
Our Group Executive Committee has one woman on a Committee of seven members 14%.
To assist the Board in carrying out its functions and to We have signed up to the Women in Finance Charter.
We ensure there is independent oversight of internal control and risk management, the Board has delegated certain shall continue to develop the potential of women throughout the Group.
responsibilities to Board Committees, which, except for the Nomination Committee, are comprised of independent NonDiversity Executive Directors.
The Nomination Committee is comprised as at 31 January 2017 Male Female Total of a majority of independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Board 5 3 8 Chairman of each Board Committee reports to the Board on its proceedings after each Committee meeting.
Each Board Group Executive 6 1 7 Committee has agreed Terms of Reference approved by Senior managers 38 17 55 the Board.
Managers 17 14 31 The full schedule of matters reserved for the Boards All employees 936 932 1,868 decision along with the Terms of Reference of the Boards key Committees are available to view online at www.
Our Diversity Policy can be found on our corporate website at www.
com  corporateBOARD MEETINGS governance Diversity.
The Board holds regular scheduled meetings throughout the year.
Six scheduled Board meetings were held in 2017.
An DIRECTORS EXTERNAL ACTIVITIES AND CONFLICTS annual strategy meeting was also held.
OF INTEREST Directors have a statutory duty to avoid situations in which they If unable to attend a meeting, Directors are encouraged to have a direct or indirect conflict of interest or possible conflict provide their views and comments to the Chairman on the of interest with the Company.
Under the Companys Articles matters to be discussed so these can be shared with the other of Association, the Board has the ability to authorise such Directors at the meeting.
Meeting attendance by the Directors potential conflicts and there is a procedure in place to deal with is shown in the next column.
any actual or potential conflicts of interest.
Prior to taking on additional responsibilities or external appointments, Directors At each meeting, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Finance are obliged to obtain authorisation from the Chairman and it is Officer reported on operational and financial performance.
their responsibility to ensure that they will be able to meet the time commitment expected of them in their role at the Group.
The Chairman met privately with the Senior Independent Any potential conflicts approved by the Board are recorded in Director and the Non-Executive Directors during the year.
an Interests Register, and are noted by the Board at its next meeting.
DIVERSITY A Diversity Policy was approved and adopted by the Board Executive Directors may take up one FTSE 100 non-executive during the year.
All aspects of diversity, including age, gender, directorship and are allowed to retain any fees they receive educational and professional backgrounds, are considered at for such appointment.
Darren Ogden does not hold any such every level of recruitment.
The Board recognises the benefits of having a diverse Board, and sees diversity at Board level as important in maintaining good corporate governance and Board effectiveness.
esure is committed to engaging a broad set of qualities and competencies when recruiting Board members.
3 34 3 4 35 5 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 Leadership continued THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER During 2017 the Board comprised nine members: the Chairman, The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for the performance two Executive Directors and six Non-Executive Directors.
and management of the Groups business.
Directors Board attendance Since 19 January 2018 an Interim Chief Executive Officer has been in place whilst the process of selecting a new Chief Meetings Possible Executive Officer is underway.
Name of Director attended attendance Sir Peter Wood Chairman 6 6 In addition to membership of the Board, the Interim Chief 3 Executive Officer leads the Group Executive Team in running Stuart Vann Chief Executive Officer 6 6 the business and is charged with recommending and then Darren Ogden Chief Finance Officer 6 6 implementing the Boards strategy.
The Interim Chief Executive Officer is also responsible for ensuring effective internal Mara Dolores Dancausa 6 6 controls and risk management systems are in place.
Shirley Garrood 6 6 The Chairman and the Interim Chief Executive Officer meet Martin Pike 6 6 regularly and keep in close contact as they are a critical link Angela Seymour-Jackson 6 6 between the Board and Senior Management and liaise on 1 strategic and other issues.
Alan Rubenstein 6 6 1 Peter Shaw 6 6 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 2 Peter Ward 2 2 The Non-Executive Directors bring a very broad level of experience and independent judgement to the Board and make a valuable contribution to achieving the Groups objectives.
1 Alan Rubenstein and Peter Shaw were appointed on 8 March 2017.
They provide a strong independent element on the Board and 2 Peter Ward stepped down as a Director on 17 May 2017.
3 Stuart Vann stepped down as Chief Executive Officer on 18 January 2018. are well placed to challenge constructively and help formulate strategy.
Shirley Garrood is the Deputy Chairman and also the GROUP EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Senior Independent Director.
She supports the Chairman in his role and is also available as an additional point of contact for The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Finance Officer shareholders.
are complemented by a strong and experienced Senior management team.
The Group Executive Committee is chaired COMPANY SECRETARY by the Chief Executive Officer.
The Company Secretary provides administrative and logistical support to the Board.
Advice and support are also given on The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer are governance, compliance and regulatory matters.
The Company separate, with responsibilities clearly divided.
Secretary is available to advise all Directors and ensures that Board procedures are complied with.
The Directors may THE CHAIRMAN also seek independent professional advice at the Companys The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the Board and expense.
No such advice was sought during the year.
ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role, promoting the highest standards of corporate governance and ensuring effective communications with shareholders.
The Chairman sets the agenda for Board discussions to promote effective and constructive debate and to support a sound decision-making process, ensuring that the Board receives accurate, timely and clear information, in particular about the Groups performance.
Whilst the process for selecting a new Chief Executive Officer is underway, the Chairman will provide support to the Interim Chief Executive Officer.
The Chairman is also Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
