Vesuvius plc 78 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Report The Board of Vesuvius plc the Company is responsible for the monitors the performance of the Group.
It is responsible for Groups system of corporate governance and is committed to effective risk assessment and management.
maintaining high standards of governance and to developing them to re ect progression in best practice.
This report The Board describes the Companys corporate governance structure The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it and and explains how, during the year ended 31 December 2017, delegates certain matters to its Committees.
It is anticipated Vesuvius applied the Main Principles of the UK Corporate that the Board will convene on seven occasions during 2018, Governance Code 2016 issued by the Financial Reporting holding ad hoc meetings to consider non-scheduled business Council the Code.
Throughout the year and up until the if required.
date of this report, Vesuvius was in full compliance with the requirements of the Code.
The Board has noted the The Chairman and Chief Executive consultation that has commenced regarding a new revised UK Corporate Governance Code, and has begun to consider the The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the changes that the Company would need to make to its existing Chief Executive is set out in writing.
This was reviewed during practices and procedures to ensure continuing full compliance the year on the appointment of our new Chief Executive, in the future.
A number of the proposed new requirements are as well as being part of the Companys annual corporate already re ected in the Companys approach to governance.
No amendments were considered necessary.
The interactions in the governance process are A copy of the current Code can be found on the FRC website at: shown in the schematic below.
uk directors   Board Committees Roles and Responsibilities of the Board The principal governance Committees of the Board are the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Each Committee Ultimate responsibility for the management of the Group rests has written terms of reference, which were reviewed during the with the Board of Directors.
No amendments were considered to be required.
These are The Board focuses primarily upon strategic and policy issues available to view on the Companys website www.
and is responsible for the Groups long-term success.
It sets the For biographical details see Board of Directors on pages 50 Groups strategy, oversees the allocation of resources and and 51.
Board Governance Committees Administrative Committees Audit Committee Chairman: In addition, the Board delegates certain responsibilities on an ad hoc basis To monitor the integrity of financial Douglas Hurt to a Finance Committee and Share Scheme Committee, which operate in reporting and to assist the Board in accordance with the delegated authority agreed by the Board its review of the effectiveness of the Membership: Groups internal controls and risk All independent management systems Non-executive Directors Finance Committee Chairman: To approve speci c funding and John McDonough, Remuneration Committee Chairman: Treasury-related matters in Chairman To determine the appropriate Jane Hinkley accordance with the Groups remuneration packages for the Groups delegated authorities or as Membership: Chairman, Executive Directors Membership: delegated by the Board Chairman, Chief Executive, and Company Secretary, and to All independent Chief Financial Of cer and recommend and monitor the level and Non-executive Directors Group Head of Corporate structure of remuneration for other Finance senior management Share Scheme Committee Chairman: Nomination Committee Chairman: To facilitate the administration of Any Board member To advise the Board on appointments, John McDonough, the Companys share schemes retirements and resignations from Chairman Membership: the Board and its Committees and except when considering his own succession, in which Any two Directors or to review succession planning and case the Committee is a Director and the talent development for the Board chaired by an appropriate Company Secretary and senior management Non-executive Director Membership: Chairman and any three Non-executive Directors Group Executive Committee The Group also operates a Group Executive Committee GEC, which is convened and chaired by the Chief Executive and assists him in discharging his responsibilities.
The GEC comprises the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Of cer, the four Business Unit Presidents, the Chief Human Resources Of cer, the Chief Technology Of cer, the President Operations, and the General Counsel and Company Secretary.
The GEC met six times during 2017 and is scheduled to meet seven times during 2018.
Its meetings are generally held at major operational sites or in the London head of ce.
Having reviewed the role of the GEC, the new Chief Executive has chosen to maintain its operation in its current form.
Governance 79 Governance Structure The Board Responsible for Group strategy, risk management, succession and policy issues.
Sets the tone, values and culture for the Group.
Monitors the Groups progress against the targets set Chairman Chief Executive Provides leadership and guidance for the Board, Develops strategy for review and approval of the promoting a high standard of corporate Board.
Directs, monitors and maintains the governance.
Sets the Board agenda and manages operational performance of the Company.
Independent on appointment, he is Responsible for the application of Group policies, the link between the Executive and implementation of Group strategy and the resources Non-executive Directors for their delivery.
Accountable to the Board for Group performance Senior Independent Director Non-executive Directors Company Secretary Acts as a sounding board for the Chairman, Exercise a strong, independent voice, challenging Advises the Chairman on governance, an alternative contact for shareholders and and supporting Executive Directors.
Scrutinise together with updates on regulatory and an intermediary for other Non-executive performance against objectives and monitor compliance matters.
Leads the annual evaluation of financial reporting.
Monitor and oversee risks agenda with clear information ow.
Acts as a the Chairman and recruitment process for and controls, determine Executive Director link between the Board and its Committees his her replacement, when required remuneration and manage Board succession and between Non-executive Directors and through their Committee responsibilities senior management Board and Committee Attendance The attendance of Directors at the Board meetings and at meetings of the principal Committees of which they are members held during 2017 is shown in the table below.
The maximum number of meetings in the period during which the individual was a Board or Committee member is shown in brackets.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Chairman John McDonough CBE 8 9 6 6 Executive Directors Patrick Andr appointed 1 September 2017 3 3 Guy Young 9 9 Franois Wanecq retired 31 August 2017 6 6 Non-Executive Directors Christer Gardell 9 9 5 6 Hock Goh 8 9 4 5 3 5 5 6 Jane Hinkley 9 9 5 5 5 5 6 6 Douglas Hurt 8 9 5 5 4 5 6 6 Holly Koeppel appointed 3 April 2017 7 7 2 3 4 4 4 4 John McDonough was absent from a Board meeting due to a family emergency.
The meeting was chaired in his absence by the Senior Independent Director SID, Douglas Hurt.
Hock Goh and Douglas Hurt were unable to make additional Board and Remuneration Committee meetings, scheduled at short notice, due to prior engagements.
To the extent that Directors are unable to attend scheduled meetings, or additional meetings called on short notice, they receive the papers in advance and relay their comments to the Chairman for communication at the meeting.
The Chairman follows up after the meeting in relation to the decisions taken.
In 2017, the Chairman sought Hock Goh and Douglas Hurts views on the matters to be discussed at the Board meeting they were due to miss, in each case prior to the meeting, and provided feedback to them on the outcome of discussions.
The Committee Chairmen likewise contacted those Directors who were unable to attend Committee meetings in advance of those meetings, to canvass their views and understand any issues they wished to raise in respect of the subject matters being discussed.
The SID maintained contact with the Chairman regarding his priorities for the meeting he was unable to attend, together with the discussions undertaken and the action points that stemmed from that meeting.
Vesuvius plc 80 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Report continued Board Effectiveness Board Diversity Policy Purpose Board Composition This policy sets out the approach to diversity in respect of the Board of The Board comprises eight Directors the Non-executive Directors of Vesuvius plc.
The policy is intended to assist the Board, through the work of the Nomination Committee, in creating and maintaining Chairman, John McDonough CBE: the Chief Executive, optimum Board and Committee composition.
Patrick Andr: the Chief Financial Of cer, Guy Young: and The broad principles of diversity contained in this policy apply to all five Non-executive Directors.
Patrick Andr joined the Board employees of the Vesuvius Group.
The Vesuvius Code of Conduct re ects as Chief Executive on 1 September 2017, replacing Franois Vesuvius commitment to diversity and respect for its employees.
Wanecq who retired from the Board on 31 August 2017 as Policy Statement part of a planned succession process.
Holly Koeppel joined Vesuvius plc recognises the value of a diverse and skilled workforce and is the Board as an independent Non-executive Director on committed to creating and maintaining an inclusive and collaborative workplace culture that will provide sustainability for the organisation into 3 April 2017.
Douglas Hurt is the Senior Independent Director.
Henry Knowles is the Company Secretary.
Policy Objectives The Board focuses on ensuring that both it, and its Committees, The Nomination Committee will focus on ensuring that it, the Board and the have the appropriate range of diversity, skills, experience, Boards other Committees have the appropriate range of diversity, skills, independence and knowledge of the Company, and the experience, independence and knowledge of the Company to enable them to discharge their duties and responsibilities effectively.
markets in which it operates, to enable it to discharge its duties The Nomination Committee will ensure that all appointments to the Board and responsibilities effectively.
The Board continues to look are based on merit with each candidate assessed against objective criteria at diversity in its broadest sense re ected in the range of focused on the skills, experience and knowledge required of the position, backgrounds and experience of our Board members who are and with due regard to the bene ts of diversity on the Board.
drawn from different nationalities and have managed a variety The Nomination Committee will engage with executive search rms in a manner which ensures that opportunities are taken for a diverse range of of complex global businesses.
During the year, the Board candidates to be considered for appointment.
This will include ensuring that re ected on the recommendations of the Hampton-Alexander, the Committee only uses search rms that are signed up to the Voluntary Parker and McGregor-Smith reviews on gender and ethnic Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms.
diversity and formalised its approach to diversity with the The Nomination Committee supports senior management efforts to increase approval of a Board Diversity Policy.
The policy sets out the diversity in the senior management pipeline to facilitate succession planning towards executive Board positions.
Boards objectives with regard to diversity to ensure that the With respect to the representation of women on the Board, highlighted by Company maintains the optimum Board and Committee the Davies and Hampton-Alexander Reviews, the Board is supportive of the composition, underpinning the fundamental requirement initiative to increase the proportion of women on the boards of FTSE 350 to maintain the right balance of independence, skills and companies.
Vesuvius, which at the date of this policy has a Board comprising 25% female membership, will continue to ensure that the Board of Vesuvius knowledge in the boardroom.
Details of the Nomination plc re ects this level, or greater levels of gender diversity, as are appropriate Committees activities in compliance with the policy during for its size and dynamics, to enable it to continue to deliver on the the year are included in the Nomination Committee Report.
requirements of the Vesuvius business.
Monitoring and Reporting This policy and progress against its objectives will be reviewed annually.
Board Composition The Nomination Committee is responsible for the implementation of this policy and for monitoring progress towards the achievement of its objectives.
7 8 The Boards overall skills and experience, as well as Nonexecutive Director independence, were reviewed during the year as part of the process of recruiting the two new Directors.
The Boards composition also formed part of the Board 4 7 evaluation process.
Two of the eight Directors 25% are women and four 50% are non-UK citizens.
The Board also contains individuals from a range of ethnic backgrounds.
The Board 4 consequently considers its diversity, size and composition to be appropriate for the requirements of the business, and in 6 4 line with its adopted policy.
The Board recognises that the Hampton-Alexander Review has set a target of 33% female representation on FTSE 350 Boards by 2020.
Whilst the Board Number of Directors with key skills and experience does not believe that it is appropriate to accelerate its planned Chairman, Chief Executive or CFO experience Safety and Risk rotation of Directors purely to meet this target, it will continue to Financial consider the bene ts of greater diversity in all future Director Global engineering and manufacturing recruitment decisions.
Related industrial experience Operational leadership Strategic planning Governance 81 Committee composition is set out in the relevant Committee At the time of her appointment, Holly Koeppel served on a reports.
No one, other than the Committee Chairman and number of Boards and was in the process of adjusting her members of the Committee, is entitled to participate in meetings portfolio and retiring from her executive positions.
During 2017, of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
she stepped down from all but one of her board appointments, However, as detailed in the Committee reports, where the and now only serves as a Non-executive Director on two other agenda permits, other Directors and senior management boards, having taken on a new Non-executive position at regularly attend by invitation, supporting the operation of British American Tobacco plc in July 2017. each of the Committees in an open and consensual manner.
The Board notes that Hock Goh holds a number of other The Board considers that, for the purposes of the UK Corporate directorships, but that these other commitments typically only Governance Code, four Non-executive Directors excluding the require a total of 25 days work per year.
MEC Resources Ltd Non-executive Chairman, namely Hock Goh, Jane Hinkley, is the listed parent company of Advent Energy Ltd, an Douglas Hurt and Holly Koeppel, are independent of investment company that is not currently operational.
As a management and free from any business or other relationship result, Hok Gohs commitments as Chairman of these which could affect the exercise of their independent judgement.
companies are currently minimal and he is only required to Christer Gardell is Managing Partner of Cevian Capital which attend two Board meetings a year.
His other directorships holds 21.11% of Vesuvius issued ordinary share capital and is not require attendance at a small number of Board meetings each considered to be independent.
He brings a wealth of commercial year.
Having reviewed this, the Board believes that Hocks acumen to the Board.
The Chairman satis ed the independence additional commitments do not prevent him from properly criteria on his appointment to the Board.
Biographical details of ful lling his duties as a Non-executive Director of Vesuvius plc.
the Directors are set out on pages 50 and 51.
Information and Support Appointment to the Board The Board ensures that it receives, in a timely manner, Recommendations for appointments to the Board are made information of an appropriate quality to enable it adequately by the Nomination Committee.
Further information is set out to discharge its responsibilities.
Papers are provided to the in the Nomination Committee report on pages 93 to 95.
Directors in advance of the relevant Board or Committee meeting to enable them to make further enquiries about any matters prior to the meeting should they so wish.
This also Time Commitment of the Chairman and the allows Directors who are unable to attend to submit views in Non-executive Directors advance of the meeting.
The Chairman and Non-executive Directors each have a letter In addition to the formal Board processes, the Chief Executive of appointment which sets out the terms and conditions of their provides written updates on important Company business directorship.
An indication of the anticipated time commitment issues between meetings, and the Board is provided with is provided in any recruitment role speci cation, and each a comprehensive monthly report of key financial and Non-executive Directors letter of appointment provides details management information.
Regular updates on shareholder of the meetings that they are expected to attend, along with the issues are provided to the Directors, who also receive copies of need to accommodate travelling time.
Non-executive Directors analysts notes issued on the Company.
For the distribution of are required to set aside suf cient time to prepare for meetings, all information, Directors have access to a secure online portal, and regularly to refresh and update their skills and knowledge.
which contains a reference section containing background All Non-executive Directors have agreed to commit suf cient information on the Company.
time for the proper performance of their responsibilities, acknowledging that this will vary from year to year depending All Directors have access to the advice and services of the on the Groups activities, and will involve visiting manufacturing Company Secretary.
There is also an agreed procedure in place and customer sites around the Group.
The Chairman in for Non-executive Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, particular dedicates a signi cant amount of time to Vesuvius to take independent legal advice at the Companys expense.
The Board notes that the Chairman holds chairmanships other than Vesuvius, but that only one of Induction and Training these is for a listed company.
The other two chairmanships are for much smaller private companies where the time A comprehensive induction programme is available to new Directors.
The core of the induction programme is designed in commitment is limited.
compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, and is All Directors are expected to attend all scheduled Board and tailored to meet the requirements of the individual appointee Committee meetings and any additional meetings as required.
and the dynamics of the Group.
This process was undertaken Each Directors other signi cant commitments are disclosed to twice during the year, on the appointment of Holly Koeppel as the Board during the process for their appointment and they are a Non executive Director and the appointment of Patrick Andr required to notify the Board of any subsequent changes.
Company has reviewed the availability of the Chairman and the Non-executive Directors and considers that each of them can, The Chairman, through the Company Secretary, continues to and in practice does, devote the necessary amount of time to ensure that there is an ongoing process to review training and the Companys business.
Directors are provided with details of seminars and training courses relevant to their role, and are Vesuvius plc 82 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Report continued encouraged and supported by the Company in attending them.
The 2016 evaluation had highlighted several priorities for 2017, In 2017, regulatory updates were provided as a standing item including strategy and Board succession, and had also at each Board meeting in a Secretarys Report.
External input identi ed areas for ongoing improvement, including greater on legal and regulatory developments impacting the business efforts to support the development of staff members below was also given, with specialist advisers invited to the Board senior management level.
As part of the 2017 evaluation, the and its Committees to provide brie ngs on overall market Board assessed that the Nomination Committee had dealt and economic developments including Brexit, forthcoming successfully with Board succession during the year, securing accounting changes, legal developments in data protection and an excellent new Non-executive Director, and identifying an tax matters, and other general corporate governance issues.
accomplished candidate to replace Franois Wanecq as Chief Executive.
Overall, the Board felt that the transition of Chief In addition, in 2017 the full Board visited our operations and Executive had been effectively managed.
The development customers in Brazil, gaining a broader understanding of the of staff members below senior management level continued South American business.
The Chairman visited our operations during 2017 and remains a focus for 2018, with new training in China in May, and other Non-executive Directors visited programmes implemented, and continuing initiatives in place operations in Poland, the US and Germany during the year.
to ensure greater Board access to these individuals.
In 2018, the Non-executive Directors will continue to broaden their understanding of the Group through further site visits.
Regarding priorities for 2018, the evaluation highlighted the need to continue to support the integration of the new Chief Executive, to ensure he establishes effective working relationships Governance in Action Chief Executive Induction with members of the Board and senior management, and is 1.
Following his appointment as Chief Executive, the Board requested that supported in formulating and implementing his objectives the Company Secretary arrange a comprehensive induction programme for the Group.
The Board noted there would be an ongoing for Patrick Andr.
This recognised his prior employment with the Group emphasis on strategy, and recognising the increasing corporate as President, Flow Control and was therefore tailored to focus on the corporate aspects of his new role and the work of the other business units.
governance focus on stakeholder communication, the Board 2.
Reference materials were provided, including information about the would need to continue to develop plans to interact with Board, its Committees, procedures for dealing in the Companys shares stakeholders and oversee the culture of the Group.
The evaluation and other regulatory and governance matters.
All aspects of risk and also identi ed a consistent theme regarding personal its management through insurance, compliance and relevant corporate policies and procedures were covered.
Patrick was advised of his legal development plans.
It was agreed that the Board would focus and other duties, and obligations as a Director of a listed company.
on this during its oversight of senior management.
In respect of These matters were discussed in detail in a series of meetings conducted its own activities, individual Non-executive Directors would be by internal management and external advisers.
encouraged to continue undertaking site visits to operations 3.
Patrick held one-to-one meetings with all other Board members, and conducted meetings with key executives throughout the Group, including throughout the Group.
regular meetings and joint site and customer visits with the outgoing Chief Executive.
He also held a week of off-site meetings with the Group On more practical matters, there was a continuing need to Executive Committee to strengthen the relationship with his new team and improve Board processes, with the re nement of Board packs, focus on the organisational structure of the key functions of the Group.
and the promotion of consistency in Board presentations.
Since his appointment Patrick has been undertaking a comprehensive As in previous years, a set of action points was compiled from programme of site visits, with a view to visiting all the Groups key R&D and manufacturing facilities.
the output of the evaluation to ensure that its findings are 5.
Patrick has met with the Groups principal advisers, the Companys brokers implemented into the Boards activities.
This is supervised by and investor community, using this as an opportunity to understand their the Chairman and reviewed throughout the year.
roles and the corporate governance environment in greater detail.
The Chairman noted that, overall, the evaluation had concluded 6.
The Board monitored the induction process, and asked the Company Secretary to provide updates on its progress.
that the Board remained of a high calibre and was functioning well, with open debate and good information ow.
The individual assessment of Directors concluded that all continued to contribute Performance Evaluation effectively, devoting adequate time to their duties and being The Board carries out an evaluation of its performance and that engaged and proactive in debate at all meetings.
Each of the Committees was considered to have operated effectively during of its Committees every year.
In 2017, this evaluation took place in the fourth quarter and was again externally facilitated by the year, with recognition that the Remuneration Committee had overseen the successful implementation of the new the corporate advisory rm, Lintstock.
The Group subscribes to access Lintstocks Insider database, but has no other Remuneration Policy, the Audit Committee had overseen the smooth transition in external auditor, and the Nomination connection with the organisation.
This years evaluation utilised a fresh approach.
Rather than conducting the evaluation via Committee had undertaken two productive rounds of recruitment.
a series of questionnaires, this year Lintstock issued a short questionnaire and then conducted a series of in-depth interviews Appointment and Replacement of Directors with each Director and the Company Secretary aimed at Board membership should not be fewer than five nor more analysing and gaining further insight into their responses.
than 15 Directors, save that the Company may, by ordinary As with previous years, the evaluation not only covered the resolution, from time to time, vary this minimum and or performance of the Board but also that of its Committees, maximum number of Directors.
Directors may be appointed along with individual reviews of each Director and analysis of by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
A Director appointed by the performance of the Chairman.
A narrative report, broken the Board must retire from of ce at the first Annual General down into thematic areas, was then presented to the Board.
Governance 83 Meeting AGM after his her appointment.
A Director who way they consider would be most likely to promote the success retires in this way is then eligible for reappointment.
The Board of the Company, and may impose limits or conditions when may appoint one or more Directors to any executive of ce, giving authorisation or subsequently if they think this is on such terms and for such period as it thinks t, and it can also appropriate.
The Company Secretary records the consideration terminate or vary such an appointment at any time.
The Articles of any con ict and records any authorisations granted.
specify that, at every AGM, any Director who has been appointed The Board believes that the approach it has in place for by the Vesuvius Board since the last AGM and any Director who reporting situational con icts continues to operate effectively.
held of ce at the time of the two preceding AGMs and who did No situational con icts were brought to the Board for not retire at either of them, shall retire from of ce.
However, in authorisation during the year under review.
accordance with the requirements of the Code, all the Directors will offer themselves for election or re-election at this years Board Accountability AGM.
The biographical details of the Directors offering themselves for election and re-election, including details of Risk Management and Internal Control their other directorships and relevant skills and experience, The Board has overall responsibility for establishing and will be set out in the 2018 Notice of AGM.
The biographical maintaining a system of risk management and internal control, details of the Directors are also set out on pages 50 and 51. and for reviewing its effectiveness.
This system is designed to The Board believes that each of the current Directors is manage, rather than eliminate, the risks facing the Group and effective and demonstrates commitment to his or her respective safeguard its assets.
No system of internal control can provide role.
Accordingly, the Board recommends that shareholders absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
approve the resolutions to be proposed at the 2018 AGM The Groups system is designed to provide the Directors with relating to the re-election of all the Directors then standing.
reasonable assurance that problems are identi ed on a timely basis and are dealt with appropriately.
Directors Con icts of Interest The Audit Committee assists the Board in reviewing the The Board has established a formal system to authorise effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control, situations where a Director has an interest that con icts, or may including financial, operational and compliance controls, and possibly con ict, with the interests of the Company situational risk management systems.
The key features of the Groups con icts.
Directors declare situational con icts so that they can system of internal control are set out in the table below.
be considered for authorisation by the non-con icted Directors.
In considering a situational con ict, these Directors act in the Risk Management and Internal Control Key Features Strategy and Comprehensive strategic planning and forecasting process financial reporting Annual budget approved by the Board Monthly operating financial information reported against budget Key trends and variances analysed and action taken as appropriate Vesuvius GAAP Accounting policies and procedures formulated and disseminated to all Group operations Covers the application of accounting standards, the maintenance of accounting records and key financial control procedures Operational controls Operating companies and corporate of ces maintain internal controls and procedures appropriate to their structure and business environment Compliance with Group policies on items such as authorisation of capital expenditure, treasury transactions, the management of intellectual property and legal regulatory issues Use of common accounting policies and procedures and financial reporting software used in financial reporting and consolidation Signi cant nancing and investment decisions reserved to the Board Monitoring of policy and control mechanisms for managing treasury risk by the Board Risk assessment Continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing any signi cant risks and management Risk management process designed to identify the key risks facing each business Reports made to the Board on how those risks are managed Each major Group business unit produces a risk map to identify key risks, assess the likelihood of risks occurring, their impact and mitigating actions Top-down risk identi cation undertaken at Group Executive Committee and Board meetings Board review of insurance and other measures used in managing risks across the Group The Board is noti ed of major issues and makes an annual assessment of how risks have changed Ongoing assurance processes by the Legal function and Internal Audit including the annual certi cation process Externally supported Speak Up whistleblowing line Vesuvius plc 84 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Report continued Reviewing the Effectiveness of Risk Management Share Capital and Voting and Internal Control Disclosure of the information regarding share capital, the authorisation received by Directors at the AGM regarding the The internal control system covers the Group as a whole, and issue of shares and the authority to purchase own shares, is is monitored and supported by the Groups Internal Audit contained on page 118 within the Directors Report.
There are function, which conducts reviews of Vesuvius businesses and no restrictions on voting contained in the Companys Articles of reports objectively both on the adequacy and effectiveness Association.
Further details are set out in the Directors Report of the system of internal control and on those businesses on page 119. compliance with Group policies and procedures.
The Audit Committee receives reports from the Group Head of Internal Audit and reports to the Board on the results of its review.
Relations with Shareholders As part of the Boards process for reviewing the effectiveness The Board is committed to communicating with shareholders and other stakeholders in a clear and open manner, and seeks of the system of internal control, it delegates certain matters to the Audit Committee.
to ensure effective engagement through the Companys regular communications, the AGM and other investor relations Following the Audit Committees review of internal financial activities.
The Company undertakes an ongoing programme controls and of the processes covering other controls, the Board of meetings with investors, which is managed by the Chief annually evaluates the results of the internal control and risk Executive and Chief Financial Of cer.
The majority of management procedures conducted by senior management.
meetings with investors are led by them.
Following the This includes a self-certi cation exercise by which senior announcement of his appointment as Chief Executive, Patrick financial, operational and functional management certify Andr accompanied Guy Young and Franois Wanecq on the the compliance throughout the year of the areas under their investor roadshows conducted to communicate the half-year responsibility with the Groups policies and procedures and results.
Since formally taking up his Chief Executive position, highlight any material issues that have occurred during the year.
Patrick has been continuing to meet with investors, attending Since the date of this review, there have been no signi cant investor conferences and meeting with market analysts.
changes in internal controls or other matters identi ed which In advance of the 2017 AGM, we wrote to our largest could signi cantly affect them.
shareholders inviting discussion on any questions they might In accordance with the provisions of the Code, the Directors like to raise and making the Chairmen of the Board, the Audit con rm that they have carried out a robust assessment of Committee and the Remuneration Committee available to the principal risks facing the Company, including those that meet shareholders should they so wish.
In 2017, other than threaten its business model, future performance, solvency one institutional shareholder, no requests for discussions were or liquidity.
They have also reviewed the effectiveness of received from shareholders following this communication.
the Groups system of internal control and con rm that the The Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Committee necessary actions have been taken to remedy any control Chairmen remain available for discussion with shareholders weaknesses identi ed during the year.
throughout the year on matters under their areas of responsibility, either through contacting the Company The Groups principal risks and how they are being managed Secretary or directly at the AGM.
or mitigated are detailed on pages 24 and 25, and the Viability Statement which considers the Groups future prospects is The Company reports its financial results to shareholders twice detailed on page 23.
Risk management and internal control a year, with the publication of its annual and half-year financial is discussed in greater detail in the Audit Committee report.
In addition, to maintain transparency in performance, it also issued two scheduled trading updates during 2017.
The Audit Committee One was published immediately prior to the 2017 AGM on The members of the Audit Committee are set out on page 85.
10 May 2017, and the second was published on 14 November The Audit Committee report which describes the Audit 2017.
In conjunction with these announcements, presentations Committees work in discharging its responsibilities, is set or teleconference calls were held by the Chief Executive and out on pages 85 to 92.
Chief Financial Of cer with institutional investors and analysts.
All Directors are expected to attend the Companys AGM, Executive Compensation and Risk providing shareholders with the opportunity to question them All of the independent Non-executive Directors serve on about issues relating to the Group, either during the meeting or both the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
bring their experience and knowledge of the activities of each Committee to bear when considering critical areas of judgement.
This means that, for example, the Directors are able to consider carefully the impact of incentive arrangements on the Groups risk pro le and to ensure that the Groups Remuneration Policy and programme are structured to align with the long-term objectives and risk appetite of the Company.
