Chairmans introduction continued Application of the main principles The Board recognises of the Code the importance of creating a clear flow of communication between it and all shareholders, particularly with regard to business developments and financial results.
During the 2017 financial year, the Company continued to apply B.
Effectiveness the main principles of the Code, as follows: B.
1 The composition of the Board The Nomination Committee is responsible for regularly reviewing A.
Leadership the composition of the Board.
1 The role of the Board the Board, the Nomination Committee considers the range of The Board met formally on nine occasions during the year.
skills, knowledge and experience required, taking into account There is a clear schedule of matters reserved for the Board, the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender.
which can be found on the Companys corporate website, at B.
2 Appointments to the Board http: www.
The appointment of new Directors is led by the Nomination The Company maintains, at its expense, a Directors and Officers Committee.
Further details of the activities of the Nomination liability insurance policy for the benefit of Group personnel Committee during the year can be found on pages 55 and 56. including, as recommended by the Code, the Directors.
3 Commitment insurance policy does not provide cover where the Director or On appointment, Directors are notified of the time commitment Officer has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
expected from them which, in practice, goes beyond that set out The Company has also provided an indemnity for its Directors to in their letter of appointment.
Permission must be sought from the the extent permitted by the law in respect of liabilities incurred in Chairman before other external directorships, which may affect office.
The indemnity would not provide any coverage to the extent existing time commitments, are accepted.
that a Director is proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
Non-Executive Directors are expected to provide a time A.
2 Division of responsibilities commitment to the Company of at least 25 days a year, and The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are clearly defined.
to recognise the need for availability in the event of a crisis.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and effectiveness B.
The Chief Executive is responsible for leading the All new Directors receive an induction upon joining the Board.
day-to-day management of the Group within the strategy set by Training is made available to members of the Board in the Board.
Details of the division of responsibilities between the accordance with their requirements.
Please see page 54 for Chairman and the Chief Executive can be found on the details of Justin Reads and Joe Hudsons induction.
Companys corporate website, at http: www.
Directors may, at the Companys expense, take independent professional advice and are encouraged to continually update A.
3 The Chairman their professional skills and knowledge of the business.
The Chairman sets the agenda for Board meetings, manages the meetings in conjunction with the Company Secretary and B.
5 Information and support facilitates open and constructive dialogue during those meetings.
The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, ensures that all Board members receive accurate and timely A.
The Chairman promotes an open and constructive environment in the boardroom and actively invites the Non-Executive Directors to The Directors of all Group companies, as well as the Board, have express their views.
The Non-Executive Directors provide objective, access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
rigorous and constructive challenge to management and hold Independent external legal and professional advice can also be meetings at which the Executive Directors are not present.
taken when necessary to do so.
Furthermore, each Committee of the Board has access to sufficient and tailored resources to carry Jonathan Nicholls is the current Senior Independent Director.
Tracey Graham will take on this role following the 2018 AGM.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 46 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information B.
6 Evaluation Relations with shareholders During the 2017 financial year, the Board undertook an evaluation Highlights of its own performance and that of its Committees.
Details of the Successful 2017 AGM evaluation can be found on page 54.
Executive Directors met with shareholders following B.
7 Re-election announcement of the annual and interim results All Directors were subject to shareholder election or re-election at the 2017 AGM.
All Directors are subject to annual election by Received constructive feedback from shareholder meetings shareholders.
The names of Directors submitted for election or The Board recognises the importance of creating a clear flow of re-election, accompanied by sufficient biographical details and communication between it and all shareholders, particularly with any other relevant information, are provided to shareholders to regard to business developments and financial results.
The Board enable them to take an informed decision on their election.
aims to communicate on a regular basis and at present the C. Accountability Company utilises news releases, investor presentations and C. 1 Financial and business reporting Company publications and will expand communication channels The Board has established arrangements to ensure that reports as appropriate.
The Executive Directors conduct a round of and other information published by the Group are fair, balanced meetings with analysts and investors following announcement of and understandable.
The Strategic Report, set out on pages 1 to the full-year and interim results.
The Companys brokers prepare 42, provides information about the Groups performance, the a report on the anonymised feedback received from those Groups business model, the Groups strategy and the risks and meetings, which is shared with the Executive Directors and the uncertainties relating to the Groups future prospects.
This process is one of the ways in which Non-Executive Directors have an opportunity to develop an C. 2 Risk management and internal control understating of the views of the major shareholders.
The Board sets the Groups risk appetite and, via the Audit Committee, monitors and annually reviews the effectiveness of Jonathan Nicholls is the Senior Independent Director SID.
the Groups systems of risk management and internal control.
The SID is available to shareholders throughout the year if they have concerns that contact through the normal channels of the C. 3 Audit Committee and auditors Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or other Executive Directors The Board has delegated a number of responsibilities to the Audit have failed to resolve or for which such channels of communication Committee.
The principal activities of the Audit Committee are are inappropriate.
The option to meet has been proactively summarised in the report presented by the Audit Committee offered to shareholders on several occasions, but none have felt Chairman on pages 59 to 64. the need to take advantage of this opportunity.
D. Remuneration During the time that Diamond BC S. r. l. were a major D. 1 The levels and components of remuneration shareholder Jonathan communicated with them on a regular The Remuneration Committee sets the framework, policy and basis through their representatives on the Board of Directors.
levels of remuneration which are designed to promote the long-term success of the Group.
Remuneration is structured so All shareholders are invited to the Companys Annual General as to link it to both corporate and individual performance, thereby Meeting the AGM, at which they will have the opportunity to aligning managements interests with those of shareholders.
meet and put questions to the Board.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM to be held on 24 May 2018 at 2:00 p. m. D. 2 Procedure at Citigate Dewe Rogerson, 3 London Wall Buildings, London The Remuneration Committee makes recommendations to the Wall, London EC2M 5SY, can be found in the Notice of Meeting.
Board on the remuneration of Executive Directors, the Chairman The Notice of Meeting, together with explanatory notes on the and senior executives.
resolutions to be proposed and full details of the deadlines for Details of the activities of the Remuneration Committee can be appointing proxies, is contained in a circular which will be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 66 to 83. circulated to all shareholders at least 20 working days before the AGM, together with this Annual Report and Accounts.
E. Relations with shareholders This document will also be available on the Ibstock plc website E. 1 Dialogue with shareholders www.
Results of voting at the AGM The Board takes an active role in engaging with shareholders.
will be announced to the London Stock Exchange and will be The Board particularly values opportunities to meet with published on our website at www.
shareholders and the Chairman ensures that the Board is kept informed about shareholders views.
This is discussed further in Relations with shareholders on page 47.
E. 2 Constructive use of the General Meetings The AGM provides the Board with an important opportunity to communicate with shareholders, who are invited to meet the Board following the formal business of the meeting.
Share Dealing Code The Company has adopted a code of securities dealing in relation to the Ordinary Shares.
The code applies to the Directors, Persons Discharging Managerial Responsibilities and relevant employees of the Group.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 47
