Governance 85 Audit Committee Dear shareholder, Committee Members On behalf of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to present the Douglas Hurt Committee Chairman Audit Committee Report for 2017.
The Committee works largely Hock Goh to a recurring and structured programme of activities which Jane Hinkley are fide ned in an annual rolling Audit Committee timetable.
Holly Koeppel appointed on 3 April 2017 Additional items are then added and the Committee agenda is modi ed as the year progresses, to accommodate new topics The Audit Committee and priorities.
Signi cant non-standard items that required The Audit Committee comprises all the independent NonCommittee focus during the year were the appointment of executive Directors of the Company, who bring a wide range the new external auditor and updating of the Internal Audit of financial and commercial expertise to the Committees reporting process.
The Committee also continued its review of decision-making and evaluation processes.
Douglas Hurt is deep dive topics during the year, covering fide ned bene t the Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit pension schemes and cyber security.
Committee, having been appointed to these roles by the Board Following the completion of the formal audit tender in 2016, following the 2015 AGM.
He was the Finance Director of IMI plc and the appointment of  LLP PwC for nine years prior to that and has worked in various financial in May 2017, the Committee oversaw the seamless transition of roles throughout his career.
Douglas is also Chairman of the the external audit from KPMG LLP to PwC during the year.
PwC Audit Committees of Countryside Properties PLC and Tate & followed a detailed transition plan, focused on gaining a good Lyle plc, and a Chartered Accountant.
This background understanding of the Group and establishing contact with key provides him with the recent and relevant financial experience management and local personnel.
The Committee received required under the Code.
The Company Secretary is Secretary regular updates on progress against this plan and bene ted to the Committee.
from PwCs insights into the Groups risk control framework as The Code and Financial Conduct Authority Disclosure they conducted their initial meetings and reviews.
Guidance and Transparency Rules also contain requirements During the year, the approach to internal audit was updated to for the Audit Committee as a whole to have competence allow for clearer focus at the Audit Committee on key control relevant to the sector in which the Company operates.
issues, albeit that the overall scope and coverage of the annual Vesuvius Non-executive Directors have signi cant breadth Internal Audit plan remained as broad as in previous years.
of experience and depth of knowledge on matters related to Internal audits are now identi ed by separate designations Vesuvius operations, both from their previous roles and from Compliance & Control C&C, or Effectiveness & Ef ciency their induction and other activities since joining the Board of E&E.
C&C audit activities focus entirely on internal financial Vesuvius.
The Directors biographies on pages 50 and 51 outline control and key Board compliance issues, with the E&E audits their range of multinational business-to-business experience examining a broader constituency of business performance and expertise in elds including engineering, manufacturing, issues.
The Audit Committee receives detailed feedback on services and logistics as well as financial and commercial any issues identi ed in C&C audit activity, and more general acumen.
The Board therefore considers that the Audit oversight of the results of E&E audit activity.
The latter highlight Committee as a whole has competence relevant to Vesuvius broader performance issues identi ed by the Internal Audit business sector.
team for management response and remediation.
Meetings The Audit Committee Report describes the work of the Committee during the year including its role in monitoring The Committee met five times during 2017.
The Committee has the integrity of the Companys financial statements and the also met twice since the end of the financial year and prior to effectiveness of the internal and external audit processes.
the signing of this Annual Report.
The Board Chairman, the It provides an overview of the signi cant issues the Committee non-independent Non-executive Director, the Chief Executive, has considered during the year and its material judgements.
the Chief Financial Of cer, the Group Financial Controller, the It also describes how the Committee ful lled its responsibilities Head of Internal Audit and the external auditor were all invited to assist the Board in reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups to each meeting.
Other management staff were also invited to system of internal control, including financial, operational and attend as appropriate.
In preparation for their tenure as the compliance controls, and risk management systems.
new external auditor, PwC attended Audit Committee meetings prior to their formal appointment by shareholders at the Yours sincerely 2017 AGM.
Douglas Hurt Chairman, Audit Committee In February 2017, the Audit Committee held a preliminary meeting on year-end issues in advance of the nalisation of the financial statements in early March.
This approach was judged to be effective and has been integrated into the Audit Committee schedule going forward.
Vesuvius plc 86 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Audit Committee continued Audit Committee meetings are conducted to promote an open Within these terms, the Committee and its individual members debate, to challenge constructively signi cant accounting are empowered to obtain outside legal or other independent judgements, to provide guidance and oversight to management professional advice at the cost of the Company.
These powers to ensure that the business maintains an appropriately robust were not utilised during the year.
The Committee may also control environment and to provide informed advice to the secure the attendance at its meetings of any employee or other Board on financial matters.
The Chairman of the Audit parties with relevant experience and expertise should it be Committee encourages open dialogue between the external considered necessary.
auditors, the management team and the Head of Internal Audit between Audit Committee meetings to ensure that emerging Activities in 2017 issues are addressed in a timely manner.
The Committees agenda covered the usual standing items the review of financial results, the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial During the year, as is the Audit Committees established controls, and the review of the internal control and risk management practice, the Committee members met and discussed business systems as well as non-standard items, including oversight of the and control matters with senior management during site visits, transition of the external audit from KPMG to PwC.
informal meetings and Board presentations.
The Audit Committee continued to devote time to ensure that initiatives also met privately with the Head of Internal Audit, and the to mitigate potential risks and financial exposure remained robust and external auditor without any executives present.
The Committee challenged the adequacy of inventory and receivables provisions, the assumed growth rates and discount rates used for asset impairment assessments, as well as the accounting for and The outcomes of Audit Committee meetings were reported to presentation of the Group-wide restructuring programme undertaken the Board and all members of the Board received the agenda, in response to the challenging conditions within our end-markets.
papers and minutes of the Committee.
The Committee considered the Companys going concern statement and challenged the nature, quantum and assessment of the signi cant risks Role and Responsibilities to the business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity of the Group that were modelled as part of the scenarios and stress testing The main role and responsibilities of the Committee continue to undertaken to support the Viability Statement made by the Company in be to: the 2016 Accounts.
The 2017 Viability Statement, which was also critically reviewed, is contained within the Strategic Report and can be found on Monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the page 23.
Company and the Group, and any formal announcements 4.
The Committee monitored the resourcing and delivery of the 2017 Internal relating to the Groups financial performance, informing the Audit plan and approved the 2018 Internal Audit plan.
The Committee monitored both the responses from and follow-up by management to Board of the outcome of the audit Internal Audit recommendations arising during the year and, where necessary, the Committee tasked management to verify their successful Monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups internal closure within fide ned timescales.
financial controls and the Groups internal control and risk 5.
The Committee examined speci c audit issues such as tax matters, management systems including the judgements inherent in the partial recognition of deferred tax assets for US tax losses and undertook deep dive reviews of cyber Establish and review procedures for detecting fraud, systems security and the Groups fide ned bene t pension arrangements.
and controls for the prevention of bribery and oversee the 6.
The Committee considered the impact of new accounting standards Companys arrangements for employees to raise concerns including IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and IFRS 15 Revenue from about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other contracts with customers and reviewed the implementation plan for matters these in the 2018 financial year.
Based on an assessment of these standards, the Group does not believe there will be a signi cant impact Monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys on its Group Financial Statements.
Internal Audit function M ake recommendations to the Board on the appointment, The Committee members believe that they received suf cient, reappointment and removal of the external auditor and relevant and reliable information throughout the year from approve the remuneration and terms of engagement of the management and the external auditor to enable the Committee external auditor to fully discharge its responsibilities.
The work of the Audit Committee is further elaborated in the paragraphs below.
Monitor and review the external auditors independence, objectivity and effectiveness, taking into consideration any Statement of compliance with the Competition and non-audit services provided, and the relevant UK Markets Authority CMA Order professional and regulatory requirements The Committee considers that the Company has complied with Take account of the findings and conclusions of any FRC The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market audit inspection undertaken, when monitoring the Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Processes and performance of the audit Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 Article 7.1, The Committee operates under formal terms of reference published by the CMA on 26 September 2014, including with approved by the Board, which were reviewed during the year.
respect to the Audit Committees responsibilities for agreeing They are available in the Investors Corporate Governance the audit scope and fees and authorising non-audit services.
section of the Companys website, www.
Governance 87 Income Tax Financial Reporting Income tax remains a complex area where signi cant The Committee ful lled its primary responsibility to review judgements are required to estimate both uncertain tax the integrity of the 2017 half-year and 2017 annual financial liabilities and the value of deferred tax assets.
statements and recommended their approval to the Board.
The Committee also reviewed the two trading updates released The Committee challenged the assumptions used to arrive at the 34.3m 2016: 34.9m provided for income tax payable during the year.
which includes 23.2m 2016: 24.5m for uncertain tax In forming its views, the Committee assessed: provisions as set out in Note 10.5.
After discussions with internal tax experts and considering the results of recent tax audits and The quality, acceptability and consistency of the accounting the views of the external auditors, the Committee concurred policies and practices with managements judgement.
The clarity and consistency of the disclosures, including At the end of 2017, the Group recognised a US deferred tax compliance with relevant financial reporting standards and asset of 32.6m 2016: 65.9m.
The Group has signi cant other reporting requirements additional tax losses and other temporary differences in the Signi cant issues where management judgements and or US and elsewhere which have not been recognised, which are estimates had been made that were material to the reporting kept under review.
The recognition of deferred tax assets for or where discussions had taken place with the external tax losses and other temporary differences is a highly technical auditor in arriving at the judgement or estimate area and the Committee has drawn on internal experts to understand the treatment.
The future prospects for US In relation to the overall Annual Report, whether the Annual pro tability were carefully modelled by management and Report and Accounts taken as a whole was fair, balanced and challenged by the Committee, as was the impact of the understandable, taking into consideration all the information signi cant tax reform announced in late December 2017 in the available to the Committee US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act TCJA.
The Committee particularly The application of the FRCs guidance on clear and concise noted that this reform had a material impact on the Groups reporting deferred tax position, and of itself caused a write-down in Vesuvius US deferred tax asset of 25.7m which, in addition to The disclosure and presentation of alternative performance other normal movements in the year and exchange revaluation, measures, in view of the new guidance from the European resulted in the signi cant decrease in the value of this asset in Securities and Markets Association 2017.
The Committee also noted that, as there is uncertainty in The Committee actively deliberated and challenged reports how some of the provisions of TCJA will operate, subsequent from the Chief Financial Of cer and Group Financial Controller.
guidance issued by US Treasury may impact Vesuvius reported These were well prepared and, for areas of judgement and or tax position.
The Committee reviewed the Groups projections estimation, set out the rationale for the accounting treatment for trading in the US which had improved in 2017, and and disclosures, and the pertinent assumptions and the concurred with management that the US forecast pro ts are sensitivities of the estimates to changes in the assumptions.
considered suf cient to sustain the deferred tax asset in the PwC also delivered memoranda for the half-year and year-end, US at the end of 2017. stating their views on the treatment of signi cant issues.
PwC Other Provisions provided a summary for each issue, including its assessment of the prudence of managements judgements or estimates.
The Committee has been made aware of a number of potential The Committee considered the overall level of prudence applied exposures and claims arising from ongoing litigation, product this year, compared this with the prior year and concluded that it quality issues, employee disputes, restructuring, environmental remained unchanged.
matters, onerous leases, indirect tax disputes and indemnities or warranties outstanding for disposed businesses.
Due to the long gestation period before settlement can be reached, Signi cant Issues and Material Judgements provisioning for these items requires careful judgement in The Committee considered the following signi cant issues in order to establish a reasonable estimate of future liabilities.
the context of the 2017 financial statements.
It considered The Committee also assessed the strength of any insurance these areas to be signi cant taking into account the level coverage for certain of these liabilities and challenged the of materiality and the degree of judgement exercised by accounting treatment for any amounts deemed to be management.
The Committee resolved that the judgements recoverable from insurers.
Subsequent to this challenge, certain and estimates made on each of the signi cant issues detailed insured liabilities have been represented in the balance sheet below were appropriate and acceptable.
After due consideration and challenge, with expert advice sought in certain areas, the Committee is satis ed that there are appropriate levels of provisions set aside to settle third-party claims and disputes Note 32 and that adequate disclosure has been made under International Accounting Standards IAS 1 paragraph 129 in respect of estimation uncertainties that might impact the accounts in the following Vesuvius plc 88 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Audit Committee continued financial year.
Where the outcome of an existing issue is Fair, Balanced and Understandable Reporting uncertain, or where no reliable estimate of the potential liability The Committee considered all the information available to can be made, no provision has been made and appropriate it in reviewing the overall content of the Annual Report and disclosure is included under contingent liabilities Note 34.
Accounts and the process by which it was compiled and reviewed, to enable it to provide advice to the Board that the Restructuring Charges Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable.
In doing The Group restructuring programme continued in 2017 in so, the Committee ensured that time was again dedicated to response to the structural changes in the end-markets that we the drafting and review process so that internal linkages were serve.
The Committee critically reviewed the treatment of the identi ed and consistency was tested.
The Committee restructuring costs disclosed as separately reported items in welcomed the attention that had been paid in the 2017 Annual 2017 and concluded that these have been treated consistently Report to explain further the strategy, markets, execution with the accounting policy.
This ensures that only signi cant priorities and business model of the Group.
Drafts of the Annual restructuring programmes that have a fide ned scope and are Report and Accounts were also reviewed by a senior executive material in nature are reported separately, which enables the not directly involved in the year-end process who reported to the reader more clearly to understand the underlying results of Committee on his impressions of clarity, comprehensiveness, the Group.
balance and disclosure in the document.
On completion of the Impairment of Intangible Assets process, the Committee was satis ed that it could recommend to the Board that the Annual Report and Accounts is fair, The year-end carrying value of goodwill of 643.2m was tested balanced and understandable.
against the current and planned performance of the Steel and Foundry cash-generating units CGUs.
The Committee challenged both the determination of the relevant CGUs, the Risk Management and Internal Controls planned and terminal growth assumptions as well as the As highlighted in the reviews of strategy and principal risks in the discount rates used in the assessments and the relevant Strategic Report, risk management is inherent in managements sensitivities that were evaluated.
The detailed assumptions, thinking and is embedded in the business planning processes of provided in Note 17, re ect both a reduction in global risk-free the Group.
The Board has overall responsibility for establishing rates offset by the impact of the increasing contribution from and maintaining a system of risk management and internal the Groups operations in emerging markets.
control, and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in reviewing the effectiveness of The Committee considered the Board-approved medium-term business plans, the range of industry longer-term projections the Groups system of internal control, including financial, operational and compliance controls, and risk management and expert views on discount rates.
Given that the models indicated that there remains signi cant headroom between the systems.
This framework is consistent with the Code.
value in use and the carrying value, the Committee concurred As part of its review of the Groups principal risks and that no goodwill impairment charges were required.
uncertainties, the Committee supported the Board in its review of risks in 2017.
As in previous years, a bottom-up mapping of Working Capital Provisions the risks was constructed and reviewed in each major business The Committee challenged the level of provisions held against unit, delivering a risk register that was then reviewed by the both receivables and inventories Notes 18 and 19 and, Head of Internal Audit, to deliver a coordinated picture of the after reviewing ageing analyses, regional analyses and key operational risks identi ed by the business.
In conjunction speci c customer accounts, concluded that the provisions with this, all the members of the Committee and the Board held were appropriate.
contributed their individual views of top-down strategic risks Pensions facing the Group into this process drawing on the broad commercial and financial experience gained both inside and Determining the current value of the Groups future pension outside the Group.
This information was collated by the Head obligations requires a number of assumptions.
The of Internal Audit into a paper for discussion in the context of appropriateness of assumptions used described in Note 28 the Groups identi ed principal risks.
This was reviewed and was questioned by the Committee, as small changes in the discussed at the Board, and, taking note of the Boards assumptions could have material effects and bond yields in comments, subsequently by the Group Executive Committee.
The assumptions made by In monitoring the overall process, Committee members also management for each of the major schemes were compared fully participated in the Board review of existing risks and by PwC with other similar schemes.
The Committee agreed ongoing mitigating actions.
The Committee determined that the reasonableness of the assumptions.
this approach once again enhanced the Groups process for identifying and understanding the Groups principal risks and uncertainties, which are set out on pages 24 and 25.
The Committee continues to consider that this process is robust and appropriate.
Governance 89 The Committee considered the Companys going concern The Group is made up of several large operating units, but statement and challenged the nature, quantum and also many small units in geographically diverse locations.
combination of the unlikely but signi cant risks to the business Consequently, segregation of duties, overlapping access model, future performance, solvency and liquidity of the Group controls on systems and remote management oversight can that were modelled as part of the scenarios and stress testing give rise to control vulnerabilities and fraud opportunities.
undertaken to support the Viability Statement.
As part of this The Group has not adopted a common Enterprise Resource review, the Committee considered the Groups forecast funding Planning system as a Group-wide standard.
Over time, position over the next three years and analysed the impact of management intends to move to more sharing of services, various scenarios based upon pertinent key risks faced by the enabled by process and systems standardisation between Group and with reference to the Groups debt covenants.
This is likely to improve the overall internal controls The scenarios considered the impact of multiple risks occurring in the smaller operating units.
simultaneously and additional mitigating actions that the The Group undertakes a range of activities to mitigate the risk Group could take.
The Committee noted that the Groups debt of fraud.
This framework is regularly reviewed to determine pro le had improved in terms of maturity with the completion of areas for improvement.
In assessing the effectiveness of the a new placement of 100m USPP Notes, and that the resultant Groups internal controls, the Committee considered the following debt headroom was suf cient to accommodate the modelled initiatives which had been implemented over the past two years: stress scenarios.
As a result of their review, the Committee was satis ed that the going concern and Viability Statements had The publication of a revised Group authority matrix to been prepared on an appropriate basis.
The 2017 going emphasise a clear assignment of responsibilities concern statement is contained in the Directors Report on and authorities page 117 and the 2017 Viability Statement is contained within A continued focus by regional finance directors and the the Strategic Report and can be found on page 23. central finance team on balance sheet reconciliations: The Committee also maintains a programme of in-depth The ongoing review by Internal Audit of the separation of reviews into speci c financial, operational and regulatory areas duties and access rights at operating entities, to ensure that no for the business.
These reviews allow the Committee to meet one person is in sole control of all aspects of any transaction, with the business colleagues responsible for these areas and to mitigate the risk of fraud gain greater in-depth understanding about key areas for the Group.
In 2017, the Committee undertook deep dive reviews An updated employee vetting process for prospective senior of pensions and cyber security.
The former provided the employees in higher-risk countries Committee with a detailed overview of the Groups principal Ongoing internal communications on the heightened risk liabilities under fide ned bene t schemes and the steps that were of social-engineering fraud, coupled with increased cyber being taken to manage these, noting that fide-risking roadmaps security training to raise awareness of the use of malware are in place for each of the funds.
The cyber review covered the assessment of the Groups cyber security risks, the operation of The formation of a cyber security working group, to focus the Groups Cyber Security Steering Committee and the actions on enhancing the Groups resilience to cyber risks that were being taken throughout the organisation to improve Eliminating the risk of fraud remains one of the key areas of cyber security.
It was noted that improvements had been seen focus for Internal Audit, forming a fundamental part of full in overall cyber awareness following two successful training scope and financial audits.
These assess the quality of the campaigns and that plans were in place to allocate additional balance sheet reconciliation, review key judgement matters, resources to cyber security during 2018. consider ERP access rights, review tenders and quotations, In addition, the Committee reviewed the draft UK Tax Strategy review the entitys controls over master data changes, and disclosure, noting that this had been prepared for publication controls over payments and associated applications.
on the Groups website in line with statutory requirements, During 2017 the Group continued its review of third-party and recommended that it be approved by the Board.
This included detailed due The key features of the Groups internal control system, diligence for active sales agents and, where required, updates which provides assurance on the accuracy and reliability of to the contractual basis on which these agents are engaged.
the Groups financial reporting are detailed in the Governance The review will be extended to other third-party representatives Report on page 83.
During 2017, the Committee considered and intermediaries during 2018.
The Committee continued its the process by which management evaluates internal controls assessment of the Groups potential exposure to bribery and across the Group.
The Head of Internal Audit provided the corruption risks, noting the ongoing work conducted by the Committee with a summary overview of the assurance provided Group in this context, such as face-to-face visits to operations, by the Groups control framework and the testing of these providing focused, country-speci c training and reviewing controls.
PwC also reviewed controls in the businesses within the financial records, sometimes with the assistance of external scope of its audit.
This review indicated an appropriate control advisers.
The output of these processes and previous risk environment, with identi ed improvement actions under careful assessments continue to be used to develop Group policies and management by the Group.
procedures for the management of anti-bribery and corruption risk, re ecting an appropriate level of control for the business.
Vesuvius plc 90 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Audit Committee continued The Committee continues to monitor and oversee procedures considered and approved changes to the Internal Audit plan as regarding allegations of improper behaviour and employee required.
These changes meant that the Internal Audit coverage complaints.
Further details of the operation of the Groups was greater than in previous years and audits were carried out Speak-Up policy and helpline can be found in the Our with more in-depth analysis across legal entities and operating Principles section.
Throughout the year the Audit Committee units.
In addition, in 2017 many project-based reviews were received updates on the volume of reports, key themes emerging also undertaken.
from these reports and the results of investigations undertaken.
In 2017, a total of 56 audit assignments, including three Each year the senior financial, operational and functional unplanned audits, were undertaken by Internal Audit, covering management of the businesses self-certify compliance with 65% of the Groups revenue and 60% of the Groups pro t Group policies and procedures for the areas of the business before tax.
The Committee received a dashboard from the under their responsibility and con rm the existence of adequate Head of Internal Audit at each of its meetings, detailing internal control systems throughout the year.
The Committee progress against the agreed plan and identifying key trends reviews any exceptions noted in this bottom-up exercise.
and findings from Internal Audit reports, along with progress on the resolution of actions agreed.
Common themes emerging After considering these various inputs, the Committee was from Internal Audit reports were discussed and these able to provide assurance to the Board on the effectiveness discussions have informed the compilation of the 2018 Internal of internal financial control within the Group, and on the Audit plan.
When necessary Internal Audit uses external adequacy of the Groups broader internal control systems.
outsourced auditors to supplement Internal Audit on an ad-hoc basis.
The outsourcing process provides valuable learning Internal Audit opportunities and we expect to continue to use outsourcing in specialist areas and geographies in the future.
Where control The Groups Internal Audit function operates on a global basis issues or other problems are agged by the eldwork, they are through professionally quali ed and experienced individual recorded in a live web-based database into which management members located around the world, including an auditor with and operational entities are required to report progress specialist IT knowledge.
They report to the Head of Internal against audit exceptions.
In this way, Internal Audit monitors Audit, based in London, who in turn reports directly to the the progress and adequacy of the remediation steps taken.
Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Additionally, regular meetings are held with each business unit During the year the approach to internal audit was updated, President to discuss the progress against high-priority issues.
with audit activities subdivided into two different categories: Consequently, the Committee has oversight of appropriate and Compliance & Control C&C, and Effectiveness & Ef ciency timely actions taken by the responsible management.
C&C audit activities focus entirely on internal financial Committee also involved senior management as necessary to control and key Board compliance issues, whereas the E&E provide an update against high-priority actions and Internal audit activities examine a broader constituency of business Audit provided follow-up reviews as required, to ensure that performance issues.
Characterising the audit process in this way there was clarity on the responsibility for delivery of solutions to enables the Audit Committee to concentrate more speci cally the audit findings.
In situations where audit findings required on key control issues for resolution, with reporting focused on longer-term solutions, the Committee oversaw the process for C&C audit activity, and more general commentary provided ensuring that adequate mitigation actions were taken while on the outcome of E&E audit activities.
The detailed outcomes permanent solutions are pursued.
of E&E audits are then used to engage management on the During the year, a review was undertaken of the effectiveness broader performance issues identi ed by the Internal Audit of the Internal Audit function.
The review, which canvassed the team.
During the year, the frequency of meetings between the views of Non-executive Directors and senior management, Head of Internal Audit and the Business Unit Presidents was con rmed that the Internal Audit function continued to operate also increased, to ensure that engagement on the resolution to a high standard, with a good understanding of the business of issues is clearly understood at all levels of the business and and an appropriate scope.
Respondents noted the high degree responsibility for remediation taken accordingly.
of energy, professionalism and independence exhibited by the The Committee received, considered and approved the 2017 function, and welcomed the steps that had been taken to Internal Audit plan which was constructed using a risk-based improve the interface with the management of each of the approach to cover the Groups control environment.
was based on the premise that all operating units are internally Having considered the work of the Internal Audit function audited at least once in every three-year period, whilst during 2017, including progress against the 2017 Internal maintaining a focus on smaller operating units.
A third of Audit plan, the quality of reports provided to the Committee, operating units are now subject to internal audit twice in every and the results of the review of the functions effectiveness, three-year period, and Internal Audit annually audits each the Committee concluded that the Internal Audit function of the large operating entities located in Germany, the US, operated effectively during 2017.
During the year the Committee also Governance 91 pro t before tax of 152.9m.
Importantly, much lower levels of External Audit materiality are used in the audit eldwork on the individual Auditor Appointment businesses across the Group and these lower gures drive the In 2016, the Committee undertook a tender process to scope and depth of audit work.
Any misstatement at or above appoint a new statutory auditor for the financial year ending 0.4m was reported to the Committee.
The tender culminated in the appointment There were no signi cant changes this year to the coverage of of  LLP PwC as external auditor the audit which stood at 68% of the Groups revenue and 76% of and the appointment of Mazars LLP to audit the non-material headline pro t before tax.
This coverage was considered to be entities within the Group.
As a result, KPMG concluded its tenure suf cient by the Committee.
The audit coverage is re ective as the Groups external auditor during the year and, further to of the long tail of smaller businesses within the Group that the approval of the Companys shareholders at the 2017 AGM, individually are not material to the Group result.
PwC was appointed as the Groups external auditor for the year ending 31 December 2017.
PwC nominated Julian Jenkins as The PwC audit fee approved by the Audit Committee was the audit partner responsible for the Group audit.
This was constructed bottom-up on a local currency regulations on auditor rotation, the external audit contract will basis and was assessed in light of the audit work required by the be put out to tender at least every ten years.
In addition, PwC agreed materiality level and scope.
It was agreed as part of the will be required to rotate the audit partner every five years.
audit tender process and updated for changes in scope that were required during the year.
The fee approved by Mazars for Auditor Transition and 2017 Audit Plan the audit of the non-material entities was 0.4m, resulting in a PwCs transition plan focused on exiting the non-audit services combined fee with PwC of 1.7m, compared to 2.0m paid to that PwC provided to the Group, and working with people from KPMG LLP in 2016.
The reduction in fee follows from the tender across the business to build on their understanding of the Group and the utilisation of two audit rms.
The Committee noted the and re ne the planned approach to the audit.
Key elements of ruling by the Securities Exchange Board of India regarding the the transition plan included: meeting with senior management, prohibition placed on PwC network companies performing local management, key functional heads and wider business audits of listed entities for two years from 1 January 2018.
The stakeholders to gain insight into the business: meeting with Committee is watching developments on this matter carefully in KPMG and performing a detailed review of their working papers: the context of the Groups two listed Indian subsidiaries Foseco attending Committee meetings prior to the formal appointment: India Limited and Vesuvius India Limited.
undertaking a risk assessment to identify signi cant and elevated audit risks: and formulating and communicating a Independence and Objectivity detailed audit plan.
During the year PwC provided regular The Committee is responsible for safeguarding the updates to the Committee on the status and progress of the independence and objectivity of the external auditors in auditor transition plan, and valuable insights into the Groups order to ensure the integrity of the external audit process.
In audit environment from the results of their review.
discharging this responsibility during 2017, the Committee: In February 2018, the Audit Committee held a preliminary Sought regular con rmation from the incumbent external meeting on year-end issues in advance of the nalisation of auditor that it considered itself to be independent of the the financial statements in early March.
During the year, private Company in its own professional judgement, and within sessions were held with PwC without management being the context of applicable professional standards present, covering reporting and control issues in the context of Evaluated all the relationships between the external auditor the resourcing of the Group Finance team.
The Chairman of the and the Group, including compliance with the Groups policy Audit Committee met on a number of occasions with PwC to on the employment of former employees of the external monitor the progress of the audit and discuss questions as they auditor, to determine whether these impaired, or appear to arose.
The strength of the finance teams across the Group was impair, the auditors independence also considered.
In these sessions PwC con rmed that its work had not been constrained in any way and that it was able to Reviewed compliance against the policy on the provision of exercise appropriate professional scepticism and challenge non-audit services by the external auditor throughout the audit process.
Reviewed details of the non-audit services provided by the The Independent Auditors Report provided by PwC on pages external auditor and associated fees 124 to 129 includes PwCs assessment of the risks of material The Committee noted that, in Sweden, a non-permitted service misstatement in the accounts.
These risk areas are discussed had been performed by PwC during the transition process, in the signi cant issues and material judgements comments being supporting compliance in respect of payroll taxes.
The report also summarises the scope, coverage and the fide minimis nature of the fee incurred and balances involved, materiality levels applied by PwC in its audit.
As part of the audit the Committee concluded that the conduct of this work had not planning process and based on a detailed risk assessment, the affected PwCs independence.
Committee agreed a materiality gure of 7.6m for Group financial reporting purposes which is higher than last year As a result of its review the Committee concluded that PwC 4.0m and, in line with similar groups, is set at 5% of headline remained appropriately independent.
Vesuvius plc 92 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Audit Committee continued Non-audit Services The effectiveness of their relationship with the Committee, with management and with Internal Audit Vesuvius operates a policy for the approval of non-audit services.
This was revised in 2016, with the new policy applying Feedback from the Chief Financial Of cer and Group to the audit of the financial year ended 31 December 2017 and Financial Controller on the quality of local audit teams for financial years thereafter.
A copy is available to view on the Investors Corporate Governance section of the Companys The Committee also considered the FRCs Audit Quality Inspection of PwC published in June 2017. website, www.
Group companies are not permitted to use the external auditor for any prohibited A process to formally assess PwCs performance in respect non-audit services as speci ed by the UK Financial Reporting of the 2017 financial year will be completed following the Councils FRCs Revised Ethical Standard 2016, unless subject completion of their year-end work, taking account of the to a permitted derogation.
The restrictions broadly prohibit guidance for audit committees prepared by the FRC.
As part external auditors involvement in tax services, any services of this review, PwC will be asked to identify any issues they that involve playing a part in management decision-making, consider could pose a risk to audit quality.
preparing accounting records, designing or implementing internal control risk management services or financial systems, In an initial assessment of PwCs performance during their first certain HR services and other legal, investment and shareyear of audit, the Committee concluded that PwC had provided dealing services.
The external auditor can be invited to provide an effective audit for 2017.
They had exhibited a good non-audit services which, in its position as external auditor, it understanding of the Groups businesses and internal control must or is best placed to undertake and which do not impact environment based on a signi cant process of engagement auditor objectivity or independence.
All audit-related and with the business as part of audit transition and had provided permissible non-audit services proposed to be carried out for sound feedback to the Committee on the product of their any Group company worldwide by the external auditor must be transition work.
They had established effective working pre-approved by the Chief Financial Of cer, who thereafter relationships with the Committee and with management, and will refer matters to be further approved by the Chairman of had exhibited an appropriate level of professional scepticism the Audit Committee or the full Audit Committee before an and robust challenge of managements judgements as engagement is agreed.
Any assignment proposed to be carried appropriate.
The Committee has therefore recommended to out by the external auditor must also have cleared the external the Board that PwC be reappointed for 2018.
It con rms that its auditors own internal pre-approval process to con rm the recommendation is free from the in uence of any third party rms ethical ability to do the work.
and that there are no contractual restrictions on the choice of auditor.
A resolution proposing the reappointment of PwC is In practice, the Group did not seek to engage PwC for non-audit included in the notice of AGM for 2018. services during 2017 unless there were compelling advantages to doing so.
In 2017, the fees for non-audit services payable to Audit Committee Evaluation PwC amounted to 0.1m, similar to the non-audit fees of 0.1m payable to KPMG LLP last year.
The 2017 fees represent payment The Audit Committees performance was evaluated as part for assurance services related to the review of the Companys of the overall externally facilitated Board and Committee half-year financial statements and quarterly reviews and tax performance evaluation, which is described in depth on page accounts in India required by regulation.
The performance of the Committee was rated highly, with other non-audit services were for the previously mentioned its oversight seen to be of a very high standard.
A number of Swedish service, and the transition of expatriate tax services to areas of focus had been identi ed by the 2016 evaluation and it the new outsourced provider.
was felt that these had all been managed effectively in 2017.
The transition of the external auditor had progressed smoothly Effectiveness and Reappointment of PwC for 2018 and the institution by the Audit Committee Chairman of more The Committee and the Board are committed to maintaining regular meetings with management outside formal Committee the high quality of the external audit process.
Throughout the meetings had enhanced the ow of information with the year the Committee assessed the performance of the external Committee.
The deep dive initiative had once again proved auditor, taking into consideration: useful in providing the Committee with detailed information on key topics and would be continued in 2018, and the The quality of reports provided to the Committee, and the implementation of an additional Audit Committee meeting quality of issues and challenges raised with the Committee early in the year end cycle had been positively received, and and with management across the Group would be continued.
The level of insight exhibited in the feedback they provided On behalf of the Audit Committee as part of the transition process Douglas Hurt Chairman, Audit Committee Managements assessment of the transition process 28 February 2018 Their fide nition and completion of the 2017 audit plan Their performance during their review of the 2017 half year results
