Governance 93 Nomination Committee Dear shareholder, Committee Members On behalf of the Nomination Committee, I am pleased to John McDonough CBE Committee Chairman present the Nomination Committee Report for 2017.
Christer Gardell The primary responsibility of the Nomination Committee is to Hock Goh focus on Board succession planning to ensure that the Board is Jane Hinkley made up of individuals with the appropriate drive, abilities and Douglas Hurt experience to lead the Company in the delivery of its strategy.
Holly Koeppel appointed 3 April 2017 In 2017 the Committee presided over the appointment of a new Chief Executive as part of a planned succession process for The Nomination Committee Franois Wanecq, who retired from his role as Chief Executive at The Nomination Committee is made up of myself as Chairman the end of August 2017.
We also appointed a new independent of the Company and any three of the Non-executive Directors.
Non-executive Director, Holly Koeppel, in April 2017, who During the year I continued as Chairman of the Committee, strengthens the Board in terms of its knowledge, skills and though I would not act as Chairman if the Committee was experience, replacing Nelda Connors who stepped down considering the appointment of my successor.
In that case, the from the Board in late 2016.
Chairman would be an appropriate Non-executive Director.
The Committee reviews the current and future needs of the The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee.
Board and its Committees on an ongoing basis.
In line with this, Members biographies are set out on pages 50 and 51. during 2017, the Committee reviewed the tenure of all of the Directors and discussed future Board rotation.
Key Activities during the Year In additon, as part of the annual corporate governance Completion of Chief Executive recruitment: The Committee review conducted each year, the Committee examines the completed the Chief Executive succession process which independence of the Board and the balance of skills, and culminated in the selection and recommended appointment development needs, of Board members.
The output from this of Patrick Andr as Chief Executive, succeeding Franois process was used to fide ne the recruitment requirements for the Wanecq on his retirement from the Company new Directors, with each then having a job speci cation drawn Non-executive appointment: The Committee led the search up to target the attributes required.
for a new Non-executive Director resulting in the selection The Committees succession planning activities do not and recommended appointment of Holly Koeppel exclusively relate to the Board, but also encompass the Board composition: The Committee reviewed the skills, senior management levels immediately below the Board.
knowledge and experience required for the Board to The Committee is working to support and encourage the continue to function effectively, and evaluated the current growth of a consistent pool of talent able to step up to the top Board composition against an assessment of these future roles in future years.
The oversight of senior management business needs succession planning and talent development will be a key area for emphasis in 2018.
Board succession: The Committee reviewed the ongoing requirements for Board rotation to maintain the correct skills, During 2017 the Board formalised its approach to diversity, experience and diversity at Board level and approved a Board Diversity Policy.
In line with this, the Committee continues to consider the mix of skills, experience Directors elections: The Committee considered the Directors and knowledge required on the Board, and to promote diversity annual re-election at the 2017 AGM not only on the Board but also throughout the wider business.
Committee evaluation: The Committee reviewed its Yours sincerely performance and effectiveness during 2017 John McDonough CBE Chairman Role and Responsibilities The Nomination Committees foremost priorities are to ensure that the Company has the best possible leadership, maintains a clear plan for orderly Executive and Non-executive Director succession, and cultivates the appropriate skills, experience and diversity in the Boards overall composition.
Its primary focus is therefore on the strength of the Board, for which appointments are made on merit, against objective criteria, selecting the best candidate for the post.
The Nomination Committee advises the Board on appointments, retirements and resignations from the Board and its Committees.
Vesuvius plc 94 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Nomination Committee continued The Committee operates under formal terms of reference engaged external assistance to benchmark the skills and which were reviewed and con rmed during the year.
experience required for the Chief Executive role, fide ning the The terms of reference are available on the Groups website issues fundamental to the Vesuvius role, given the Groups www.
business, scale, geographical diversity, performance and the stage of its development.
The search was conducted The Committee and its members are empowered to obtain globally and a long-list of potential appointees was produced, outside legal or other independent professional advice at the including external, internal, international and female cost of the Company in relation to its deliberations.
The Committee reviewed the long-list and a were not exercised during the year.
The Committee may also shortlist of candidates for interview was drawn up for the secure the attendance at its meetings of any employee or other role, based upon the objective criteria identi ed at inception.
The Chairman, and the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee interviewed an initial short-list of candidates, Process for Board Appointments with a shorter list of candidates then interviewed by the Senior Independent Director and again by the Chairman.
The Committee follows formal, rigorous and transparent The two final preferred candidates then met with all the procedures for the appointment of new Directors.
Finally, detailed external references considering a Board appointment, the Nomination Committee were taken up and following this the Committee made formal draws up a speci cation for the role, taking into consideration recommendations to the Board for the appointment of the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of its existing Patrick Andr as the new Chief Executive.
Patrick Andr was members, the diversity of the Board, the independence of supported in undertaking due diligence on the Company continuing Board members, and the ongoing requirements and in areas not connected to his previous role as President anticipated strategic developments of the Group.
process is then able to focus on appointing a candidate with the necessary attributes to enhance the Boards performance.
Non-executive Director The Committee uses the services of search rms to identify The search was conducted globally and a long-list of potential appropriate candidates, ensuring that any selected rm is not appointees was produced by Spencer Stuart.
The Committee in any way con icted in the delivery of its role.
In addition, the reviewed the long-list and a short-list of candidates for interview Committee will only use those rms that have adopted the was drawn up, based upon the objective criteria identi ed at Voluntary Code of Conduct addressing gender diversity and inception.
The Chairman and the Chief Executive interviewed best practice in search assignments.
the short listed candidates, and the preferred candidate then During 2017, the Committee oversaw a selection process to met with all other Board members.
Detailed external references identify a new Chief Executive to succeed Franois Wanecq were taken up and, following this, the Committee made a on his retirement from the Company, and the ongoing search formal recommendation to the Board for the appointment of for a new Non-executive Director, following Nelda Connors Holly Koeppel as a new Non-executive Director.
Holly Koeppel retirement from the Board in 2016.
The Committee reviewed was supported in undertaking her own due diligence on the the skills and attributes required for each role, and agreed Company and meeting with its advisers.
She was also required individual job speci cations.
The Committee utilised the to demonstrate that she had suf cient time available to devote services of specialist recruitment agencies to search for suitable to the role and to identify any potential con icts of interest.
No candidates Korn Ferry to identify prospective candidates con icts were identi ed.
for the Chief Executive role, and Spencer Stuart to search for Following their appointment, the Committee has continued to a new Non-executive Director.
Both agencies have adopted monitor the development and integration onto the Board of the the Voluntary Code of Conduct, and neither have any two new Directors.
Holly Koeppel and Patrick Andr both other connection with the Group other than in respect of undertook a full induction programme and have continued to management recruitment work undertaken during normal gain insight into the business and meet executives throughout trading activities.
Each agency was selected for their the organisation.
assignment following a review of potential agencies based on their skills, expertise and price.
Board Composition Chief Executive On an ongoing basis, the Committee reviews the current and As part of the Groups ongoing senior management succession future needs of the Board and its Committees re ecting on planning processes, a detailed independent review of internal the balance of skills and experience of current Directors, candidates was undertaken, to consider candidates for and comparing this against the Boards list of key skills.
succession to the role of Chief Executive, with those individuals The Committee also considers existing lengths of tenure and identi ed as potential candidates fully integrated by Korn Ferry the prospective rotation and retirement of Board members, so into the search process.
The Nomination Committee also that it can plan accordingly.
As part of the annual corporate Governance 95 governance review conducted during the year, the Committee Committee Evaluation examined the independence of the Board and the balance of The Committees activities were part of the externally facilitated skills, and development needs of Board members.
Based on evaluation of Board effectiveness during the year.
The Committee this analysis in 2016, the Committee concluded that the Board was considered to have performed effectively over the past would bene t from the appointment of a new Non-executive year and the oversight of the Chief Executive succession process Director with expert knowledge of the industrial sector, together was commented on favourably.
Priorities for the Committee with a high degree of commercial acumen and global markets going forward include Board rotation over the longer term, knowledge.
The Non-executive Director search identi ed as well as succession planning and talent development for above was commenced on this basis.
In addition, the senior management.
Nomination Committee considered the future needs of the business, its corporate strategy, culture and direction in On behalf of the Nomination Committee assessing its requirements of a new Chief Executive and used John McDonough CBE Chairman, Nomination Committee this analysis to inform the recruitment process.
The Committee recognised that the business needed an individual who had 28 February 2018 a proven track record of enhanced strategic thinking and managing complexity, who also excelled at managing and developing relationships with a cross-section of people.
Diversity All Directors have served at a very senior level in global organisations, have international experience across a variety of industries, and most have spent a considerable amount of time resident outside the UK.
The Nomination Committee believes that diversity underpins the successful operation of the Board.
It recognises that this is a key ingredient in creating a balanced culture for discussions and minimising group-think, and continues with its policy to review the requirements for different skills, experience, background and gender in respect of the Boards composition.
During the year, the Board formalised its approach to diversity, and approved a Board Diversity Policy, details of which are set out on page 80.
The Committee will continue to consider the mix of skills, experience and knowledge required on the Board, and promote diversity not only on the Board but also throughout the wider business.
Senior Management Succession During the year, the Committees succession planning activities did not exclusively relate to the Board, but continued to encompass the senior management levels immediately below the Board, aiming to support and encourage the growth of a consistent pool of talent able to step up to the top roles in future years.
Consequently, the Committee continued to monitor the execution of development plans for the Group Executive Committee and supported the Board in understanding the process for the development of high potentials throughout the business.
The Board met key executives throughout the Group to gain a greater understanding of the breadth and depth of management talent.
This process included a series of presentations to the Board by business unit, functional and geographical heads providing the basis for a more informed approach to executive succession planning and talent development across the Group.
As identi ed by the Board evaluation process, the oversight of senior management succession planning will be a key area for emphasis in 2018.
