Leadership Highlights Approval of resolutions to be put forward for shareholder approval at a General Meeting and all communications with shareholders and the market: High-quality, open, challenging debate on a wide range of operational, strategic and Managing membership and approving adequate succession financial matters planning for the Board: Responsibility for the Groups corporate governance: The Board undertook a number of visible leadership tours of the Groups operations Following the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee, determining the remuneration policy for the in the UK and US Directors, and other senior managers: Improvement in the Groups strategic KPIs, Approval of the Groups health and safety and sustainability including a reduction in lost time accidents and environmental policies: Ensuring a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders based Board responsibilities and procedures on the mutual understanding of objectives.
The Board is responsible for the effective leadership and longMatters not specifically reserved for the Board, including the term success of the Group.
day to day management of the Group, may be delegated to the The following is a high-level summary of the principal decisions Executive Directors.
To enable the Board to discharge its duties, that are specifically reserved for the Board a full list of the matters all Directors receive appropriate and timely information.
reserved for the Board is available on the Companys corporate Board composition website, at http: www.
com investors corporateThe Code recommends that the Board of Directors of a UK governance : premium listed company includes an appropriate combination Responsibility for the overall management of the Group, of Executive and Non-Executive Directors, with independent including monitoring the Groups operating and financial Non-Executive Directors excluding the Chairman comprising performance: at least half the Board.
As at the year end, the Board comprised a Non-Executive Chairman, four independent Non-Executive Approval of the Groups long-term objectives, values, Directors and two Executive Directors.
The Board regards standards, commercial strategy and annual budgets: Jonathan Nicholls, Tracey Graham and Justin Read as independent for the purposes of the Code.
Lynn Minella, who Approval of the annual operating and capital expenditure stood down from the Board on 31 December 2017, was also budgets and any subsequent material changes to them: regarded as independent for the purposes of the Code.
Making changes to the Groups capital, legal and corporate As explained on page 52, Matthias Boyer Chammard and structure, including reduction, consolidation, sub-division or Michel Plantevin stepped down from the Board on 24 May 2017, conversion of share capital: following Diamond BC S. r. l. s disposal of all its shares in Approval of the half-yearly report and the preliminary the Company.
announcement of the final results and the Annual Report Joe Hudson joined the Board on 2 January 2018 as Chief and Accounts: Executive Officer Designate.
Approval of the dividend policy and declaration of any interim As announced on 14 February 2018, Jamie Pike will step down and final dividends: from the Board following conclusion of the AGM on 24 May 2018 Approval of accounting and treasury policies, the Groups and Jonathan Nicholls will become Chairman of the Board.
internal control systems and risk management strategy and We have commenced the search for two new independent Group tax strategy: Non-Executive Directors and will update the market in due course.
Approval of significant acquisitions and disposals and material capital investments: Approval of significant borrowing facilities and other material contracts and transactions: Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 48 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information Governance in action The Board makes The Board visited Glen-Gerys brick plants at Bigler and Hanley, Pennsylvania, during their US visit in June 2017.
They also travelled to Penn State University to view examples of regular site visits iconic buildings where Glen-Gery products have been used for many years.
Additionally, in November 2017, the Board toured our Supreme Concrete operations in Sittingbourne, Kent as part of their ongoing programme of visits to meet management teams from across our business.
These operations manufacture highperformance concrete beams, and serve our customers in London and the South-East.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 49
