Strategic Report Governance Financials esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 Nomination Committee DIRECTORS ATTENDANCE Meetings Possible Director attended attendance Sir Peter Wood Chairman 2 2 3 Mara Dolores Dancausa 2 2 Shirley Garrood 2 2 1 Alan Rubenstein 2 2 2 Peter Ward 1 Alan Rubenstein was appointed a member of the Committee on 8 March 2017.
2 Peter Ward stepped down as a Director and member of the Committee on 17 May 2017.
3 Mara Dolores Dancausa will step down as a Director and member of the Sir Peter Wood Committee on 17 May 2018.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee COMPOSITION was reviewed.
The list profiled the candidates against key The Nomination Committee is currently comprised of the competencies and experience required.
Candidates were Chairman and three independent Non-Executive Directors.
Shirley Garrood and Martin Pike Sir Peter Wood, the Chairman of the Board, chairs the met with the candidates and identified Alan Rubenstein and Committee, except when the matters under consideration Peter Shaw as our preferred candidates.
Arrangements were relate to him or succession to his role.
The members of the then made for them to meet with the Chairman and the Chief Committee and attendance at scheduled meetings in 2017 Executive Officer.
They then met with other Board members.
are set out in the table above.
The Board considers that Following these meetings, the Committee recommended the all members of the Committee have recent and relevant appointments of Alan Rubenstein and Peter Shaw to the Board.
experience see biographies on pages 32 and 33.
The Board subsequently approved the appointments and they were appointed to the Board on 8 March 2017.
RESPONSIBILITIES The responsibilities of the Committee include reviewing the The Committee confirms that Sam Allen Associates has no size, structure and composition of the Board and ensuring that other connection with the Group.
the Board comprises the right balance of skills, knowledge and experience.
The Committee considers the composition of the MEETINGS members on Board Committees.
The Committee oversees the The Committee meets at least twice a year, or more frequently search and selection for new Directors and succession planning if required.
Two members, both of whom must be independent Non-Executive Directors, constitute a quorum.
Other regular for Directors and senior management.
The Committees Chairman reports formally to the Board on its proceedings attendees at Committee meetings include the Chief Executive Officer, the role currently being undertaken by the Interim Chief after each meeting.
Executive Officer, and the Company Secretary.
KEY ACTIVITIES The activities of the Nomination Committee during 2017 COMMITTEE CHANGES The Committee kept the membership of the Board Committees included succession planning for Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors and the Executive Team and under review.
Following the Committees recommendations to the Board: composition of the Board Committees.
Peter Shaw was appointed to the Board on 8 March 2017 By mutual consent, Stuart Vann stepped down as Chief and was also appointed as a member of the Risk and Executive Officer with effect from 18 January 2018.
Committee recommended to the Board that during the process Alan Rubenstein was appointed to the Board on 8 March of selecting a new Chief Executive Officer, Darren Ogden, Chief 2017 and was also appointed as a member of the Audit and Finance Officer, be appointed as Interim Chief Executive Officer.
The Board subsequently approved the appointment with effect Peter Shaw was appointed as Chairman of the Risk from 19 January 2018.
Mara Dolores Dancausa has decided to step down as a TERMS OF REFERENCE Non-Executive Director at the conclusion of the Annual The Nomination Committees Terms of Reference can be viewed General Meeting on 17 May 2018. on our website at www.
The Committee has appointed an independent external search and selection agency to carry out the search for the new Chief Executive Officer and Non-Executive Director.
As part of our succession planning, the Committee undertook a search for two new Non-Executive Directors in 2017.
Sam Allen Associates were appointed to carry out the search.
The list of candidates researched by Sam Allen Associates 4 42 4 2 43 3
