Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information Areas of focus in 2018 Audit Committee Report Review managements progress with the project to transition to the new lease accounting standard IFRS 16 in advance of its application from 1 January 2019.
Continue to ensure that the systems of internal control are robust and operating effectively and that the principal risks identified by the Board are effectively managed.
Review significant reporting judgements and key assumptions Jonathan Nicholls related to those judgements.
Audit Committee Chair Review the Annual Report and Accounts and the Interim Statement in order to recommend them to the Board for approval.
Members of the Committee as at the date of this report: Jonathan Nicholls Chairman Tracey Graham Justin Read Lynn Minella was a member of the Committee until she stepped down from the Board on 31 December 2017.
Please see pages 50 and 51 for detailed biographies.
Audit Committee composition and meetings The Board considers that Justin Read and I have recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee, as a whole, has Dear Shareholder, competence relevant to the sector in which the Group operates.
Welcome to the Report of the Audit Committee the Committee Members have relevant experience in finance, building materials, for the year ended 31 December 2017.
B2B businesses and general executive experience in businesses The Committee reviews and makes recommendations to the of scale.
Additional information on our skills and experience can Board on the Groups financial reporting, internal control and risk be found in the Board biographies set out on pages 50 and 51. management systems and the independence and effectiveness The Committee met formally on four occasions during the year of the external auditors.
The Committee also considered the and details of Committee members attendance at meetings are effectiveness of internal audit and external audit.
The Committee provides independent monitoring, guidance and The Committee provides a forum for reporting and discussion challenge to Executive Management in these areas.
In addition, with the Groups external auditors in respect of the Groups it assesses the effectiveness of the external audit process and the half-year and year-end results and meetings are attended by external auditor.
Through these processes the Committees aim is certain Executive Directors and senior managers by invitation.
to ensure high standards of corporate and regulatory reporting, risk management and compliance, and an appropriate control Other members of the Board attend the Committees meetings, environment.
The Committee believes that excellence in these as and when required, by invitation.
areas enhances the effectiveness and reduces the risks to the Responsibilities business and protects the interests of the shareholders as regards The purpose of the Committee is to make recommendations on the integrity of published financial information by the Group.
the reporting, control, risk management and compliance aspects The Committee is appointed by the Board.
The Committee will of the Directors and the Groups responsibilities, providing continue to keep its activities under review to ensure that it independent monitoring, guidance and challenge to Executive complies with any changes in the regulatory environment.
I shall be available at the AGM to answer any questions Key responsibilities include: shareholders may have regarding the work of the Committee.
To ensure the consistent application of, and any changes to, significant accounting policies across the Group: 2017 key achievements Approval of the Groups first publicly disclosed Taxation To monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Group: Strategy.
To monitor and challenge the effectiveness of the Groups Received a report on the Groups readiness for the new UK internal financial controls, as well as the wider internal control Criminal Finances Act 2017. and risk management systems: Oversaw the appointment of the new auditors, following the To monitor the effectiveness of the Groups whistleblowing tender process held in 2016, as described in last years report.
procedures: Reviewed and approved the external audit transition plan and To evaluate the effectiveness of the Groups Internal the 2017 audit plan.
Audit function: Reviewed, and recommended to the Board for approval, the To make recommendations to the Board on the appointment, Annual Report and Accounts and the Interim Statement.
independence and effectiveness of the Groups external auditor and to negotiate and agree their remuneration: and To monitor and evaluate the Groups non-audit services policy.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 59 Accountability continued Audit Committee Report continued Audit Committee calendar and agenda discussion items During the year the Committee met on four occasions.
2017 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Financial and narrative reporting External audit Review of risk Independence and objectivity of the external auditor Internal Audit Annual review of the Audit Committees effectiveness Significant accounting matters As required by its Terms of Reference TOR the Committee Considered the appropriateness of the Groups accounting reviewed the TOR during the year.
Following the review, and in policies and practices, focusing on areas of significant light of developments in best practice following the latest FRC management judgement or estimation, and questioning the Guidance on Audit Committees, a number of amendments rationale for decisions taken in application of the policies.
The revised TOR were recommended External audit to and approved by the Board.
A copy of the TOR can be found Reviewed and considered the reports presented by Deloitte on our website at http: www.
com investors to the Audit Committee following the half-year review and corporate-governance.
Audit Committee activities during the year Considered the FRCs Audit Quality Review of EYs audit of The Audit Committee ensures the integrity of financial reporting the Groups 2016 financial statements and discussed the key and audit processes and the maintenance of a sound internal themes with Deloitte, as the current auditors, to ensure that the control and risk management system.
The table above auditors planned approach for 2017 was appropriate.
summarises the agenda items covered at the Committees meetings during the year.
Monitored and reviewed regular updates on the handover of the audit from EY to Deloitte to ensure that management was Financial and narrative reporting facilitating the knowledge transfer and building of information Reviewed the full and half-year results and associated required for Deloitte, as the Groups new auditor.
announcements and recommended them to the Board for approval.
Discussed the Board representation letter.
Reviewed the Groups Annual Report and Accounts to consider The Committee reviewed the performance of the external whether, taken as a whole, they were fair, balanced and auditor and the effectiveness of the external audit process.
understandable and whether they provided the necessary The Committee assessed Deloittes progress with their audit information required for shareholders to assess the Companys transition and commitments made during the tender process position, performance, business model and strategy and conducted in late 2016.
Following completion of the 2017 recommended them to the Board for approval.
audit the Committee will conduct a further review of their performance and effectiveness.
Conducted a review of significant accounting policies and judgements see significant issues considered by the Discussed the fees for audit and non-audit services and Committee during the year below.
obtained assurance on the objectivity and independence of the external auditor, taking into consideration relevant professional Received corporate reporting updates from the external auditor, and regulatory standards.
including: Reviewed and approved the policy for the employment of an update on BEIS proposed corporate governance reforms: former employees of the external auditor, confirming with a review of Directors duties, with specific reference to s172 management that there were no such employees during 2017. of the Companies Act 2006: Reviewed Deloittes plans for their review of the interim the FRCs proposed revision of the UK Governance Code: statement and for the 2017 audit.
developments in gender pay gap reporting: and Held a meeting with EY, without management present, following the final attendance of the former auditor at the UK tax strategy.
Considered the process for preparing the 2017 Annual Report Held meetings with Deloitte, following each Committee and Accounts.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 60 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information A key factor in the integrity of financial statements is ensuring that suitable accounting policies are adopted and applied consistently on a year on year basis.
Review of risk Audit Committee effectiveness Reviewed principal business risks, Risk Management and Received updates from Deloitte on compliance and changes internal controls.
in corporate governance matters and the regulatory framework.
Information on Principal risks and Risk Management is set out Conducted the annual evaluation of the effectiveness of the on pages 32 to 37.
Received a report from the CFO on the internal controls Reviewed the Committees terms of reference and confirmed operating in the business and any associated action plans.
Considered the Committees previous statement in relation to Reviewed training requirements of Committee members and customer rebates following receipt of Internal audit and external received training and technical updates from the Company audit reporting in this area, and concluded it remained Secretary and Deloitte.
Accounting and key areas of judgement Reviewed fraud risk, ethics policy and whistleblowing policy.
A key factor in the integrity of financial statements is ensuring that suitable accounting policies are adopted and applied consistently Considered the appropriateness of the Groups Viability on a year on year basis.
The Audit Committee specifically uses Statement at the full-year, and Going Concern Statement the Audit Planning meetings in May and November each year to assumptions at the half-year and full year, including a review consider proposed accounting treatments for major transactions, of the sensitivity analysis and scenarios prepared by significant reporting judgements and key assumptions related to management.
This specifically challenged managements those judgements.
In addition, these matters are reviewed preparation of the Viability Statement using a three-year lookout throughout the year.
period, given the general comments provided by regulators during 2017 as to the prevalence of this time frame in companies viability statements.
Following discussion, the Committee concurred with management as to the choice of a three-year period.
The Viability Statement and the Going Concern Statement are set out on page 42.
Independence and objectivity of the external auditor Considered the adequacy of the Groups procedures with regard to the objectivity and independence of the external auditor.
Internal Audit Agreed a plan of work for the 2017 2018 Internal Audit programme with RSM and received reports from them on the Internal Audit programme conducted during the year.
In reviewing the proposed plan of work, the Committee questioned the Internal Auditor and management as to the composition of the plan.
This considered any specific areas of risk identified by either party in formulating the schedule.
Following discussion, the Committee was satisfied with the 2017 2018 work programme.
The Committee met with RSM, without management present on two occasions.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 61 Accountability continued Audit Committee Report continued Significant issues considered by the Committee during the year Matter considered Committees response Pension accounting The Group has a defined benefit pension scheme The Committee reviewed the assumptions with management and sought views in the UK, which was closed to future accrual from the external auditor before it concluded on the appropriateness of the from 1 February 2017.
Judgement is taken by actuarial balances disclosed.
management around the assumptions used, This review considered the financial assumptions used by management as part including the sensitivities to these assumptions, of the actuarial valuation and the range of possible assumptions using available used by its actuary, to calculate the pension market data to assess the reasonableness.
scheme assets and liabilities under IAS 19 R Employee benefits.
The Committee considered managements judgement with regard to the Groups ability to recognise a pension scheme surplus and assessed the legal advice As at 31 December 2017, in the UK scheme received.
The Committee arrived at the conclusion that managements application there was an actuarial accounting surplus of of IFRIC 14 was appropriate.
See also Note 2 to the financial statements on 46.1 million, as detailed in Note 20 to the page 104. financial statements.
In conclusion, the Audit Committee concluded that the actuarial assumptions used in the valuation of the period end pension liabilities were in an acceptable range and disclosed appropriately.
See also the Independent Auditors Report on page 89.
Indicators of impairment The Group holds significant asset values in the The Committee considered the processes adopted by management in assessing form of mineral reserves, land and buildings and whether, in their judgement, any indicators of impairment existed and whether any property, plant and equipment.
These assets subsequent detailed impairment testing should be undertaken.
were subject to a detailed fair value exercise upon The Committee carefully considered managements sensitivity analysis and acquisition of the trading entities in February assessed the impact on the analysis of changes to the underlying assumptions.
For a number of assets, this exercise utilised the business performance projections in Following its review, the Committee concurred with managements judgement arriving at the fair value ascribed.
Should actual that no indicators of impairment existed at the balance sheet date and, as such, performance subsequently fall below these no detailed impairment testing was required.
projections, impairment of the asset values may Management confirmed to the Committee that they were not aware of any be required under IAS 36 Impairment of assets.
misstatements, either material or immaterial, in the documents and information As at 31 December 2017, the value of these underpinning their assessment.
In conclusion, after reviewing the reports from management and consulting where necessary with the external auditors, the Committee was satisfied that the financial statements appropriately reported the value of the assets and that they were fairly stated.
Alternative Performance Measures The Group presents a number of alternative In light of the guidance issued by the European Securities and Markets Authority performance measures APMs within its and the UKs Financial Reporting Council, the Committee has understood and published financial information, including its 2017 challenged managements rationale for including an item as an exceptional item Annual Report and Accounts, with the objective and the use of APMs.
of providing readers with a better understanding Through discussion with management and the external auditor, the Committee of financial performance in the period, in order to has also sought to ensure that the policy for APMs is applied consistently and in facilitate comparison with future periods and to compliance with the guidance provided.
assess trends in financial performance.
Following these discussions, the Committee requested that management revise its Return on Capital Employed ROCE measure to ensure the revised calculation would result in fewer adjustments to statutory definitions, contain components more easily reconciled to the statutory financial statements, and where relevant provide a more consistent comparison with the Groups peers.
The Committee concluded that the presentation of APMs gave additional clarity on performance and was reconciled appropriately to reported amounts, with sufficient prominence, thereby satisfying the requirements.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 62 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information Going Concern and Viability Statements The external audit and review of its effectiveness As requested by the Board, the Audit Committee reviewed the The Committee advises the Board on the appointment Going Concern and Viability Statements prepared with the reappointment of the external auditors, their effectiveness, assistance of management, together with the supporting independence and objectivity, and discusses the nature and documentation and sensitivity analyses.
Details of the review results of the audit with the external auditors.
As part of the review process and the conclusion reached are set out on page 42. of the effectiveness of the external audit process, the Committee Following its review, the Audit Committee recommended the conducted a formal evaluation process incorporating views from approval of both statements to the Board.
the relevant members of management.
Fair, balanced and understandable These reviews included: It is the Boards responsibility to determine whether the 2017 the effectiveness of the external audit firm: Annual Report and Accounts are fair, balanced and understandable.
The Committee reviewed the process for quality controls: preparing the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts, reviewed the audit team: managements analysis of the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts and how this met the objectives of providing fair, balanced and audit fee: understandable disclosures, before forming the conclusion to audit communications and effectiveness: recommend that the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts be approved by the Board as fair, balanced and understandable.
governance and independence: Specifically, this included detailed consideration of the Alternative ethical standards: and Performance Measures used within the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts see above significant issue considered by the potential impairment of independence by non-audit fee income.
The Committee concurred with In addition to the review of the formal management letter from the management that the effective use of such measures added external auditors, which outlines how points raised by them have greater insight for readers of the financial statements and aided been addressed by management, feedback is sought from the comparisons over time and between companies.
The Committee external auditors on the conduct of members of the finance team considered the impact of such measures on the fair, balanced during the audit process.
I have also met with the lead audit and understandable nature of the report to ensure that the use partners outside the formal Committee process.
of APMs did not obscure the true and fair nature of the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts.
The Committees role in that The external auditors are responsible for the annual statutory process is covered on page 62. audits of the Groups subsidiaries and other services which the Committee believe they are best placed to provide.
Internal controls and risk management The Committee supports the Boards assessment of The Committee also considers the effectiveness of management principal risks and the Boards review of the Groups internal in the external audit process in respect of the timely identification financial controls, as well as the internal controls and risk and resolution of areas of accounting judgement with input from management process.
the external auditors as appropriate: and the timely provision of the draft half-year results announcement and Annual Report and Internal Audit Accounts for review by the auditors and the Committee.
Following the appointment of RSM LLP as the Groups outsourced Internal Audit provider during 2016, the Committee Having undertaken its review, the Committee is satisfied that the received updates at each meeting on the progress against the external auditor has been independent and effective.
Deloitte has agreed Internal Audit plan for 2017.
The rolling programme of indicated its willingness to continue in office and the Committee reviews completed in 2017 included audits of the inventory has recommended Deloittes re-appointment to the Board.
management, purchase to pay, and sales to cash processes A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte as the external auditor will across the Groups subsidiary entities.
RSM also audited the therefore be proposed at the AGM to be held in May 2018. financial close process and completed payroll reviews across This year is the first year that Deloitte has audited the Groups remaining entities not covered in the prior year.
The lead audit partner is Jonathan the Committee requested a specific review of expenditure on Dodworth.
Deloitte requires the lead audit partner to change after the ongoing major capital project.
As part of the 2017 audit, Deloitte confirmed that it was independent within the meaning of applicable regulatory and professional requirements.
Taking this into account, and having considered the steps taken by Deloitte to preserve its independence, the Committee concluded that Deloitte continues to demonstrate appropriate independence and objectivity.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 63 Accountability continued Audit Committee Report continued Audit fee and non-audit services Committee effectiveness Details of the amounts paid to the external auditor are set in Note The effectiveness of the Committee was reviewed by both the 6 to the Group consolidated financial statements.
During the year Board and the Committee, in compliance with the Code.
The Deloitte provided non-audit services in respect of the review of evaluation was conducted by means of a questionnaire which the interim financial statements for the six-month period ended was completed by all members of the Board and the Company 30 June 2017 50,000 and of the managements banking Secretary.
A report on the outcome of the evaluation of the covenant compliance certification as at 31 December 2016 Committees effectiveness was presented to the Board.
Both services were for audit-related services and conclusion drawn from the review was that the Committee represent services that were carried out by members of the audit operates effectively.
engagement team where the work involved is closely related to The Committee considers that it has acted in accordance with its the work performed in the audit.
The Committee considers that Terms of Reference and that it has ensured the independence, the external auditor continues to remain independent.
objectivity and effectiveness of the external and internal auditors.
The non-audit services policy sets out clearly the non-audit The Company has complied throughout the year under review, services that may be provided by the external auditor.
Under and up to the date of this report, with the provisions of the the policy, prior approval is required by the Committee for any Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market non-statutory assignments where the fee would exceed 10,000, Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes or where such an assignment would take the cumulative total of and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014. non-audit fees paid to the external auditors over 70% of that years statutory audit fees.
However, when appropriate, a detailed I shall be available to answer any questions about the Committee, calculation will be performed to ensure that the Group is our work and how we operate at the AGM on 24 May 2018. compliant with the European Unions New Statutory Audit Framework, which applied from 2017.
Jonathan Nicholls Fraud, whistleblowing and the Bribery Act Chairman of the Audit Committee The Committee is informed of any reported incidents under its 5 March 2018 whistleblowing policy.
This policy is included in the Employee Handbook and sets out the procedure for employees to raise legitimate concerns about any wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters such as: potentially unlawful acts: miscarriage of justice: danger to the health and safety of any individual: damage to the environment: or improper conduct.
There were no concerns notified to the Group that required the attention of the Committee during the period under review and up to the date of this report.
The fact that employees have used the whistleblowing hot line provides assurance to the Board that the system is working and that our colleagues are comfortable with the process.
The Committee also reviews the Groups procedure for detecting fraud and the systems and controls in place to prevent a breach of anti-bribery legislation.
The Group is committed to a zerotolerance position with regard to bribery.
Anti-bribery guidance and training is provided to employees, as appropriate, applying what the Group has determined to be a risk-based and proportionate approach.
The Group maintains a record of all employees who have received this guidance and training.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 64 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information We said The Group remains committed to providing continuous professional development and training.
We continue to see internal promotions of our employees as part of our staff development.
Its all about the people Tim Senavaitis Factory manager, Mid-Atlantic plant, Glen-Gery Tim joined Glen-Gery as an engineering intern in May 2008 becoming a full-time Production Engineer in January 2009 following his graduation from The Pennsylvania College of Technology with a Manufacturing Engineering degree.
He continued to develop his business and leadership skills while earning an MBA from Kutztown University and was promoted to Plant Manager of Glen-Gerys Mid-Atlantic Plant in June 2017, the largest Glen-Gery manufacturing facility, shipping over 45 million brick in 2017.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 65 Directors Remuneration Report Members of the Committee as at the date of this report: Remuneration Committee Chairs Tracey Graham Chair Annual Statement Jonathan Nicholls Jamie Pike Justin Read Structure of the report Remuneration Committee Chairs Annual Statement pages 66 Tracey Graham and 67.
Chair of the Remuneration Committee Directors Remuneration Report At a glance pages 68 to 73.
Annual Report on Remuneration including the summary approved Remuneration Policy pages 74 to 83.
The Remuneration Committee reviews the Policy on an ongoing basis and is comfortable that it remains appropriate as the structure by which to incentivise and motivate the leadership team to implement the Companys strategic goals and ensure they are aligned with shareholder expectations heading into the 2018 financial year.
The application of the Remuneration Policy is therefore unchanged for 2018.
The Committee will conduct a full review of the Remuneration Policy and its appropriateness in the coming year, as the new Chief Executive Officer comes on board and our current Policy reaches the end of its three-year term.
Dear Shareholder, This report lays out the core principles of our Policy and our As the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee practices over the past year.
I trust we have done this with the the Committee, I am pleased to present the Directors transparency and clarity that aids your understanding of both our Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2017. intent and our activity.
This year, I was delighted to become Chair of the Remuneration Company highlights for the 2017 financial year Committee when Lynn Minella stepped down from the position The Company has shown growth in 2017 with turnover increased on 31 December 2017.
All of us are very grateful to Lynn for her by 4% to 452 million and adjusted earnings before interest, contribution and thank her for her dedicated service to the tax, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA increased to Committee.
Following her example, my focus will be to continue 120 million 2016: 112 million, driven by our UK clay and to maintain a dialogue with our shareholders on remuneration concrete businesses.
matters and to ensure that the remuneration structure at Ibstock reflects best-practice standards.
I have been a member of the Financial highlights for the year include: Ibstock Committee for two years and also have significant Group revenue 452 million: experience as a Remuneration Committee Chair.
Adjusted EBITDA 120 million: and 2017 has been a year of continued progress in our performance across all businesses with strong cash generation and shareholder Profit after tax 74 million: reflecting the underlying strength value creation, including payments of dividends and sustained of the business.
After 22 successful years with the Group, including the last two Operational highlights include: as Chief Executive Officer of Ibstock plc, Wayne Sheppard UK Clay benefited from good activity levels within the UK announced his intention to retire in 2018.
I would like to personally new build housing sector with brick volumes well ahead year thank Wayne for his significant contribution to Ibstocks on year: performance.
Wayne steered the Company through its successful IPO in 2015 and under his leadership Ibstock has Continued growth in UK Concrete: and delivered significant shareholder value in its first years as a public Investment in additional UK brick capacity to meet demand.
In the US, revenue was down by 2%, principally reflecting a more Wayne will be succeeded as Chief Executive Officer by Joe competitive new build residential market and a less favourable Hudson, formerly Managing Director, Cement & Concrete product mix.
Products at Aggregate Industries UK, who joined the Board as Chief Executive Officer Designate in January 2018.
Further details of performance against the Companys key performance indicators are detailed on pages 24 and 25 and the Wayne will step down from the Board as Chief Executive Officer Financial Review on pages 38 to 42. after a handover period but I am delighted to say that Waynes vast expertise will remain available to the Company until the end of 2018.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 66 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information Incentive outcomes in 2017 Fairness and diversity In line with our remuneration philosophy, incentive outcomes Creating a thriving and diverse workforce is a high priority for our are largely driven by corporate performance and shareholder business.
However we recognise that we operate in an industry value creation.
that historically has been associated with certain inherent challenges around diversity.
We are fully committed to embracing The annual bonus for our Executive Directors, which is based the new developments in regulation and best practice to ensure 60% on the Groups financial performance, 20% on strategic that we, as a business, are contributing to the shift in the measures and 20% on individual objectives, reflects the overall industrys outlook and approach from the perspective of gender Group performance this year and paid out at 58.5%-59.5% of equality and diversity of skills, background and knowledge.
Further details of the annual bonus targets for the year and performance against those targets are provided Shareholder engagement on page 74.
We will continue to engage with our shareholders in a two-way communication process to maintain this support and to ensure No long-term incentive plan LTIP award vested in the year.
The we have a transparent executive reward structure aligned to first grant of LTIP awards was made in 2016 and will vest in 2019. shareholder experience.
If you would like to discuss any further Remuneration Committee decisions made during 2017 aspect of our remuneration strategy I would welcome your views.
The Companys remuneration strategy is designed to motivate We monitor shareholder reaction and commentary regarding our our senior leaders to deliver strategic objectives, ensure customer remuneration practices.
At the recent Annual General Meetings focus based on quality and consistency, and to drive long-term shareholders voted overwhelmingly in favour of our current value for our shareholders.
These core elements are captured in Remuneration Policy and the 2016 Remuneration Report with our incentive framework for the Executive Directors.
The details of the voting details of how our incentives and their measures align to the outcomes are presented on page 78.
Companys key strategic objectives can be found on page 68.
The Remuneration Policy was approved at the 2016 AGM on 26 May 2016 and the Committee believe that it supports Ibstocks Tracey Graham business and remuneration strategy.
No changes have been Chair of the Remuneration Committee made to the Policy or its proposed operation for the coming year.
5 March 2018 The Committee will conduct a full review of the Remuneration Policy in 2018 in advance of a new Remuneration Policy to be put This report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 to The Large and to shareholders at the 2019 AGM.
Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended in 2013, the provisions of the Corporate Governance Code the Key decisions made by the Committee during, and for, the Governance Code and the Listing Rules.
The report consists of two sections: financial year include: The Annual Statement by the Remuneration Committee Chairman and associated Salary increase of 2.2% was awarded to the Chief Financial At a glance section: and Officer, in line with the increase provided to the employee The Annual Report on Remuneration which sets out payments made to the population.
No increase was awarded to the outgoing Chief Directors and details the link between Company performance and remuneration for Executive Officer given his retirement from the business.
The Chairs Annual Statement and the Annual Report on Remuneration will be The Committee determined that the Chief Executive Officer and subject to an advisory vote at the AGM on 24 May 2018.
Chief Financial Officer should receive annual performance bonus in respect of 2017 equal to 73.1% and 74.4% of base salary respectively, reflecting performance against the measures for the year.
2017 LTIP awards of 100% of salary were granted to Wayne Sheppard and Kevin Sims.
The grant levels and performance targets for the LTIP are consistent with the normal award policy further details of the awards are provided on page 75.
No LTIP award vested in the year as the first awards under the plan were made in 2016 which will vest in 2019.
The terms of Joe Hudsons appointment as Chief Executive Officer Designate were approved by the Committee details are available on page 79.
The arrangements in respect of Wayne Sheppards retirement from the business details are available on page 79.
Further details on how our Remuneration Policy will be applied in practice for the 2018 financial year are set out on page 79.
From January 2017, we welcomed Justin Reed as a NonExecutive Director and a member of the Remuneration Committee.
Justin brings with him a wealth of experience, including Group Finance Director roles held at Segro and Speedy Hire, that will be of great benefit to Ibstock as we continue to develop our business.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 67 Directors Remuneration Report continued At a glance Introduction Our core principals of remuneration In this section, we: To ensure senior executives are attracted, retained and motivated to drive the strategic development of the Company: 1 set out the purpose of our Remuneration Policy and its linkage to our corporate strategic objectives: and To incentivise the management team in extending the Companys position in the building products industry: and 2 set out the remuneration outcomes for the 2017 financial year.
To deliver long-term sustainable growth.
Our Remuneration Policy and its link to our Group strategy The Groups strategy is laid out below.
The key elements of the Companys strategy and how its successful implementation is linked to the Companys Ensuring the alignment of the Remuneration Policy to the remuneration are set out in the following table.
Companys strategy remains key for the Remuneration Committee in operating the Policy below in conjunction with our core principles of remuneration.
Strategic priorities Retain and Equity reward the Continuing to focus on a safe Invest in new capacity and ownership Executive working environment that has optimise output to take advantage and team to the development of employees of structural imbalances in the Penetrate markets further retention deliver the Remuneration Policy and customer service at its core Groups market through innovation of shares strategy Annual bonus The maximum bonus Net Promoter Score NPS Return on Capital Employed ROCE, Adjusted EBITDA, including any part of the 1 and Lost Time Accidents ROCE, Adjusted Adjusted Operating Cash bonus deferred into an LTA EBITDA, Adjusted Flow, NPS Annual Deferred Bonus Operating Cash Flow Plan ADBP Award These measures target The efficient development of deliverable under the customer satisfaction and The success in maximising innovative products measured ADBP will not exceed health and safety in the operational excellence will be through ROCE and NPS 125% of a participants workplace and therefore reflected through increased performance will be reflected annual base salary.
profitability and cash flow in increased profitability and and the efficiency of any cash flow.
investment made through ROCE measurement.
LTIP Maximum annual award is Adjusted EPS, TSR TSR normally 100% of salary.
The success in maximising The generation of cash and Awards will vest at the end of operational excellence will profit growth targeted by the three years.
be measured through the annual bonus will help For 2018, the performance long-term Adjusted EPS enhance the value of the conditions for awards are growth targeted by the LTIP.
Company which will be equally weighted between: In addition, sustained value measured through the generation will be reflected success of the Companys Adjusted Earnings per in the share price of the TSR performance against its Share EPS growth: and Company which will be comparators a performance comparative Total measured through the condition under the LTIP.
Companys TSR performance under the LTIP.
Share Incentive Plan SIP The Sharesave Plan SAYE Minimum shareholding requirements CEO: 200% of salary.
1 The definition of ROCE was amended in 2017.
See note 3 of the financial statements on page 104.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 68 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information 2017 financial year Annual bonus outcomes Our 2017 bonus outcomes outlined below reflect the performance measures and targets put in place during our 2017 financial year and their level of satisfaction.
The bonus measures for the Executive Directors are aligned to the Companys key performance indicators KPIs which are outlined on pages 24 and 25.
Bonus value achieved 2017 bonus measures Wayne Sheppard Kevin Sims Adjusted EBITDA 20%, 61,406 41,901 Adjusted Operating Cash Flow 20% 71,244 48,614 ROCE 20% 53,690 36,636 Net Promoter Score 10% 13,573 9,262 Lost Time Accidents 10% 36,196 24,698 Personal objectives 20% 81,442 59,276 The Company achieved performance between the target and maximum level for adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted Operating Cash Flow metrics.
ROCE and Group non-financial measures performance for Net Promoter Score and Lost Time Accidents were above threshold.
The total pay-out was 73.1%74.4% of salary 58.5%59.5% of maximum bonus opportunity of 125% of salary for the two Executive Directors.
Two-thirds of the 2017 bonus was paid in cash and one-third was deferred into shares for a period of three years.
Further details on the bonus outcomes can be found in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 74.
Single figure remuneration for our Executive Directors We set out below the single figure remuneration for our Executive Directors: Executive Directors 2016 total 2017 total Wayne Sheppard CEO 788,685 906,300 Kevin Sims CFO 509,544 625,223 The single figure table containing information for the 2016 and 2017 financial year for the Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors is set out in detail on page 74.
Equity exposure of the Executive Directors Both existing Executive Directors have shareholdings substantially in excess of the Companys minimum shareholding requirements which are currently 200% of base salary for the Chief Executive Officer and 150% for the Chief Financial Officer.
The incoming Chief Executive Officer has no shareholding in the Company and is expected to build up a shareholding equivalent to 200% of salary over the next five years.
The following chart sets out all subsisting interests in the equity of the Company held by the Executive Directors as at 31 December 2017.
Shareholding requirements as % of salary Wayne Sheppard Shareholding requirement 200% Value of bene cially owned shares 3,115% Value of gain on interests over shares 286% i. e. unvested unexercised awards Kevin Sims CFO Shareholding requirement 150% Value of bene cially owned shares 2,630% Value of gain on interests over shares 278% i. e. unvested unexercised awards Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 69 The number of shares of the Company in which current Directors had a beneficial interest as at 31 December 2017 are set out in detail on page 76.
Fairness, diversity and wider workforce considerations Ibstock is committed to creating an inclusive working environment and to rewarding our employees throughout the organisation in a fair manner.
In making decisions on executive pay, the Remuneration Committee considers wider workforce remuneration and conditions.
We believe that employees throughout the Company should be able to share in the success of the Company.
We have, since our IPO, operated a very popular Save As you Earn SAYE plan and our intention is to continue this and to investigate additional opportunities for our employees to share in our success going forwards.
We also believe that employees should have the opportunity to save for their futures and to this end we operate defined contribution Group personal pension plans in to which the Company and our employees make contributions.
As part of our commitment to fairness, we have introduced this section into our remuneration reporting which sets out more information on our wider workforce pay conditions, our CEO to employee pay ratio, our Gender Pay statistics, and our Diversity and Inclusion policy.
Whilst we recognise there is much work still to do, we believe that transparency is an important first step towards making improvements in relation to these important issues.
Area Considerations Competitive The Committee ensures that pay is fair throughout the Company and makes decisions in relation to the structure of pay and executive pay in the context of the cascade of incentives throughout the business.
The Committees remit extends cascade of down to Executives and senior management for which it recommends and monitors the level and structure of incentives remuneration.
Participation Participation Participation in Share Participation Level in bonus in LTIP Option Plan in SAYE SIP Executive Directors Senior Executives Senior managers Managers Employees Statement of considerations of employment conditions elsewhere in the Company The Remuneration Policy for all employees is determined in terms of best practice and ensuring that the Company is able to attract and retain the best people.
This principle is followed in the development of our Policy.
The remuneration strategy of the Company has been designed to ensure all employees share in its success through performance-related remuneration and share ownership.
Awards under both the Annual and Deferred Bonus Plan and the Long-Term Incentive Plan will provide alignment between senior leaders and our shareholders based on overall corporate performance of the business.
For all UK employees, the Company has in place an SAYE Scheme and SIP with local equivalents in other jurisdictions where possible.
Currently, under these Plans all UK employees have the opportunity to purchase shares in the Company subject to certain restrictions.
The following table demonstrates how key objectives are reflected consistently in plans operating at all levels within the Company.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 70 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information Area Considerations Competitive Remuneration and its link to the Companys objectives pay and Objectives cascade of Long-term incentives value creation continued Strategic and encouraged Financial operational through equity Share Plan Purpose Eligibility performance goals retention ownership SAYE SIP To broaden share All employees.
ownership and share in corporate success over the medium term.
Annual bonus Incentivise and reward Executive Directors, short-term performance.
Senior Executives, At senior level an element Senior managers and of bonus may be deferred managers.
Share Option Plan Broaden share ownership, Senior managers.
LTIP Incentivise and reward Executive Directors long-term performance.
The Company uses a number of remuneration comparison measurements to assess fairness of pay structures across the Group.
Detailed disclosure of our approach to fairness, diversity and wider workforce considerations is presented on page 70.
In setting the Remuneration Policy for Directors, the pay and conditions of other employees of the Company are taken into account to ensure consistency of approach throughout the Company, including data on the remuneration structure for management level tiers below the Executive Directors, average base salary increases awarded to the overall employee population and the cascade of pay structures throughout the business.
As a Remuneration Committee, we are keenly aware of the sensitivity of shareholders and the wider public regarding remuneration, including the Governments ongoing considerations for reforms to the governance framework in respect of executive pay.
The Committee will continue to monitor developments closely and intends to embrace these changes and continue to comply with best practice reporting requirements as they come into force.
Pay CEO ratio comparisons Our CEO to average employee pay ratio for 2017 is 22.5.
This was measured as the ratio of CEO single figure pay realised in the year to average employee pay.
To give context to this ratio, we have set out below a chart tracking CEO pay and average employee pay over time where 2015 100 alongside Ibstocks TSR performance over the same period.
The Remuneration Committee has always been committed to ensure that CEO pay is commensurate with performance.
The chart shows a clear alignment between shareholder returns and CEO single figure pay.
140 130 120 110 100 90 85 70 2015 2016 2017 CEO single gure TSR as at 31 Dec Average employee pay Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 71 Directors Remuneration Report continued Area Considerations Pay Employee and Group Executive Committee ratios comparisons The table below sets out the total remuneration delivered to the Chief Executive Officer compared to the Group continued Executive Committee and average employee pay.
31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2017 CEO single figure of total remuneration 000 773 789 906 Average per Group Executive Committee member 000 n a n a 236 1 Average per employee 000 39 40 40 Ratio of CEO single total remuneration figure to employees 19.8 19.6 22.5 Ratio of CEO single total remuneration figure to Executive Committee members n a n a 3.8 1 For simplicity, the average employee figure includes salary, bonus and employer pension contribution, whereas the CEO single figure also includes an additional amount in respect of the defined benefit pension scheme accrual.
CEO pay in the last three years The table below sets out the single total figure of remuneration and incentive outcomes in each year since Ibstock listed on the London Stock Exchange in 2015.
2015 2016 2017 Year 000 000 000 Single figure remuneration 773 789 906 % of maximum annual bonus earned 100% 33% 58% 1 % of maximum LTIP awards vesting n a n a n a 1 No award under the LTIP has yet vested.
The vesting of the first award will be in 2019.
Percentage change in CEOs remuneration The table below shows how the percentage change in the CEOs salary, benefits and bonus between 2016 and 2017 compares with the percentage change in the average of each of those components of pay for the employees.
Salary Taxable benefits Bonus 2016 2017 Percentage 2016 2017 Percentage 2016 2017 Percentage 3 Year 000 000 change 000 000 change 000 000 change 1 CEO 425 434 2.2% 16 22 41.4% 174 318 82.2% Average per eligible 2 employee 36 38 4.2% 5 5 0% 13 24 80.2% 1 The Chief Executive Officers remuneration disclosed in the table above has been calculated to take into account base salary, taxable benefits excluding pension and annual bonus including any amount deferred.
2 The employee pay has been calculated using the following elements: annual salary base salary and standard monthly allowances, taxable benefits car allowance and private medical insurance premiums: annual bonus Company bonus, management bonus, commission and incentive payments.
3 The change in the CEOs taxable benefits was primarily due, as reported in the previous year, to a move from the company car policy to a car allowance.
Gender pay The UK Government Equalities Office legislation requires employers with 250 or more employees in the UK to disclose annually information on their gender pay gap.
The first disclosure of the pay gap is based on amounts paid in the year to 5 April 2017.
The bonus gap is based on incentives paid in respect of the year to 5 April 2017.
As Ibstock Brick is the largest employing entity, we have chosen to report these figures in this report.
The mean gender pay gap at Ibstock Brick is 7%.
This is significantly lower than the UK average of 17.4% and the average for companies in the construction sector of 18.1%.
This is mostly due to demographics within the Company.
This can clearly be seen in the quartiles set out opposite, which show the number of male and female employees in each pay quartile: Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 72 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information Area Considerations Gender pay Quartile A highest Quartile B continued 1.
Female 31% 1 1 2 2 Note: The figures quoted above are for the Ibstock Brick entity of Ibstock plc only.
Ibstocks current employee population reflects the traditional nature of the industry, with around 85% of roles being occupied by men, including a high percentage of males employed in factory based production roles, which is reflective of manufacturing as a whole.
We are proud of the steps we have already taken and continue to take to encourage more females into the business.
However, we clearly believe further continued actions need to be taken to increase the representation of women within our business.
We are therefore taking a number of actions aimed at encouraging greater diversity and a wide range of candidates internally and externally in our recruitment practices for all roles within the Company, including production areas where there is a significant under representation of women and where we have a range of diverse roles suitable for all.
We are starting to get some success with a number of females joining our business in production operative roles and we have recently employed our first female electrical apprentice.
We have always offered a range of flexible working arrangements, including part time and job sharing arrangements.
These arrangements are open to all employees and are decided on a case by case basis in line with our operational requirements.
Whilst we already have a number of females in Leadership roles, we have established an internal networking and mentoring scheme to provide female role models to support and encourage our female employees to develop and grow their careers with us.
As part of this we have also formed a link with Aspire, an internationally recognised leadership, management and communication skills organisation.
Aspire are currently leading a MAD Making a Difference movement focused on coaching and development for women in business.
Diversity policy Our Diversity and Inclusion and range of Family Friendly and Flexible Working policies have been developed to make sure we have harmonious working environments, where every person can grow their skills and thrive together to share in our success.
They also ensure that all job applicants, employees and other workers such as agency staff and consultants are treated with dignity and respect regardless of any personal characteristics or circumstances.
In 2017 we implemented compliance refresher training for our people to remind everyone of the Companys policies regarding equality and diversity and the commitment to the prevention of discriminatory practices, procedures and attitudes in our business.
This training will be repeated on an annual basis with existing and new employees.
In addition we will be carrying out some focused diversity training in 2018, including areas such as overcoming unconscious bias.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 73 Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration Single total figure of remuneration Audited Executive Directors Audited The table below sets out the single total figure of remuneration and breakdown for each Executive Director in respect of the 2017 financial year to 31 December 2017.
Figures provided have been calculated in accordance with the UK disclosure requirements: the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 Schedule 8 to the Regulations.
2 No LTIP award vested in the year.
The first grant of LTIP awards was made in 2016 and will vest, subject to performance, in 2019.
3 Comprises of the value of Defined Benefit Pension Scheme DB accruals and salary supplements in lieu of pension.
See note on page 76 for further details.
Taxable benefits Audited Benefits in the 2017 financial year comprised a company car allowance, private health cover, death in service cover and income protection.
Wayne Sheppard and Kevin Sims received car allowances of 20,000 and 15,000 per annum, respectively.
Bonus Audited In respect of the 2017 financial year, the bonus awards payable to Executive Directors were agreed by the Committee having reviewed the Companys results.
Details of the targets used to determine bonuses in respect of the 2017 financial year and the extent to which they were satisfied are shown in the table below.
These figures are included in the single figure table.
Percentage of Bonus value achieved Threshold Maximum maximum performance performance Actual performance Wayne Kevin 1 Performance condition Weighting required required performance achieved Sheppard Sims Adjusted EBITDA 20% 111.7m 121.1m 119.6m 11.3% 61,406 41,901 Adjusted Operating Cash flow 20% 69.6m 80.6m 80.0m 13.1% 71,244 48,614 ROCE 20% 18.1% 20.1% 19.7% 9.9% 53,690 36,636 NPS Net Promoter Score 10% 42% 46% 43% 2.5% 13,573 9,262 2 LTAs Lost Time Accidents 10% 20 17 18 6.7% 36,196 24,698 Achievement of the personal objectives for Personal objectives 20% 2017 are outlined below.
15%16% 81,442 59,276 Total 100% 58.5%59.5% 317,551 220,387 1 Under the terms of the 2017 annual bonus, 0% for each element is payable for achieving the threshold performance, 50% for achieving target performance and 100% for achieving maximum performance.
One third of any bonus is deferred for three years into Company shares subject to continued employment.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 74 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information Personal objectives for the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer for the 2017 financial year and the associated outcomes are outlined below: Name Objective area Notes Wayne Sheppard Business and vision 50% Objectives relating to capital allocation projects were achieved.
Objectives relating to strategic review and options in respect of divisional performance were achieved.
People and talent 25% Objectives regarding senior level succession planning were achieved.
Strategic projects 25% Objectives regarding new plant and product readiness were achieved.
The Remuneration Committee determined that overall performance against these objectives was strong and equates to a 75% achievement for this element of the bonus 15% of maximum annual bonus opportunity.
Name Objective area Status Kevin Sims Business and vision 50% Objectives relating to management of external analysts and shareholder relationships were achieved.
Objectives in respect of the development of Group strategic planning and supporting capabilities were achieved.
Objectives relating to development of the relationship with HMRC and progress with Tax Strategy were achieved.
People and talent 25% Objectives relating to the IT and Finance functions were achieved.
Strategic projects 25% Objectives regarding the effective management of the auditors transition were achieved.
The Remuneration Committee determined that overall performance against these objectives was strong and equates to an 80% achievement for this element of the bonus 16% of maximum annual bonus opportunity.
No discretion was exercised by the Committee in relation to the outcome of the bonus awards.
The Committee was satisfied that the awards were consistent with the achievement of the targets that had been set.
Long-term incentives awarded in 2017 Audited The table below sets out the details of the long-term incentive awards granted in the 2017 financial year where vesting will be determined according to the achievement of performance conditions that will be tested in future reporting periods.
Percentage of Maximum award vesting percentage of at threshold face value that Shares Face value on performance could vest Name Award type Date of grant awarded date of grant Percentage Percentage Performance conditions Wayne Sheppard LTIP 29 03 2017 205,075 434,350 25 100 Relative TSR and EPS Kevin Sims LTIP 29 03 2017 139,933 296,380 25 100 Relative TSR and EPS Share price by reference to which the award was granted is 2.118 closing share price on 28 March 2017.
The awards were granted as nil-cost share options and vesting will be subject to achieving a challenging sliding scale of adjusted EPS and relative TSR against the FTSE 250 excluding real estate and investment trusts over a three-year performance period.
The performance schedule for these measures is as follows: Measure Weighting Threshold Maximum Relative TSR 50% Median Upper quartile EPS growth 50% 6% per annum 16% per annum Relative TSR will be measured from the date of grant over a three-year period with one-month averaging of TSR used to derive the start and the end values for the calculation.
Adjusted EPS growth will be measured over three consecutive financial years with the base point for the 2017 award derived from the adjusted EPS as at 31 December 2016.
Long-term incentives vested in 2017 The first grant of LTIP awards was made under the plan in 2016.
These awards will vest in 2019.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 75 Directors Remuneration Report continued Pension entitlements Audited As previously disclosed, Wayne Sheppard and Kevin Sims were members of the Defined Benefit Scheme until 31 January 2017, when the Scheme closed.
Both Executive Directors declined a 1,000 cash payment arising from the closure of the DB Scheme which was paid to all other members of the Scheme.
From 1 February 2017, they received a 20% salary supplement in lieu of pension contributions.
Executive Directors have no prospective entitlement to defined benefit pensions from the scheme.
In the 2017 financial year, Wayne Sheppards pensionable pay under the DB Scheme was capped at 164,783 and Kevin Sims pensionable pay was capped at 112,500.
Each Director received 20% salary supplement in lieu of pension on their salary above these pension caps until the schemes closure.
The number disclosed in the single figure table for the 2017 financial year includes the following elements: CEO CFO Value x 20 over increase in year net of Directors contribution until 31 January 2017 47,900 35,380 Salary supplement on pay in excess of pension cap at 20% until 31 January 2017 4,493 3,064 Salary supplement at 20% in FebruaryDecember 2017 79,631 54,336 Total 132,024 92,780 Non-Executive Directors Audited The table below sets out the single total figure of remuneration for each Non-Executive Director.
Non-Executive Directors 2016 fees 2017 fees Roles Jamie Pike 175,000 175,000 Independent Non-Executive Chairman Jonathan Nicholls 65,000 65,000 Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Lynn Minella 55,806 60,000 Non-Executive Director Tracey Graham 46,774 50,000 Non-Executive Director 1 Michel Plantevin 0 0 Non-Executive Director 1 Matthias Boyer Chammard 0 0 Non-Executive Director 2 Justin Read 50,000 Non-Executive Director 1 Michel Plantevin and Matthias Boyer Chammard resigned from the Board following the AGM on 24 May 2017.
Prior to that date they did not receive payment from Ibstock with respect to their qualifying services as Directors of the Company as they represented one of the Companys shareholders.
2 Justin Read was appointed to the Board in January 2017.
Payments to past Directors payments for loss of office Audited There were no payments in the financial year.
Statement of Directors shareholding and share interests Audited Shares held Other directly shares held Options Interests Interests not Shareholding Current subject to subject to Outstanding Shareholding 1 requirement shareholding Beneficially performance performance SAYE requirement 4 2 Directors % salary % salary owned conditions conditions Vested Unvested awards met?
Executive Directors Wayne Sheppard 200% 3,115% 5,076,244 422,577 31,748 n a n a 11,842 Yes Kevin Sims 150% 2,630% 2,924,558 288,346 21,003 n a n a n a Yes Non-Executive Directors Jamie Pike n a n a 98,500 n a n a n a n a n a n a Jonathan Nicholls n a n a 10,000 n a n a n a n a n a n a Lynn Minella n a n a n a n a n a n a n a n a n a Tracey Graham n a n a n a n a n a n a n a n a n a Michel Plantevin n a n a n a n a n a n a n a n a n a Matthias Boyer Chammard n a n a n a n a n a n a n a n a n a 3 Justin Read n a n a 17,500 n a n a n a n a n a n a 1 As at 31 December 2017.
This was based on a closing share price of 2.67 at 31 December 2017 and the year-end salaries of the Executive Directors.
Values are not calculated for Non-Executive Directors as they are not subject to shareholding requirements.
2 SAYE grants made under the Ibstock plc Sharesave Plan.
Awards were granted on 9 December 2015 with an exercise price of 1.52 awarded at a discount of 20% to the IPO offer price of 190 pence.
The SAYE options are first exercisable on 1 February 2019.
4 No changes in shareholdings from the year-end to the date of this report.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 76 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information Fees retained for external Non-Executive Directorships Executive Directors may hold positions in other companies as Non-Executive Directors and retain the fees.
Wayne Sheppard is Principal of the Construction Products Association and a Director of the Brick Development Association.
He receives no fees for these appointments.
Kevin Sims does not hold any external directorships.
Comparison of overall performance and pay The graph below shows the value of 100 invested in the Companys shares since listing compared with the FTSE 250 index.
The graph shows the Total Shareholder Return generated by both the movement in share value and the reinvestment over the same period of dividend income.
The Committee considers that the FTSE 250 is the appropriate index because the Company has been a member of this index since listing.
This graph has been calculated in accordance with the Regulations.
It should be noted that the Company listed on 27 October 2015 and therefore only has a listed share price for the period of 27 October 2015 to 31 December 2017.
Total Shareholder Return 100 invested in the Companys shares since listing compared with the FTSE 250 index.
175 150 125 100 75 50 25 0 30 10 15 31 12 16 28 02 16 30 04 16 30 06 16 31 08 16 31 10 16 31 12 16 28 02 17 30 04 17 30 06 17 31 08 17 31 10 17 31 12 17 Ibstock FTSE 250 Chief Executive Officer historic remuneration The table below sets out the total remuneration delivered to the Chief Executive Officer over the period 26 February 2015 to 31 December 2017, valued using the methodology applied to the single total figure of remuneration.
There is no relevant data before 2015.
Chief Executive Officer 2015 2016 2017 Single total figure 773,309 788,685 906,300 Annual bonus payment level achieved % of maximum opportunity 100% 33% 58% LTIP vesting level achieved % of maximum opportunity n a n a n a No award under the LTIP has vested yet.
Relative importance of spend on pay The table below sets out the relative importance of spend on pay in the 2017 and 2016 financial years.
All figures provided are taken from the relevant Companys accounts.
Disbursements from profit Disbursements from profit in 2016 financial year in 2017 financial year m m Profit distributed by way of dividend 28 32 Overall spend on pay including Executive Directors 124 128 Change in the Chief Executive Officers remuneration compared with employees % increase decrease in remuneration in 2017 compared with remuneration in 2016 CEO Employees Salary 2.2% 4.2% Annual bonus 82.2% 80.2% Taxable benefits 41.4% 0% Note: Change in CEOs taxable benefits is primarily due to the change reported in the previous year from a company car policy to a car allowance.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 77 Directors Remuneration Report continued Statement of consideration of shareholder views and voting at general meeting The Committee takes the views of the shareholders seriously and these views are taken into account in shaping Remuneration Policy and practice.
Shareholder views are considered when evaluating and setting the remuneration strategy and the Committee commits to consulting with key shareholders prior to any significant changes to its Remuneration Policy.
The Committee consulted with the Companys key shareholders along with the Investment Association IA and the Institutional Shareholder Services ISS on the Policy summarised in this report.
The Remuneration Policy was put to a binding vote at the 2016 AGM on 26 May 2016.
The Annual Report on Remuneration was put to an advisory vote at the 2017 AGM on 24 May 2017.
The voting outcomes are set out in the table below.
Total votes cast excluding AGM resolution Votes for % of votes cast Votes against % of votes cast withheld Votes withheld Annual Report on Remuneration 2017 316,378,720 99.39% 1,929,259 0.61% 318,307,979 2,800 Directors Remuneration Policy 2016 374,209,516 99.36% 2,394,225 0.64% 376,603,741 2,250 The Remuneration Committee reviews the Policy on an ongoing basis and is comfortable that it remains appropriate as the structure by which to incentivise and motivate the leadership team to implement the Companys strategic goals and ensure they are aligned with shareholder expectations heading into the 2018 financial year.
Details of the application of the policy for 2018 financial year are outlined on page 79.
Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to Directors remuneration The Board has delegated to the Committee, under agreed terms of reference, responsibility for the Remuneration Policy and for determining specific packages for the Executive Directors and other selected members of the senior management team.
The Company consults with key shareholders in respect of the Remuneration Policy and the introduction of new incentive arrangements.
The terms of reference for the Committee are available on the Companys website, www.
com investors, and from the Company Secretary at the registered office.
Our main responsibilities are: To determine and agree with the Board the broad Remuneration Policy for the Executive Directors and other selected members of the senior management team: To review the ongoing appropriateness and relevance of the Remuneration Policy: and To review any major changes in employee benefit structures throughout the Company or Group and to administer all aspects of any share scheme.
The Committee receives assistance from the Group HR Director and Company Secretary, who will attend meetings by invitation, except when issues relating to their own remuneration are being discussed.
The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer attend by invitation on occasions.
Advisers to the Remuneration Committee The Committee retained the services of  LLP PwC as independent remuneration adviser.
During the financial year, PwC advised the Committee on all aspects of the Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors and members of the Executive team.
PwC also provided the Company with tax and accountancy advice during the year.
The Committee is satisfied that no conflict of interest exists or existed in the provision of these services.
PwC is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and the voluntary code of conduct of that body is designed to ensure objective and independent advice is given to remuneration committees.
Fees of 59,500 2016: 58,000 were provided to PwC during the year in respect of remuneration advice received.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 78 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information Implementation of our Remuneration Policy for the 2018 financial year Our proposed implementation of the Policy for the 2018 financial year is set out below.
Key elements and time period Year 1 2 3 4 5 Overview of Remuneration Policy implementation for 2018 For 2018 base salaries will be: Wayne Sheppard: 434,350 no increase Base salary Joe Hudson: 435,000 appointment salary Kevin Sims: 303,197 2.3% increase Proposed salary increase is in line with the rises for all employees.
The maximum salary supplement in lieu of pension contribution will be Pension 20% of gross basic salary.
Standard benefits will be provided, including car allowance 20,000 for Wayne Sheppard, 18,000 for Joe Hudson and 15,000 for Kevin Sims, private health cover, death in service cover Benefits and income protection.
See page 74 for further details.
For 2018 the maximum bonus opportunity will be 125% of salary for all Executive Directors.
For 2018, the level of deferral in shares will be one-third of the bonus earned which will vest after three years based on continued employment with the Company.
The Committee can determine the proportion of the bonus earned under the ADBP provided as an award of deferred shares to a maximum of 50% of bonus earned.
Annual and Cash The performance conditions and their weightings for the 2018 Deferred Bonus annual bonus are as follows: Plan ADBP Deferred award Adjusted EBITDA 20% : Adjusted Operating Cash Flow 20% : ROCE 20% : NPS Net Promotor Score 10% : LTAs Lost Time Accidents 10% : and Personal objectives 20%.
In 2018 the maximum annual LTIP award of 100% of salary will be awarded to Joe Hudson and Kevin Sims.
The performance conditions for awards will be equally weighted between Adjusted Earnings per Share EPS growth and comparative Total Shareholder Return TSR assessed over a three-year performance period.
TSR performance of the Company compared to the FTSE 250 LTIP excluding financial services, real estate and equity investment trusts with threshold vesting for median performance against the index and full vesting for upper quartile performance: and EPS growth with threshold performance at 6% per annum growth and maximum performance at 16% per annum growth, straight line vesting between the points.
A two-year holding period will apply to the 2018 LTIP awards following vesting.
The Non-Executive Director fees are to remain the same as the previous year.
The current fee levels are: Chairman 175,000 Non-Executive Directors fees Board fee including Committee membership 50,000 Committee Chairmanship per Committee 10,000 Senior Independent Director 5,000 Joe Hudsons appointment Joe Hudson joined the Company on 2 January 2018 as CEO designate.
Full details of Joes remuneration are set out in the table above.
In addition to the above terms, it was agreed to buy-out, on a fair-value basis, the value forgone by Joe in respect of share awards which he forfeited on cessation of employment with his previous employer.
The award of 21,570 Ibstock plc ordinary shares of 1 pence each takes into account the partial satisfaction of the original performance period at the time of the buy-out.
The buy-out award will vest, subject to Joes continued employment with Ibstock, on the first anniversary of his joining date.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 79 Directors Remuneration Report continued Wayne Sheppards retirement As noted on page 66 Wayne Sheppard will step down from the Board as CEO after a handover period.
Wayne will remain available to the Company until the end of 2018.
Full details of Waynes leaving terms will be set out in next years Directors Remuneration Report.
Summary Remuneration Policy table A summary of the approved Remuneration Policy is outlined below.
No changes to the approved Policy were made in 2017.
The full Policy as approved by shareholders on 26 May 2016 is available on our website at www.
Element of remuneration Operation Base salary The Committee ensures that maximum salary levels are positioned in line with companies of a similar size to Ibstock in the FTSE 250 excluding financial services, real estate and equity investment trusts, validated against companies operating in a similar sector.
When determining an appropriate level of salary, the Committee considers: remuneration practices within the Group: the general performance of the Group: salaries within the ranges paid by the companies in the comparator group used for remuneration benchmarking: any change in scope, role and responsibilities: and the economic environment.
An Executive Directors base salary is set on appointment and reviewed annually or when there is a change in position or responsibility.
In general, salary increases for Executive Directors will be in line with the increase for employees.
Benefits The Executive Directors receive a company car or car allowance, private health cover, death in service cover and income protection.
Additional benefits may be offered such as relocation allowances on recruitment.
The maximum will be set at the cost of providing the benefits described.
Pension The maximum salary supplement in lieu of pension contribution will be 20% of gross basic salary.
Annual and Deferred Bonus The Remuneration Committee will determine the maximum annual participation in the Annual Bonus Plan for each year, Plan ADBP which will not exceed 125% of salary.
The maximum value of deferred shares is 50% of the bonus earned, which vest after a minimum deferral period of three years based on continued employment.
Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP maximum grant is 100% of salary p. a.
LTIP The Committee considers and sets the performance measures and targets for each LTIP award.
See page 75 for the details of the 2017 LTIP grant.
The LTIP contains clawback and malus provisions.
Share Incentive Plan SIP The Company operates a SIP and Sharesave Plan in which the Executive Directors are eligible to participate which is and The Sharesave Plan in line with HMRC legislation and is open to all eligible staff to encourage all employees to become shareholders in the Company and thereby align their interests with shareholders.
Minimum shareholding The Committee has adopted formal shareholding guidelines that will encourage the Executive Directors to build up over requirement a five-year period and then subsequently hold a shareholding equivalent to a percentage of base salary.
Adherence to these guidelines is a condition of continued participation in the equity incentive arrangements.
This policy ensures that the interests of Executive Directors and those of shareholders are closely aligned.
Non-Executive Director and The fees for Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman are set at broadly the median of the comparator group.
Chairman fees Non-Executive Directors are paid an annual fee and additional fees for chairmanship of committees.
The Chairman does not receive any additional fees for membership of committees.
In general, the level of fee increase for the Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman will be set taking account of any change in responsibility and the general rise in salaries across the UK workforce.
The Company will pay reasonable expenses incurred by the Non-Executive Directors and Chairman and may settle any tax incurred in relation to these.
Malus and clawback The ADBP and the LTIP include best practice malus and clawback provisions.
Annual bonus Deferred bonus Long-Term Incentive Plan Malus Up to the date of payment of a cash bonus To the end of the three-year deferral period To the end of the three-year vesting period Clawback Three years post the bonus determination n a Two years post-vesting The Committee believes that the rules of the plans provide sufficient powers to enforce malus and clawback where required.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 80 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information Discretion The Committee has discretion in several areas of policy as set out in this report.
The Committee may also exercise operational and administrative discretions under relevant plan rules approved by shareholders as set out in those rules.
In addition, the Committee has the discretion to amend policy with regard to minor or administrative matters where it would be, in the opinion of the Committee, disproportionate to seek or await shareholder approval.
It is the Committees intention that commitments made in line with its policies prior to Admission will be honoured, even if satisfaction of such commitments is made post the Companys first AGM following Admission and may be inconsistent with policy.
Illustrations of the application of the Remuneration Policy The charts below illustrate the total remuneration that would be paid to each of the Executive Directors, based on salaries at the start of the 2018 financial year, under three different performance scenarios: i minimum: ii on-target: and iii maximum.
They also show the actual single figure of remuneration for the Executive Directors for the 2017 financial year, for comparison purposes.
The table overleaf sets out the assumptions used to calculate the elements of remuneration for each of these scenarios.
The elements of remuneration have been categorised into three components: i fixed: ii annual bonus deferred bonus : and iii LTIP.
Annual bonus Annual bonus including deferred shares.
50% of maximum 100% of maximum Maximum opportunity of 125% of salary.
3 LTIP Award under the LTIP.
Maximum annual award No multiple year 50% of the maximum 100% of the maximum of 100% of salary.
2 Based on 2017 benefits payments and pension values as per the proposed 2018 implementation of policy.
3 In accordance with the regulations share price growth has not been included.
In addition, dividend equivalents have not been added to the deferred share bonus and LTIP share awards.
Participation in the SAYE scheme has been excluded, given the relative size of the opportunity levels.
Pay at risk The charts below set out the single figure of each Executive Director based on whether the elements remain at risk.
For example: payment is subject to continuing employment for a period deferred shares and LTIP awards : performance conditions have still to be satisfied LTIP awards : or elements are subject to clawback or malus for a period, over which the Company can recover sums paid or withhold vesting.
Figures have been calculated based on on-target performance fixed elements plus 50% of maximum annual bonus and 50% of the maximum LTIP.
The charts have been based on the same assumptions as set out above for the illustrations of the application of the Remuneration Policy.
Salary 434,350 Annual bonus 271,469 LTIP 217,175 3 2 Joe Hudson incoming CEO 1.
Salary 303,197 Annual bonus 189,498 LTIP 151,599 3 2 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 82 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information Executive Directors Notice periods Compensation provisions Name Date of service contract Nature of contract From Company From Director for early termination Wayne Sheppard 22 October 2015 Rolling 12 months 12 months None Kevin Sims 22 October 2015 Rolling 12 months 12 months None Joe Hudson 1 January 2018 Rolling 12 months 12 months None Non-Executive Directors Name Date of their appointment Jamie Pike 22 September 2015 Jonathan Nicholls 22 September 2015 1 Lynn Minella 3 February 2016 Tracey Graham 3 February 2016 2 Michael Plantevin 22 October 2015 2 Matthias Boyer Chammard 22 October 2015 Justin Read 1 January 2017 1 Stepped down 31 December 2017.
2 Michel Plantevin and Matthias Boyer Chammard resigned from the Board following the AGM on Wednesday 24 May 2017.
The Committees policy for setting notice periods is that a 12-month period will apply for Executive Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors of the Company including the Chairman do not have service contracts.
The Non-Executive Directors are appointed by letters of appointment.
These are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
Each independent NonExecutive Directors term of office runs for a three-year period.
The initial terms of the Non-Executive Directors positions are subject to their re-election by the Companys shareholders at the AGM and to re-election at any subsequent AGM at which the Non-Executive Directors stand for re-election.
All Directors wishing to continue to serve will be put forward for election re-election by shareholders on an annual basis.
Tracey Graham Chair of the Remuneration Committee 5 March 2018 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 83
