Report of the Nomination Committee Sarah Bates Chair of the Nomination Committee The report of the Nomination Committee sets out the Committees activity during the year and highlights its key areas of focus.
ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE IN SUMMARY To review regularly Board and committee composition and structure: To identify, report on and recommend for Board approval suitable candidates for appointment to the Board: To review the Groups approach to diversity and inclusion and oversee the governance structures of the Group and the Board evaluation process: To consider and review succession planning for Directors and senior management: and To report to the Board on the work of the Committee.
COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDANCE Members Attendance Joined The Committees terms of reference set out the Committees role and authority in full and can be found on the corporate Sarah Bates Chair 3 3 1 January 2014 Iain Cornish 1 October 2011 website at www.
These terms of reference were 3 3 Baroness Wheatcroft 1 January 2014 expanded over the year to include responsibility for reviewing 3 3 and overseeing the Groups corporate governance framework, the Boards effectiveness evaluation process and the Groups approach to diversity and inclusion.
St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 94 Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information One of the primary responsibilities of the Committee is identifying and recommending to the Board suitable appointments to the Board.
This was a key area of focus early this year as the Committee completed the appointment process for the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Finance Officer which brought to fruition a carefully planned succession programme in relation to both these roles.
The Board has also considered future Board succession at some length.
The Committee has regularly reviewed the structure and composition of the Board including the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity required and demonstrated by it in order that it is appropriate to continue to lead the Group and achieve its strategic objectives.
The Committee must also ensure that the skills and attributes necessary at those levels immediately below the Board are constantly reviewed, in order to ensure that there is an appropriate and talented succession pipeline.
This remains a key area of focus as described in this report and has been the subject of much discussion.
The development of the Executive team and the roles appropriate to deliver the Groups strategy, as well as succession and development plans, have been reviewed.
Overseeing our approach and progress in relation to diversity is another aspect of the Committees work and the Committee takes a very active interest in this area, as has the Board as a whole.
Progress in this respect is set out on page 96.
A formal report was made to the Committee in November 2017 by Ian Gascoigne, who leads the executive steering group looking at this matter, and the conclusions are described further in my Chairs Report on pages 72 to 73.
The Committee was pleased with the progress made and the plans for the future.
Also, as Chair, I was invited to, and participated in, a number of senior management discussions on this topic.
Sarah Bates On behalf of the Nomination Committee 27 February 2018 OPERATION AND PERFORMANCE OF THE COMMITTEE The Committee comprises three independent Non-executive Directors and membership has remained unchanged during the year.
The Committees effectiveness has been reviewed by the Board as part of its overall assessment of its effectiveness see page 81 and the Committee remains satisfied that, as a whole, the Committee has the experience and qualification necessary to perform its role.
Given the topics discussed, the Committee invited the two Non-executive Directors who are not members of the Committee to join all or part of Committee meetings held in the year.
In addition, the following people attended to present on relevant topics during the year: David Bellamy CEO, Andrew Croft CFO and Ian Gascoigne who is leading the executive steering diversity group.
COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES DURING 2017 The Committee held three scheduled meetings during the year and the key topics considered at those meetings are summarised below.
February July November KEY TOPICS KEY TOPICS KEY TOPICS New CEO and new CFO recommending Board skills and experience Board composition and succession candidates for these roles to the Board Board succession Non-executive Directors independence Leadership needs of the organisation in Executive & Senior management and time commitments the future succession Diversity Diversity Training and development Training and development Terms of reference coverage and review In addition, the Committee had two ad hoc meetings in September and October, attended by all Committee members and the two Nonexecutive Directors who are not members of the Committee, to receive and discuss updates on Board succession.
There was also a Board dinner discussion in July which focused on people and diversity across the organisation please see details on page 96.
BOARD AND EXECUTIVE SUCCESSION As mentioned in last years Annual Report, in light of the decision by our current Chief Executive Officer to step down from his role and from the Board at the end of 2017, the Committee completed the appointment process for our new Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer early in 2017 recommending Andrew Croft as the new Chief Executive Officer and Craig Gentle as new Chief Finance Officer with effect from 1 January 2018.
This was announced in February 2017.
As part of this process the Committee considered and approved the description of these roles and the capabilities and experiencerequired.
The Committee focused on succession planning at the most senior executive levels, and also discussed the succession planning supporting those executives.
It also discussed succession planning for the Board as a whole including for Non-executive Director and Chair succession.
In relation to Board succession, a review of the skills, experience and knowledge currently represented on the Board was undertaken see below, and consideration given to the likely requirements of the Board going forward.
Searches are being undertaken for new Non-executive Directors and discussions about Chair succession are being undertaken by a relevant sub-committee of the Nomination Committee.
The development of internal talent for the Executive Board and senior management continues to be another key area of focus for the Committee.
Good progress has been made in this respect including a significant focus this year on the development of internal talent, recruiting external executives where appropriate and structured succession plans for each Executive Board member.
There has also been a focus by the Board on the appropriate people strategy referred to on page 80.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc 95 Report of the Nomination Committee continued Although the Committee will continue to recommend appointments to BOARD AND COMMITTEE COMPOSITION the Board based on individual merit, measured against objective criteria As preparation for considering the candidates for the new Chief and the skills and experience the individual offers, the Board will also Executive Officer and Chief Finance Officer and also for future Board succession, the Committee has discussed and considered the focus on the collective performance of the Board, which benefits from a diversity of skills, experience, background and approach.
Whilst, the appropriate composition and structure of the Board paying particular Committee is very mindful of the contents and targets in the Davies attention to the existing skills, knowledge, experience, diversity and Report, Hampton-Alexander Review and the Parker Review its focus will independence of the Board.
This is to ensure that these remain continue to be on improving diversity and inclusivity in a thoughtful and appropriate both now and in the future, as well as considering whether there is any requirement to draw in additional skills and experience from sustainable way whilst also removing the potential underlying barriers to achieving our aims in this respect.
That means practical steps, such as, elsewhere.
It should be noted that half of the Board excluding the Chair the careful development of role descriptions to avoid excluding is comprised of independent Non-executive Directors.
candidates for non-evidence based reasons.
The Committee has not felt it necessary to make any The Committee has taken a very active interest in our progress in recommendations to change the structure of the Board or its Committees during the current year although it has been giving relation to the diversity agenda at senior management and other levels and across the Partnership and, in addition to the Board detailed consideration to its plans for the future in order to plan for its discussion of progress during the July Board dinner, the Committee own refreshment and succession in the medium and long term.
has received two substantial formal updates at its meetings during DIVERSITY the year as well as regular informal progress reports through As we state in our diversity and inclusion update on page 18, we are one-to-one meetings.
clear that a diverse and inclusive community at Board level and Our diversity programme is led by the Diversity Executive Steering Group across our employee base and the Partnership, will make our chaired by Ian Gascoigne, an Executive Director.
He is supported by a business stronger and drive continued growth and innovation.
This is dedicated team who help to drive the diversity initiatives across the why our aim is to have a diverse representation around the Board Group and the Partnership.
During 2017, these initiatives have focused table as well as at ExBo and across our employee base.
on gender diversity and inclusivity, and have included programmes and The objectives to achieve the aim mentioned above in relation to training on women in management and inclusive leadership, a review of diversity at Board level include regularly reviewing the Boards skills people practices and the output from our employee survey to analyse and experience matrix to assess diversity across the current Board.
the key areas that we need to address in relation to gender diversity The Committee has spent some considerable time this year with this together with further development of, and assessment against, metrics review given it is very conscious of the need to continue to drive in relation to these initiatives.
diversity at this level, particularly in relation to gender diversity, but I am pleased to report that we have made good progress in relation also in response to the changing and developing requirements of to each of these areas mentioned above and this progress is detailed Board members.
This has also been an important consideration in further on page 18. the planning of any recruitment to the Board as well as succession planning mentioned above.
In 2018, our focus will be on enhancing and tracking the necessary data and information relating to diversity and inclusivity, changing Another Board objective in this respect is that each time a Director is our recruitment approach and processes to encourage candidates recruited onto the Board, we will only engage search firms who have from a diverse background, reviewing our working practices to signed up to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search ensure we retain talented people and signing up to the HMT Women Firms on gender diversity and best practice.
Our instructions to these in Finance Charter.
These will form part of our Executive team bonus firms are, and will continue to be, very clear about the requirement to performance criteria and Board KPIs.
present a diverse list of candidates from a range of different industries and backgrounds with at least 50% of any long list to be The aim of these initiatives is to improve the inclusive culture within female candidates as, although we are only just short of the female the Group and the Partnership enabling us to attract, retain and board representation target set out in the Davies Report, as develop talented employees and Partners from all sections of the mentioned above, we wish to increase the number of female community.
The Committee will continue to oversee and receive Directors over time.
We do note, however, that a number of regular reports on our progress in relation to each of these initiatives.
companies who have achieved this level have a rather different BOARD EFFECTIVENESS balance between executives and non-executives on the board.
In addition, we are exploring searching for candidates from a wider pool The Committee has reviewed detailed analysis as to the significant including those with experience outside traditional listed boards, other commitments of the Non-executive Directors and how much time they were spending on the Companys business and affairs.
from less establishment backgrounds, and also placing more emphasis on considering those outside our industry sector.
The Committee and the Board are satisfied that the Non-executive Directors are able to, and do, commit sufficient time and attention to the Companys business.
In addition, the Committee reviewed and approved an assessment of the independence of each of the Non-executive Directors, concluding that each of the Non-executive Directors demonstrated that they remained independent in character and judgement.
St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 96
