Nomination Committee Report The membership of the committee is set out in the table opposite and comprises a majority of independent non-executive directors: the Chief Executive is also a member of the committee.
The Nomination Committee Members and meetings in 2017 The role of the nomination committee includes: Cairn recognises that the role of its nomination evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge, experience, diversity committee, working together with the Board as a whole, and independence on the Board: is key to promoting effective board succession and the supporting the process for Board appointments and making alignment of board composition with the Companys recommendations to the Board in respect of new appointments: culture, values and strategy.
The Company has reviewed working with the Board to address any performance evaluation the results of the work undertaken by the Financial outcomes linked to board succession planning: and Reporting Council in relation to UK Board succession oversight of the executive pipeline of talent beneath Board level.
planning and revisited the role of the Board and nomination committee in this context to ensure it Board changes remains appropriate.
The Company appointed two new non-executive directors Keith X { U Member Meetings c : a since attended x Ian Tyler Iain McLaren will step down as a non-executive director immediately Chair e:a a x committee will commence a search for one additional new nonSimon Thomson executive director.
Following Mr McLarens retirement from the Board, Keith Lough will assume the role of chair of the audit committee and Peter Kallos will assume the role of senior independent nonx F aX Succession planning and development of executive pipeline x U X The nomination committee regularly evaluates the balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Company on the Board and makes recommendations to the Board as appropriate.
x Peter Kallos In so doing, the committee fully supports the principle that any new appointments to the Board should be made on merit, against objective criteria, and with due regard for the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender and ethnicity.
The Board and nomination committee work together with the aim of maintaining a comprehensive succession plan for appointments to the Board and to senior management, so as to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience within the Company and on the Board and to ensure progressive refreshing of the Board.
The Companys succession planning also includes contingency plans for the sudden or unexpected departure of executive directors and other senior managers.
The Board has also carefully considered the significance of succession planning and human resource management to the Companys strategy and annually reviews this at Board level.
The key positions covered in our succession plan include the executive directors, regional directors and a number of other senior functional and technical managers.
The Board considered succession planning for each of the key positions, analysed any succession gaps or risks identified and considered how best to continue to develop the succession pipeline of executive talent.
As a result, the Board has a deep understanding of succession planning across the Company and the range of measures being used to continue to develop and recruit talented senior employees.
% executive summary, a review of the process used by the Company for succession planning, key achievements since the previous review, analysis of the succession plan for each key position over various time horizons, an organisational capability assessment and health-check, and actions being undertaken to address any succession risks or challenges identified.
99 Leadership and Governance Nomination Committee Report continued Diversity The nomination committee very much takes into account the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender and ethnic and cultural diversity.
8 c : and the Board is diverse in terms of the range of culture, nationality and international experience of its members.
The directors diverse range of experience and expertise covers not only a wealth of experience of operating in the oil and gas industry but also extensive technical, operational, financial, governance, legal and commercial expertise.
The committee will further monitor and consider diversity for future Board appointments, whilst continuing to recruit on merit.
Beneath Board level, the Company also aims to develop and increase the number of women in senior management roles across the Group, although Cairn does face particular challenges in achieving this given the industry within which it operates.
There is currently one woman on the X a U : B e 8 The Company continues to operate a range of measures which support diversity at Cairn, including recruitment and succession planning, training and development, and flexible working policies.
The pipeline of younger talent within the Group is also diverse and bodes well for the future.
Board and committee performance evaluation concluded that the relationship between the Board and its committees was functioning well, with all committees fully meeting their remit.
The nomination committee works together with the Board in seeking to address any performance evaluation outcomes relating to Board composition and succession planning.
IAN TYLER Chair of the nomination committee a {X e  e 100
