Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Report of the Audit Committee Simon Jeffreys Chair of the Audit Committee The report of the Audit Committee sets out the activity during the year and details of the key responsibilities of the Committee in more detail.
ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE IN SUMMARY To be responsible for the accuracy and integrity of To report to the Board on how the Committee has the Groups financial statements: discharged its responsibilities: and To oversee the appointment of the external auditor: To monitor arrangements whereby employees and others, may in confidence, raise matters of concern, To monitor the independence, objectivity and and ensure appropriate follow up action occurs.
independence of the external auditor: To receive and act upon the reports of the external auditor: To monitor the work of the internal audit function and ensure its effectiveness: To monitor the effectiveness of the systems of internal control and risk management: To review, and where appropriate refer on to the Board, any significant control weaknesses or failures: COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDANCE Members Attendance Joined The Committees terms of reference set out the Simon Jeffreys Chair 6 6 1 January 2014 Committees role and authority and can be found Iain Cornish 6 6 1 October 2011 on the corporate website at www.
Roger Yates 6 6 1 July 2014 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc 83 Report of the Audit Committee continued I am pleased to present the report of the Audit Committee of St. Jamess Place plc for the year ended 31 December 2017 which sets out the key OPERATION AND PERFORMANCE OF THE COMMITTEE The Committee comprises three independent Non-executive responsibilities of the Committee in more detail, activity during the period Directors and membership has remained unchanged during the and the Committees work in relation to the 2017 financial statements.
The Committees effectiveness has been reviewed by the The continuing evolution of reporting standards, as they are introduced in Board as part of its overall assessment of its effectiveness see the coming years, remains a key focus of the Committee.
Ahead of the page 81 and it remains satisfied that the Committee as a whole 2017 year end, the Committee was keen to focus early on the likely impact has the experience and qualifications necessary to successfully of forthcoming International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and, perform its role, noting in particular that the Chair of the where relevant, agree in principle the disclosures to be included in the next Committee is a qualified accountant and former auditor, and Annual Report.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and IFRS 15 Revenue from other members also have recent and relevant experience and contracts with customers will both be adopted from 1 January 2018 and, expertise in the financial services sector.
having completed our assessments, we have been able to confirm in the A record of Committee members attendance throughout 2017 notes to the financial statements that neither standard will have a material can be found on page 83.
During the year the Committee also impact on our financial statements.
IFRS 16 Leases and IFRS 17 invited the Chair, Chief Financial Officer, Director of Internal Insurance Contracts will not be adopted until later dates.
We continue to Audit, Chief Risk Officer, Chief Actuary and other members of assess what IFRS 16 and IFRS 17 will mean for our financial reporting.
the Finance, Internal Audit and Controls teams, as well as Whilst IFRS 16 is expected to have a material impact on our consolidated representatives from the external auditors and Deloitte, our statement of financial position, and both standards will require internal audit co-source partner, to attend meetings, where presentational changes within our financial statements, we do not expect appropriate.
Private sessions are held with the external auditor either standard to have a significant effect otherwise.
after certain meetings, providing a channel for them to raise concerns in the absence of management and enabling the We remain mindful of the importance of ensuring that our Annual Report Senior Statutory Auditor to feed into the work of the Committee.
and Accounts present a fair, balanced and understandable financial At each scheduled meeting the Committee: assessment of the Company.
We have focused on ensuring explanations of changes resulting from key judgements and Receives updates from the external auditor on progress with assumptions are clear and also reflected on the APMs we use to explain ongoing activities: the business.
Having taken account of investor feedback, including the Receives an update on progress with the internal audit plan: value they place on the cash result and EV, we have sought, where Is provided with an update from the Finance department, appropriate, to provide information in a format that enables readers to including a summary of developments in financial reporting, understand well the key drivers of our financial performance.
a summary of capital management in the Group, and details of financial control breaches since the last meeting: The updates we made last year following the introduction of the EU Audit Receives an update on fraud activity since the last meeting: Directive and the FRCs Ethical Standard are now well embedded and the Is provided with a report on whistleblowing activity: and Committee continues to keep all policies under regular review, making Reviews and recommends relevant policies to the Board enhancements where necessary.
The Directive determines that, not only for adoption.
the Company, but also our UK and Irish life insurance companies are In addition to receiving updates from management, members of classified as Public Interest Entities PIEs.
PIEs are required to have audit the Committee attend and contribute in industry briefings and committees and this Committee now fulfils this function for the UK life workshops to ensure they stay abreast of topical subjects for insurer.
This year end we have considered the financial statements of our audit committees.
One such example during 2017 saw the Chair UK life company and received the external auditors report thereon.
Our of the Audit Committee participating in the FRCs Audit and Irish life insurer has a separate audit committee.
Assurance Lab on audit committee reporting.
Client assets remained a high profile topic during 2017 and one that the The Committee also maintains a forward agenda which aims to Committee has monitored closely, requesting evidence that provided the ensure that the Committees workload is balanced across the year Committee with assurance that the controls and procedures in place to and that key areas of focus are considered at appropriate times.
safeguard client assets were operating effectively.
PwCs insight was also The Audit Committee is responsible for carrying out the sought, both about the Groups operations, and also their experience of function required under the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency third party administrators working on the Groups behalf.
3R Audit committees and complied with The The new reporting requirements introduced under Solvency II have now Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market been firmly embedded within our annual work cycle.
Companies across Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes the industry have published their first reports, and this has provided us with and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 throughout an opportunity to reflect on possible improvements in our ownreporting.
During 2018, as well as confirming with PwC the audit partner to take over from Jeremy Jensen in 2019, the Committee will be participating in WHISTLEBLOWING the selection of a new firm to carry out the audit of our Irish subsidiary The Chair of the Committee is a key contact in the Whistleblowing from 2019, as required by the EU Audit Directive further details on page Policy and is the whistleblowers champion under the Senior Insurance 87.
The Committee will also be looking to work closely with the newly Managers Regime.
The Committee reviewed whistleblowing appointed Chief Financial Officer and Director of Internal Audit in 2018, arrangements during the year and concluded that the arrangements ensuring that their transitions are smooth and that they are appropriately were appropriate and consistently in force across the entire Group.
Simon Jeffreys On behalf of the Audit Committee 27 February 2018 St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 84 Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES DURING 2017 The Committee held six scheduled meetings during the year and the key topics considered at those meetings are summarised below: January February May KEY TOPICS KEY TOPICS KEY TOPICS Year-end preparation Reviewed Final Results Reviewed and Year End Review Undertook a and approved accounting recommended to the Board the draft review of the 2016 Year-end process, judgements and actuarial Final Results announcement and evaluated the performance of the assumptions, and received an draft Annual Report and Accounts external auditor and carried out an update on progress with the 2016 for 2016, including the viability annual review of the Committees year-end external audit.
Asset Valuation Considered a External Audit Received the report Internal Audit Reviewed the review of the external audit of the of the external auditor on the results performance of the Internal Audit SJP Unit Trusts and the half-yearly of their audit and concurred with function during 2016 and received a review of the oversight and managements response to the presentation from Deloitte, monitoring of the activities of recommendations identified.
regarding the co-sourcing service providers, probing the Solvency II Reviewed compliance arrangements.
robustness of the framework upon with the Solvency Directive, and Bribery and Fraud Review which valuations included in the approved the publication of the 2016 Received an annual review of the consolidated Group accounts were Year End Solvency and Financial Groups systems and controls for based.
July October November KEY TOPICS KEY TOPICS KEY TOPICS Half-year Results Reviewed and Internal Audit Review Assessed Year-end preparation Considered recommended to the Board the draft the adequacy of the skills and key developments, material 2017 Half-year Results resource within the Internal Audit accounting judgements and announcement.
Department against current and actuarial basis proposals, agreeing External Audit Received and future demands.
in principle the key assumptions to considered the external auditors Internal Controls Considered be adopted when preparing the 2017 review for the half year to planned enhancements to the Year End Annual Report and 30 June 2017. controls framework for 2018 and Accounts.
Asset Valuation Received the agreed the key metrics and External Audit received an update half-yearly review of the oversight information required by the from the external auditors on and monitoring of the activities of Committee to provide assurance of progress with the 2017 Year end service providers working on the the effectiveness of management audit.
SJP Unit Trusts, considering the oversight.
Internal Audit Plan Considered the valuation methodologies adopted Year-end preparation Received a proposed 2018 internal audit plan.
and examining the potential impacts progress update and considered of Brexit and new regulation.
policy changes that would arise from Internal Controls Received the the introduction of new International half-yearly review of the Groups Financial Reporting Standards.
External Audit Plan Received and agreed the external auditors plan for the audit of the 2017 year-end.
In addition to the scheduled meetings, the Committee was also convened and met on three other occasions to consider the final 2016 year-end SFCR, the final 2016 year-end Regulatory Supervisory Report RSR, and to review the processes followed prior to making attestations on CASS compliance, requested by the Regulator.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc 85 Report of the Audit Committee continued SIGNIFICANT ISSUES CONSIDERED RELATING TO THE GROUPS FINANCIAL REPORTING The Committees deliberations during the year have taken account of the implications for the Groups financial reporting, in particular, the risk of misstatement of the financial statements, and also by assessment of the scale of risk in the business.
The following summarises significant issues considered during the course of the Committees meetings in 2017: Area of Focus Activity Fraud in revenue recognition During the course of its regular work, the Committee continues to review the relevant policies and receive regular reports from management and internal external audit on the controls.
This enabled the Committee to continue to scrutinise the controls in place and gain assurance of their adequacy.
Asset Valuation The Committee received half-yearly reports on the oversight and monitoring of the activities of service providers working on the SJP Unit Trusts, and was able to challenge management on the valuation framework and methodologies adopted, and provide insight on the potential impacts of Brexit and other market developments.
Accounting Judgements and As part of reviewing the half-year and year-end reporting the Committee required management to Actuarial Assumptions identify and explain the key judgements and assumptions, and in particular any significant changes.
During the year, the operational readiness prepayment continued to be the most significant accounting judgement, whilst adaptations to align the EV methodology with Solvency II and the change in Bond persistency were important assumption developments.
The setting of assumptions associated with the new Retirement Account including the projecting of both preand post-crystallisation pensions in one product was also tested.
APMs Underlying Profit, EEV In response to the FRCs continuing focus, the Committee again worked through with management the and Cash Result appropriateness of the APMs presented in the accounts.
In particular, the Committee was satisfied with the disclosures reconciling the APMs to Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
The Committee was pleased to note evidence of the value that analyst and other market participants place on the Companys use of the Cash Result and EEV, but was also keen to ensure that these were not given undue prominence by comparison with IFRS measures.
Solvency II 2017 was the first year in which the Group was required to prepare a Group SFCR and individual RSRs.
To support the review and sign-off process, the Committee held additional meetings but for the 2017 reports we considered both reports alongside the Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 as much of the financial information is common across them all.
IFRS developments and The Committee requested and received regular updates on developments in Financial Reporting, with particular focus during the year on IFRS 9, IFRS 15, IFRS 16 and IFRS 17.
As industry guidance has Accounting Policies developed, the potential impact has become clearer.
The Committee was provided with assessments of the likely impact and requested early sight of new disclosures, which, following review, were approved see pages 130 and 131.
FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE OPINION The UK Corporate Governance Code requires the Board to give its opinion as to whether it considers the Companys Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
To aid the Board, the Audit Committee carried out a formal review of the Annual Report and Accounts in relation to this requirement, including a consideration of the results of activities and information described above.
The Committee received a detailed review of managements assessment and in particular, concentrated on the following questions: Does the report present the whole story, including challenges and issues faced as well as Company achievements?
Does the report achieve consistency between the financial statements and the narrative sections?
Are appropriate performance measures included and clearly explained?
Are key judgements and estimation uncertainties in the financial statements appropriately explained and are they consistent with the Audit Committee Report and the risks the external auditor addresses in its report?
Does the overall document have a clear and cohesive structure?
Is the report readable and are the important messages highlighted appropriately?
Are explanations of business models, strategies and accounting policies clear?
Following this review, the Committee was able to advise the Board that the Companys Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 are fair, balanced and understandable.
St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 86 Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information EXTERNAL AUDITOR Activity During the Year As in previous years, the external auditor attended all Committee meetings and met privately with the Committee regularly.
The Chair of the Committee met regularly with the Senior Statutory Auditor both to receive updates on progress and also to discuss any privatematters.
The Committee discussed the findings of the year-end audit under the headings of the major risks as set out in the original audit plan and Committee members applied their understanding of the scope of work, findings, judgements and conclusions of the external audit in their evaluation that the financial statements had been properly prepared.
Particular areas of the work of the external auditor that the Audit Committee focussed on during the early part of 2017 included the Client assets CASS Audit, particularly the processes of the third party administration outsource providers.
The external auditor was also able to provide insight on topical issues as appropriate during the year.
Independence and Non-Audit Services The Committee carried out its annual review of the Policy on Auditor Independence during the year and we remain committed to ensuring that the policy only permits our auditor to carry out limited non-audit work, where there is no risk of compromising independence, and the external auditor is the only supplier who could reasonably carry out the engagement.
The Committee considers proposals for non-audit services as they arise and receives updates at each meeting on fees incurred with PwC for all services, along with details of trivial non-audit services which the Committee has authorised management to approve.
As reported last year, one of the main areas under consideration was audit work on the Groups Unit Trusts and, following further discussions with industry experts and the FRC, the Committee has established the appropriate classification.
In their Audit Report to the Committee, PwC confirmed that they remain independent of the Group and, having carried out its own assessment, the Committee concluded that PwC remained independent and objective.
The Policy on Auditor Independence is available on the Companys website and details of the non-audit services provided by PwC during the year can be found on page 140.
Effectiveness As described in detail last year, a tender process was carried out in 2016 and PwC were reappointed as the Groups external auditor, ensuring that we continue to meet the relevant requirements and recommendations relating to the tenure of appointment set out in The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 the Order, Regulation EU No 537 2014 and the FRCs revised Ethical Standard June 2016.
PwC has served as the Companys external auditor since 2009 and regulations require that we change our audit firm by no later than the 2027 audit, although Jeremy Jensen, our Senior Statutory Auditor is required to step down in 2019 after five years in the role.
The Committee will confirm, with PwC, Jeremys replacement during the coming year.
The slightly different rules in Dublin, which limit auditors tenure to a maximum of ten years mean that we will have to change our auditor in Dublin for the 2019 audit.
The Committee has begun planning the process to be followed for this change and has considered a wide range of options, making use of many of the learning points identified during the 2016 Group tender.
When considering future arrangements, a key focus will be the effective working relationship between the new auditor and the Group auditor.
The Committees annual review of the external auditor concluded that the audit service of PwC was fit for purpose and provided a robust evaluation of the risks underlying the Companys financial statements.
PwC have indicated their willingness to continue in office and the Board have agreed that a Resolution that they be reappointed until the end of the 2019 Annual General Meeting will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Key considerations when assessing the effectiveness, independenceand objectivity of the Companys external auditor during the year included: Area of Focus Activity Auditor Effectiveness The findings of the annual review by the FRC of the main auditing firms, which did not highlight any adverse and Quality findings that were relevant to the Group or required follow up: The Audit Quality Review report specifically on  LLP: The experience and knowledge of the team, with due regard to the requirement for regular rotation of audit team members : The professional scepticism demonstrated by the external auditor: The results of an internal survey of auditor performance: and The findings of the external auditors owninternal review of both the firm and ouraudit.
Auditor Independence Review of the nature and extent of other non-audit work undertaken to confirm compliance with our policy: and Objectivity Review by SJP to confirm no links or investments with the Company by the audit team: The robustness and appropriateness of PwCs challenging of management when considering significant issues: PwCs willingness to raise issues and the nature thereof with the Committee, including in Committee meetings and private sessions held in the absence of management: and Regular rotation of audit team.
Level of Fees Detailed information on the break-down of fees paid to our external audit firm see Note 5 on page 140.
The Committee satisfied itself that the audit was effective and that the external auditors remain independent and objective.
The Committee also considered the advantages of having one firm audit the Group and the unit trusts, and whether there may be a perceived conflict of interest arising from this arrangement.
It concluded that appropriate safeguards exist to manage any actual conflict which could arise, in particular there are separate audit teams and the Committee reviews at high level the scope of unit trust audit work and the reasonableness of the fee.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc 87 Report of the Audit Committee continued INTERNAL AUDIT The Director of Internal Audit has regular one-to-one meetings with the Chair of the Audit Committee and, if necessary, the other members of the Board and is accountable to the Audit Committee.
In the lead up to the retirement of the Groups previous Director of Internal Audit, the Committee met with the incoming Director of Internal Audit and invited him to attend meetings to aid his transition into his new role.
The Chair of the Audit Committee participated in and agreed the appointment of the Director of Internal Audit, worked with the Remuneration Committee to agree his compensation, and also met with him regularly to ensure a seamless transition.
The Chair of the Audit Committee also held an exit interview with the previous Director of Internal Audit prior to his retirement.
During the year the Committee reviewed and approved the Audit Charter, as required by the standards of the IIA Institute of Internal Auditors.
The Internal Audit function also presented periodic reviews of the skills and capabilities within the team.
The Internal Audit function has continued its co-sourcing agreement with Deloitte LLP, which has been an effective relationship.
Co-sourcing provides specialist expertise and additional resources to maintain and enhance the level of assurance, provided to the Audit Committee.
The work plan for the Internal Audit function was agreed at the start of the year, and has taken close account of the key risks faced by the business both initially and through the dynamic rolling plan review process.
Progress was monitored through the year, with particular focus on whether the team had the necessary resources to implement the plan in a timely manner at each of the quarterly review points for plan coverage.
The Chair of the Committee participated in the annual internal audit strategy day and reported back to the Committee.
Risk-based internal audit work during the year has focused on key control priorities identified at the planning stage with the Committee, thesebeing: Area of Focus Example Activities Coverage of the programme to upgrade the Groups back-office systems through a combination of Strategic Initiatives and other ongoing monitoring work and focused deep dives: Major Change Projects Detailed reviews of both the Singapore and Hong Kong businesses: and Continued support of Rowan Dartington integration with the Group, with a strong focus on CASS and MiFID II.
Review of the key HR processes andcontrols: Core Group Processes Coverage of finance areas, including actuarial processes and controls, and SJPI key financialcontrols: Consideration of the supplier management framework: and Review of the project management framework, as well as a specific look at the IT project to update identity access processes, a foundational piece of the Groups cyber roadmap.
Assurance over the Investment Management Approach by looking at the arrangements forongoing Third Party Risk Management monitoring of third party fundmanagers: A review of SJPs key outsourced IT developer, Intellect: and Coverage of DST, through reviews of unit trust and ISA, client money, and operationalMI.
Coverage on the completeness and accuracy of our Regulatory Returns: Governance, Risk and Compliance Review of Business Assurance effectiveness through a check of sample of files: and Ongoing assurance work over topical regulatory areas including GDPR, MiFID II, andCASS.
Review of the processes for the supervision of heightened risk Partners: Client and Partner Assurance over the Group-wide controls for ongoing servicing: and Appraisal of the processes for ensuring theappropriate management of vulnerableclients.
In addition, all audits reviewed the robustness of the operation of control self-assessments as outlined in the following section, as well as seeking to identify points of process efficiency.
When receiving regular updates from the Director of Internal Audit in relation to the results of completed audits, the Committee paid careful attention to both organisationally recognised areas of risk focus and any specific areas where the audit led to remedial action being recommended.
The actions arising were monitored to ensure completion.
In practice, 95% 2016: 92% of actions were completed in line with the original agreed deadlines, with the rest expected to be completed by appropriately agreed revised deadlines.
No second revisions of deadlines were permitted during the year.
St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 88 Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information SYSTEM OF INTERNAL CONTROL The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys system of internal controls which is aligned to the risk management framework.
In practice, management will design and implement controls, and the Board will ensure management discharges this responsibility in accordance with the risk management framework and relevant risk appetite statements.
The Audit Committee and Risk Committee work closely together to ensure controls mitigating major risks are appropriately designed and operating effectively.
The Risk Committee therefore provides regular updates to the Audit Committee on the status of risk management in the Group.
The Group adopts the three lines of defence model as the design basis for its internal control framework and the process for reviewing the effectiveness of the framework takes account of this model as follows: Area of Focus Activity Control Self-Assessment attestation from management: First Line Operations Attestation by significant third party suppliers of outsourced administration services: and CEO attestation to the Audit Committee on the integrity of first line operations.
Control assessments: Second Line Risk Management Risk control self-assessments: and Controls Compliance monitoring: and Business assurance thematic reviews.
Review of the control self-assessment system led by the Controls Manager at half year and year-end: CEO attestation to the Audit Committee on the second line, risk management functions: and Reports from the Risk Committee.
Internal Audit ongoing assurance activity, including reviews by external organisations, managed by Third Line Audit Internal Audit: and Internal Audit Internal Control Annual Evaluation report as outlined below.
External Audit acts as a further check on the Companys processes relating to financial reporting.
In summary, the Chief Executive has ultimate responsibility for the first two lines of defence and uses his knowledge of the business, and that of his senior management team, to provide an opinion on the control systems.
Separately, Internal Audit provides an independent opinion the Internal Control Evaluation report, from a third line perspective, based on Internal Audit activity conducted throughout the year and Internal Audits further analysis and appraisal of the outputs from a wide range of other sources.
These sources of assurance assist the Audit Committee in completing its reviews and enable the Audit Committee to attest on behalf of the Board that it has been able to properly review the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control in accordance with the 2014 FRC Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
The Audit Committee did not identify any significant failings or weaknesses and it has ensured that corrective action is being taken on matters arising from the review.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc 89
