Corporate Governance Report Sarah Bates Chair This report explains how your Board leads the Companys approach to corporate governance and explains how the principles of the Financial Reporting Councils UK Corporate Governance Code have been applied in practice.
The Board considers that the Company has complied with all of the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, available at: www.
co. uk during 2017 and this report explains how.
Detailed reporting on remuneration, as required by Section D of the Code, can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report.
MAKE UP OF THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES Risk The Board Iain Cornish Chair Sarah Bates Chair Simon Jeffreys Andrew Croft CEO Baroness Wheatcroft Ian Gascoigne Roger Yates Craig Gentle David Lamb Nomination Iain Cornish SID Sarah Bates Chair Simon Jeffreys Iain Cornish Baroness Wheatcroft Baroness Wheatcroft Roger Yates Remuneration Audit Roger Yates Chair Simon Jeffreys Chair Simon Jeffreys Iain Cornish Baroness Wheatcroft Roger Yates David Bellamy retired as a Director on 31December 2017, having served as a Director throughout the financial year.
Craig Gentle was appointed a Director on 1January2018.
All of the other Directors were in office throughout the financial year and up to the date of the report and biographical details, including their membership of Board Committees, are set out on pages 70 and 71.
Members Attendance during 2017 Sarah Bates Chair 6 6 Andrew Croft CEO 6 6 Ian Gascoigne 6 6 David Lamb 6 6 Iain Cornish SID 6 6 Simon Jeffreys 6 6 Baroness Wheatcroft 6 6 Roger Yates 6 6 St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 74 Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information THE ROLE OF THE BOARD Relations with Stakeholders The Board considers active engagement with its key stakeholders to Board Leadership be fundamental to the business.
The Strategic Report on pages 2 to Your Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of 62 sets out in more detail how we engage with key stakeholders the Company and: including our employees, the Partnership, our clients, our fund Provides entrepreneurial leadership and direction to the Company managers and our local community.
in setting out its strategic aims, visions and values and Our shareholders are another key stakeholder and we maintain close overseeing delivery against these: relationships with institutional shareholders through direct dialogue Monitors financial performance and reporting and approves and frequent meetings.
We also meet regularly with the Groups recommends payments of dividends: brokers who facilitate meetings with investors and their Sets the Companys risk appetite, assessing the principal risks representatives.
Non-executive Directors are appraised of the views facing the Company and ensuring that adequate controls are in of major shareholders via briefings at Board meetings which include place to manage risk effectively: material topics raised by investors.
Board members also receive Ensures that appropriate and effective succession planning copies of the latest analysts and brokers reports on the Company, arrangements and remuneration policies are in place: and attend shareholder and or analyst meetings from time to time.
Implements appropriate corporate governance procedures: Reviews major transactions or initiatives proposed by the During 2017, shareholder interaction included holding shareholder Executives: and roadshows, where the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer Determines the Companys policy on charitable and political presented the Companys full year and half year results to investors, donations.
attending investor conferences, and holding Capital Markets days for investors and analysts addressing a wide range of strategic and The powers of the Directors are set out in the Companys Articles of operational topics, investor meetings and conference calls.
Association the Articles, prescribed by Special Resolutions of the Company and codified in UK company law.
The Articles contain, for The Chair wrote to major shareholders in 2017 following the example, specific provisions and restrictions concerning the publication of the Annual Report and Accounts and the Companys power to borrow money.
They also provide that Directors announcement of a new CEO, to ensure they had contact details for have the power to allot unissued shares, up to pre-determined levels her, the SID and the Chair of the Remuneration Committee and to set and approved by shareholders in general meetings.
Our explain the rationale for the changes to the constitution put to shareholders have also granted the Directors authority to make shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
The Chair and Non-executive charitable donations and further details on the donations made can Directors also attended a number of shareholder meetings and be found on page 31. forums with the Executive team.
At the 2017 AGM, shareholders granted authority to the Directors for The Chair, SID and other Non-executive Directors are available for the purchase by the Company of its own shares, with such authority consultation with shareholders on request and will be available after expiring at the end of the 2018 AGM, or 18 months from the date the Companys Annual General Meeting which will be held on granted, whichever is the earlier.
The Directors will propose the Wednesday 23 May 2018, further details of which are set out in the renewal of this authority at the 2018 AGM.
During the year, the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Company did not purchase any of its own shares.
Further to the powers granted above, the Board maintains a full schedule of matters reserved to it together with a Board Control Manual which sets out the primary policy and decision-making mechanisms within the Group.
This includes terms of reference for the various Board Committees, a schedule of the Companys risk policies and detailed job descriptions for each of the Executive Directors and Non-executive Directors.
Culture The Board recognises the importance of safeguarding the Companys culture and regularly considers how both employees and Partners demonstrate their commitment to the Groups culture and reviews the ways in which its prominence is maintained.
Further details of how we approach the safeguarding of our culture and monitor the views and adherence by those within the St. Jamess Place community can be found in the Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 52 to 61 and under Principal Risks and Uncertainties on page 50.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc 75 Corporate Governance Report continued BOARD ORGANISATION AND GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE The Senior Independent Director Iain Cornish was appointed Senior Independent Director SID in Composition January 2014 and his job description has been agreed by the Board.
The Board currently comprises four Executive Directors, four The SID acts as a sounding board and confidant for the Chair and the independent Non-executive Directors and the Chair who was Non-executive Directors NEDs.
He also ensures he is available to independent on appointment.
David Bellamy retired from the Board meet with shareholders and raises any shareholder concerns with on 31 December 2017 and Craig Gentle was appointed a Director on the Board that might not be resolved through normal channels.
Committees Independence There are four wholly Non-executive Committees of the Board: Audit: When determining whether a Non-executive Director is independent, Nomination: Remuneration: and Risk.
The Chair of the Board is a your Board considers each individual against the criteria set out in member of, and Chairs, the Nomination Committee and the other the Code and also considers how they conduct themselves in Board members of these Committees are all independent Non-executive meetings, including how they exercise judgement and independent Directors.
The membership and terms of reference of each of these thinking.
Taking these factors into account, the Board believes that Board Committees are reviewed annually and are available on the all the Non-executive Directors continue to demonstrate their corporate website www.
co. uk, or on request from the independence.
As previously reported, the Board remains satisfied that Simon The Executive Board comprises the Executive Directors of the Board Jeffreys role as chair of Aon UK Ltd has no bearing on his and other members of senior management.
It is via the Executive independence or that of New Bridge Street or Aon Consulting Board that operational matters are delegated to management.
The advisers to the Remuneration and Investment Committees.
Aon UK Executive Board is responsible for communicating and implementing Ltd, Aon Consulting and New Bridge Street are part of the Aon group the Groups business plan objectives, ensuring that the necessary of companies.
When considering their relationships to the Aon resources are in place in order to achieve those objectives, and Group, the Board took into account the fact that Aon UK Ltd, Aon managing the day-to-day operational activities of the Group.
The Consulting and New Bridge Street operate in different divisions of a terms of reference for the Executive Board are also regularly reviewed large group and their reporting and ownership lines to the Aon Group and are included in the Board Control Manual.
In addition, there is a board are entirely segregated.
Disclosure Committee of Executive Directors, responsiblefor Conflicts of Interest identifying and determining matters to be disclosed to the market.
The Board has in place procedures for the management of conflicts A number of committees have also been established below the main of interest.
In the event a Director were to become aware that they Executive Board assisting it in executing its responsibilities.
They have an actual or potential conflict of interest, they must disclose each have Terms of Reference which set out clearly their delegated this to the Board immediately.
The Board then considers the authorities and a right of escalation of matters outside that remit to potential conflict of interest based on its particular facts, and decides the Executive Board.
A chart showing the current supporting whether to authorise the existence of the potential conflict and or governance structure is set out on the following page.
impose conditions on such authority if it believes this to be in the best interests of the Company.
Internal controls also exist whereby regular checks are conducted to ensure that the Directors have disclosed material interests appropriately.
Except as stated in the Directors Remuneration Report, no Director has, or has had during the year under review, any material interest in any contract or arrangement with the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
The Roles of the Chair and Chief Executive The job descriptions of the Chair and Chief Executive and the division of responsibilities between them are clearly defined and agreed by the Board.
As Chair, Sarah Bates takes responsibility for the leadership of your Board, ensuring its continued effectiveness, and promoting effective communication between the Executive and Non-executive Directors, as well as with shareholders generally.
As Chief Executive, Andrew Crofts primary responsibility is to manage the Company via the executive management team and implement the strategies adopted by the Board.
St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 76 Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE CHART St. Jamess Place plc Shareholders Matters reserved for shareholder resolution St. Jamess Place plc Board Matters reserved to Board Remuneration Audit Committee Risk Committee Executive Board Nomination Committee Disclosure Committee Committee TOR NEDs TOR NEDs TOR Execs TOR NEDs TOR Execs TOR NEDs Finance Group Risk Distribution & Field Operations Investment Rowan Product Asia ExCo ExCo ExCo ExCo ExCo Dartington ExCo ExCo BOARDS OPERATION Planning The Chair is responsible for setting the Board agenda together with the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary.
Each year, the Chair and CEO discuss the forward Board agenda for the year, based on themes from the Business Plan, and potential topics are identified for strategy sessions and Board discussions.
For each Board meeting, all Board members are supplied with an agenda and pack containing specific papers on particular strategic issues, as well as reports and management information on clients, the Partnership, investment matters, current trading, operational issues, compliance, risk, accounting and financial matters.
The Boards forward agenda is also co-ordinated with those of its Committees and the Chairs of the various Committees report on the activity of their Committees at Board meetings, with copies of Committee meeting minutes being circulated to all Directors where appropriate.
To ensure that there is sufficient time for the Board to discuss matters of a material or more discursive nature, Board dinners are held prior to certain scheduled Board meetings which allow the Directors greater time to discuss key topics with additional internal and external participants.
In addition to the strategic discussion at Board meetings, the Directors attend two separate strategy days each year.
The Boards activity during 2017 is set out in more detail on the following pages, and the work undertaken by the Board Committees is provided in their individual Committee reports.
Company Secretariat Directors have access to the advice of the Company Secretary at all times, as well as independent professional advice, where needed, in order to assist them in carrying out their duties.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc 77 Corporate Governance Report continued THE BOARDS ACTIVITY DURING 2017 During the year, six scheduled Board meetings and two ad hoc Board meetings held at short notice were held.
At scheduled meetings the Board receives details of performance against agreed KPIs, a report from the Chief Risk Officer quarterly and updates on: Business performance Developments with Regulators Investor feedback and recent media activity Client administration Investment performance In addition, Directors attended two additional Board Strategy meetings.
An overview of the topics considered by the Board at its scheduled Board meetings during the year is provided below: February April May HIGHLIGHTS HIGHLIGHTS HIGHLIGHTS 2016 Annual Results and Annual Regulatory developments, including The 2017 Annual General Meeting Report & Accounts visits from Regulators and client Recent developments affecting DST The draft notice for the Companys disclosure requirements Regulatory activity 2017 Annual General Meeting, Clients strategy more details below The Groups Slavery and Human including the proposed Partner strategy more details Trafficking Statement Remuneration Policy below Succession planning for the roles of Development of the IMA CEO and CFO Insurance arrangements The results of the 2016 17 Wealth Account Survey The launch of the Retirement Account on Bluedoor 2017 Business Plan July September November HIGHLIGHTS HIGHLIGHTS HIGHLIGHTS Half year results and the declaration Capital Management Cyber Security, Data Protection and of an interim dividend more details below Regulatory Update People strategy more details below Early considerations for the 2018 2018 Business Plan and Finance Enterprise Investment Schemes Business Plan Update Partner loans and borrowing Developments in Asia Partnership update Media coverage during the year Investment Strategy Investment Management Approach A presentation from representatives Approval of the ORSA developments of the FCA Administration Platform developments In addition, the independent Non-executive Directors met without the Executive Directors but with the Chair three times during the year, and also met once without the Chair.
In addition to the scheduled meetings, two ad hoc Board meetings were also held in relation to succession and to appoint a Committee to finalise revised financing arrangements.
St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 78 Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information KEY STRATEGIC CONSIDERATIONS DURING THE YEAR INCLUDED The strategy and performance against the strategy are discussed in the Chief Executives Report, the Chairs Report and the Strategic Report but a summary of significant topics are set out below: DST During the year, the Board continued its ongoing review of the arrangements with DST, the outsourced provider for the Groups administration functions of its UK life insurance company, unit trust manager, and investment administration company.
Given the significance of the service DST provides to the Group, the Board monitors arrangements and approves revisions to the basis upon which they are provided.
Clients In addition to regular reporting, a focused strategy session concentrated on our clients, including feedback from clients, safeguarding potentially vulnerable clients, future products and services and developments in technology.
Partners The Board focused on the Groups interface with the Partnership, in particular ensuring that services provided in support of the Partnership remained effective, efficient, appropriate and relevant.
An ongoing project had been established with the principal aims of preserving the existing relationship-based culture, keeping the business safe and helping Partners to operate as business people with professionalism.
Borrowing In 2017, the Board agreed to an extension to its existing revolving credit facility and entered into revised terms Securitisation with the syndicate of lending banks.
In addition, it agreed to a further drawdown from the private shelf facility established in 2015 and discussed the possibility of using securitisation as a means of ensuring sufficient lending capacity will exist in the future to support the growth of the Partnership.
People and Diversity The Board received an update on progress made since its September 2016 strategy meeting and discussed key themes impacting the Groups employees as well as key areas which the business was concentrating on, including leadership development, recruitment, reward, succession, retention and diversity.
Capital Management The Board looked at the strategy for managing the Groups capital over the next five years, giving particular consideration to the business growth rate, investors expectations, solvency requirements and the current level of gearing.
The Board discussed opportunities that could exist to restructure borrowing and manage gearing and the ongoing appropriateness of the basis for the Groups management solvency buffer.
Following a formal review and recommendation from the Risk Committee, the Board approved the Groups ORSA for the year ended 31 December 2016.
Investment Strategy The Board met with the members of the independent Investment Committee and considered the challenges that were likely to face SJP in the coming years.
In particular, the Board discussed the challenges presented by the Groups increasing scale, changes in the wider market place, the approach to monitoring investment managers, potential new funds and clients expectations.
Cyber Risk and Data The Board received an update on i progress in relation to cyber security and the maturity of our resilience Protection and ii progress in relation to implementing GDPR.
Regulatory Throughout the year the Board considered developments in the regulatory environment including the impact Environment of new and changing regulation, the outcomes of market reviews e. g. the FCAs Asset Management Market Study and regular interactions with the Groups regulators.
Representatives of the Financial Conduct Authority were also invited to, and attended, the July meeting.
Risk Management In conjunction with the work of the Risk Committee, the Board undertook a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc 79 Corporate Governance Report continued BOARD EFFECTIVENESS Time Commitments Non-executive Directors are expected to commit at least 15 to 25 Appointment, Replacement and Re-Election of Directors days per annum and in practice may commit considerably more time The Articles permit Directors to appoint additional Directors and to fill than this.
The Board is satisfied that each of the Non-executive casual vacancies and any Directors appointed must stand for Directors commits sufficient time to the business of the Company election at the first Annual General Meeting AGM following their and further details of how the Nomination Committee assesses their appointment, as will be the case for Craig Gentle.
All other Directors contribution is set out on page 96. will stand for re-election at each AGM.
Directors can be removed from office by an ordinary resolution of shareholders or in certain Since her appointment in January 2014, the Chair has devoted a other circumstances as set out in the Articles.
significant proportion of her time to the role.
In conjunction with the SID, she regularly assesses her various commitments and continues Before a Director is proposed for re-election by shareholders, the to manage her portfolio of other activities to ensure that she has Chair considers whether his or her performance continues to be sufficient time to meet the requirements of the position.
She effective and whether they demonstrate commitment to the role.
currently holds one other non-executive role and one chair role in After careful consideration, the Chair is pleased to support the other publicly listed companies.
Both of these directorships are with re-election of all Directors at the forthcoming AGM.
Each Director investment trusts which generally require less time commitment brings significant skill sets to the Board as a result of their varied than an operational company and which provide useful and valuable careers and we believe that this diversity is essential to contributing investment insight to Board discussions.
During 2017 the Chair to the appropriate mix of skills and experience needed by the Board stepped down from the boards of JPMorgan American Investment and its Committees in order to protect the interests of the Trust plc and Witan Pacific Investment Trust plc.
She was elected as Companys shareholders.
As in previous years, your Board is the chair of the board of directors of Polar Capital Technology Trust recommending to shareholders that all the Directors retiring at the plc in September 2017.
She has a full attendance record at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting be re-elected.
Companys Board meetings in 2017 and has also attended 25 Board Duration of Appointments Committee meetings in addition to spending a substantial amount of Non-executive Directors, other than the Chair, are appointed for a time engaging with the business outside formal Board and specified term and the Executive Directors have service contracts Committee meetings.
The Board is satisfied that she commits copies of the terms and conditions of appointment of all Directors sufficient time to the business of the Company.
are available for inspection at the registered office address and will Succession Planning and Diversity be available for inspection at the Companys AGM.
The Board has a responsibility to ensure that appropriate succession Executive Directors Service Agreements plans are in place both for the Board, the Executive Board and senior The Executive Directors all have service contracts with the Company management.
Details of progress made in the year can be found in that provide for termination on twelve months notice from either the the Report of the Nomination Committee.
Company or the Director except in certain exceptional recruitment Inductions for New Directors situations where a longer notice period from the Company may be set, An appropriate induction programme is designed to enable all new provided it reduces to a maximum of twelve months within a specified Directors to meet senior management, understand the business and time limit.
Service contracts do not contain a fixed end date.
The future strategy, visit various office locations and speak directly to Company does not have agreements with any Director or employee Partners and staff around the country as well as being introduced to that would provide compensation for loss of office or employment other key stakeholders.
Induction plans are tailored to meet the resulting from a takeover, except that provisions in the Companys specific requirements of incoming Directors.
share schemes may, in certain circumstances, cause share awards granted to employees under such schemes to vest on a takeover.
Continuing Professional Development The Chair and Company Secretary ensure the continuing professional Directors and Officers Indemnity and Insurance development for all Directors, based on their individual requirements.
The Company has taken out insurance covering Directors and officers Training attended by Directors includes presentations on topical against liabilities they may incur in their capacity as Directors or issues, specific teach-ins, visits to head office and other locations to officers of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The Company has meet with staff and members of the Partnership and attending granted indemnities to all of its Directors and Directors of subsidiary seminars or other events taking place throughout the year.
Ad hoc companies on terms consistent with the applicable statutory training is also set up to deal with individual requests, external provisions.
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the advisers are invited to deliver presentations and the Non-executive purposes of section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 were accordingly Directors are able to attend seminars or conferences which they in force during the course of the financial year ended 31 December 2017, consider will assist them in carrying out their duties.
A list of training and remain in force at the date of this Report.
received during the year is maintained by the Company Secretary.
St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 80 Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information During the year all the Directors identified and undertook relevant Last year, we set ourselves some clearer aspirations as to the training based on their individual requirements.
They also attended appropriate amount of time to be spent on business as usual and specific training sessions covering regulatory developments, the supervisory discussions and on longer term and strategic political environment including Brexit and the development of discussions.
Although we have made good progress in this respect, executive remuneration structures.
In addition, during 2017, the the necessary and important oversight of regulatory changes which Board Committees and individual Directors identified a wide range necessarily included business as usual discussions, have probably of topics upon which they particularly wished to receive further taken up more of our time than we expected.
However, we have training and development.
As a result, individual and group maintained a significant focus on major topics and blue sky sessions were held with third party advisers, Partners and thinking in this respect including on matters such as the SJP employees and Directors attended externally facilitated events that Partnership interface, clients, people strategy, investment strategy, were relevant to their own circumstances.
capital strategy and the regulatory impact of significant regulatory change for example client disclosures.
Further, the years forward 2017 BOARD EFFECTIVENESS REVIEW plan worked well, in particular the development of our discussions on The process of Board evaluation is a useful one, as it provides a people strategy: our staff surveys and our diversity approaches.
Over regular mechanism for the Board to ask itself or to be asked, in the the last two evaluations we have addressed the need for improving case of an external evaluation about its performance and whether it the processes for Director training and development and, in 2017, we is conducting its business effectively and efficiently, for the benefit planned specific sessions ahead of major discussions, which have of all stakeholders.
worked well, and evolved from a slightly more ad hoc approach of Non-executive Directors attending many management meetings.
The Boards last external evaluation, conducted by Sean OHare of These sessions were open to both Non-executive Directors and Boardroom Dialogue, in 2015, was a helpful exercise, and the 2016 Executive Directors.
evaluation followed up on the measures which had been taken as a consequence as well as looking ahead.
2017s evaluation built on We have continued to employ a variety of meeting approaches: these previous discussions, and an external evaluation will be formal Board meetings and more informal Board discussions, often conducted at the end of 2018.
This will be particularly appropriate involving other members of the senior management team, and given the changes at Board level as it will provide an opportunity to believe this has worked well.
Examples include discussions on i our think forward and continue to develop in the light of those changes.
investment strategy, where members of the Investment Committee joined in the debate with Board members, ii the SJP Partnership To an extent, the Boards approach remains consistent albeit we interface, where at an early stage in development, the Board had an seek to continue to improve where we need to and the challenge for opportunity to discuss the overall direction of the project and iii the the Board has not changed markedly over these three evaluations.
We need to make sure that there is constructive debate as ideas are developed, keep the flow of information working, keep our eyes on The Board evaluation for 2017 was conducted by means of individual the horizon and stay clear sighted about the strengths and discussions with each Board member which followed a consistent weaknesses of the Group at a time of significant growth in the format and considered some key themes in relation to Board business.
We also need to avoid strategic errors and continue with effectiveness including the cohesiveness of the Board, the balance our low strategic risk appetite, and to understand the interests of all of skills, experience, independence and diversity on the Board and our stakeholders and reflect those effectively in what we do.
At the development of industry and business knowledge.
These same time, there is considerable external uncertainty caused by a discussions also addressed individual Board performance and the number of factors, including political upheaval and the development Senior Independent Director led the Non-executive Directors in the of Brexit, technological disruption providing opportunities and evaluation of the Chair.
The performance of the Boards Committees threats and a considerable amount of regulatory change.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc 81 Corporate Governance Report continued The conclusions of this years evaluation were: In 2018, the Board will be considering its reporting formats, particularly in the light of the change of CEO and CFO, and the 1 The Board had had a business-like year, which was unsurprising development of the roles of Executive Board members.
The strategy given the impact of regulatory changes.
We had discussed the days will focus in particular, on the development of the 2020 major issues effectively and Board members felt the strategy business plan into a 2025 plan, and the implications for the business discussions had been well presented at the strategy days.
of continued growth given the opportunities which appear to be open Further, the forward planning was working well and would to the Group.
Undoubtedly themes from 2017 will be carried through continue in 2018 with topics put forward by Directors and the into 2018, particularly given changes in regulatory requirements and management team.
It was also noted that the Directors governance requirements for the Group.
Therefore, there will be a development sessions were effective: continued need to keep our eyes on the horizon as well as overseeing the responses of the Group to the key regulatory changes for 2 The Board had overseen the transition of the CEO and CFO roles effectively: example GDPR, Insurance Distribution Directive etc.. We will also be undertaking a considered piece of work leading up to the external 3 The in-depth discussions on diversity had been helpful.
This is a evaluation given the changes at Board level, Board and management matter of further Board focus over the next year particularly in succession, to make sure we continue to develop the structure of relation to the Executive team and its succession: Board discussions in what has become a much larger group over the years.
4 The Board worked well together, with a diversity of views and approaches combined with a good sense of common purpose.
It By order of the Board: was noted that there was a need to keep being clear sighted particularly when the business is doing so well: and 5 The Committees had worked well: the Risk Committee had Sarah Bates focused well although the challenge of keeping the big picture Chair issues at the centre of discussions was considerable, it was 27 February 2018 thought to have been well handled.
The Audit Committee had overseen the change of Internal Audit Director and seen useful improvements in information flows and the year end processes.
It was noted that there was clarity of the roles of each of the Risk and Audit Committees.
The Remuneration Committee had approached its role with appropriate regard to all stakeholder interests and adapted well to new regulatory requirements.
The Nomination Committee had overseen the transition of the executive team and expanded its diversity and governance responsibilities.
St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 82
