Leadership and Governance Corporate Governance Statement Dear Shareholder, At Cairn, we operate with integrity at all times, recognising that in doing Operating so the Company will maintain the trust of its many stakeholders.
We are committed to working responsibly as part of our strategy to deliver value for all stakeholders and to engaging with our stakeholders on a regular basis, with a clear focus on working in a safe and secure, as well with integrity as environmentally and socially responsible manner.
The Cairn Board recognises its important role in promoting high standards of corporate governance and understands that an effective, at all levels, challenging and diverse Board is essential to enable the Company to deliver its strategy in line with shareholders and other stakeholders long-term interests, whilst also generating confidence that the business is conducting itself in an ethical and responsible manner.
Further information on our governance, culture, strategy and business model and commitment to working responsibly including how we engage with our key stakeholders can be found in the strategic report section of this Annual Report and Accounts.
We remain cognisant of the Financial Reporting Councils valuable work in relation to corporate culture and the important role of boards in influencing and shaping corporate culture.
As a relatively small have a culture based on acting responsibly at all times.
This means having the right values, principles and policies in place, that they are embedded throughout the organisation, and that the right people are in place to implement and uphold our values.
At Cairn, our culture is underpinned by a core set of values which reflect how we do business and the behaviours expected of our people.
We communicate these throughout the business as the three Rs, which stand for Building Respect, Nurturing Relationships and Acting Responsibly see below.
During the year the Board has also placed much focus on operational delivery and risk management.
An open and balanced review of our business performance has been covered in the strategic report % strategic priorities, operational delivery and the associated key business risks and their ongoing management.
We provide further Our core values Building Nurturing Respect Relationships We build respect by communicating We work closely with our stakeholders openly with each other and our colleagues, local communities, contractors, stakeholders, listening effectively suppliers, governments, regulators, and providing feedback and non-governmental organisations, recognition in a constructive way.
 Our Culture  Our Culture 10 10 on P10-11 on P10-11 {X e  e 82 There has also been a continuing focus by both the Board and At Cairn, we operate with nomination committee in relation to succession planning, with the aim of assessing the executive, non-executive and senior succession integrity at all times, recognising pipeline at Cairn, and identifying what skills are needed to support our that in doing so the Company strategy and business for the long term.
We provide further information in relation to our succession planning in the separate nomination will maintain the trust of its many stakeholders.
area of focus for the Board in future years.
As reported in last years corporate governance statement, we further strengthened and diversified our Board through the appointment of Nicoletta Giadrossi I IAN TYLER Chairman a Acting Responsibly We act with honesty and integrity to ensure all our operations are carried out safely and empower our people to achieve their goals and contribute to the wider performance of the business in a responsible manner.
 Our Culture 10 on P10-11 83 Leadership and Governance Corporate Governance Statement continued Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code e U { X X U Board diversity Corporate Governance Code as published by the Financial Reporting The mix in our membership.
Council and available on its website at www.
This statement reports compliance with the version of the Code published in e Board diversity, by age years Cairn is fully committed to achieving compliance with the principles and provisions set out in the Code and the Board is responsible for ensuring that an appropriate framework is in place to do so.
56 average The information in this statement, together with the audit committee report, nomination committee report, directors remuneration report and directors report, describe the manner in which the Company has applied the main principles of governance set out in the Code and complied with the individual Code provisions.
It is the Boards view The Board 40-54 55-60 61-70 Cairns business is international in scope and carries political, commercial and technical risks.
Accordingly, particular attention is paid Board diversity, by tenure years to the composition and balance of the Board to ensure that it has wide experience of the industry and regulatory environment in which Cairn operates, and appropriate financial, operational and risk management skills.
In each Board appointment, whether executive or non-executive, 6 objectivity and integrity, as well as skills, experience, ability and average diversity, assist the Board in its key functions, and are prerequisites for appointment.
This also applies to senior management appointments below Board level and to our succession planning.
8 comprises the Chairman, two executive directors and seven nonexecutive directors.
Iain McLaren will retire as a non-executive director 0-2 years 3-6 years 7-9 years 9 years e:a a The current directors of the Company as at the date of this report are Board diversity, by nationality set out in the table below and further information about our directors Date of appointment in Date of last 6:4 Name Role current role re-election Simon Thomson Chief Executive I a James Smith Chief Financial a a Officer Ian Tyler Non-executive a a Chairman Todd Hunt Non-executive a a British Other director Iain McLaren Non-executive I a director Board diversity, by gender Alexander Berger Non-executive a a director Jackie Sheppard Non-executive a a 8:2 director Keith Lough Non-executive a a director Peter Kallos Non-executive September a director Nicoletta Giadrossi Non-executive January a director M F {X e  e 84 The Company considers ongoing refreshment of the non-executive to be available to shareholders and other stakeholders if they have directors on the Board to be positive as it brings new thinking to the concerns which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Company as well as ensuring there is a healthy level of independent Chief Executive or Chief Financial Officer has failed to resolve challenge to management and that the Boards collective skills and or for which such contact is inappropriate: and experience equip it to direct the Companys strategy and meet its to meet with the other non-executive directors without the business needs as they evolve over time.
Chairman present, at least annually, in order to appraise the Chairmans performance.
The Board is also mindful, however, that an appropriate balance between directors who can bring a new perspective and those Performance evaluation who provide continuity is essential for a business like Cairns.
The Board continually strives to improve its effectiveness and Further information on succession planning at Cairn is included recognises that the performance evaluation process represents an annual opportunity to enhance overall Board effectiveness.
Diversity is a key element of the Cairn Board, with emphasis placed The Company conducted externally facilitated Board performance not only on gender but also on culture, nationality and experience.
The Board currently has two female non-executive directors and F continues to demonstrate diversity in a wider sense, with directors evaluation was conducted and implementation of the recommendations c e F U arising from this have resulted in some efficiency improvements to bringing a range of domestic and international experience to the Board.
Board and committee meetings and Board strategy sessions.
The Boards diverse range of experience and expertise covers not only a wealth of experience of operating in the oil and gas industry but This year, in view of the externally facilitated evaluation planned also extensive technical, operational, financial, governance, legal and commercial expertise.
Further information on diversity within Cairn evaluation would be most beneficial to the Company.
The Chairman and Company Secretary subsequently discussed how best to facilitate the strategic report section of this Annual Report and Accounts.
this and it was decided that the Company Secretary should prepare a questionnaire for this purpose.
Division of responsibilities between Chairman and Chief Executive The questionnaire was approved by the Chairman and this was The Company has a clear division of responsibilities between the subsequently completed by all directors to evaluate the performance Chairman and the Chief Executive, which is set out in writing and of the Board, each of its committees, and individual Board members.
A separate questionnaire in respect of the Chairmans performance was prepared by the Company Secretary and approved by the senior Chairman: key responsibilities Chief Executive: key responsibilities independent non-executive director.
Leading the running of the Board Managing the business and in an ethical manner and proposing and developing the Following completion of the questionnaires, the Chairman held a series promoting effective Board Companys strategy and overall of one-to-one meetings with each of the directors in late November relationships.
objectives in consultation with % the Board.
In addition, the senior independent non-executive director Ensuring that the Board plays met with the non-executive directors excluding Ian Tyler in order to a full and constructive part in the Driving the successful and discuss and appraise the performance of the Chairman.
determination and development efficient achievement of of the Companys strategy.
the Companys KPIs and strategic objectives.
Building a well-balanced Board, include the following: considering Board composition Leading the Senior Leadership and Board succession.
Team in ensuring the effective Key actions Implementation implementation of decisions of Ensuring the effectiveness of the Wider analysis as part of the The Board will consider a broader the Board and its committees.
range of factors influencing Providing strong and coherent Group strategy, such as long-term Overseeing the annual leadership of the Company trends, wider market influences, Board evaluation and acting and effectively communicating and different stakeholder on its results.
the Companys culture, values interests.
Ensuring appropriate induction and behaviours internally and development programmes Continual improvement of risk As part of its ongoing responsibility and externally.
to continually review and improve Engagement with shareholders the Groups risk management Setting the Board agenda, and other stakeholders.
process, the Board will look at chairing Board meetings and ways in which it can enhance the overseeing implementation quality of its risk assessments.
Engagement with shareholders As explained above, some improvements have been identified and and other stakeholders when appropriate.
Following the Board performance evaluation process conducted in Senior independent director Iain McLaren continues to be Cairns senior independent non-executive operating effectively and that each director has performed well in director and Peter Kallos will take over this role following Iain McLarens respect of that directors role on the Board and its committees.
The a Board believes that all of the directors performance continues to be senior independent non-executive director are as follows: effective and that they each demonstrate commitment to their role.
to provide a sounding board for the Chairman and to serve as an intermediary with other directors when necessary: 85 Leadership and Governance Corporate Governance Statement continued The executive directors also have their performance reviewed by the Committees Terms of reference for all Board committees.
remuneration committee against the Group KPIs which are set annually Risk Terms of reference for Risk Management further details of the KPIs can be found in the KPI section on pages Committee and minutes of last meeting: current Group Risk Matrix and Risk Appetite Statement: the Companys cash bonus scheme described further in the directors FRC Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Groups performance against these KPIs.
As the KPIs set out our Reporting.
strategic objectives, this ensures that executive performance is directly linked to Group strategy.
Key policies Cairn Operating Standards, Group Corporate Responsibility Business Principles: Group Code Independence of non-executive directors of Ethics:  ABC The Board considers the independence of each of the non-executive Management System: ABC Business Partner directors on an ongoing basis, taking into account their integrity, their Due Diligence Procedure: Dealing Code: objectivity and their contribution to the Board and its committees.
Procedures, Systems and Controls for The Board is of the view that the following behaviours are essential Compliance with the Market Abuse Regulation, for a director to be considered independent: the Listing Rules and the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules.
provides an objective, robust and consistent challenge to the Organisation Group Structure Chart: latest Annual Report assumptions, beliefs and views of senior management and the and Accounts.
other directors: questions intelligently, debates constructively and challenges Governance U : rigorously and dispassionately: FRC Guidance: FRC Feedback Statement on acts at all times in the best interests of the Company and its U { 8  shareholders and other stakeholders: Corporate Culture and the Role of Boards: has a detailed and extensive knowledge of the Companys business : %   and of the market as a whole which provides a solid background Guidance, ICSA and Investment Association against which they can consider the Companys strategy objectively Report on the Stakeholder Voice in Board and help the executive directors develop proposals on strategy: and Decision Making.
has no close ties or material relationships with the Company, either Legal regulatory Memorandum for directors on their directly or indirectly.
responsibilities and obligations as directors.
Insurance Full details of directors and officers Having reviewed the independence of each of the non-executive liability cover.
directors against these criteria, the Board concluded that all nonexecutive directors demonstrated each of the required competencies to a high level and are, therefore, each considered independent The Company also provides, on an ongoing basis, the necessary by the Board.
resources for developing and updating its directors knowledge and capabilities.
In particular, the Company is committed to the provision The Board recognises that, in view of the characteristics of F U : the Company continued with its practice of providing a directors of service is an important factor when considering the independence education programme consisting of a number of seminars for Board of non-executive directors and that directors having served for members, which are presented by the Companys external advisers longer than nine years may not be considered independent.
The guest speakers members of senior management, on subjects Board is, however, satisfied that Todd Hunts judgement has remained appropriate to the Companys business, including changes to independent and that he has consistently displayed all of the behaviours % expected of our independent non-executive directors.
Moreover, the covered by these seminars included: Board is of the view that Mr Hunt brings an extremely valuable level of insight and challenge to Board discussions and that his extensive corporate governance updates from the company secretarial team: industry experience continues to be of significant benefit to a deep dive on HSE and the Companys Operating Standards: an anti-bribery and corruption update and presentation on the new offence of failure to prevent the facilitation of tax evasion delivered Re-election of directors by Pinsent Masons: and F U : various asset presentations by senior management.
Company's directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
As such, each of the directors, other than Iain McLaren, will seek These seminars are normally held prior to Board meetings and are e:a a attended by all directors present at such meetings as well as the Chief Operating Officer and Director of Exploration the Company keeps Induction and development a record of attendance.
Any director may request that a particular New directors receive a full and appropriate induction on joining the subject is covered in a seminar.
In addition, all media articles relating Board.
This involves meetings with other Board members in particular to the Company and all analyst reports relating to the Company are the Chairman, senior management and the Companys principal distributed to all directors.
In addition, new directors are provided with a comprehensive induction pack which contains a wide range of materials including: Information and support The Board has full and timely access to all relevant information to Board Board papers and minutes of previous the Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring good information meetings: schedule of matters reserved to the flows within the Board and its committees and between management Board: financial delegations of authority: list of and non-executive directors, as well as facilitating induction and Board and committee members and dates of assisting with professional development as required.
The Company appointment: and schedule of dates for Board Secretary ensures the presentation of high quality information to the and committee meetings.
Board and its committees and that all papers and information are {X e  e 86 delivered in a timely fashion.
Board and committee papers are The senior executive management structure at Board level and delivered securely through an electronic platform.
beneath remains unchanged from that disclosed in last years corporate governance statement, with the Senior Leadership Team The Company Secretary and Deputy Company Secretary are SLT and Management Team MT continuing to play a key role in responsible for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all supporting the Board.
corporate governance matters, and each director has access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and Deputy Board and Management Committee Structure Company Secretary.
The governance committee also supports the Board in relation to corporate governance matters and further Board of Directors There is also a procedure agreed by the Board for directors, Audit Remuneration Nomination Governance in furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional Committee Committee Committee Committee advice if necessary, at the Companys expense.
Risk Management Chief Executive Conflicts of interest Committee RMC The Board has in place a procedure for the consideration and authorisation of conflicts or possible conflicts with the Companys interests.
All directors Senior Xeadership Team SX are aware of the requirement to submit details to the Company Secretary or Deputy Company Secretary of any current situations appointments or otherwise which may give rise to a conflict, or potential conflict, of Management Team MT interest.
The Board will continue to monitor and review potential conflicts of interest on a regular basis.
Exploration Xeadership Team EX Matters reserved to the Board and delegation of authority The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision, which is divided into categories covering different types of Further information on our Board committees is contained later in this statement and decisions, including: corporate: Board directors: financial operational: in the separate audit committee report, nomination committee report and directors and legal regulatory.
By way of example, some of the matters which the Board considered The SLT comprises the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer, the x } Chief Operating Officer COO, the Director of Exploration, the Director, Corporate Affairs, the Companys two Regional Directors and the Corporate Board Directors General Manager, Senegal.
The SLT is chaired by the Chief Executive and meets six times per year with those meetings scheduled in e The appointment of a new advance of Board meetings.
 e non-executive director Half Yearly Report Key elements of the SLTs role include the following: e:a Appointments to Board circular committees devise and generate the Companys strategy to be proposed to the The Companys Risk Appetite Detailed review of succession Board for approval and implement and communicate this strategy Statement planning across the business: implement the business plan, the key performance indicators and Financial Operational Legal Regulatory annual work programme and budget following their approval by the Board: The appropriateness of the Group Oversight of the arbitration consider business development and new venture projects prior going concern sign-off for the process seeking resolution to submitting these to the Board: and of the Indian tax issue provide leadership and guidance to the Company on vision, interim accounts strategy, culture, corporate governance, corporate responsibility The Companys viability and HSE matters.
statement The Companys annual work The members of the SLT are also members of the RMC, which programme and budget identifies and reviews key business risks further information on the role of the RMC is contained in the internal control section of this Group Reserves and Resources Senegal exploration and appraisal drilling The MT comprises the COO chair, the Director of Exploration, the Deputy Finance Director, two Regional Directors, the General Manager, New country entry to Mexico Senegal, the Group Well Engineering Manager and four functional managers Human Resources Manager, Legal Manager, HSE Manager In addition to the above, the Board conducts an annual review of and Business Development and New Ventures Manager.
the effectiveness of the Companys internal controls with ongoing monitoring of this throughout the year : an annual detailed strategy The MT meets formally six times per year with four of those meetings meeting: and an annual deep dive session on risk management.
focusing on a quarterly performance review of the business.
The Board also has an approved set of financial delegations of authority to ensure clarity throughout the business concerning the distinction between financial matters which require Board approval and those that can be delegated to senior management.
87 Leadership and Governance Corporate Governance Statement continued The key elements of the MTs role include the following: Board committee meetings are normally held on the second day or, depending on the number of committee meetings required, on both develop and implement a Business Plan, which will deliver the days.
All Board committee meetings take place prior to the main part Companys strategic objectives these will be reflected in annual of the Board meeting so that the chair of each committee can provide KPIs, including HSE : a report to the Board.
These are followed by the formal business of the critically assess and determine the mitigation plans for key business Board meeting and a Board lunch.
The Chairman also holds a short risks and ensure that all risks are captured and reviewed regularly meeting with the other non-executive directors without the executive in the Companys risk register: directors at the end of each day.
co-ordinate operations and licence management along with resource allocation and organisational alignment to ensure timely and cost-effective delivery against approved budgets: registered office in Edinburgh, and three were held at the Companys oversight of the companys commitment to working responsibly: office in London.
Details of attendance at each of those Board and meetings, and at meetings of each of the Board committees, are set review and approve the Companys Operating Standards.
out in the table opposite.
Any director who is physically unable to attend Board and committee meetings is given the opportunity to be The Exploration Leadership Team ELT, which is chaired by the Director consulted and comment in advance of the meeting by telephone or of Exploration, comprises the Group Geoscience Manager, the Chief in writing.
Video and telephone conferencing facilities are used in the Geologist, the Chief Geophysicist, three regional Exploration Managers unlikely event that directors are not able to attend meetings in person.
and a representative from new ventures new business.
The annual timetable for Board and committee meetings is discussed The ELT meets on a monthly basis to facilitate alignment, consistency, best practice and team work in the following areas: to plan their time accordingly.
The Board and committees have agreed ensuring exploration, appraisal and new venture opportunities ensures that the Chairman can be comfortable that each director is align with the Companys Business Plan: able to devote sufficient time and resources to their role on the Board ensuring consistent screening and ranking of exploration and, where relevant, its committees.
opportunities prior to detailed assessment, thereby utilising the significant knowledge and experience of the ELT: The formal agenda for each scheduled Board meeting is set by the developing and implementing new geosciences technology and Chairman in consultation with the Chief Executive and the Company techniques where appropriate for application within the Company Secretary.
The system for establishing agenda items means that the to reduce subsurface uncertainty and or risks: and Chairman, the Board and each of the board committees have the ensuring appropriate representation at resource assessment confidence that all required items are included on their agenda at reviews and other internal subsurface peer reviews.
the most appropriate time of the year and that there is sufficient time allocated for discussion, allowing the directors to discharge their Board meetings duties effectively.
% these meetings taking place over two consecutive days.
The first day Formal minutes of all Board and committee meetings are circulated includes a Chief Executives lunch with the non-executive directors and to all directors prior to the next Board meeting and are considered for when applicable a Board education session, followed by a report from approval at that Board meeting.
In addition, the members of the Board the CEO and CFO and a management presentation, both of which form are in frequent contact between meetings to progress the Groups part of the formal business of the Board meeting.
business, one example being an annual Board update call in January ahead of the scheduled Board meetings for the year.
There is also a The CEO and CFO report and management presentation provide a procedure in place to allow Board meetings to be convened at short detailed update from senior management on key projects, assets or notice where required to deal with specific matters which need to be matters to be considered at the Board meeting, allowing an excellent considered between scheduled Board meetings.
opportunity for a technically rigorous discussion.
This information allows the Board to more fully understand any risks or challenges As noted above, the non-executives have a practice of meeting to the business plan and strategy and also provides good exposure informally after each Board meeting without executive directors to the executive pipeline of talent within the Company.
At these non-executive forums, the non-executive directors are invited by the Chairman to bring forward any matter The full Board then meets for dinner at the end of the first day, and is pertaining to the business of the Board that they believe would often joined by other members of senior management, including the benefit from discussion in such forum.
This practice also applies Exploration Director and COO.
after Board committee meetings in particular the audit, remuneration and nomination committees to ensure that non-executive directors can discuss any relevant issues arising from those meetings without executive management being present.
{X e  e 88 Directors attendance at Board and committee meetings Audit Remuneration Nomination Governance Board Committee Committee Committee Committee a Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings attended attended attended attended attended Executive Directors Simon Thomson Chief Executive n a n a n a James Smith CFO n a n a n a Non-Executive Directors Ian Tyler Chairman n a F aX n a Senior Independent Director Todd Hunt n a n a n a n a Alexander Berger n a n a Jackie Sheppard n a n a U X n a Peter Kallos n a n a Nicoletta Giadrossi n a n a n a c n a not applicable where a director is not a member of the committee.
% and governance committee by invitation.
These details have not been included in the table.
Mr Thomson also attends part of each audit committee meeting by invitation to participate in discussions on risk and internal control only.
I F 89 Leadership and Governance Corporate Governance Statement continued Board committees Further information on the role, responsibilities and work of the Board committee structure remuneration committee is included in the directors remuneration Board of Directors Nomination committee The members of the nomination committee during the year were as follows: Audit Remuneration Nomination Governance Committee Committee Committee Committee Ian Tyler Chair : I ain McLaren: The Board has established an audit committee, a remuneration Simon Thomson: committee, a nomination committee and a governance committee, Keith Lough: and each of which has formal terms of reference approved by the Board.
Copies of the terms of reference, which satisfy the requirements U : Companys website.
of the Companys independent non-executive directors are members of the committee.
In addition, to ensure continuing executive input Each of the Board committees is provided with all necessary resources on nomination matters, the Chief Executive is also a member of to enable them to undertake their duties in an effective manner.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to all Board committees with the exception of the audit committee, where the Deputy Company Further information on the role, responsibilities and work of the Secretary undertakes this role.
The minutes of all committee meetings nomination committee is included in the separate nomination are circulated to all directors.
In line with best practice, more detailed reports from the audit and Governance committee nomination committees are presented as separate reports on pages The members of the governance committee during the year were statement.
In addition, full details of the Companys remuneration policy are given in the separate directors remuneration report on Jackie Sheppard Chair : Alexander Berger: Ian Tyler: and Audit committee James Smith.
The members of the audit committee during the year were as follows: Iain McLaren Chair : a majority of non-executive directors.
In addition, to ensure continuing Alexander Berger: and executive input on governance matters, the CFO is also a member K eith Lough.
The role of the governance committee includes: comprises three independent non-executive directors.
The Chairman is not a member of the committee but attends its meetings by reviewing and approving changes to the Boards corporate invitation.
Further information on the role, responsibilities and work governance practices and policies: of the audit committee is included in the audit committee report on U Governance Code and with all applicable legal, regulatory and listing requirements: and Remuneration committee reviewing developments in corporate governance generally The members of the remuneration committee during the year were and advising the Board periodically with respect to significant developments in the law and practice of corporate governance.
Jackie Sheppard Chair : Relations with shareholders I ain McLaren: Communications with shareholders are given high priority by the Board.
I an Tyler: The Company has implemented the provisions of the Companies Peter Kallos: and e N icoletta Giadrossi.
in order to give shareholders more choice and flexibility in how they receive information from the Company.
Cairn responds promptly to correspondence from shareholders and launched a new Company comprises five independent non-executive directors.
The Chief Executive is not a member of the committee but attends its meetings the Company, including a dedicated investor relations section.
The committees remuneration advisers, New Bridge Street, also attended some of the committees meetings.
None of the In order to ensure that the members of the Board develop an members of the committee, nor the Chief Executive nor the Chairman, understanding of the views of major shareholders, there is regular participated in any meetings or discussions relating to their own dialogue with institutional shareholders, including meetings with remuneration.
The committee has established a practice of meeting executive management after the announcement of the year-end and informally without any executive directors or advisers present after half-yearly results.
The Chairman is available to attend a number of each committee meeting to allow the non-executives to discuss any these meetings.
The Board is kept informed of any issues raised by matter which has arisen in the meeting or relating to the duties of the shareholders both as a standing agenda item in Board papers and committee which they believe would benefit from discussion in through feedback at Board meetings and following results or other significant announcements.
In addition, the Company maintains an {X e  e 90 AGM Details 2017 and 2018 Overview e:a 8 a Full director attendance.
e:a a Full director attendance expected e B k   full details in Notice of AGM proposed to shareholders.
investor relations database which details all meetings between the and for regularly reviewing its effectiveness.
The system of internal Company and its investors or other related stakeholders.
All analyst control is designed to identify, evaluate and manage significant risks reports relating to the Company are also distributed to the Board.
associated with the achievement of the Groups objectives.
Because of the limitations inherent in any system of internal control, Cairns A list of the Companys major shareholders can be found in the system is designed to meet its particular needs and the risks to which %  it is exposed, with a focus on managing risk rather than eliminating U risk altogether.
Consequently it can only provide reasonable and not Governance Code depends on an ongoing and open dialogue absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
with shareholders, and remains committed to communicating with shareholders, as well as proxy voting agencies, on any matter which The Company has in place an Integrated Internal Control and they wish to discuss in relation to the Companys governance.
Assurance Framework the framework, which plays a critical role in setting out how the Company manages and assures itself that the risks Annual General Meeting AGM relating to the achievement of corporate vision, strategy and objectives The Board uses the AGM to communicate with private and institutional are effectively controlled.
The framework is based on the Committee investors and welcomes their participation.
It is policy for all of the of Sponsoring Organisations COSO framework and its five key directors to attend the AGM.
Whilst this may not always be possible components, which is a commonly used and recognised framework for business or personal reasons, in normal circumstances the chair for considering internal control systems.
The COSO framework, which of each of the Board committees will be available to attend the AGM and be prepared to answer questions.
organisations develop systems of internal control which help facilitate the achievement of business objectives and improvements in As part of our commitment to transparency we look to involve Company performance.
The framework also supports organisations shareholders, as one of our key stakeholders, fully in the affairs of in adapting to increasingly complex business environments and the Company and to give them the opportunity at the AGM to ask managing risks to acceptable levels with the aim of safeguarding questions about the Companys performance and activities.
Details shareholders interests and Company assets.
e:a a found in the Notice of Annual General Meeting which is contained in the shareholder circular posted with this Annual Report and Accounts.
to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
The Board, Further explanation of each of the resolutions can also be found in supported by the audit committee, has carried out a review of the F The proxy votes for and against each resolution, as well as abstentions, and audit committee took into account the assurance provided by the will be counted before the AGM and the results will be made available Chief Executive in respect of the effectiveness of the Groups system following the meeting after the shareholders have voted in a poll on of internal control.
The Board is accordingly satisfied that effective each resolution.
Both the Form of Proxy and the poll card for the AGM controls are in place and that risks have been mitigated to a tolerable include a vote withheld option in respect of each resolution, to enable : shareholders to abstain on any particular resolution.
It is explained on the Form of Proxy that a vote withheld is not a vote in law and will Cairn seeks to create value through oil and gas exploration and not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of the votes for production while at the same time safeguarding the environment and or against a resolution.
respecting and contributing to the communities it is a part of.
In order to achieve this, Cairns core values of building respect, nurturing Information pursuant to the Takeover Directive relationships and acting responsibly are at the core of the business, The Company has provided the additional information required by informing how the Company operates.
These values are promoted %  U X to Cairns employees, partners and contractors.
Cairns licence to % operate depends on transparent relationships and active stakeholder interests in shares: appointment and replacement of directors: powers engagement programmes with our many stakeholders including of the directors: restrictions on voting rights and rights regarding governments, communities, partners, shareholders and suppliers control of the Company in the Directors Report.
The directors believe that this commitment to strong governance generates trust and ensures consistent global standards Internal control and is critical to the Companys success.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control, which includes all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and related risk management, 91 Leadership and Governance Corporate Governance Statement continued Particular attention has been placed by the Companys management The Company refreshes its Business Plan, work programme and budget on an annual basis in line with its overall strategy.
These has been maintained during the year in relation to the key risks in the documents start at asset level before being consolidated at regional Companys business activities.
Enhancements have been made during and Company levels.
The Business Plan sets out detailed objectives and KPIs for each asset and supporting functional departments, and is consolidated into the Companys strategic planning.
After an iterative the Group Code of Business Ethics and Group Business Principles process, the annual Business Plan, work programme and associated were combined to form one document.
The new Code of Ethics budget are presented to the Board for approval.
communicates the principles and standards of business ethics and conduct which we expect from all staff and those who work The asset management teams then have the required authority to implement the Business Plan and to deliver the agreed work the suite of policies and procedures which form the Groups programmes within the approved budget and delegations of authority, Corporate Responsibility Management System CRMS were and in accordance with the internal control framework.
enhanced to achieve continued alignment with the Cairn Operating Standards and the latest International Association of Oil and Gas  a Producers IOGP guidance: The Board is responsible for maintaining sound risk management and the Groups anti-bribery and corruption standards and procedures internal control systems across the Cairn Group.
The Board must satisfy were enhanced to reflect current best practice and lessons learned itself that the significant risks faced by the Group are being managed from prior operations.
Training on this was rolled out to selected appropriately and that the system of risk management and internal } control is sufficiently robust to respond to internal or external changes : { in the Groups business environment.
some lessons learned from a business continuity test exercise } The RMC continues to be responsible for the development of risk a new Enterprise Resource Planning ERP solution was management strategy and processes within the Company and for : } { overseeing the implementation of the requirements of this strategy.
provides a single global ERP platform for Cairn, facilitating It does this by ensuring that the framework for the identification, consistent, transparent processes in Edinburgh, Stavanger, Dakar assessment, mitigation and reporting on all areas of risk is fit for and London.
purpose and that appropriate assurance arrangements are in place in relation to these risks to bring them within the Risk Appetite The following describes the key elements of the framework and the Statement agreed by the Board.
To supplement the role of the RMC, the Group Risk Management Procedure defines the processes through which Cairn seeks to % systematically identify, analyse, assess, treat and monitor the business The Companys strategy and business plan are proposed by the risks faced by the Group.
The Group Risk Management Procedure also SLT and approved by the Board.
The Chief Executive is responsible identifies the risk management organisational structure through which for managing the Companys business and implementing the business risks are managed and regularly reviewed at operating, asset, Companys strategy and overall commercial objectives in consultation country and Company levels.
Asset, project, country and functional with the Board and SLT.
The Chief Executive is also responsible for level risk registers are used to capture, assess, monitor and review risks implementing the decisions of the Board and its committees and before the principal risks are consolidated into the Group Risk Register.
driving performance against the Companys KPIs.
F k a meeting and as part of an annual process, the Board undertook The Company operates three regional units covering different a strategic risk workshop which analysed the key threats and countries and assets and with various partners on both an operated opportunities which could impact on achievement of the Groups and non-operated basis.
The assets within each region are the principal focus for our regional managers, who are tasked with delivering the and future threats and opportunities in Senegal.
This was completed strategic objectives for their particular region, with a combination of c operational and technical teams as well as functional departments providing support to each of the assets.
The implementation of the The RMC, which meets on a quarterly basis, is currently chaired by Cairn Operating Standards supports this process, providing assurance, the CFO and comprises the executive directors and senior functional standards and consistency in the delivery of our strategic objectives.
The internal auditor also attends RMC meetings, in order to ensure internal audits integration with the risk management The executive directors continue to be supported by the SLT as well  a as by the MT and ELT.
Further information on the composition of these manage and facilitate the assessment and treatment of business teams and their remit can be found earlier in this statement on pages risks that may affect the Companys ability to deliver its strategy.
roles include providing expert input and challenge to the Companys work programmes, budgets and business plans: and supplying the included the following: directors with full and accurate information with which to make statements on the adequacy of internal control.
with the support of the Group's internal auditor, extensive risk management training was rolled out to key staff across all assets and functions.
The training covered all elements of the Cairn risk management framework: enhancements were made to the process for identifying and assessing risks, with a greater focus on the means by which risks are managed to an acceptable level: and a new share-point risk management solution was developed and implemented across the Group, with all risk management registers now readily accessible through this.
{X e  e 92 The RMC reports on the Companys risk profile to both the audit The Directors derived assurance from the following internal and committee and the Board.
Additionally, the audit committee and the Board receive internal reviews of the effectiveness of internal controls relative to the key risks.
The conclusion of the Board following these a regularly updated schedule of matters specifically reserved for a decision by the Board: are effective.
implementation of policies and procedures for key business activities: an appropriate organisational structure: e control over non-operated joint venture activities through The three lines of defence framework adopted by the Board provides delegated representatives: three levels of assurance against the risks facing the Company: first of specific delegations of authority for all financial transactions and all at the operational level: secondly through overview by functional other key technical and commercial decisions: management and the RMC: and thirdly through internal, external or joint segregation of duties where appropriate and cost-effective: venture audits.
business and financial reporting, including KPIs: functional management reviews: The integrated internal control and assurance framework document an annual letters of assurance process, through which asset and includes a description of the Companys business and assurance functional managers review and confirm the adequacy of internal models and of its organisation and committee structure, and defines financial and non-financial controls and their compliance with the relevant roles and responsibilities.
The framework defines the key Company policies, and report any control weaknesses identified in policies and procedures which govern the way in which Cairn conducts the past year and actions taken in respect of weaknesses identified its business and is therefore a core part of its system of internal control.
in the prior year: a letter of assurance from the Chief Executive confirming the % adequacy of internal controls within the Company in line with its system of financial and non-financial controls, including operational policy, and reporting of any control weaknesses identified in the and compliance controls, risk management and high-level internal past year and actions taken in respect of weaknesses identified control arrangements through the completion of internal control in the prior year: self-assessment questionnaires.
These questionnaires, which are an annual internal audit plan, which is approved by the audit tailored to each region or function, are designed to provide an internal committee and Board and is driven by risks and key controls: assessment of the effectiveness of key controls for the Groups reports from the audit committee and RMC: principal risks.
reports from the external auditor on matters identified during its statutory audit: Additionally, assurance maps for the principal risks are being reports from audits by host governments and co-venturers: developed, which outline the key sources of assurance across the independent third party reviews: and three lines of defence.
The three lines of defence model is a method the skills and experience of all employees.
of assessing different sources of assurance the Group can rely on when analysing key risks and controls.
Assurance is gained through the application of the business management system which directs the day-to-day running of the business first line, the oversight functions within Cairn which provide challenge to the risk and control environment second line and any third party reviews the Group instructs to assess the status of a risk control third line.
The assurance maps help identify potential areas of control weakness and or ineffective use of assurance resources across the Group, which has F e { IAN TYLER Chairman a 93
