Report of the Risk Committee Iain Cornish Chair of the Risk Committee The report of the Risk Committee sets out how the Committee operates and summarises the work it has undertaken during the year.
ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE IN SUMMARY To foster a culture of effective risk identification and management throughout the Group: To provide leadership, direction and oversight of the Groups management of risk: To review the principal risks affecting the Group and the ways in which the risks are controlled and mitigated: To direct and oversee the Own Risk and Solvency Assessment ORSA process and the Groups approach to capital management: and To report any material areas of concern to the full Board.
COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDANCE Members Attendance Joined The Committees terms of reference set out the Iain Cornish Chair 5 5 1 October 2011 Committees role and authority and can be found Simon Jeffreys 5 5 1 January 2014 on the corporate website at www.
Baroness Wheatcroft 5 5 2 April 2012 Roger Yates 5 5 1 January 2014 St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 90 Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Fostering a culture of effective risk management remains of the utmost importance to the Directors and the Risk Committee assists OPERATION AND PERFORMANCE OF THE COMMITTEE the Board in developing this culture, by providing leadership, direction The Committee comprises four independent Non-executive Directors and membership has remained unchanged during the and oversight of the Groups management of risk.
The Committees effectiveness has been reviewed by the This report sets out how the Committee operates and summarises Board as part of its overall assessment of its effectiveness see the work it has undertaken during the year.
Key activities in page 81 and it remains satisfied that all members have 2017included: considerable financial, risk and or other relevant experience and as a whole the Committee has the experience and qualifications Reviewing and interrogating the principal risks and uncertainties necessary to successfully perform its role.
affecting the Group in the context of the Groups strategy: Consideration of risk appetite and associated risk reporting: Regular attendees at Committee meetings during the year Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups risk included the Chair, Chief Executive, Managing Director management framework and its implementation across the Distribution, Chief Risk Officer and Chief Actuary.
Subject Group: matter experts and other members of senior management are Considering oversight reports produced by the Groups Risk and invited to attend and present on specific topics throughout the Compliance functions and assessing the adequacy of year.
managements responses to actions: Receiving updates regarding ongoing interactions with the At each scheduled meeting the Committee receives a formal Groups regulators: report from the Chief Risk Officer that includes: Examining with members of senior management their business updates on material risks that have been prominent in the areas management of the associated risks: period since the previous meeting: Oversight and challenge to the activities underpinning the ORSA interactions with Regulators during the period: and ICAAP processes and reporting, together with other updates on the impact of new regulations, political documents aligned with those processes: developments e. g. Brexit and the significant changes in the Recommending to the Board the appointment of the new Chief risk environment: Risk Officer: and key risk metrics: and Assessing proposed changes to the capital management summaries of thematic reviews carried out by the Business approach to be adopted by the Groups UK life company.
Assurance, Group Risk and Compliance Oversight functions.
During 2017, the Committee has overseen further developments to The Committee maintains a rolling forward agenda which the reporting of key risks, with appropriate coverage being given to ensures that key risks are considered when appropriate and that each of these risks at Committee meetings.
This work has been its workload is balanced across the year.
Key risk policies are supported by focused reports from senior executives and external reviewed throughout the year and there is a standing item at consultants on specific topics, including key corporate initiatives.
each meeting to allow the Committee to recommend relevant Attendance by executives provides the Committee with opportunities policies to the Board for adoption.
to explore the management of the associated risks, and challenge the executives responsible.
The Chair of the Committee met regularly with the CRO and the CEO, both individually and together to discuss key risk topics.
In addition to the scheduled meetings, the Committee was also Iain Cornish convened on one further occasion to consider in more depth the On behalf of the Risk Committee capital management policy for the UK life company.
At this 27 February 2018 meeting, the Committee considered refinements to the policy, together with proposed management actions and risk assessment reports following which the Committee confirmed that it supported the adoption of the policy by the Board of the UK life company.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc 91 Report of the Risk Committee continued COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES DURING 2017 The Committee held five scheduled meetings during the year and a summary of some of the key topics considered is set out below: February May July KEY TOPICS KEY TOPICS KEY TOPICS Cyber Security The Committee DST The Committee received an Discretionary Fund Management received an update on progress in the update on one of the Groups main The Committee received presentations previous six months, noting the outsourced service providers DST covering the operational and enhancements made, the maturity of and assessed their performance.
regulatory control environment within the Groups cyber resilience and Business Assurance The Rowan Dartington.
awareness and planned future Committee considered the Business Continuity Planning The developments.
performance of the Business Committee considered the Groups Client Money and Client Assets Assurance function, the risks business continuity plans and the Updates were provided by the CF10A impacting the function in its day to day testing carried out, identified areas CASS Oversight Operation function engagement with the Partnership and where enhancements should be on interactions with the Regulator and planned future developments.
the oversight of third party The Partnership The Committee ORSA 2017 The Committee administrators compliance with the received a presentation from the CF10 considered and agreed that the FCAs CASS rules.
Compliance Oversight function in standard formula for the calculation of ORSA The Committee approved a relation to the principal risks associated the Solvency Capital Requirements revised ORSA policy and with the Partnership and an update on remained appropriate and considered recommended it to the Board for the compliance review process.
the operational risk assessments and approval and adoption.
The The Groups Investment Management stress tests carried out alongside Committee also considered and Approach The Committee received financial projections.
approved the ORSA stress and an update on recent changes made to Risk Appetite Statement The scenario tests and proposed the oversight and governance Committee reviewed and agreed to operational risk assessments for2017.
structure of the Investment Steering recommend an updated Group Risk Group and considered the impact that Appetite Statement to the Board.
the expansion in the offering was having on the business and Advisers.
Money Laundering The Groups Anti-Money Laundering Reporting Officer presented her annual report to the Committee and outlined the impact of the Fourth Anti-Money Laundering Directive on the Group and its key suppliers.
ORSA OVERSIGHT OF RISK One of the key areas of focus for the Committee continues to be the Own Oversight of the risk management framework is key to delivery of the Risk and Solvency Assessment ORSA.
Although the ORSA is borne responsibilities of the Committee and further information on this can from a regulatory requirement, as it has become embedded within the be found on pages 46 to 48.
The risk management framework and Group and has proved to be a useful tool to support the Board and its associated documents are subject to annual review and during 2017 Committees in the consideration of specific risks.
The Committee the presentation of the Groups Top Risk List has continued to remains responsible for setting the strategy for the performance of a develop, although the risks included remain largely unchanged.
The single, Group-wide, ORSA and has continued involvement in this risks are mapped to the Basel framework and a bottom-up risk process throughout the year.
It is responsible for agreeing and assessment process, to provide assurance that the list provides proposing the ORSA Policy, and all other key risk management comprehensive coverage.
This list, and the set of indicators used by policies, to the Board before setting the underlying bases and the Committee to regularly monitor performance against risk assumptions and determining the extent of stress and scenario appetite, have both been regularly reviewed by the Committee during testing to be applied.
Management presents the results of stress and the year and will continue to develop during 2018. scenario tests and the assessments of operational risks and then The Committee is supported in its oversight of the risk management works with the Committee to finalise the content of the ORSA report framework by Risk Management teams at Group and local levels, and which is recommended to the Board for approval.
the Committee spends a significant proportion of its time receiving As summarised above, the Committee considered in depth and updates from the Chief Risk Officer and senior members of the Group agreed to the proposed changes to the capital management policy of Risk Division, who have direct access to the Chair of the Risk Committee the UK life company.
As part of this, the Committee discussed with should the need arise.
Following the announcement that Craig Gentle executive management the associated developments to the ORSA.
would step into the Chief Financial Officer role in 2018, a process to These developments include focusing on reasonably foreseeable risk identify and appoint a new Chief Risk Officer commenced and members events for stress and scenario testing, to assess solvency and of the Committee were involved.
In November, the Committee available management actions.
recommended to the Board Mark Suttons appointment to the role.
St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 92 Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information September November KEY TOPICS KEY TOPICS Capital Management The Chief Financial Officer joined Discretionary Fund Management The Executive Chairman and Risk and Compliance Director of Rowan Dartington the Chief Risk Officer and Chief Actuary to explain proposed presented an assessment of Rowan Dartingtons top risks and enhancements to the capital management policy for its UK life company and the Committee agreed to schedule a the Committee evaluated the maturity of Rowan Dartingtons approach to compliance and risk.
further meeting to examine the proposals in more detail see page 91.
MiFID II The Chief Risk Officer provided an update on MiFID II readiness, the scope of which was also extended to MiFID II The Committee received an update on progress encompass the disclosure requirements from the new made since the previous meeting and sought clarification on the practical implications and the timeline for key decisions Insurance Distribution Directive IDD and Packaged Retail and Insurance-based Investment Products PRIIPs Regulation.
Vulnerable Clients The Committee received a presentation Information Security The Committee considered developments within the business in relation to information on the management of vulnerable clients, including a detailed security and received a presentation on the progress of the outline of the approach taken to identifying and handling the needs of vulnerable clients and the support provided to GDPR project, focusing in particular on the importance of supporting the Partnership to understand the risks and how to Advisers to determine and manage their own interaction with vulnerable clients.
2017 ORSA The Committee considered the final draft of the Remuneration Risks The Committee considered and agreed 2017 ORSA document and agreed to recommend it to the an annual assessment of the Groups remuneration risks.
ORSA The Committee approved a revised ORSA policy and Board for approval.
recommended it to the Board for approval and adoption.
The Committee also considered and approved the ORSA stress and scenario tests and proposed operational risk assessments for2018.
The Committee is also able to review and provide challenge on the As noted above, since most of the activity within the Group is implementation of risk mitigation in the business.
When certain risks regulated, the Committee also receives regular updates on the have crystallised during the year the Committee has reviewed the Groups ongoing interactions with regulators which provides further circumstances, confirmed the causes and assessed the response of context from which it can interrogate and challenge the performance management.
None of the risks that have crystallised during the year of the Groups first and second line risk functions.
The Groups have been material.
During the year, the Committee continued to interaction is principally with the Prudential Regulation Authority, receive and review reports from a number of Executive Committees Financial Conduct Authority, Central Bank of Ireland, Monetary and other functions in the Group including: Authority of Singapore and Office of the Commissioner of Insurance in Hong Kong.
Wider regulatory interactions also take place with firms Reports relating to relevant topics discussed at Group Risk in the financial services marketplace and collectively these updates Executive and Finance Executive Committee meetings, where assist the Committee in monitoring the Groups ongoing compliance executive oversight is given to the appropriateness and with regulation.
observance of the Groups Risk Appetite: Reports produced by the Compliance Oversight and Business Assurance functions in respect of thematic reviews carried out into specific areas of the Groups business: Reports from the Chief Risk Officer on the effectiveness of the Groups risk management systems: and An annual report from the Money Laundering Reporting Officer on the anti-money laundering, bribery and fraud activities taking place within the Group.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc 93
