Leadership and Governance Audit Committee Report Dear Shareholder, With production commencing in the North Sea and the completion The Audit Committee of the latest exploration and appraisal programme in Senegal, the Members and meetings in 2017 committees fulfilment of its responsibilities, which include the integrity The audit committee continued to support the Board in of the Groups financial statements, the effectiveness of the Groups its responsibilities which include setting the Companys risk management and internal assurance processes and related strategic aims, providing the leadership to put them into governance and compliance matters, focused on the key areas effect, supervising the management of the business and impacting the business in the year.
reporting to shareholders on their stewardship.
Composition and summary of audit committee meetings during the year Member Meetings During the year under review, I served as Chair of the audit committee a since attended alongside two of my fellow non-executive directors: Alexander Berger x F aX and Keith Lough.
Both Alexander and Keith are considered by the Board to be independent.
Ian Tyler also attended meetings in his Chair capacity of Chairman of the Cairn Energy PLC Board but is not a x Alexander member of the committee.
Berger The members of the committee have been chosen to provide the wide range of financial and commercial experience needed to fulfil these duties.
Keith and I are qualified accountants with recent and relevant x U X financial experience.
Alexander brings comprehensive industry U a as my nine-year membership of the committee concludes following At our request, the CFO, the Chief Executive in his capacity of Chair of the Groups Risk Management Committee and senior members of the Finance and Risk and Compliance departments attended each of these meetings.
Additionally, both internal and external auditors also attended each meeting.
I also regularly met privately with the external audit partner to discuss matters relevant to the Group throughout the year.
around the key external reporting dates.
The first meeting in March e  e a I e both centred on the Groups half-year reporting and a December a At each meeting the committee receives an updated report from the external auditors which either explains their plans and scope for a forthcoming audit or review, or contains the conclusions from that audit or review.
The audit committee also receives a report on the internal audit process, tracking the progress of internal audits and reviewing their output and recommendations.
The audit committee also closely monitors Cairns Risk Management system, reviewing the activities of the Groups Risk Management Committee and the Groups risk management project plan with further reviews and challenges of the Groups risk registers and opportunity matrix at each committee meeting.
Other business covered by the committee includes the annual approval of corporate assumptions and annual review of, the Groups policy on non-audit services and the Groups Whistleblowing Policy.
The latter two were refreshed during the current reporting cycle.
{X e  e 94 FRC Corporate Reporting Review e 8 e  e writing last year, the committee was aware of continuing communication with the FRC seeking additional detail on the Companys assessment on the impact of climate change and further clarification regarding the Groups tax disclosures in that year.
I am pleased to report that, following further clarification from the company, the FRCs review was subsequently concluded, with no further action required by the Company.
The Company did undertake to consider the level of tax disclosure required to understand the key issues impacting the Groups tax position and enhanced disclosures are included in this years financial statements.
Responsibilities and activities during the year  U : on the Groups website.
A summary of the committees principal responsibilities and activities during the year is set out below.
Principal responsibilities of the committee: Key areas formally discussed: Financial statements Monitoring the integrity of the financial Going concern conclusions and linkage to the statements of the Group and formal viability statement: announcements relating to the Groups significant accounting issues at the interim and financial performance: year end see below : and reviewing any significant financial reporting approval of the Groups corporate judgements: and assumptions those impacting impairment reviewing the appropriateness of accounting policies, their consistent application and financial statements.
External audit Overseeing the Groups relationship with the Reviewing the external auditors scope and external auditors, including: making recommendations to the Board as discussing the materiality levels set by to the appointment or reappointment of the auditors: the external auditors: approval of the auditors remuneration: reviewing their terms of engagement and consideration of the results of the external engagement for non-audit services: and audit with the auditors and management: and monitoring the external auditors assessment of the effectiveness of the independence, objectivity and external audit see below.
Internal risk management and assurance Reviewing the Groups internal financial Reviewing the Groups corporate and controls and internal control and risk operational risk register: management systems and oversight of the reviewing reports on the activities of the Groups Risk Management Committee: and Risk Management Committee: monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of selection of internal audit work planned for the Groups internal audit function.
assessment of key findings raised from internal audits conducted in the year.
Whistleblowing procedures Reviewing the Groups whistleblowing Reviewing and approving of the Groups procedures and ensuring that arrangements updated whistleblowing procedures.
are in place for the proportionate and independent investigation of possible improprieties in respect of financial reporting and other matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
Other matters Reviewing the Groups policy for approval of Review and approval of the Group policy for non-audit work to the Companys auditors: approval of non-audit work to the Companys and auditors: and reviewing booking of Group reserves classification of reserves and resources for and resources.
disclosure in the Annual Report.
The review of the Annual Report and Accounts for fair, balanced and understandable presentation and disclosure, while considered by the Audit Committee, is formally performed and approved by the full Cairn Energy PLC Board.
External audit U : 8 { XX{ { : audit therefore represents the fifth year of PwCs tenure as Group auditor.
After five years serving as PwCs lead audit partner on the Cairn engagement, Michael Timar has come to the end of his rotation period.
Keith and F { a I 95 Leadership and Governance Audit Committee Report continued : : c the continuing exploration and appraisal programme in Senegal and exploration drilling and new country entry within the Groups International portfolio.
There were also developments in the ongoing India tax dispute, which is currently subject to international arbitration proceedings.
The key accounting issues summarised below are those that are, or have the potential to be, material to the Groups results for the year and closing Balance Sheet position.
New accounting issues arising in the year Accounting for production in the North Sea Audit committee action Audit committee conclusions The committee reviewed the proposed accounting for production After challenging management, the committee was satisfied on the arising from the Groups Kraken and Catcher assets, including the accounting proposed for the Groups production in North Sea, including proposed classification and disclosure in the financial statements.
revenue recognition policies and classification of inventory.
The committee also considered the accounting for the FlowStream The committee noted that expert accounting advice had been obtained transaction, given this type of streaming agreement is relatively with regard to accounting for the FlowStream transaction and were uncommon in the oil and gas sector.
The committee queried whether satisfied with the explanations provided and that the cash received was accounting as deferred revenue rather than a financial liability was the properly recorded as deferred revenue.
The committee therefore correct treatment.
approved the accounting treatment adopted by the company.
Accounting for FPSO lease agreements in the North Sea Audit committee action Audit committee conclusions Accounting for the Groups interests in the two FPSOs which became The audit committee were satisfied that appropriate and consistent U assumptions had been applied by management in reaching conclusions considered in detail by the audit committee.
on lease classification and measurement.
Specifically, the committee reviewed the key assumptions that The committee also noted judgemental differences raised by the management used to determine both the classification of the lease auditors on certain adjustments to the lease subsequent to initial as either finance or operating and, for the former, the measurement recognition but were satisfied that these did not impact the of the lease at inception and on subsequent amendments to the measurement or either asset or liability at the year end and approved the accounting treatment adopted by management.
Accounting for Vedanta Limited shares and related dividends e F Cairn India Limited merger with Vedanta Limited and the seizure of dividends due to Cairn from Cairn India now Vedanta Limited by the Indian % Audit committee action Audit committee conclusions The committee reviewed the accounting arising from the merger of The audit committee received a full explanation of the computation of Cairn India with Vedanta, specifically the gain on disposal of the financial the gain on disposal and were satisfied with both the quantum of the asset disclosed in the accounts.
gain and its disclosure in the financial statements.
Further, the committee also reviewed the provision made against The committee agreed with managements provision in full against dividends receivable and considered the need for provision against dividends receivable and were re-assured by both management and the the Vedanta Limited shares held as a financial asset.
auditors that the seizure did not necessitate any further provision against the Vedanta Limited shares.
Recurring accounting issues Carrying value of exploration assets Audit committee action Audit committee conclusions The committee considers in detail managements review for indicators of The committee was satisfied that the impairment tests performed by impairment across the Groups exploration portfolio and the subsequent management were conducted in accordance with Cairns accounting impairment tests performed on the Groups key exploration assets in the policy, using appropriate assumptions.
Further, the committee is satisfied U c that exploration costs remaining in the Groups exploration and appraisal assumptions included with the fair value models.
{X e  e 96 Impairment testing on oil and gas assets and goodwill Audit committee action Audit committee conclusions The committee reviews and approves the Groups corporate The audit committee was satisfied that appropriate corporate assumptions assumptions set by management, which include short and longer-term were adopted by management, as key inputs into financial models used oil prices.
In challenging those assumptions, the committee benchmarks in the impairment calculations.
The committee continues to monitor these against market trends, observed independently by the Groups auditors, assumptions at each meeting.
The committee was also satisfied with seeking assurance that the assumptions used by management are the reserve volumes booked by management, taking assurance from comparable with those applied in the sector.
These assumptions are key independent reserve reports which support managements approach.
inputs into the impairment testing of the Groups oil and gas related The committee was satisfied that assumptions used in impairment testing assets, which remains a significant accounting issue in the current year.
were consistent with the latest performance indicators observed from the The committee also considers asset-specific assumptions applied by Groups assets and updated operator profiles.
management in impairment models, including reserve volumes and production commencement dates, challenging management as to whether those assumptions remain appropriate.
The committee reviewed managements conclusion on the impairment The committee was satisfied that the correct impairment charge was test and the impairment reversal subsequently recorded in the income recorded in the financial statements and that this was appropriately statement.
The committee considered managements recommendation disclosed by category of asset.
The committee approved the reversal and sought assurance from the auditors that the impairment reversal of impairment recorded in the financial statements.
was justifiable, correctly computed and disclosed appropriately.
In addition to the accounting issues identified above, the audit committee monitored the implementation of a new Group-wide ERP system installed by company during the year.
At the request of the committee, additional work was performed by the auditors in advance of the system go-live to provide comfort that the processes and controls operated by the project team were suitably robust, and that the system was designed and operating as intended.
This work was concluded in advance of the go-live decision, which then proceeded as planned.
Going concern and viability e statements.
The audit committee reviews and challenges managements conclusions so that we may, in turn, provide comfort to the Board that managements assessment has been considered, challenged and is appropriate.
Given the continuing low price environment facing the oil and gas industry, the audit committee carefully reviewed managements going concern : a : the financial statements.
The audit committee subsequently recommended to the Board that the Group continues to use the going concern basis in preparing its financial statements.
With the viability statement now in its third year, the audit committee continued to monitor best-practice developments in this area of reporting and e  e e a meeting the committed reviewed and queried management on the sensitivity analysis prepared to support their conclusions reached.
Following this review, the committee recommended approval of the viability statement to the Board.
Our updated viability statement is included in the Strategic  Assessment of external audit process The committee has an established framework to assess the effectiveness of the external audit process.
This comprises: Audit committee action Audit committee conclusion A review of the audit plan including the materiality level set by the The committee agreed with the level of materiality set by the auditors.
auditors and the process they have adopted to identify financial statement risks and key areas of audit focus summarised in the F e  A review of the Audit Quality Inspection AQI Report on our auditors There were no matters raised in the AQI report that caused concern for published by the FRC with particular emphasis on any key messages the audit committee.
A review of the final audit report, noting key areas of auditor judgement The audit committee reviewed findings on the key audit issues identified.
and the reasoning behind the conclusions reached.
The committee was satisfied that appropriate challenge had been made of management and that the audit process was robust.
Regular communications through formal papers submitted and % presentations to the committee and meetings between myself as I F Chair of the audit committee and the lead audit engagement partner.
e  A formal questionnaire issued to all audit committee members and No matters of significance were reported.
senior Cairn management who are involved in the audit covering the robustness of the audit process, the quality of delivery, the quality of reporting and the quality of the auditors people and service.
97 Leadership and Governance Audit Committee Report continued Of particular focus for the committee is the assessment of the judgement applied by PwC during each stage of the audit process including setting audit materiality, identifying the risks to the financial statements, evaluating audit findings and communicating those areas of judgement The audit committee noted the level of planned materiality and agreed on the levels of misstatements to be reported to the committee.
The final a e by the auditors, noting the degree of judgement around areas of significant audit risk.
Auditor independence and provision of non-audit services We have a long-established policy in relation to the supply of non-audit services by the external auditors.
The Group will engage an external advisor to provide non-audit services on the basis of the skills and experience required for the work, where benefit will be derived as a result of the third partys knowledge of the Group and at a reasonable cost.
These advisors may include the Groups external auditors, under a restricted set of circumstances, although, before the engagement commences, Cairn must be satisfied that the auditors objectivity and independence would not be compromised in any way as a result of being instructed to carry out those services.
The policy on approval of non-audit fees for the Groups auditors is re-approved annually.
This year an update to the policy was made to reflect the FRCs Revised Ethical Standards applicable to audit firms, released last year.
Following the revised guidelines, all non-audit fees should now be As a practical workaround rather than seeking full committee approval in advance, only approval from the committee Chair need be sought in advance for fees below an approved threshold.
This approval will then be ratified at the next meeting of the committee.
The amended policy is now as follows: Prior approval of full Prior approval of audit Fee level Quotes required?
No No Yes Yes with exceptions No Yes Yes No Yes : Yes Yes n a During the year, PwC provided other services including certification of the Groups EITI submission in Senegal and providing the accountants report on the circular requesting approval for the sell-down of the Groups holding in Vedanta Limited should the current restriction be lifted.
The committee noted that it had previously instructed the auditors to undertake a translation service, converting financial statements of a non-material subsidiary into its local language.
The auditors have subsequently identified this service as a breach of the FRCs revised Ethical Standard and this service has now e : financial statements.
Internal audit 8 XX{ : I { beginning of each year, an internal audit plan is developed by the internal auditor, in consultation with senior management, based on a review of the of historical audits of fundamental business processes and the significant risks in the Group Risk Matrix and identified mitigation measures.
The plan is then presented to the audit committee for review and approval.
The internal auditor also participates in meetings of the Group Risk Management Committee to maintain an understanding of the business activities and associated risks and to update the Group Risk Management Committee on the internal audit work plan.
The audit committee also receives updates on the internal audit work plan on an ongoing basis.
The external auditors do not place any reliance on the work undertaken by the Groups internal audit function due to the nature of the scope and the timing of their work.
The external auditors do, however, attend all committee meetings where internal audit updates are given and meet separately with the internal auditors to discuss areas of common focus in developing their audit plan.
Working responsibly whistleblowing and related policies The Group is committed to working responsibly as part of its strategy to deliver value for all stakeholders.
This means delivering value in a safe, secure, environmentally and socially responsible manner.
As part of this the audit committee is responsible for ensuring the Group has a robust Whistleblowing Policy in place and this policy is reviewed : a The committee is also responsible for and is satisfied that arrangements are in place for the proportionate and independent investigation of possible improprieties in respect of financial reporting and other matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
The Group has in place a comprehensive  Management System and Code of Ethics.
Regular training updates are provided to all employees and long-term contractors in addition to the training that is provided to all new staff joining the company.
As Cairn enters new countries, further monitoring is undertaken and training is refreshed.
Further information regarding these policies can be found on : IAIN MCLAREN Chair of the audit committee a {X e  e 98
