Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 71 Audit Committee Role The Audit Committee supports the Board by reviewing the integrity of the financial information, robustness of internal controls, the consistency of, and any changes to, accounting policies and standards, the effectiveness of external and internal audit and ensuring it provides clear, complete, fair, balanced and understandable financial reports to shareholders.
The Committee is required to report its findings to the Board, making any necessary recommendations for action or improvements.
Membership The Audit Committee during the year comprised the following Independent Non-Executive Directors and met the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 the Code in that all Committee members are Independent Non-Executive Directors with relevant sector and financial Dear Shareholders experience and the Committee as a whole has competence relevant to the sector in which the Company operates.
The The report on the work of the Committee meets at least four times a year as a minimum and at other times as required.
Audit Committee for the year ended Member Member since 31 December 2017 is detailed in this Thomas Colraine Chairman September 2015 report confirming how the Committee Ian Cormack September 2015 has discharged its responsibilities Pierre Lefvre September 2015 under its Terms of Reference and the Teresa Robson-Capps July 2016 requirements of best practice Each member of the Committee has significant experience working with listed entities on matters relating to financial probity corporate governance.
In consultation and internal control.
In accordance with the FRCs Code, the Board has determined that Thomas Colraine has recent and with the Company Secretary and relevant financial experience.
Biographies of the Committee members are set out on pages 62 and 63.
The Company Chief Financial Officer I ensure that all Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee and takes the minutes of all meetings.
Although not Committee members, the matters delegated to the Committee External Auditor, KPMG LLP KPMG, the internal Auditor, Grant are considered and are reported to Thornton UK LLP Grant Thornton, the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer are notified of all meetings and the Board as appropriate.
At each meeting, the Committee has the opportunity to talk to the External and internal Auditors without management present.
The Terms of Reference for the Committee have been agreed by the Board and are available online at www.
Annual Report 2017 Hastings Group Holdings plc 72 | Corporate governance Audit Committee continued At the beginning of the year and during the reporting The internal audit function is managed and resourced via preparations for the year ended 31 December 2016, the a third-party relationship with Grant Thornton and brings Group was impacted by the UK Governments decision to a systematic, disciplined approach to the evaluation and amend the Ogden rate which determines the lump sum improvement of the effectiveness of risk management control awards for personal injury claimants.
Management monitored and governance processes.
The independence of the internal the situation and was well prepared for the eventual change audit function helps to ensure that accurate reports are that occurred on 27 February 2017 just prior to the Companys provided to the Board, Audit and Risk Committees without results announcement on 2 March 2017.
The Committee undue management influence on the audit and its processes.
convened soon after the announcement and following a The Committee reviewed and approved the Internal Audit substantive review noted the impact to the Group was a Charter during the year which defines and explains the pre-tax charge of 20m.
This charge did not impact on the purpose, objectives and responsibility of the internal audit Committees or the Boards deliberations regarding the final function for the Group.
The internal audit function service dividend for 2016.
It is noted that whilst the UK Government provider was chosen through a tender process undertaken in has more recently published draft legislation that will create a 2014 that involved reputable audit firms.
The independence of statutory mechanism to adjust the Ogden rate, there is no set Grant Thornton is regularly reviewed and there are no current date as to when this may become law.
proposals to tender these services for the coming year.
The Committee welcomed the letter dated 10 October 2017 As part of the Board effectiveness evaluation conducted from the FRC addressed to all Audit Committee Chairmen and in October 2017, the Audit Committee was itself subject to Finance Directors.
This letter provided guidance on the FRCs an appraisal by its members.
The evaluation considered perspective on aspects of annual reports and how companies the effectiveness of processes and procedures established should aim to improve them and to highlight changes to by the Committee to fulfil its duties, and the effectiveness UK reporting requirements.
In light of this guidance the of the systems of internal control, financial and regulatory Committee reviewed the requirements and agreed with risk management systems and those for monitoring the management proposals on how to adopt these additional best effectiveness and objectivity of the internal and External practice requirements for both financial and non-financial Auditors.
The performance of Committee members and the reporting contained in this years Annual Report.
Committee Chairman were also reviewed.
The Committee has agreed a number of actions for the coming year in relation to As required by its Terms of Reference, the Committee has the aforementioned areas.
primary responsibility for overseeing the relationship with, and performance of, the External Auditor as well as ensuring that As part of ongoing awareness, competency and training, the the audit services contract is put out to tender at least every Committee received updates from management as well as the ten years.
The Committee noted that the incumbent External External Auditor during the year in relation to amendments Auditor, KPMG, has been the Auditor of the Company since its and updates to International Financial Reporting Standards formation in 2015 and the lead audit partner, Salim Tharani, was IFRS.
The key area of focus of this has been IFRS 17: appointed for the year ended 31 December 2016.
Following a Insurance Contracts, which was issued by the International review during the year, it was agreed that the reappointment Accounting Standards Board in May 2017.
Management are ofKPMG be proposed at the forthcoming AGM in May 2018. reviewing the requirements of IFRS 17 and have agreed a The Committee will continue to monitor the appointment of plan to implement in time for the anticipated effective date KPMG as External Auditor and will review KPMGs performance of 1 January 2021.
The Chairman of the Board and I met with and external audit requirements annually.
various investors during 2017 as well as attending the AGM in May 2017 with the rest of the Board.
As Chairman of the Audit Committee and Senior Independent Director it is important that I interact with stakeholders to gain a balanced and fair understanding of their views and concerns.
I will continue to be available to meet with these interested parties on a regular basis during the coming year.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 73 During a year of change the Committee has focused on ensuring that the internal control framework remains robust.
Meetings The Committee met seven times during the year.
The following matters were considered and challenged as appropriate by Committee members at these meetings: Meetings Area of focus Matter considered Financial and Reviewed the integrity of Financial Statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2016 and the appropriateness of accounting policies and going concern assumptions narrative reporting Reviewed material matters in relation to the 2016 Annual Report and preliminary announcement, including the impact of the Ogden rate change announced on 27 February 2017 Reviewed and recommended for Board approval the 2016 Annual Report, Preliminary Statement and Annual Results Presentation Reviewed and approved the Viability Statement for the 2016 Annual Report in conjunction with the Risk Committee Confirmed and recommended to the Board that the 2016 Annual Report was fair, balanced and understandable Reviewed the approach to claims reserving and reinsurance assets for the Groups Underwriting business Reviewed the integrity of Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for the half year ended 30 June 2017 and the appropriateness of accounting policies and going concern assumptions Reviewed and recommended for Board approval of the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, Interim Results Announcement and Analyst Presentation in relation to the half year ended 30 June 2017 Considered evolving market practice and the FRCs letter dated 10 October 2017 to Audit Committee Chairmen relating to its Guidance on the Strategic Report and financial and non-financial reporting Reviewed developments in IFRS and their impacts and key accounting issues particularly in relation to IFRS 9, IFRS 15, IFRS 16 and IFRS 17 Reviewed plans for the production of the Annual Report and Accounts, and Results Presentation for the year ended 31 December 2017 Internal control Received and reviewed reports from the internal Auditor in relation to the Companys internal audit plan and those of its subsidiaries and compliance Reviewed the internal control framework Reviewed the processes and procedures for claims reserving by the Groups Underwriting business Approved the Internal Audit Charter Reviewed the internal Auditors performance during 2017 and approved the Internal Audit Plan for 2018 Met with the internal Auditor without management present Reviewed and considered the Audit Highlights Memorandum and Auditors report for the 2016 Annual Report External audit Reviewed the performance of the External Auditor for the financial year ended 2016 Reviewed and approved audit non-audit expenditure incurred by the Company during 2016 Considered qualifications, expertise and independence of the External Auditor and recommended their re-appointment to shareholders and for the Committee to agree auditors remuneration Reviewed and agreed the Companys policy for the tendering of external audit services Reviewed and approved the audit fee, plan and approach for the financial year ended 2017 Reviewed and agreed the budget for External Auditors to provide non-audit services for 2017 Received a briefing from the External Auditor on IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts and application issues for general insurers Met with the External Auditor without management present Governance Reviewed the Committees Terms of Reference and confirmed the Committees Terms of Reference othermatters had been adhered to during 2017 Conducted an annual review of Committee effectiveness and agreed an action plan to further improve Committee operations Confirmed compliance with UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 and explanations for any noncompliance in relation to the financial year ended 2016 Reviewed the Groups Tax Strategy and Policy and recommended for Board approval Received updates on financial reporting governance developments and best practice Annual Report 2017 Hastings Group Holdings plc 74 | Corporate governance Audit Committee continued Priorities for 2018 Extensive information on reserving levels was provided to In the coming year the Committee will focus on: support these discussions and to enable the Committee to continued review of the Groups reserving process: assess the adequacy of the reserves and level of prudence, and any variances between the internal and external best estimates oversight of the implementation by the Group of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers: were debated and understood.
assessment of the impact on the Group of IFRS 9 Financial The Audit Committee also asked the Groups External Instruments, IFRS 16 Leases and IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts and review of managements implementation plans to ensure Auditor to provide an update on the procedures they used the Group is ready to comply with the standards as they to test the reserving process and best estimate calculations become effective: and in accordance with the applicable accounting and auditing work to ensure the Groups internal audit function continues standards.
The External Auditor further confirmed the its systematic and disciplined approach.
challenges made, representations received and conclusions based on this.
How the Committee addresses issues with Having considered all the information presented and having Financial Statements and matters communicated satisfied itself with the enquiries made, the Committee to the Committee by theAuditor confirmed it was satisfied with the Groups approach and the Financial reporting and significant financial judgements completeness and reasonableness of the provision for claims Provision for outstanding claims outstanding held.
The provision for outstanding claims is an area of significant Reinsurance assets judgement as it estimates the cost required to settle all unpaid The Group uses both non-proportional excess of loss and claims, both reported and incurred but not reported, at the quota share reinsurance arrangements to limit its exposure balance sheet date.
The excess of loss programme limits the Groups The Groups Underwriting business has accumulated significant exposure on any individual claim and the quota share experience of projecting future claims development and has a arrangement provides 50% cover on all motor claims after detailed understanding of how ultimate liabilities develop over excess of loss recoveries.
The Group would remain liable for all time based on initial notifications, environmental conditions amounts due to policyholders should any reinsurer fail to pay.
and changes to legislation or reporting processes.
This An accurate calculation of reinsurance assets is vital to ensure experience is built into the Reserving Policy and the actuarial an appropriate gross and net position is recognised within the models used to calculate the year end claims reserves, which Financial Statements.
The calculation of reinsurance recovery are overseen by Underwritings Reserving Committee.
The assets is intrinsically linked to the calculation of outstanding Reserving Committee is a sub-committee of the independent claims liabilities, and requires the same estimations and Underwriting Board responsible for oversight of the process judgements as considered by Underwritings Reserving and recommending the appropriate level of claims reserves.
Committee, and is subject to the same level of control There are robust controls in place surrounding the data used andreview.
by the internal actuaries and all estimates and assumptions are internally peer reviewed.
This approach applies rigour and There is further judgement required in establishing the independence to ensure there is an appropriate margin over recoverability of the reinsurers share of insurance contract the actuarial best estimate to allow for uncertainty and volatility.
liabilities, particularly the longer term assets arising from Underwritings external actuary prepares an independent larger claims.
The Group manages its exposure to credit projection of claims reserves.
risk with respect to its reinsurers through diversification, purchasing both excess of loss and quota share reinsurance Having been recommended by the Underwriting Reserving through two panels of reinsurers to provide cover under each Committee and approved by the Underwriting Board, detailed arrangement: by reviewing the financial strength of reinsurers papers were provided to the Audit Committee explaining the prior to finalisation of any contract: by using reinsurers with methodology used, how the Reserving Policy has been applied strong credit ratings: and by reviewing the creditworthiness and the judgements applied in the actuarial calculations that of reinsurers on an ongoing basis.
The creditworthiness of support the provisions made.
These papers included reports reinsurers is considered by reviewing credit grades provided and calculations provided by the external actuary.
by rating agencies and other publicly available financial The Committee met with management and considered information on a quarterly basis as well as monitoring the explanations from both the internal and the external actuaries to deliberate over the methodology applied, the best estimate recent payment history of reinsurers to ensure they are in accordance with expected settlement terms.
calculations and the external actuarys independent report.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 75 Having considered all the information presented and having In the Committees assessment of the effectiveness of the satisfied itself with the enquiries made, the Committee external audit process KPMG was asked to articulate the steps confirmed it was satisfied with the Groups approach and that it has taken to ensure objectivity and independence.
The theaccuracy and recoverability of the reinsurance assets Committee monitors the Auditors performance, behaviour heldand reasonableness of the claims reserves held.
and effectiveness during the exercise of their duties, which informs the Audit Committees decision whether to Significant issues related to the recommend reappointment on an annual basis.
The total FinancialStatements amount paid for non-audit work during the year was 0.2m and was for assurance services connected to KPMGs role as Other than the areas of significant judgement described above, there were no other significant issues related to the statutory Auditor including the review of the Interim Results and the audit of Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds Financial Statements considered by the Committee and discussed with the External Auditor during the year and in Solvency and Financial Condition Report.
relation to the 31 December 2017 year end.
Fair, balanced and understandable Adoption of Policy on the Provision of Audit and The Board sought advice from the Committee as to whether Non-Audit Services the information presented in this Annual Report, when taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and Under the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance contains the information necessary for shareholders to Code, the Committee, as representative of the shareholders, assess the Groups position and performance, business is required to oversee the relationship with the External model and strategy.
The steps taken by the Committee, or Auditor and keep the nature and extent of non-audit services on its behalf, to provide this advice to the Board included under review.
The Committee must satisfy itself that the delegating to a group of senior individuals within the Group independence and objectivity of the External Auditor to draft the Annual Report, with each of these individuals arenotcompromised.
having responsibility for the production of certain sections The Committee reviewed and recommended to the Board of the document.
Following a detailed review of the Annual afully Code compliant Group Policy on the Provision of Audit Report, the Committee concluded that it is fair, balanced and Non-Audit Services, which was approved in 2015.
The andunderstandable and contains the information necessary Committee does not propose any changes to this policy at this for shareholders to assess the Groups position and time.
The policy requires the Committees approval for certain performance, business model and strategy and advised services such as where the service is not directly related to theBoard accordingly.
the annual audit or involves a closer working arrangement Discharge of responsibilities between a Group company and the External Auditor that may significantly reduce the Auditors independence.
The policy During the year under review, the Committee has continued also prohibits the External Auditor from performing certain its detailed scrutiny of the appropriateness of the Groups services to the Company regardless of Committee approval.
system of internal controls, and the robustness and integrity A non-exhaustive list of such services includes the design of the Groups financial reporting, along with both the internal and implementation of internal control, financial, accounting and external audit processes.
The Committee has devoted and risk management systems, actuarial or legal services, significant time to reviewing these areas, which are integral to secondments to management positions, talent searches the Groups core management and financial processes, as well for executives, directors and or senior financial managers, as engaging regularly with management.
The Committee has, tax or payroll services and due diligence for acquisitions or where necessary, taken the initiative in requesting information jointventures.
in order to provide the constructive challenge appropriate forits role.
Fees payable to the External Auditor for non-audit services in a calendar year should not exceed 70% of the average On behalf of the Audit Committee of the audit fees paid by the Group in the previous three consecutive years.
Services required by law or regulation for Thomas Colraine example review or audit of regulatory returns are excluded Chairman of the Audit Committee from the definition of non-audit services to be included in the calculation of the 70% cap.
Once the amount of fees 28 February 2018 payable for non-audit services in any calendar year exceeds 50% of the average of the audit fees paid by the Group in the previous three consecutive years, this shall be reported to the Committee as soon as practicable and regular updates provided thereafter to ensure any potential breach of the 70% cap can be effectively monitored.
Annual Report 2017 Hastings Group Holdings plc
