76 | Corporate governance Nomination Committee Role The Committee is a formal sub-committee of the Board with its own Terms of Reference.
The principal purpose of the Nomination Committee is to review the composition and evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board.
It also leads the process for the appointment of new Executive and Independent Non-Executive Directors to the Board and makes appropriate recommendations to the Board on such matters as skill mix and diversity.
It oversees the succession planning process for Executive Directors and senior executives.
The Committee meets at least three times a year as a minimum and at other times as required.
Membership Biographies of the Committee members are set out on page 76.
Richard Brewster resigned as a Committee member upon his resignation as a Director and Gary Hoffman resigned as a Dear Shareholders member of the Committee only.
The Terms of Reference for the Committee have been agreed by the Board and are available I am pleased to present the report online at www.
ofthe Nomination Committee Member Member since for thefinancial year ended Mike Fairey Chairman September 2015 31 December 2017.
Thomas Colraine September 2015 Ian Cormack September 2015 Richard Brewster September 2015 until August 2017 Gary Hoffman September 2015 until October 2017 Sumit Rajpal September 2015 until November 2017 Having ceased to be a member of the Committee from October 2017, the Chief Executive Officer may nevertheless be invited, from time to time, to attend meetings of the Committee.
The Committee obtained information and advice during the period under review from the Group HR Director, the Company Secretary and, where appropriate, the Executive Directors.
It also sought advice from any other employees as required.
As permitted by its Terms of Reference, the Committee engaged the advice and support of Russell Reynolds and Sainty Hird as independent executive search consultants at the expense of the Company to consider executive succession options.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 77 The recommendation of Gary as Chairman therefore meant Board changes that the Company needed to search for suitable candidates Towards the end of 2017, I notified the Board that I was for the position of Chief Executive Officer.
Executive search contemplating retiring as Board Chairman at the AGM in agents, Russell Reynolds and Sainty Hird were engaged to 2018.
Gary Hoffman had also indicated to the Board that source suitable candidates for this role.
The Committee there would come a time in the not too distant future when discussed the relative merits of potential external candidates he would look to step down from his role as Chief Executive who were considered alongside potential internal candidates.
Succession planning carried out by the Committee The Board had informed the Committee that an external throughout 2017 ensured that plans were in place for orderly candidate should be viewed as significantly stronger in all succession for all appointments to the Board and to senior key areas to justify consideration ahead of the strongest management so as to maintain an appropriate balance of internal candidate.
The Board and the Committee considered skillsand experience within the Company and on the Board.
continuity risk and the potential compromise to the At the start of the search process, the Committee considered effective functioning of the current senior executive team the job specification for the role of Chairman, emphasising should an external candidate be proposed.
The Committee the importance of the Chairmans oversight of the Companys recommended to the Board, two external candidates strategy.
The Committee considered who would be best as potential successors to Gary along with two internal placed to assume the role of Company Chairman and the candidates.
After detailed debate the Board acknowledged Committee agreed that continuity and stability along with that Toby van der Meer, Managing Director of the Groups balancing the needs of strong independent governance UK trading subsidiary Hastings Insurance Services Limited and effective strategic leadership were key parameters for since 2011, emerged as the strongest potential candidate for potential candidates given the current development of the succession to the role and referred the matter back to the Group.
The Board wished to retain Garys services for the Committee to continue and finalise its thoughts before making longer term as he, along with his management team, had a formal recommendation to the Board.
beeninstrumental in the Companys success both prior to and Recommendations for the appointment of Gary as Board since the IPO.
Gary also has significant experience as a Board Chairman and Toby as Chief Executive Officer were considered Chairman having held similar positions at Barclaycard and on 8 January 2018: the Board confirmed those appointments.
The Committee and the Board were cognisant Tom Colraine, Senior Independent Director, will be appointed that the appointment of a Chief Executive Officer as Chairman asCommittee Chairman from 1 March this year.
The Committee of the same company is not in line with the principles of the recommended and the Board approved that Gary Hoffman will UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : however for the not become a member of any of the Boards Committees and reasons noted in my Chairmans Statement, the appointment that Tom will continue to be able to allocate sufficient time to of Gary as Non-Executive Chairman is in the best interests of discharge his responsibilities effectively.
the Company and all of its stakeholders.
Board and Committee changes during 2017 Director Board or Committee Appointment Resignation Edward Fitzmaurice Board March 2017 Remuneration Committee March 2017 Michele Titi-Cappelli Board March 2017 Risk Committee March 2017 Herman Bosman Board March 2017 Richard Brewster Remuneration Committee March 2017 August 2017 Board August 2017 Nomination Committee August 2017 Selina Sagayam Board August 2017 Gary Hoffman Nomination Committee October 2017 Sumit Rajpal Remuneration Committee November 2017 Nomination Committee November 2017 Annual Report 2017 Hastings Group Holdings plc 78 | Corporate governance Nomination Committee continued During 2017, Richard Brewster stated his intention to step Board and Committee composition and review down as a Director of the Company and, under the terms As required by the Code a listed companys board and its of the relationship agreement, the Founder Shareholders committees should have the appropriate balance of skills, nominated Selina Sagayam as their representative Director experience, independence and knowledge of the company in his place.
The Committee confirmed the appointment and to enable them to discharge their respective duties and Selina joined the Board in August 2017. responsibilities effectively.
The board and its committees should also meet relevant independence criteria in terms of The relationship agreement between the Founder the number of Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Shareholders and GS Shareholders also permitted these shareholders to appoint one director respectively to the The Committee noted that the Independent Non-Executive Remuneration and Nomination Committee.
As noted last year, Directors on the Board have not yet reached the end of their the Remuneration Committee was not fully Code compliant in first term of office and that the balance of skills, experience, that the Committee was not wholly composed of Independent independence and knowledge of the Company by these Non-Executive Directors.
Whilst the composition of the Directors remains appropriate.
Succession plans and talent Nomination Committee complies with the Code, the presence development for the Executive Directors and senior executive of Non-Independent Directors on this Committee was not management were reviewed by the Committee throughout deemed to be in the spirit of the Code.
The Committee the year and advice was sought from independent, external reviewed the composition of both of these Committees search agencies in relation to establishing a pipeline of during the year and recommended to the Board that the potential successors, either externally or internally.
membership of both should fully comply with the Code in line The Committee also reviewed whether there is a sufficient with the statement of intent made last year that the Company and continuous supply of suitable, highly qualified would be fully Code compliant.
internal candidates who will be able to be considered forBoard membership.
Following Edward Fitzmaurices resignation in March 2017 and Richard Brewsters resignation in August 2017, the At the time of the IPO in 2015, the Company entered into Founder Shareholders no longer have a representative on the a relationship agreement between the Company and Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
certain shareholders representing Founder Shareholders Gary Hoffman stepped down as a member of the Committee and Goldman Sachs Shareholders GS whereby these in November and the GS shareholders also confirmed that shareholders were able to appoint up to two Directors each Sumit Rajpal would step down as a member of the Committee to the Board as long as they maintain a certain shareholding and the Remuneration Committee.
As such I am pleased to in the Company.
As reported in my Chairmans Statement last confirm that the Company is now Code compliant in terms year, on 1 March 2017 Rand Merchant Investment Holdings ofthe composition of these Committees.
Limited and its wholly owned subsidiary Main Street 1353 Proprietary Limited RMI acquired of a holding of 29.9% in As part of the Board effectiveness evaluation conducted the Company.
As a result of this transaction and under the in October this year, the Committee was also subject to an terms of their relationship agreement with the Company, appraisal by its members.
The evaluation considered how the GS Shareholders and Founder Shareholders respective it discharged its responsibilities as well as the performance entitlement to nominate Directors for appointment to the of the Committee members.
The Committee has agreed a Board was reduced from two Directors each to one Director number of actions for the coming year.
Michele Titi-Cappelli resigned as a Director representing the GS Shareholders and Edward Fitzmaurice resigned as a director representing the Founder Shareholders on 14 March 2017.
A relationship agreement was entered into between the Company and RMI whereby RMI can appoint one Director to the Board as long as they maintain a certain shareholding in the Company.
Herman Bosman was appointed to the Board on 14 March 2017.
The Committee confirmed the appointment of Herman Bosman under the terms of that relationship agreement.
Further information about these agreements canbe found on pages 51 and 52.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 79 Plans are in place for the orderly succession for all appointments to the Board and to senior management.
Meetings The Committee met three times during the year.
The following matters were considered and challenged as appropriate by Committee members at these meetings: Meetings Area of focus Matter considered Composition of the Board, Committee Approval of Board changes following the completion of the investment by RMI and senior executive Confirmation of the nomination of Selina Sagayam as a Director appointed by Founder and succession planning Shareholders under the Relationship Agreement Reviewed progress on succession planning and talent development for Executive Directors and senior executives Reviewed the composition of the Board evaluating balance of skills, knowledge and experience Reviewed and challenged the composition of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees in line with the independence requirements of the Code Considered how and if the Board reflected the diversity of the Group and the market within which it operates Made recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointments for Board Chairman and Chief ExecutiveOfficer Governance other matters Reviewed its Terms of Reference and confirmed the Committees Terms of Reference had been adhered to during 2017 Conducted an annual review of Committee effectiveness and agreed an action plan to further improve Committee operations Board diversity Priorities for 2018 The Board is responsible for setting the Groups values and In the coming year the Nomination Committee will focus on Board standards and ensuring that obligations to its shareholders composition and succession planning for Directors and senior and others are understood and met.
As such it is important executive management within the Company and the Groups that the Board reflects the diversity both of its workforce as trading entities.
It will also consider the re-appointment of certain well as the market within which it operates.
The Committee Independent Non-Executive Directors whose first three year has reviewed the composition of the Board in light of its terms of office under their letters of appointment will expire.
diversity as a whole and recognises that it remains the policy of the Company that when proposing appointments On behalf of the Nomination Committee of Directors, the Committee considers the independence, skills, knowledge and experience that a candidate possesses compared to the skill sets and experience of the Board as Mike Fairey it currently stands.
Selection of candidates also takes into Chairman of the Nomination Committee consideration the breadth of knowledge that the Board has 28 February 2018 and the fact that it is required to provide a well-balanced environment which encourages scrutiny and appropriate challenge.
The Committee is also committed to ensure that the Board is representative in terms of diversity and candidates from a wide range of backgrounds, disciplines andexperience are considered.
The Committee abides by this policy by ensuring that the best candidate is selected to join the Board and the Board does not intend to adopt a quota system with prescriptive, quantitative targets.
Annual Report 2017 Hastings Group Holdings plc
