Board of Directors Manfred Wennemer Neil Carson OBE Independent Non-Executive Chairman Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director Appointment September 2016 Appointment September 2016 Nationality Germany Nationality United Kingdom Skills and experience Skills and experience Manfred was appointed as Non-Executive Chairman of TI Fluid Neil was appointed as Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Systems in October 2017 having been appointed to the Board Director of TI Fluid Systems in October 2017 having been in September 2016.
He has held a number of positions at appointed to the Board in September 2016.
Neil was formerly Continental, including as Chief Executive Officer and Chairman Chief Executive Officer of Johnson Matthey.
Neil is non-executive of ContiTech.
Manfred is Chairman of the Supervisory Boards of Chairman of TT Electronics and is a former non-executive Jost Werke and Apleona.
He is also Chairman of the Shareholder director of Amec Foster Wheeler and Paypoint.
Neil currently Committee of Hella KGaA Hueck, a member of the Supervisory serves as Honorary President of the Society for the Chemical Board of Allianz Deutschland AG and a non-executive director Industry.
Neil was awarded an OBE for services to the Chemical of EuroChem Group and PIAB International.
William Bill L. Kozyra Paul Edgerley Chief Executive Officer and President Non-Executive Director Appointment Appointment June 2008 July 2015 Nationality Nationality United States of America United States of America Skills and experience Skills and experience William was appointed as Chief Executive Officer and President Paul was appointed as a Director of TI Fluid Systems in July 2015 of TI Fluid Systems in June 2008.
Prior to joining the Group Bill and was formally appointed as a Non-Executive Director of the held a number of senior executive positions, including that of Company in October 2017.
Paul is currently a Senior Advisor President and Chief Executive Officer of Continental AG North to Bain Capital, having served as a Managing Director of Bain America and a member of the Executive Board of Continental Capital from 19902016.
Prior to joining Bain Capital, Paul spent and senior roles at ITT Automotive and Bosch Braking Systems.
five years at Bain & Company and previously worked as a Bill is also a non-executive director of American Axle & Certified Public Accountant at Peat Marwick Mitchell & Company.
Paul is also Chairman of Sensata Technologies Holding and a non-executive director of APEX Tool Group, AS Roma SpA, Boston Basketball Partners Boston Celtics, and Hero Motocorp.
Timothy Knutson Stephen Thomas Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Director Appointment Appointment November 2008 July 2015 Nationality Nationality United States of America United States of America Skills and experience Skills and experience Timothy joined the Group in November 2008 and has served Stephen was appointed as a Director of TI Fluid Systems in July as the Group Chief Financial Officer.
Prior to joining TI Fluid 2015 and was formally appointed as a Non-Executive Director of Systems Tim was Chief Financial Officer of Meridian Automotive the Company in October 2017.
Stephen joined Bain Capital in 2007 Systems.
Prior to this position, Tim held a number of senior and has been a Managing Director since 2015.
Prior to joining finance positions at Delphi Corporation in both the United States Bain Capital, Stephen was a Manager at Bain & Company.
He began his career at General Motors.
Stephen is a non-executive director of American Trailer Works, Innocor Inc. and Diversey.
TI Fluid Systems plc 34 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Committee membership John Smith Audit & Risk Remuneration Nomination Independent Non-Executive Director Manfred Wennemer Appointment William L. Kozyra October 2017 Timothy Knutson Neil Carson Nationality Paul Edgerley United States of America John Smith Stephen Thomas Jeffrey Vanneste Key Skills and experience Chairman of the Committee John was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director Member of the Committee of TI Fluid Systems in October 2017.
John has over 48 years of experience in the automotive industry, including 42 working with General Motors in developing new technologies.
John held a range of senior positions with General Motors, most recently as Group Vice President, Corporate Planning & Alliances and spent a number of years in its European operations and working closely with General Motors Japanese, Korean and Chinese partners.
John is principal of Eagle Advisors and is also a non-executive director of CEVA Holdings and American Axle & Manufacturing Holdings.
Jeffrey Vanneste Independent Non-Executive Director Appointment October 2017 Nationality United States of America Skills and experience Jeffrey was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director of TI Fluid Systems in October 2017.
Jeffrey is currently Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and a member of the Executive Council of Lear Corporation.
Prior to joining Lear, Jeff was Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for International Automotive Components Group.
Jeff had previously spent over 15 years working with Lear in various positions.
Jeff qualified as an accountant with Coopers & Lybrand currently,  LLP.
Matthew Paroly Company Secretary Appointment July 2014 Nationality United States of America Skills and experience Matthew was appointed as Chief Legal Officer and Company Secretary of TI Fluid Systems in July 2014.
Matthew has more than 20 years of experience in private law practice and in-house executive and legal positions with both public and private companies.
Prior to joining TI Fluid Systems Matthew worked with several automotive suppliers and manufacturers, including Nexteer Automotive, Fisker Automotive, Meridian Automotive and Delphi Corporation.
Matthew is a member of the State Bar of Michigan.
TI Fluid Systems plc 35 Annual Report and Accounts 2017
