Corporate Governance report A summary of the main matters reserved for decision by the Board is set out below: Strategy and management Remuneration Oversight of the Groups operations Determine the Remuneration Policy for Directors, Approval of the long-term objectives and commercial Chief Executive Officer and other senior executives strategy review Determine the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors Approval of the annual operating and capital expenditure Introduction of new share incentive plans or major changes budgets and 4-year Medium Term Plan to existing plans Review of performance in light of the Groups strategic aims, Approval of new incentive plans to be put to shareholders objectives, business plan and budgets for approval Delegation of authority Corporate structure and share capital Changes to the Groups capital structure Approval of the written division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer Major changes to the Groups corporate structure Significant changes to the Groups management Establishing Board Committees, approving their terms of reference and receiving reports from the Board Committees and control structure Issues of public debt by the Company Corporate governance Review the Groups overall corporate governance structure Financial reporting and controls Determining the independence of Non-Executive Directors Approval of financial statements Undertaking a formal and rigorous review of the Boards Setting the Companys dividend policy performance, that of its Committees and individual Directors Approval of significant changes in accounting policy and the division of responsibilities Consider the balance of interests between shareholders, Internal controls employees, customers and the community Ensuring maintenance of a sound system of internal control and risk management Policies Approval of the Groups compliance policies Approval of policies, including the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, share dealing code, Health and Safety policy, Contracts corporate responsibility policy, anti-bribery policy, anti-slavery Approval of major capital projects policy and anti-money laundering policy Approval of larger-scale non-standard new customer and non-OEM supplier contracts Other areas Approval of acquisitions and joint ventures Making of political donations Approve the overall levels of insurance for the Group Board membership Appointment of external auditors Changes to the structure, size and composition of the Board Appointments to the Board, including selection and appointment of the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Senior Independent Director and Company Secretary Membership and chairmanship of Board Committees Approval of the continuation in office of Directors, including Executive Directors The role and structure of the Board In the period from 25 October 2017 to 31 December 2017 there The Board is responsible for leading and controlling the Group was one Board meeting, which all Directors attended.
In addition and has overall authority for the management and conduct of the in the period from 25 October 2017 to 31 December 2017 there Groups business, strategy and development.
The Board is also was a meeting of the Audit & Risk Committee.
responsible for ensuring the maintenance of a sound system of internal controls and risk management including operational, The table below shows the Directors attendance at meetings financial and compliance controls and for reviewing the overall of the Board and Committee s of which they were members and effectiveness of systems in place as well as for the approval they were eligible to attend in the period from 25 October 2017 of any changes to the capital, corporate and or management to 31 December 2017: structure of the Group.
Board The Board operates in accordance with the Companys Articles scheduled Audit & meetings Risk Remuneration Nomination of Association and the Boards written Delegation of Authority which were approved by the Board in July 2015 and updated Manfred Wennemer 1 1 in October 2017.
The Board has established a number of William L. Kozyra 1 1 Committees, as set out on pages 37 to 38.
Each Committee has Timothy Knutson 1 1 its own terms of reference which are reviewed at least annually.
Neil Carson 1 1 1 1 Paul Edgerley 1 1 The Board consists of the Independent Non-Executive Chairman, the Senior Independent Director, two Independent John Smith 1 1 1 1 Non-Executive Directors, two Executive Directors and two Stephen Thomas 1 1 Non-Executive Directors.
Jeffrey Vanneste 1 1 1 1 The Board meets formally five times a year, with additional ad-hoc meetings called as and when circumstances require.
There is an annual calendar of agenda items to ensure that all matters are given due consideration and are reviewed at the appropriate time in the financial year.
TI Fluid Systems plc 36 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information A summary of the key areas of responsibility of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are set out below: Role: Chairman Role: Chief Executive Officer Responsibilities Responsibilities Responsibility for the leadership and effective running Responsible for running the business of the Company of the Board and chairing its meetings and its subsidiaries Ensuring the Board as a whole plays a full and constructive Proposing and developing the Groups strategy and overall part in the development and determination of the Groups commercial objectives strategy and overall commercial objectives Regularly reviewing the Groups operational performance, Setting the agenda for and frequency of meetings of the cost control and operating efficiencies and recommending to Board and ensuring the Board receives accurate, timely the Board the annual budget and financial plans for the Group and clear information on which to base decisions Report to the Chairman and the Board on the progress of the Ensuring that adequate time is available for the Board strategy, the Groups performance and operational matters to consider all agenda items Maintaining a dialogue with the Chairman and the Board Promote a culture of openness and debate and facilitate the on important and strategic issues facing the Group effective contribution and active engagement of all directors Providing a structure for the timely and accurate disclosure Ensuring there is effective communication between the Group of information and its shareholders and that the Board understands the views Ensuring the Boards strategies, objectives and decisions of major investors in the Group are implemented in a timely and effective manner Promoting the highest standards of integrity, probity Develop senior talent and succession planning and corporate governance Progressing in conjunction with the Chief Financial Officer Ensuring constructive relations between the Non-Executive and, where relevant, the Chairman, the Companys and Executive Directors communication programme with its shareholders Regularly considering the Boards succession planning Ensuring effective communication with shareholders, and composition employees and other stakeholders, in order to understand Ensuring that the performance of the Board, its Committees their concerns and communicate issues to the Board and individual directors are formally and rigorously evaluated Promoting and conducting the affairs of the Group with at least once a year the highest standards of integrity, probity and corporate Provide an independent perspective and constructive challenge governance Safeguarding the reputation of the Group and managing the Groups risk profile Maintain strong relationships with OEM customers All Directors are expected to attend all meetings of the Board The Audit & Risk Committee and any Committees of which they are a member and are The Audit & Risk Committee is comprised of three Independent expected to devote sufficient time to the Companys affairs Non-Executive Directors.
The Audit & Risk Committee Chairman to fulfil their duties as Directors.
The Audit & Risk Committee will meet not less than four times a year.
Key Board roles and responsibilities There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman The main roles and responsibilities of the Audit & Risk Committee and the Chief Executive Officer which is written and approved by are set out in written terms of reference and are available on the the Board.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Companys website at: are separately held and the role of each is clear and distinct.
com media Files T TiautomotiveThe Division of Responsibilities between the Chairman and IR documents .
pdf Chief Executive Officer are set out in written terms of reference which were adopted by the Board on 24 October 2017.
Details of the Audit & Risk Committees activities can be found in the Audit & Risk Committee report on pages 41 to 43.
Senior Independent Director The UK Corporate Governance Code recommends that the Board The Remuneration Committee of Directors of a company with a premium listing on the Official The Remuneration Committee is comprised of three List should appoint one of the Non-Executive Directors to be the Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Senior Independent Director to act as a sounding board for the Committee Chairman is Neil Carson.
The Remuneration Chairman and to support him in the delivery of his objectives.
Committee will meet not less than two times a year.
The Senior Independent Director is also responsible for leading the Non-Executive Directors in monitoring and evaluating the The main roles and responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee performance of the Chairman and being available to shareholders are set out in written terms of reference and are available on the if they have any concerns which contact through the normal Companys website at: channels of the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer or the http: investors.
com media Files T TiautomotiveChief Financial Officer has failed to resolve or for which such IR documents .
Neil Carson has been appointed as the Companys Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
Details of the Remuneration Committees activities can be found in the Remuneration Committee report on pages 44 to 58.
TI Fluid Systems plc 37 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate Governance report continued The Nomination Committee The terms of the appointment of the Non-Executive Directors The Nomination Committee is comprised of the Chairman, does not specify the amount of time they are expected to devote the Senior Independent Director and a Non-Executive Director.
However, it is estimated they will The Nomination Committee Chairman is Manfred Wennemer.
commit a minimum of one day per month which is calculated The Nomination Committee will meet not less than two times based on the time required to prepare for attending Board and a year.
Committee meetings, and additional duties such as attendance at the Annual General Meeting and meetings with shareholders.
The main roles and responsibilities of the Nomination Committee are set out in written terms of reference and are available on the Length of appointment Companys website at: Non-Executive Directors are appointed for terms of three years, http: investors.
com media Files T Tiautomotivesubject to the particular Director being re-elected by shareholders, IR documents .
pdf for up to the normal maximum of three terms nine years.
Details of the Nomination Committees activities can be found Conflicts of interest in the Nomination Committee report on page 40.
The Companys Articles of Association set out the policy for dealing with Directors conflicts of interest and are in line with Balance and independence the Companies Act 2006.
The Board has a formal system in In accordance with the main principle B.
1 of the Corporate place for Directors to declare conflicts of interest and for such Governance Code, the Board and its Committees have an conflicts to be considered for authorisation.
appropriate balance of skills, experience and knowledge of the Group to enable them to discharge their respective duties and Training and development responsibilities effectively.
The size and composition of the Board In preparation for admission, all Directors received an induction is kept under review by the Nomination Committee to ensure briefing from the Companys legal advisers on the duties and an appropriate balance of skills and experience is maintained.
responsibilities as Directors of a publicly quoted company.
In addition, upon their appointment all Directors receive an The Code recommends, in the case of a FTSE 350 company, induction programme arranged by the Company Secretary, that at least half the Board of Directors excluding the Chairman including plant visits and meetings with key members of senior should comprise independent Non-Executive Directors.
management in order to familiarise themselves with the Group.
The Board comprises the Non-Executive Chairman, who is considered to be independent, two Executive Directors and Information and support five Non-Executive Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors To enable the Board to function effectively and to assist the comprise Neil Carson, Senior Independent Director, Paul Directors in discharging their responsibilities, full and timely Edgerley, John Smith, Stephen Thomas and Jeffrey Vanneste.
access is given to all relevant information to the Board.
In the The Non-Executive Directors, Neil Carson, John Smith and case of Board meetings this consists of a formal agenda and a Jeffrey Vanneste, are considered to be independent in character comprehensive set of papers including regular business progress and judgement, and free of any business or other relationship reports.
An established procedure is in place to ensure that such which could materially influence their judgement.
information is provided to Directors in a timely manner in advance of meetings.
Specific business-related presentations are given The Company intends to appoint additional independent by senior management when appropriate.
Non-Executive Directors within a reasonable period of time to comply with the requirements of the Corporate Governance The Company Secretary works closely with the Chairman, the Code concerning the number of independent Non-Executive Chief Executive Officer and the chairs of the Board Committees Directors the Company should have.
As the Board composition to ensure that Board procedures, including setting agendas and changes over time and when evaluating candidates for the Board the timely distribution of papers, are complied with and that membership, candidates are considered on merit, taking account there are good communications flows between the Board of their relevant skills and experience as well as recognising the and its Committees, and between senior management and benefits of Boardroom diversity including gender, nationality, Non-Executive Directors.
The Company Secretary is also ethnicity and age.
available to all Directors to provide advice and support, including facilitating induction programmes.
All Directors are able to take Disclosure of relationship agreement with Bain independent professional advice at the Companys expense in Details of substantial shareholdings in the Companys ordinary the furtherance of their duties where considered necessary.
share capital is set out in the Directors Report on page 59.
Re-election of Directors On 25 October 2017 the Company entered into an agreement At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting on 17 May 2018 with its largest shareholders, the funds managed by Bain Capital all the Directors will be offering themselves for re-election.
and BC Omega Holdco, Ltd. the Institutional Shareholders.
The principal purpose of the agreement is to ensure that Whistleblowing following the Companys Admission and Listing, the Company The Company has established procedures by which employees is able to carry on its business independently of the Institutional may, in confidence, raise concerns relating to some danger, Shareholders and that transactions and relationships between fraud, or other illegal or unethical conduct in the workplace.
the Company and the Institutional Shareholders are conducted The Whistleblowing Policy applies to all employees of the Group.
at arms length and on normal commercial terms.
The Board The Audit & Risk Committee is responsible for monitoring the confirms that so far as it is aware in the period to 29 March 2018 Groups whistleblowing arrangements and the policy is reviewed the Institutional Shareholders have complied with the periodically by the Board.
undertakings in the agreements and the obligations therein.
Inter alia, the Institutional Shareholders have a right to nominate for appointment to the Board a two directors for so long as the Institutional Shareholders and their associates shareholding in the Company is equal to or more than 25% and b one director for so long as the Institutional Shareholders and their associates shareholding in the Company is equal to more than 10% but less than 25%.
TI Fluid Systems plc 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Dialogue with shareholders Prior to the IPO the Companys shareholders comprised funds managed by Bain Capital and a number of members of management.
As a result of the IPO, a larger shareholder base has developed.
Investor relations activity and a review of the shareholder register are regular items in the Board information pack.
As part of the IPO roadshow in 2017 and in the period since the IPO, the Executive Directors have met with a large number of investors and have engaged in active discussions with shareholders and investors, both on an individual basis and through roadshow events.
The Company aims to maintain an active dialogue with key stakeholders, including institutional investors, to discuss issues relating to the performance of the Group, including strategy and new developments.
As indicated above, the Senior Independent Director is available to discuss any matter shareholders might wish to raise and attends meetings with shareholders as required.
The Company has an investor relations website which is publicly available and provides relevant information to both institutional investors and private shareholders, including performance updates and announcements by the Company.
Annual General Meeting The Companys Annual General Meeting will take place on 17 May 2018 at the offices of Latham & Watkins London LLP, 99 Bishopsgate, London EC2M 3XF.
A separate notice convening the Annual General Meeting is being sent out with this Annual Report and Accounts.
Separate votes are held for each proposed resolution.
At the Annual General Meeting, after the formal business has been concluded, the Chairman will welcome questions from shareholders.
All Directors attend the meeting, at which they have the opportunity to meet with shareholders.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 17 May 2018 and an explanation of the items of special business can be found in the circular that contains the notice convening the Annual General Meeting.
Approved by order of the Board Manfred Wennemer Chairman 29 March 2018 TI Fluid Systems plc 39 Annual Report and Accounts 2017
