80 | Corporate governance Risk Committee Role The Board has ultimate responsibility for the Groups risk management framework and delegates the oversight of this to the Risk Committee.
The Committee is a formal sub-committee of the Board with its own specific Terms of Reference.
The principal purpose of the Risk Committee is to advise the Board on risk management matters, recommend the Group framework of risk limits and risk appetite to the Board for approval, and oversee the risk management arrangements of the Company and its regulated trading subsidiaries.
The Committee meets at least four times a year as a minimum and at other times as required.
Membership Biographies of the Committee members are set out on page 62.
Michele Titi-Cappelli resigned as a Committee member upon his resignation as a Director.
The Company Secretary acts as Dear Shareholders Secretary to the Committee and takes the minutes of meetings.
The Terms of Reference for the Committee have been agreed I am pleased to present the report of by the Board and are available online at www.
the Risk Committee for the financial Member Member since year ended 31 December 2017.
Pierre Lefvre Chairman September 2015 Alison Burns July 2016 Teresa Robson-Capps July 2016 Michele Titi-Cappelli September 2015 until March 2017 Malcolm Le May September 2015 The Committee obtained information and advice during the period under review from the Chief Risk Officer, the Company Secretary and, where appropriate, the Executive Directors.
It may also seek advice from any other employees asrequired.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 81 A number of improvements have been made to the Assurance, Riskand Compliance framework across the Group.
During the year the Committee oversaw a number of In relation to Brexit, the Committee was updated on the improvements to the Assurance, Risk and Compliance implications of the departure of the UK from the EU and likely ARC framework across the Group.
The ARC framework impacts to the Group.
The Groups customer base is solely helps to embed assurance practices, culture, policy and within the UK and it is not expected that Brexit will significantly responsibilities, clarifies the role of the second line of defence impact on its operations.
A contingency plan was also functions across the Group, enhances skills and knowledge reviewed in the event that AICL, which is based in Gibraltar, and provides a centre for assurance excellence.
The ARC were unable to continue to underwrite UK motor insurance framework also provides the Committee with effective under current passporting rights between the UK and reporting to maintain effective oversight and provide Gibraltar.
It is not expected that these rights will be impacted challenge on risks across the Group, for example mapping by Brexit, however the plan provides contingency in the event and ranking risks in order of profile and likelihood.
framework will continue to embed in the coming year.
As part of the Board effectiveness evaluation conducted in The Committee received updates on preparations for the October 2017, the Risk Committee was also subject to an implementation of the forthcoming General Data Protection appraisal by its members.
The evaluation considered how Regulation GDPR.
The UK Government has confirmed that it discharged its responsibilities as well as the performance the legislation will be adopted in full and will replace current of the Committee members.
The Committee has agreed a data protection law in the UK.
The Committee received an number of actions for the coming year.
independent assessment of the Groups preparedness for GDPR in April 2017 which identified the risks that needed to be addressed.
Since that assessment was completed further guidance has been published and management are progressing with an implementation programme in preparation for the May 2018 deadline.
Meetings The Committee met four times during the year.
The following matters were considered and challenged as appropriate by Committee members at these meetings: Meetings Area of focus Matter considered Risk Reviewed the Groups Assurance, Risk andCompliance management framework andstrategy management Reviewed, assessed and approved the Risk Management Policy Reviewed, assessed and approved the Risk Appetite Statements Reviewed and approved the Risk Appetite Statements for Financial Crime following a review of internal procedures and processes Defined, assessed and ranked Group risks and examined a number of critical risks in detail Reviewed and challenged the Group and theregulated subsidiaries Risk Reports and risk profile Examined in detail critical risks and risk events Reviewed and approved the mapping of Group risks to Principal Risks as reported in Financial Statements Considered emerging risks across the Group Assessed and challenged resourcing requirements for the Groups Assurance, Risk and Compliance functions Received and challenged Group Health and Safety updates Reviewed the Group Health and Safety report for the year ended 2016 Received updates on the Regulatory Landscape for the UK and Gibraltar and reviewed adherence reports Reviewed preparations for the implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation Reviewed risks relating to Brexit and a Brexit contingency plan Governance Reviewed and approved the statements in the 2016 Annual Report related to RiskManagement other matters Reviewed and approved the Viability statement for the 2016 Annual Report in conjunction with the Audit Committee Reviewed and approved the Principal Risks contained in the financial statements for the half year ended 30 June 2017 Reviewed its Terms of Reference and confirmed the Committees terms of reference had been adhered to during 2017 Conducted an annual review of Committee effectiveness and agreed an action plan to further improve operations Annual Report 2017 Hastings Group Holdings plc 82 | Corporate governance Risk Committee continued As well as my role as a Director of the Company and Chairman Internal control and risk management of its Risk Committee, I am also an Independent Non-Executive The Risk Committee ensures that the Groups material risks Director of AICL, and Committee Chairman of that companys have been identified and that appropriate arrangements Risk Committee.
Along with my oversight of risk within AICL, I are in place to assess, mitigate, monitor and report on regularly correspond with Selina Sagayam, the Risk Committee those risks effectively.
The Committee also ensures these Chairman of HISL.
During these meetings I am updated on practices are consistently applied in each of the regulated matters and concerns raised by the HISL Risk Committee trading subsidiaries as delegated to the respective company enabling me to fully discharge my role as Group Risk Committee Boards.
The Risk Committees within these trading entities Chairman.
Minutes of the AICL and HISL Risk Committees are are composed of independent Non-Executive Directors contained in Group Risk Committee papers for all members.
and executive management who oversee and report on the effectiveness of the Assurance, Risk and Compliance Management Framework for their respective entities.
In the Priorities for 2018 Groups UK regulated subsidiary, conduct risk and customer In the coming year the Risk Committee will focus on: outcome matters are considered by the Conduct Committee execution of strategies developed to deal with key Group and risk and regulatory compliance is considered by the Risk Risks including Information and Cyber Security and and Compliance Committee.
This cohesive and integrated DataProtection: approach to Risk Management leverages the Risk Committees enhancing the governance over outsourcing, both intraat subsidiary level andprovides effective assessment of the Group and external, arrangements to ensure that appropriate levels of oversight are maintained: Groups enterprise wide risk profile.
continued oversight of capital management and The description of the Groups internal control and risk  actions to mitigate risk in context : management is covered in the Managing Our Risks report on page 43.
The Viability Statement is provided on page 43 ensuring adequate approach and actions are being taken to ensure compliance with new legislation and in relation to the expectations that the Group will continue : to operate and meet its liabilities as they fall due for the next ongoing embedding Risk Management and Compliance to three years following the Committees review of the Groups support the Group strategic and commercial priorities: and risk appetite and principal risks.
monitoring the Group risk strategy with regard to market risk and liquidity.
On behalf of the Risk Committee Pierre Lefvre Chairman of the Risk Committee 28 February 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017
