Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Hochschild Mining plc 55 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Report Governance Financial statements Further information Introduction This report, together with the Directors Remuneration Report, describes how the Company has applied the Main Principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code 2016 edition in respect of the year ended Your Board is committed to ensuring 31December 2017.
A copy of the Code is available on the website of the Financial good governance to not only protect Reporting Council FRC at www.
shareholder value but to enhance it.
Disclosures to be included in the Corporate Governance Report in relation to share structure, Dear Shareholder shareholder agreements and the Companys constitutional provisions pursuant to the I am delighted to present the Corporate Board evaluation Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules are Governance Report for 2017.
In 2017, we continued with our internally-led provided in the Supplementary Information Board evaluation process which last year was In this section of the Annual Report, we section on pages 67 to 69. managed by Michael Rawlinson, as our Senior report on the Companys compliance with Independent Director-Designate.
The process, the provisions of the 2016 edition of the UK Statement of compliance which is described in more detail in this Corporate Governance Code and the The Board confirms that, in respect of the year report, reviewed many aspects of the application of its principles.
Your Board is under review, the Group has complied with the functioning of the Board, the Committees and committed to ensuring good governance to provisions contained in the Code with the the roles played by the Directors.
In addition, not only protect shareholder value but to following exceptions: the opportunity was taken to identify topics further enhance it by the implementation of a of interest for incorporation of presentations i. the Company did not fully comply with the robust framework of controls and practices.
by speakers into the annual board calendar.
requirement that performance-related I would like to highlight the following activities Equipping the Board with the necessary skills incentive schemes should include in this crucial area undertaken by the and knowledge of the sector and the global arrangements to recover or withhold variable Directors during the year.
environment in which we operate is key, and pay when appropriate to do so i. e. clawback I look forward on reporting on these aspects or malus : and Succession planning in next years report.
an externally facilitated evaluation of the As highlighted in last years report, a number If you should have any queries arising from Board has not been undertaken.
of changes at Board level were anticipated this report, please do not hesitate to contact and so I am delighted that despite having lost In relation to i above, as stated in last years me at Chairman@hocplc.
the long-standing support of three Directors Remuneration Report, the Company Non-Executive Directors, we were well placed reviewed the use of clawback which, following to ensure continuity at Board level.
In legal advice, was concluded to be unenforceable Eduardo Hochschild addition, we were delighted to announce the in the countries in which the Company primarily Chairman appointment of Dionisio Romero Paoletti as a operates.
As reported in this years Directors Non-Executive Director.
Dionisio joined the Remuneration Report, the Remuneration Board on 1 January 2018 and brings a vast Committee reviewed the malus policy during wealth of business experience in Latin 2017 and agreed to widen its remit beyond America, as the Chairman and CEO of the adverse events in relation to safety, environment, Credicorp financial group.
community and legal compliance so as to also include trigger events including material Succession planning was not only limited to misstatement, material failure of risk the Board.
During the year, the Nominations management, action or omission resulting in Committee considered the status of the serious reputational damage.
The revised malus succession plans for the Groups senior provisions will apply to all incentives, including executives.
This process involved a review the annual bonus, effective from 2018. of the key positions below Board level and identifying the rising talent across all In relation to ii above, please refer to the functions.
The Committee considered Board Evaluation section below for further specific development plans which, supported details on the internally-led approach to the by the allocation of the necessary resources, Boards performance evaluation.
will further strengthen the Groups ability to accomplish our operational and strategic objectives.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 56 Hochschild Mining plc Corporate Governance Report continued The reasons for this are twofold.
Firstly, the A crucial part of the role of the Senior The Board composition of the Board ensures that the Independent Director is to meet with major The Board is responsible for approving the significant presence of Independent Directors shareholders if concerns have not been Companys strategy and monitoring its ensures that the views of minority shareholders addressed by the executive team.
No such implementation, for overseeing the management are well represented.
Secondly, the undertakings meetings were held during the year.
of operations and for providing leadership and provided in the Relationship Agreement as support to the senior management team in Non-Executive Directors described below ensure that the Company and achieving sustainable added value for The Companys Non-Executive Directors hold, or its subsidiaries are capable of carrying on their shareholders.
It is also responsible for enabling have held, senior positions in the corporate business independently of Eduardo Hochschild the efficient operation of the Group by providing sector with the exception of Sanjay Sarma who and his associates.
adequate financial and human resources and an has a background in academia in the field of appropriate system of financial control to ensure The Relationship Agreement was reviewed by the mechanical engineering and technology.
They all these resources are fully monitored and utilised.
Board in 2014 following the implementation of bring their experience and independent new Listing Rules applicable to listed companies perspective to enhance the Boards capacity to There is an agreed schedule of matters reserved with controlling shareholders the New Listing help develop proposals on strategy and to for the Board which includes the approval of Rules.
As a result, an amended and restated oversee and grow the operations within a sound annual and half-yearly results, the Groups Relationship Agreement was approved and framework of corporate governance.
strategy, the annual budget and major items of adopted which, in addition to being the subject capital expenditure.
Details of the tenure of appointment of of a general update, incorporated revised Non-Executive Directors are provided in the Composition independence provisions reflecting the language Directors Remuneration Report.
At all times during the year, the Board comprised of the New Listing Rules.
a majority of Independent Non-Executive Independence of Non-Executive Directors Under the terms of the agreement, each of Directors.
At the end of the year, the Board The Board considers that all of the NonEduardo Hochschild and Pelham Investment comprised the Chairman, the Chief Executive Executive Directors serving during the year were Corporation being the entity through which Officer and six Non-Executive Directors, all of independent of the Company with the exception Mr Hochschild holds his shares in the Company whom were considered, by the Board, to be of of Roberto Daino given his previous role as an the Major Shareholder undertakes that: independent judgement and character.
Executive Director of the Company and that, up i. all transactions with the Company and its until his retirement from the Board in May 2017, Chairman and Chief Executive subsidiaries will be conducted at arms he was also engaged as a Special Adviser to the The Board is led by the Chairman, Eduardo length and on normal commercial terms: Chairman and senior management team.
Hochschild, who is also the majority shareholder of the Company with a c. 51% holding.
neither of them nor their as sociates In reaching its conclusion on the independence the Relevant Parties will take any action of the Non-Executive Directors serving at the The Board has approved a document which sets that would have the effect of preventing the end of the year, the Board considered: out the division of responsibilities between the Company from complying with its obligations Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
i. Jorge Borns tenure on the Board of over under the Listing Rules: nine years: and As Chairman, Eduardo Hochschild is responsible iii.
the Relevant Parties will not propose, and for leading the Board of Directors and ensuring ii.
Sanjay Sarmas position as a director of Top neither will they procure the proposal of, a that the Board is enabled to play a full and Flight Technologies, a company in which shareholder resolution intended or which constructive part in the development and Eduardo Hochschild has a 1.25% shareholding appears to be intended to circumvent the determination of the Groups strategy and overall and a convertible note investment.
proper application of the Listing Rules: and Notwithstanding the above, the Board iv.
the Relevant Parties will not take any action Ignacio Bustamante, as the Chief Executive collectively feels that the above circumstances Officer, is responsible for the formulation of the that would preclude or inhibit any member of are not considered to be of a nature to materially vision and long-term corporate strategy of the the Group from carrying on its business interfere with the exercise of the respective Group, the approval of which is a matter for the independently of any of them.
Certain confirmations are required to be given by The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for the Board under the New Listing Rules with leading an executive team in the day-to-day regards to the Companys compliance with the management of the Groups business.
independent provisions which can be found in the Directors Report on page 53.
Status of the Chairman In light of his majority shareholding, the Senior Independent Director Chairman is not considered to be independent.
Enrico Bombieri was the Senior Independent However, during the one-to-one interviews Director during the year under review until his conducted with each Board member, the retirement from the Board at the end of the year Directors continue to assert that no undue when he was succeeded by Michael Rawlinson.
During that time Mr Bombieri acted as a central point of contact for the Non-Executive Directors collectively but he also served as a conduit between the Non-Executive Directors and the executive management team.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Hochschild Mining plc 57 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Risk Board meetings held in 2017 Company and ii the right to appoint one the significant risks faced by the Group and the During the year, four scheduled Board meetings Non-Executive Director for so long as it has an corresponding mitigation plans: and were held which were attended by all Directors.
interest of 15% or more in the Company, and in Directors usually receive a full pack of papers for each case to remove any such Director s the robustness of the Groups IT systems and consideration at least five working days in previously appointed.
vulnerability to access by unauthorised third advance of each scheduled Board meeting.
In the parties or cyber-attacks.
The Relationship Agreement continues for so event a Director is unable to attend a Board or long as the Companys shares are traded on the Governance Committee meeting, comments are encouraged London Stock Exchange or until such times as regular updates from the Company Secretary to be fed back to the Chairman of the relevant the Controlling Shareholders including Eduardo on relevant developments in corporate meeting who ensures that the absent Directors Hochschild cease to own or control in governance including the regulatory framework views are represented.
aggregate a minimum of 15% of the issued share governing listed companies: Senior executives of the organisation are invited capital or voting rights of the Company.
an update on the implementation of the 2016 to attend Board meetings and to make Board evaluation recommendations, the The Major Shareholder exercised this right for presentations on their areas of responsibility.
outcome of the 2017 Board evaluation and the the first time through the appointment of form of the 2018 process: In addition to the regular updates from across Dionisio Romero Paoletti who joined the Board the business, the principal matters considered by on 1 January 2018. the annual reviews of Directors conflicts of the Board during 2017 were: interest and independence of Non-Executive Board development Directors: Safety It is the responsibility of the Chairman to ensure changes to the composition of the Board reports on the two accidents that occurred that the Directors update their knowledge and committees in light of retirements from the during the year resulting in four fatalities and their skills and are provided with the necessary Board: the management actions to be taken in light of resources to continue to do so.
This is achieved the findings of the internal investigations: and through the various means described as follows.
the appointment of Dionisio Romero Paoletti the implementation of a Safety Culture as a Non-Executive Director: and Induction Transformation plan to embed a safetythe fees for the Non-Executive Directors.
New Board appointees are offered the conscious culture across the organisation.
opportunity to meet with key management Sustainability personnel and the Companys principal Financial reviews of the social and political climate in advisers as well as undertaking visits to the stress-tested financial projections in support of Peru and Argentina and their potential impact Groups operations.
the going concern and viability statements: on the Group: Briefings considered recommendations of the Audit review of the community-led blockade which The Directors receive regular briefings from the Committee to adopt the 2016 Annual Report temporarily prevented access to the Pallancata Company Secretary on their responsibilities as and Accounts and the 2017 Half-Yearly Report mine: and Directors of a UK listed company and on relevant including the recommended 2016 final performance of the Group against the developments in the area of corporate dividend and the 2017 interim dividend: internally-designed environmental corporate governance.
In addition, the Directors have the Groups ongoing financial position and scorecard.
ongoing access to the Companys officers alternative re-financing options to fund the Personnel and advisers.
early redemption of the Groups high-yield the implementation of a talent development bonds: and Advice programme for c. 80 employees: and The Company has procedures by which the 2018 budget.
the status of negotiations with the members of the Board may take independent Strategy labour unions.
professional advice at the Companys expense in the Groups strategic plan: and the furtherance of their duties.
In between Board meetings, Directors are kept the long-term trends impacting the markets for informed of latest developments through Company Secretary metals and minerals to identify potential areas monthly management reports on the Companys The Company Secretary is appointed and of growth for the future.
operations, exploration activity and financial removed by the Board and is responsible for Business performance situation.
advising the Board on governance matters and detailed updates on the operations with regular the provision of administrative and other services updates on the operational viability of the Appointments and re-election to the Board.
All the Directors have access to the Arcata mine: of Directors Company Secretary.
Board nominations are recommended to the consideration of business development Board evaluation Board by the Nominations Committee.
There projects: The Board is committed to the process of were no new appointments during the year.
consideration of unbudgeted strategic continuous improvement which is achieved initiatives: The Company has adopted the practice of in particular by the internally led Board requiring Directors to seek annual re-election by evaluation process.
presentations from the Groups senior field shareholders in keeping with the UK Corporate geologist on performance against the Groups Governance Code.
The biographies of the brownfield objectives: Directors can be found on pages 50 and 51. review of the Groups methodology of measuring Reserves & Resources: and Under the terms of the Relationship Agreement, the Major Shareholder has i the right to opportunities to partner with other mining appoint up to two Non-Executive Directors to exploration companies to earn-in an interest in the Board for so long as the Major Shareholder prospective locations.
holds an interest of 30% or more in the Annual Report & Accounts 2017 58 Hochschild Mining plc Corporate Governance Report continued External Board evaluation Implementation of 2016 Board evaluation Since the process was introduced, the Directors A number of actions were taken during the year unanimously consider that the internally-led 2017 Board evaluation following the 2016 Board evaluation process.
evaluation has resulted in a number of These included: In keeping with past practice, the 2017 recommendations that have improved the way Board evaluation process was undertaken more detailed reporting to the Board on the the Board and the Committees function.
For this internally through one-to-one interviews work of the Remuneration Committee: reason, an externally led evaluation was not conducted by the Senior Independent a presentation from management looking back undertaken during the year.
The Board Director-designate assisted by the critically at the steps taken in response to the acknowledges the benefits of an external Company Secretary.
significant falls in precious metal prices in 2013 appraisal of the overall governance structure and The interviews were structured to seek as a means of ensuring preparedness for future processes and, while it is minded to continue Directors views on a number of subject such volatile market conditions: and using an internal evaluation, the format of the areas including those outlined below.
2018 evaluation will be kept under review.
suggestions on the content of the monthly Board reports to convey, among other things, The Committees investor sentiment to the industry in general.
The Boards Committees Composition and overall workings of the The Board has delegated authority to the Audit 2017 Board evaluation main Board Committees, including Committee, CSR Committee, Nominations Evaluation of the Board and Committees specific aspects of the performance of Committee and Remuneration Committee.
The findings relating to the evaluation of the the Audit Committee, as well as of the Reports from each of these committees on their Board and the Committees were considered Brownfield Working Group established activities during the year appear on the following collectively by the Chairman and Michael to review the Groups progress in this pages.
Further information on the activities of Rawlinson as the Senior Independent Directorvital source of potential growth the CSR Committee and Remuneration Designate and the resulting recommendations Specific aspects of each Committees Committee can be found in the Sustainability were discussed and, where appropriate, role and scope of responsibilities Report and Directors Remuneration Report approved by the Board.
The Board Evaluation of the Chairman The composition of the Board, focusing The findings of the Chairmans performance on the skills mix after the retirements evaluation were collated by Michael Rawlinson from the Board and discussed between the Non-Executive Directors before being relayed to the Chairman.
The workings of the Board Strategic planning, governance Outcome and evaluation The principal recommendations arising from the 2017 Board evaluation process can be Risk and culture summarised as follows: A review of the process of managing risk closer supervision of the management of Seeking views on the Groups corporate CSR-related risks by the CSR Committee: culture and the behaviours that it further process enhancements to assist the promotes flow of information between the Remuneration In addition to the above, Directors were Committee and the full Board: requested to provide feedback on the scheduling of additional meetings of the performance of the Chairman and fellow Directors outside of formal Board meetings, to Board members.
promote closer co-operation particularly in light of recent Board changes: the reinstatement of a physical Board meeting in August rather than via video conference: and incorporation of progress updates against brownfield objectives in the monthly Board reports.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Hochschild Mining plc 59 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Audit Committee Report Key roles and responsibilities To monitor the integrity of the Companys financial statements To monitor the effectiveness of the Companys internal controls and risk management systems The Audit Committee undertakes To review, on behalf of the Board, the a crucial role in overseeing financial Companys procedures for detecting fraud reporting and the framework of and the Companys systems and controls for internal controls and risk management.
the prevention of bribery, and to receive reports on non-compliance Oversight of the Internal Audit function and Dear Shareholder review of its annual work plan Having assumed the Chair of the Whistleblowing To oversee the relationship with the Companys Committee in May, I am pleased to The UK Corporate Governance Code requires external Auditor introduce my first report of the Audit the Committee to ensure that the Group has To review the effectiveness of the external Committee in respect of its activities provided employees with a facility to report audit process during 2017. impropriety in confidence.
As described later, To report to shareholders annually on the the Committee is satisfied that such provision The Audit Committee undertakes a Committees activities including details of the is made though, in the early part of 2017, we crucial role in overseeing, on behalf of the significant audit issues encountered during the commissioned a survey to gauge the Board, the quality of the Groups financial year and how they have been addressed awareness of employees as to its availability reporting as well as the robustness of the and purpose.
While the results were framework of internal controls and risk Membership encouraging, the survey revealed a need to management.
This purpose is fulfilled The Audit Committee was chaired by Nigel raise awareness on how reports could be through frequent and periodic reporting Moore until his retirement from the Board on submitted and to provide reassurance to from management and auditors internal 11May 2017.
Nigel had extensive and substantial employees that adequate follow-up action and external, the review of judgements financial experience gained in his previous role as would be taken.
Please refer to the on subjectivities as well as ensuring the a partner with Ernst & Young between 1973 and description of the Activity During the Year implementation of the necessary policies 2003 where he was responsible for services to a section of the report below for details on the and procedures.
The report that follows number of significant companies, including audit resulting action plan that was implemented.
describes the various means by which responsibilities.
In addition, Nigel had acted as these responsibilities were fulfilled in Audit Committee Chairman for a number of Tax Compliance Strategy 2017.
In addition, the following aspects other listed companies.
In line with a new requirement, the Audit were also considered.
Committee considered a policy document Eileen Kamerick succeeded to the chair of the describing the Groups approach to the Audit Committee on 11 May 2017.
Eileen was Review of Assurance Map management of its UK tax affairs.
With formerly a Chief Financial Officer of a number of The Committee reviewed the Groups Hochschilds mining operations all located US-based companies and currently serves as the Assurance Map which identifies and outside of the UK, our UK tax footprint is Audit Committee Financial Expert for the AIG grades each source of assurance provided understandably small.
However, our Funds and Anchor Series Trust US mutual to the Committee with respect to its key commitment in respect of all tax matters is funds and Audit Committee Chair of the Legg functions.
This exercise not only facilitates firm: to deal transparently with all relevant Mason Closed End Mutual Funds.
a gap analysis but it also tests the authorities and in a responsible manner in robustness of each source in terms of the Michael Rawlinsons career in banking specialised relation to tax planning.
A copy of the full provision of complete, accurate and, in the mining sector having initially worked as an document can be obtained from the where necessary, corroborated data.
analyst and corporate financier, serving most Responsibility section of our website.
recently as Global Co-Head of Mining and Metals at Barclays Investment Bank from 2013 until his retirement from that role in June 2017.
Eileen Kamerick Committee Chair Graham Birch was appointed to the Committee on 11 May 2017 and is a former director of BlackRock Commodities Investment Trust plc and manager of BlackRocks World Mining Trust Maximum and Gold and General Unit Trust.
possible Actual Members attendance attendance The Committee members who served Nigel Moore 2 2 during the year under review are considered Non-Executive Director and Committee Chairman until 11 May 2017 to be Independent Directors and the Eileen Kamerick 4 4 Committee is satisfied that it has, as a whole, Non-Executive Director and, from 11 May 2017, Committee Chair competence relevant to the sector in which Michael Rawlinson Non-Executive Director 4 4 the Company operates.
Graham Birch Non-Executive Director 2 2 For further details on the skills and experience of the Committee members, please refer to the during the year ended 31 December 2017. biographical details on pages 50 and 51.
There were four meetings of the Audit Committee during the year.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 60 Hochschild Mining plc Corporate Governance Report continued Whistleblowing The Audit Committee other developments impacting the Committees The performance of the Committee was reviewed the adequacy of the Groups role.
In relation to the evaluation of the considered as part of the annual Board evaluation Whistleblowing Policy taking into account the Committees performance, this was carried out process which was considered by the whole Board.
reports received through the various online as part of the annual Board evaluation.
Specific and offline channels established by the Group.
questions were put to each Board member on Attendees See box below for more information various aspects of the performance of the Audit The lead partner of the external Auditor, Ernst & Committee including its responsibilities in Young LLP, the Chairman of the Company, the Fraud and bribery The Audit Committee relation to risk management and internal Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial continued to review and challenge the actions control.
General feedback on the Committees Officer and the Head of Internal Audit attend taken by management to promote ethical and performance was also sought and fed back to each Audit Committee meeting by invitation.
The Group has adopted a Code of Conduct The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to Committee objectives The Audit which describes the values and standards of the Committee.
Committee has continued its initiative of behaviour expected of our employees and our setting specific objectives for itself and business partners.
In addition, the Group has Activity during the year management with a view to ensuring the adopted a specific anti-bribery and antiThe following matters featured amongst those diligent fulfilment of its responsibilities.
corruption policy to reflect the Boards zero considered by the Committee during the year: tolerance of these types of act.
This policy is The objectives for 2017 resulted in: Financial reporting The 2016 Annual circulated to all employees by the CEO on a supervision of the process of preparation of Report and Accounts and the 2017 Half-Yearly periodic basis, highlighting the reputational the 2016 financial statements in preparation Report were reviewed by the Committee damage and criminal proceedings that could for the expedited reporting timetable for the before recommending that they be adopted by result.
The 2017 communications campaign 2017 financial statements: the Board.
In its review of these financial followed certain high-profile cases of alleged reports, the Audit Committee reviewed a focused and tailored induction programme corruption in Peru so as to maximise impact.
accounting policies, estimates and judgements for Eileen Kamerick in preparation for External audit The Audit Committee oversees applied in preparing the relevant statements the succession to the Chair of the Audit the relationship with the external Auditor who and the transparency and clarity of disclosures Committee.
This resulted in a number of was reappointed following a tender process contained within them.
briefings with the external Auditors and undertaken in Q1 2016.
As part of this Review of audit plans In line with its usual relevant internal personnel such as the responsibility, the Audit Committee reviewed practice, the Committee considered reports CFO, the Head of Internal Audit and the the findings of the external Auditor and from the external Auditor on the scope and Company Secretary: management letters, and reviewed and agreed structure of the review of the half-yearly results an internal communication campaign audit fees.
The Audit Committee evaluates the and audit of the annual results.
highlighting the Groups anti-bribery and Auditors performance each year taking into anti-corruption policies.
Risk management Consideration and account written feedback prepared by the CFO, challenge of risk management assessments Tax Compliance Strategy As set out in the the Group Financial Controller and relevant which incorporate a risk matrix detailing introductory letter, the Audit Committee, finance managers from the operations.
The i the most significant risks facing the Group: approved on behalf of the Board, a document issues raised are considered in detail at the Audit ii an evaluation reflecting the likelihood of on the Groups approach to UK tax matters.
Committee meeting held mid-year resulting in an the occurrence of the risk and the extent of the The document can be located at: action plan, the execution of which is assessed in potential impact on the Group, and http: www.
com en the following years auditor evaluation.
iii commentary on the steps taken to responsibility tax compliance strategy Auditor objectivity The Audit Committee manage each specific risk.
See pages 45 to 48 has adopted a Policy on the Use of External During the year, the Committee members held for a description of the principal risks and Auditors for the Provision of Non-Audit meetings with the external Auditor without uncertainties faced by the Group during Services see later section for more details.
executive management to discuss matters the year.
relating to the 2016 annual audit and the 2017 Governance and evaluation The Audit Internal audit The Audit Committee Half-Yearly Report.
There were no matters of Committee received updates from the Auditor continued to oversee and challenge the significance to report from these meetings.
and the Company Secretary on regulatory and Groups adoption of a risk-based approach to internal audit.
The Audit Committee Chairman receives a quarterly report from the Head of 2017 Whistleblowing campaign Internal Audit which sets out specific areas As mentioned in the Committee Chairs covered, improvements being recommended introductory letter, a survey was and introduced, and proposals for the commissioned during 2017 to gauge the programme over the following three months.
general employee awareness of the facility The CEO and CFO also receive copies of this which identified a need to highlight how report and robustly support the activities of reports could be submitted and how reports the Internal Audit function.
An internal publicity campaign Internal control Through the processes was rolled out in H1 2017 highlighting these described on the following page, the Audit particular aspects and, in addition, a shortcut Committee reviewed the adequacy of the to the online whistleblowing tool was installed Groups internal control environment and risk on the desktop of every company computer management systems.
to promote ease of access.
A survey has been scheduled in the current year to verify the success of the 2017 campaign.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Hochschild Mining plc 61 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information In addition, the Audit Committee corroborated testing the key controls around the revenue Significant audit issues its assessment through consideration of the recognition process to confirm that they are As recommended by the Code, the following is processes undertaken by the Auditor in its designed and operating effectively, supporting a summary of the significant issues considered testing of managements forecasts.
In conclusion, the prevention and detection of material errors by the Committee in relation to the 2017 the Committee is content that the financial in the reported revenue figures: financial statements and how these issues statements are in accordance with relevant have been addressed.
the timing of sales: and accounting standards and guidance.
the appropriate treatment of provisional pricing.
Impairments Please refer to the Directors Report on page 54 The Audit Committee assessed managements As a result, the Audit Committee has been able for its confirmation to shareholders on the analysis which concluded that indicators of to conclude that revenue has been recognised in appropriateness of the Going Concern impairment or impairment reversals in H2 accordance with accounting standards and the assumption and the Risk Management section of 2017 were present with regards to Arcata, calculation of any provisional pricing adjustments the Directors approach to the longer-term Pallancata and San Felipe and hence, were the has been performed in accordance with the Viability Statement.
subject of a full impairment assessment.
Adequacy of tax provisions The Audit Committee considered The Audit Committee considered the potential Auditor independence i. with regards to Arcata, fines or losses that the Group may be subject to The Audit Committee continues to oversee the in light of open tax reviews and the uncertainty a. managements evaluation of the reserves implementation of specific policies designed to with respect to the quantum and timing of and resources volumes at Arcata noting safeguard the independence and objectivity of these liabilities.
that exploration and mining activities did the Auditor, which includes the Groups policy on not result in inferred resources being the provision of non-audit services.
The Audit Committee considered managements converted into reserves.
Furthermore, the assessment of these potential exposures.
Policy on the use of Auditor Committee considered that production for non-audit services In addition, the Committee considered the view and costs at Arcata were negatively Following the issue of the new consolidated of independent experts as well as the work of the affected by lower grades and tonnage: Ethical Standard for Auditors by the Financial external Auditor which focused on: b. c ertain key assumptions and the Reporting Council, the Audit Committee adopted corroborating managements assessments: and associated sensitivity analysis used in the a revised Policy in 2016 on the use of the Auditor changes to those assessments relative to recoverable value model of Arcata: for non-audit services the Revised NAS Policy.
prior years and the appropriate treatment namely price forecasts, discount rates, The Revised NAS Policy lists those non-audit in light thereof.
production volumes, costs and other services that the external Auditor is specifically operating inputs: and In conclusion and having had regard to prohibited from providing.
In summary, these managements assessment, the Committee c. the basis of calculation of the recoverable include a tax services: b bookkeeping: c agrees with the treatment and disclosure of the value of Arcata.
payroll services: d designing or implementing potential liabilities identified.
internal control or risk management procedures ii.
with regards to San Felipe, the recoverability with regards to financial information or related Mine rehabilitation provisions assessment performed by management, technology systems: e valuation services: f The Audit Committee considered the judgement iii.
with regards to Pallancata, certain legal services: and g corporate finance exercised by management in assessing the type services.
Certain of these services may be amounts required to be paid by the Company a. the conversion of inferred resources into provided by the Auditor subject to the to rehabilitate the Groups mines which, with Reserves from the Pablo vein: satisfaction of certain criteria ensuring the regards to Pallancata, was prepared in b. the bett er than expected grades and Auditors objectivity and the Audit Committees conjunction with an external consultant during tonnage from operations: and approval.
The Revised NAS Policy requires the year to supplement the decommissioning i the Audit Committee and Chief Financial cost estimates prepared in 2016 with the same c. the better than expected costs Officer to approve all non-audit services third party on the Groups other operations.
undertaken by the external Auditor and In its assessment of the analysis undertaken In conclusion, the Audit Committee concurred ii that the cost of non-audit services rendered by management and, where relevant, the with management on the following for the full by the external Auditor, in any financial year, independent third party, the Audit Committee cannot exceed 70% of the total audit fee for that year ending 31 December 2017: took into account: year.
Please refer to the next section entitled an impairment of $43 million with regards to 2017 Audit and non-audit fees for details on the Arcata: and the basis of the estimation of future operation of this policy during the year.
rehabilitation costs: the impairment reversals with respect to the discount rate applied: Safeguards Pallancata of $31.9 million and with respect to Additional safeguards to ensure auditor San Felipe of $8.4 million.
significant changes in estimates and the basis objectivity and independence include: and level of new costs: and Going Concern Assessment six-monthly reports to the Audit Committee the accounting for the changes in the provisions.
The Board and the Committee under its from the Auditor analysing the fees for delegated authority regularly considered The Audit Committee concluded that the non-audit services rendered: and management forecasts on the Groups financial provision is appropriate.
an annual assessment, by the Audit Committee, position and the ability of the Group to continue Revenue recognition of the Auditors objectivity and independence as a going concern.
The Audit Committee reviewed managements in light of all relationships between the The Board has considered cash flow forecasts approach to the accounting of revenue.
In Company and the audit firm.
and undertaken sensitivity analysis of the addition, the Committee considered the key assumptions.
Auditors procedures which focused on: Annual Report & Accounts 2017 62 Hochschild Mining plc Corporate Governance Report continued 2017 Audit and non-audit fees consistent recognition and treatment Details of fees paid to the external Auditor of transactions and production of the are provided in note 31 to the consolidated consolidated financial statements: financial statements.
review of budgets and reporting against budgets: and Compliance Statement required under Article 7.1 of the Statutory Audit consideration of progress against strategic Services for Large Companies Market objectives.
Investigation Mandatory Use of The system of internal control is designed to Competitive Tender Processes and Audit manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 to achieve business objectives and it must be the Order recognised that such a system can only provide The Company confirms that it has complied with reasonable and not absolute assurance against the Order save that certain engagements for material misstatement or loss.
non-audit services of a recurring nature which the external Auditors were permitted to provide Audit Committees assessment were noted and ratified by the Audit Committee Based on its review of the process, the after they were rendered in breach of the Revised Audit Committee is satisfied that the internal NAS Policy.
The average value of each such controls are in place at the operational level engagement was c. $9k which, in the aggregate, within the Group.
were worth $52k and, hence, are considered to be of a trivial nature and were not considered to Boards assessment have had any bearing on the independence of the external Auditors.
It is the Committees intention Risk management to amend the Revised NAS Policy to include the Throughout the year, the Board considered its pre-approval of permitted services by the risk appetite which was considered to be external Auditors for specified recurring services appropriate.
The Board confirms that its where the value of each such engagement does assessment of the principal risks facing the not individually exceed $15,000 and which will be Company, including those that would threaten its subject to an overall cap of $50,000 in any one business model, future performance, solvency or calendar year.
liquidity, and which are set out in the Risk Management & Viability section, was robust.
Internal control and risk management Internal control Whilst the Board has overall responsibility for the As detailed above, the Board, through the Groups system of internal control including risk delegated authority granted to the Audit management and for reviewing its effectiveness, Committee, monitors the ongoing process by responsibility for the periodic review of the which critical risks to the business are identified, effectiveness of these controls has been delegated evaluated and managed.
This process is consistent to the Audit Committee.
Notwithstanding this with the FRCs Guidance on Risk Management, delegation of authority, the Board continues to Internal Control and Related Financial and monitor the strategic risks to which the Company Business Reporting published in 2014. is exposed in the context of a risk appetite that is under continuous review.
Internal controls are The Directors confirm that, with the support of managed by the use of formal procedures the Audit Committee, the effectiveness of the designed to highlight financial, operational, Companys system of risk management and environmental and social risks and provide internal controls has been reviewed during the appropriate information to the Board enabling year under review.
These covered material it to protect effectively the Companys assets controls, which included controls covering and, in turn, maintain shareholder value.
operational, financial and compliance matters.
The controls operated effectively during the The process used by the Audit Committee to financial year although, as is the case for many assess the effectiveness of risk management and large companies, additional controls were internal control systems comprises: implemented or further strengthened during reports from the Head of the Internal Audit the year.
The Audit Committee was made function: aware of the control changes and there was no significant impact on the financial results.
reviews of accounting and financial reporting The Directors confirm that no significant failings processes together with the internal control or weaknesses were identified as a result of the environment at Group level.
This involves the review of the effectiveness of the Groups system monitoring of performance and the taking of of internal control.
relevant action through the monthly review of key performance indicators and, where required, the production of revised forecasts.
The Group has adopted a standard accounting manual to be followed by all finance teams, which is continually updated to ensure the Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Hochschild Mining plc 63 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Nominations Committee Report the proposed nomination of Mr Dionisio Romero Paoletti as a nominee director of the Groups major shareholder controlled by Eduardo Hochschild : the format of the 2017 Board evaluation In 2017 the Nominations Committee process.
As explained earlier in this report, it was decided that in light of the extensive focused on continuity in terms of the benefits that have been brought about by past Boards committees and executive internally led-evaluations and the ongoing succession planning.
focus on cost-control, the Board favoured the continuation of this approach in 2017.
The format of the 2018 Board evaluation will, Dear Shareholder however, be kept under review: The Nominations Committees focus on Company.
As Chairman and CEO of Perus the findings of the 2017 Board evaluation succession saw it play an active role during largest bank, Dionisio has built up vast process see earlier section of the Corporate 2017 on two fronts: firstly in ensuring the experience of doing business in Peru as well Governance Report : and continuity of the Board Committees in light as across Latin America.
I and my fellow the nomination of Michael Rawlinson as the of the retirements during the year, and Board members very much look forward to Senior Independent Director to succeed Enrico secondly, by reviewing the succession plan working with him.
Bombieri following his retirement from the for the Groups most senior executives.
In addition, the Committee maintained its detailed exercise provided Committee focus on the development of the Directors members with visibility of the rising talent of Appointments to the Board knowledge through the provision of briefings executives at Hochschild Mining.
In seeking candidates for appointment to the on various topics of relevance, including the Board, regard is given to relevant experience and In terms of additions to the Board, I am outlook for the commodity markets and the skills required to complete the composition delighted to welcome Dionisio Romero changes to law and regulation.
of a balanced Board, taking into account the Paoletti as a Non-Executive Director who challenges and opportunities facing the Company.
joins as a representative director of Pelham Investment Corporation, the entity through Eduardo Hochschild Mr Romero Paoletti is an acquaintance of which I hold my majority shareholding in the Committee Chairman Mr Eduardo Hochschild and therefore, in relation to his appointment as a nominee of the Companys major shareholder pursuant to Maximum its rights under the Relationship Agreement, possible Actual neither search consultants nor open advertising Members attendance attendance were used.
Eduardo Hochschild Committee Chairman 4 4 Diversity policy Jorge Born Non-Executive Director 4 4 The Board acknowledges that diversity brings Enrico Bombieri Non-Executive Director 4 4 new perspectives which can drive superior Sanjay Sarma Non-Executive Director 2 2 business performance and promote innovation.
However, as has been stated in past Annual during the year ended 31 December 2017.
Reports, the Board is keen to commit to the overriding principle that every Board member Key roles and responsibilities Activity during the year and potential appointee must be able to Identify and nominate candidates for The principal matters considered during the demonstrate the skills and knowledge to be able Board approval year were: to make a valued contribution to the Board.
This merits-based approach will continue to apply and Make recommendations to the Board on under the authority delegated to it by the the Board does not intend to set diversity composition and balance Board, consideration of any conflicts and if targets.
As demonstrated by the most recent present, the authorisation of such conflicts in Oversee the succession planning of Board and appointments, where the opportunity also arises relation to the proposed appointment of senior management positions to increase Board diversity whether of gender, Ignacio Bustamante to the Board of Scotiabank Review the Directors external interests with culture or professional background this would Peru SAA as a Non-Executive Director: regards to actual, perceived or potential be considered to be an additional benefit.
the composition of the Audit Committee in conflicts of interest light of Nigel Moores retirement from the Board in May 2017 followed by a further review Membership of the composition of the Boards committees Sanjay Sarma was appointed a member of the later in the year: Committee on 11 May 2017.
Enrico Bombieri stepped down as a member of the Committee on the succession plan for the Groups senior retirement from the Board on 31 December 2017. executives which, in addition to identifying potential successors, also mapped out the Graham Birch, Eileen Kamerick, Michael development needs and the timelines of the Rawlinson and Dionisio Romero Paoletti were preparedness of each potential successor: appointed to the Committee on 1 January 2018.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to theCommittee.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 64 Hochschild Mining plc Corporate Governance Report continued Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Report Key roles and responsibilities Evaluate the effectiveness of the Groups policies for identifying and managing health, safety and environmental risks within the Groups operations Assess the performance of the Group with 2017 represented a year of many regard to the impact of health, safety, achievements and our strengthened environmental and community relations decisions and actions upon employees, resolve to safety.
communities and other third parties.
It also assesses the impact of such decisions and actions on the reputation of the Group Dear Shareholder Evaluate and oversee, on behalf of the Board, 2017 represented a year of many 2017 was the inaugural year for the the quality and integrity of any reporting to achievements on our sustainability agenda, implementation of a new scorecard to external stakeholders concerning health, safety, but it was also a year of setback in terms of measure our environmental performance environmental and community relations issues our safety record.
After three consecutive which is distilled into an ECO score and which years of zero fatalities, it is with great sadness feeds through into the remuneration of our Membership that two accidents across our operations senior employees.
By achieving this Roberto Daino stepped down as a member of during 2017 resulted in four fatalities.
The alignment, we are seeking to foster, and the Committee on 11 May 2017.
Graham Birch Committee and, indeed the Board as a whole, promote, an  assumed the Chairmanship from that date.
are deeply committed to ensuring the safety culture across the Group.
of our colleagues and we are working to The Vice President of Operations and the Vice Details of the work we have done during the ensure that safety comes first for everyone President of Legal and Corporate Affairs year with local communities in the core areas through the implementation of a Safety attended each CSR Committee meeting by of education, health and economic Culture Transformation Plan.
The Company Secretary acts as development as well as the matters Secretary to the Committee.
With regards to the environment, the Group mentioned above can be found in the has implemented numerous initiatives to Sustainability Report on pages 38 to 43.
Activity during the year mitigate the impact of our operations.
Details relating to the CSR Committee and the Groups activities in this area are set out in the Dr Graham Birch Sustainability Report on pages 36 to 43.
Committee Chairman Maximum possible Actual Members attendance attendance Roberto Daino Committee Chairman until his retirement from 2 2 the Board on 11 May 2017 Graham Birch Non-Executive Director and Committee Chairman 4 4 from 11 May 2017 Michael Rawlinson Non-Executive Director 4 4 Ignacio Bustamante Chief Executive Officer 4 4 during the year ended 31 December 2017.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Hochschild Mining plc 65 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Remuneration Committee Report Key roles and responsibilities Determine and agree with the Board the broad policy for the remuneration of the Executive Directors, other members of senior The Remuneration Committees focus in management and the Company Secretary, as 2017 was on the review of Hochschilds well as their specific remuneration packages Remuneration Policy taking in best Regularly review the ongoing appropriateness market practice and achieving closer and relevance of the Remuneration Policy alignment with strategy.
Approve the design of, and determine targets for, any performance related pay schemes operated by the Company and approve the total Dear Shareholder annual payments made under such schemes Ensure that contractual terms on termination, The focus of the Remuneration Committee Further details on the Companys and any payments made, are fair to the during 2017 was on our Directors Remuneration Policy, the Committees work individual and the Company, that failure is not Remuneration Policy which we are submitting in 2017 and how we seek to reflect the rewarded, and that the duty to mitigate loss is to shareholders for their approval at the experience of our wider stakeholders in fully recognised forthcoming AGM.
executive pay can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report from page 70. Review and note annually the remuneration The review of our existing policy was a trends across the Company or Group wide-ranging one that took in all aspects of remuneration at Hochschild Mining with a view Michael Rawlinson Membership to a incorporating best market practice: Committee Chairman Nigel Moore ceased to be a member of the and b achieving closer alignment between Committee following his retirement from the reward and the successful achievement of Board at the 2017 AGM on 11 May 2017 and the Groups strategic objectives.
Michael Rawlinson was appointed a member on that same date.
On 1 January 2018, Michael Rawlinson assumed the Chair of the Committee following Enrico Bombieris retirement from the Board, and Eileen Kamerick was appointed a member of the Committee.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
Members of senior management attend Maximum meetings at the invitation of the Committee.
possible Actual Members attendance attendance During the year, such members included the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer and the Enrico Bombieri Non-Executive Director & Committee Chairman 4 4 Vice President of Human Resources.
No Director Graham Birch Non-Executive Director 4 4 or senior executive is present at meetings when Nigel Moore Non-Executive Director 2 2 his own remuneration arrangements are Michael Rawlinson Non-Executive Director 2 2 considered by the Committee unless otherwise directed by the Committee.
during the year ended 31 December 2017.
Activity during the year Details of the Remuneration Committees activities during the year are provided in the Directors Remuneration Report from page 70.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 66 Hochschild Mining plc Corporate Governance Report continued Shareholder relations Principal shareholder contacts The Chairman, Deputy Chairman, Chief Executive Overview Officer and the Chief Financial Officer are The Company is fully committed to achieving available to discuss the concerns of major an excellent relationship with shareholders.
Alternatively, shareholders may Responsibility for communications with discuss any matters of concern with the shareholders on strategy and business Companys Senior Independent Director.
performance rests with the Chief Executive The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the discussing strategy with the Companys Head of Investor Relations.
shareholders and conveying their views to the Communications with shareholders with respect other members of the Board.
to the administration of shareholdings and Other than through direct contact as detailed in matters of governance are co-ordinated by the the table above, Directors are kept informed of Company Secretary.
major shareholders views through copies of Shareholder contact in 2017 i relevant analysts and brokers briefings, The following table summarises the principal ii voting recommendation reports issued by means by which management communicated institutional investor agencies, and with investors during the year: iii significant correspondence from shareholders with respect to the business to be Date Event put to shareholder vote at General Meetings.
January, April, Conference calls following 2017 AGM July, October theQuarterly Production Report Notice of the 2017 AGM was circulated to all February BMO Global Metals shareholders at least 20 working days prior to & Mining Conference the meeting.
Each of the Chairmen of the Board 2017 Annual Results presentation Committees was available at the AGM to answer questions.
A poll vote was taken on each of the UK Roadshow resolutions put to shareholders with results March Citi Resources Conference announced shortly after the meeting and May BoA Merrill Lynch Global Metals, published on the Companys website.
Mining and Steel Conference Further information on matters of particular Annual General Meeting interest to investors is available on the inside August 2017 Half-Yearly Results presentation back cover and on the Companys website at September UK Roadshow www.
com Denver Gold Forum December NYC Roadshow Scotia Capital Conference An extensive Investor Relations schedule resulted in management holding over 100 investor meetings during the year.
