Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information The Audit & Risk Committee is scheduled to meet regularly Audit & Risk throughout the year and its agenda is linked to events in the Groups financial calendar.
The Audit & Risk Committee invites the Chief Executive Officer & President, the Chief Financial Committee report Officer, the Vice President Risk & Global Controller and other senior finance personnel, together with other senior representatives of the external and internal Auditors, to attend certain meetings.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Jeffrey Vanneste Committee.
In addition, the Committee will meet in private with Audit & Risk Committee Chairman the internal and external Auditors without management present.
The terms of reference of the Audit & Risk Committee are available to view at http: investors.
com media Files T TiautomotiveIR documents .
pdf The role of the Audit & Risk Committee The primary function of the Audit & Risk Committee is to assist the Board in discharging its responsibilities with regard to financial reporting and the external and internal audit, including: reviewing and monitoring the integrity of the Groups annual and interim financial statements advising on the appointment of the external Auditors and Dear Shareholder, overseeing the Groups relationship with its external Auditors The Audit & Risk Committee was formed prior to the listing reviewing the scope and effectiveness of the external of TI Fluid Systems plc shares to the London Stock Exchange audit process on 25 October 2017.
This report focuses on matters considered reviewing the independence and objectivity of its Auditors by the Committee since its formation, in particular the work reviewing and monitoring the extent of the non-audit work undertaken to transition TI Fluid Systems from being a private undertaken by the Groups external Auditors company to a plc, its first Annual Report as a listed company making recommendations to the Board on accounting policies and the Committees priorities for the future.
reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk management programmes Membership of the Audit & Risk Committee monitoring the activities and effectiveness of the Groups The Audit & Risk Committee comprises independent Noninternal audit function Executive Directors of the Company, Neil Carson, John Smith receiving reports from the Groups internal and external Auditors and Jeffrey Vanneste.
The Audit & Risk Committee is chaired making recommendations to the Board for a resolution to be by Jeffrey Vanneste, who has recent and relevant financial put to the shareholders for the appointment of the external experience.
He has many years experience as a chief financial Auditors, approval of their remuneration and terms of their officer and he is Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer engagement of Lear Corporation, a global supplier of automotive seating review of the Group risk registers and advising the Board systems and electrical systems.
Brief biographical information on the effectiveness of risk action plans and on the members of the Audit & Risk Committee are listed on reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of the pages 34 to 35 including details of experience and competence whistleblowing and anti-bribery policy and procedures.
Preparing for the IPO The following table shows the number of meetings held during As part of completing the Groups Financial Position and Prospects the period from 25 October 2017 to 31 December 2017 and the Procedures report during the IPO process, the Directors, attendance record of individual members of the Committee: supported by  LLP, undertook a detailed assessment of the following areas: Board and Committee governance and the procedure Maximum number of for assessing the Groups key risks meetings the management accounting process and the information the provided to the Board Date of Number of member external financial reporting procedures, audit arrangements appointment to meetings could have and reporting standards Name of member the Committee attended attended internal control environments Jeffrey Vanneste 25 October 2017 1 1 the Groups information systems Neil Carson 25 October 2017 1 1 forecasting and budgeting procedures and controls.
John Smith 25 October 2017 1 1 Following the year-end, the Committee has met to approve the Groups Annual Report and Financial Statement.
TI Fluid Systems plc 41 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate Governance report continued Significant accounting matters The significant issues and accounting judgements considered by the Committee in the preparation of the Annual Report and Financial Statements were: Key accounting judgements Work undertaken Warranty provision We considered the judgements made by management The Group is subject to warranty claims in the event that in assessing the likelihood and quantification of material its products fail to perform as per specifications.
This included: provisions are made to cover potential exposures that relate understanding the nature of the specific claims and to specific customer claims.
correspondence with customers assessing managements evaluation of the likelihood Key judgements are made in calculating the provision and these and quantum of exposure and the status of negotiations are dependent on the customer, complexity of the issue and the with the customer negotiation process.
The outcome of claims is often difficult to predict and quantify.
We concluded the judgements were reasonable.
Goodwill and intangible assets impairment As part of the annual impairment review, we considered a All cash generating units CGUs containing goodwill summary report from management explaining the methodology, and intangible assets are tested for impairment annually.
assumptions and results of the impairment test.
The determination of CGUs and the recoverable amount requires judgement by management in both identifying There were no indications of impairment as there was and valuing the relevant CGUs.
headroom over the carrying value of the CGUs.
Key judgements and estimates are involved in completion The impairment reviews were also an area of focus for of impairment reviews including cash flow forecasts, discount  LLP and we considered their report.
rates and long-term growth rates.
A change in these assumptions can result in a material change in the valuation We concluded that the judgements and estimates used of the assets.
in the impairment test were reasonable.
Accounting for hedging arrangements We considered management updates and the assistance The Group has exposure to movements in interest rates provided by Chatham Financial, a specialist financial and exchange rates and uses financial derivatives to mitigate instruments company, in assessing the management the risk.
Significant judgement and estimation are involved in assessing We also noted  LLPs work and use whether the financial instruments qualify for hedge accounting of subject matter experts in relation to hedging arrangements.
and in determining the fair value of forward exchange contracts and interest rate swaps.
Having considered the use of specialists and the external auditors report, the Committee was satisfied with the judgements and estimates used.
Deferred tax asset recognition and provision for uncertain We reviewed summary reports from management in respect tax positions of estimates of tax exposures to assess the reasonableness The Group has a wide geographic footprint and is subject to tax of the Groups tax provisions.
Information provided has included laws in many jurisdictions.
specialist tax advice in applicable jurisdictions and updates on specific ongoing audits.
Provisions are made for uncertain tax positions which involve judgement and estimates by management as to the likelihood The recognition of deferred tax assets have been reviewed of their realisation.
Recognition of deferred tax assets also involves judgement  LLP also reported to the as to their realisation, including whether there will be sufficient Committee its findings in this area which have been reviewed taxable profits in future periods to support recognition.
The Committee was satisfied with the judgements, estimates and that disclosures were reasonable and appropriate.
The Committee is satisfied that the judgements made are reasonable and appropriate disclosures have been included in the accounts.
Other Financial Reporting Matters Presentation of financial statements The Audit & Risk Committee has reviewed the presentation of the financial statements, in particular the presentation of non-GAAP measures.
The Committee has concluded that this presentation is appropriate.
TI Fluid Systems plc 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information External Auditors Risk Management and Internal Controls A principal duty of the Audit & Risk Committee is to make The Group has updated its internal control framework and recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment continues to refine its processes and controls globally to reflect of the external auditor.
 LLP were first changes to the framework.
The Groups system of internal appointed as auditor to the Group in 2001 and as auditor to controls, along with its design and operating effectiveness, is TI Fluid Systems plc in September 2015.
 subject to review by the Audit & Risk Committee, in addition to LLP are subject to annual reappointment by shareholders.
review by the Internal and External auditors.
Control deficiencies identified are followed up with action plans that are reviewed by The Audit & Risk Committee are very aware the effectiveness the Audit & Risk Committee.
The Board has established policies and independence of the external auditor is central to ensuring and procedures, including delegations of authority, which have the integrity of the Groups published financial information.
been communicated across the Group.
The effectiveness and independence of the external auditor has been assessed by the Board and confirmed.
Prior to the The Audit & Risk Committee is responsible for monitoring the commencement of the audit, the Audit & Risk Committee financial reporting process and for reviewing the effectiveness reviewed and approved the audit plan to ensure it was of the Groups system of internal controls.
The system of appropriately focused.
internal controls is designed to manage, rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and we can In order to ensure the external auditors independence, the only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against Committee annually reviews the Companys relationship with material misstatement or loss.
The Board has established its auditors and assesses the level of controls and procedures a clear organisational structure with defined authority levels.
in place to ensure the required level of independence and that The day-to-day running of the Groups business is delegated the Company has an objective and professional relationship with to the Executive Directors of the Group.
Auditor rotation rules for a listed Company require the Group audit partner and audit partners of The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups risk appetite material components to rotate off after five years in the role unless and ensuring there is an effective risk management framework.
there are circumstances that justify an extension.
Chris Hibbs and The Board has delegated responsibility for review of the risk the audit partners of components in the US, Korea and Germany management programme and effectiveness of internal controls have been in their roles for more than five years.
To ensure the to the Audit & Risk Committee.
In its first year as a public audit quality and the level of service as the Group transitions company, the Group is implementing a formal risk management to a listed Company, professional standards allow Chris Hibbs programme and has adopted the methodology and process to continue as the Group audit partner up to the year ending design.
As part of the preparation for the Global Offer and Listing, 31 December 2018 and for the audit partners in the US, Korea an assessment of the Groups principal risks and mitigating and Germany for the year ending 31 December 2017.
The matter activities was undertaken.
The Audit & Risk Committee has was discussed and agreed with the Audit & Risk Committee.
reviewed the assessment of the Groups principal risks, the impact on the prospects for the Group and the mitigating actions During the year ended 31 December 2017 a competitive audit and the Board has confirmed that a robust assessment of the tender process was undertaken and following a formal process Groups principal risks had been undertaken.
of proposal documents and presentations the decision was taken to reappoint  LLP as external Further information on the Groups risk management programme auditor to the Group.
In order to meet the requirements set out and the risks and uncertainties which are judged to have the by the Competition and Markets Authority and the European most significant impact on the Groups long-term performance Commission, the Company will hold an audit tender at the latest and prospects are set out on pages 21 to 23. after the current external auditor has been in place for a period of 10 years.
Internal Audit Internal audit plays an important role in assessing the The Company confirms that it complied with the provisions effectiveness of internal controls by a programme of reviews of of the Competition and Markets Authority order for the financial key business risks across the Group.
The Group has a dedicated year under review.
Internal Audit function and a formal audit plan is in place to address the key risks across the Group.
Non-Audit services The Audit & Risk Committee has adopted a formal policy The Audit & Risk Committee considers and approves the internal governing the engagement of the external auditors to provide audit plan, which is based on an assessment of the key risks non-audit services.
This policy describes the circumstances in faced by the Group.
Progress in respect of the plan is monitored which the auditor may be engaged to undertake non-audit work throughout the year and care is taken to ensure that the internal for the Group.
The Committee recognises that the auditors may audit function has sufficient resource to complete the plan.
be best placed to undertake certain non-audit work and The audit plan may be reviewed during the year as a result engagements for non-audit services that are not prohibited are of the ongoing assessment of the key risks or in response to subject to formal review by the Audit & Risk Committee based the needs of the Group.
The Director of Internal Audit reports on the level of fees involved.
In the year to 31 December 2017, ultimately to the Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee, non-audit fees totalled 3.0 million and audit fees totalled although he reports on a day-to-day basis to the Chief Financial 2.4 million.
Non-audit fees represented 56% of the total fees Officer.
He attends most meetings of the Committee.
A report paid to the external auditor of 5.4 million.
Non-audit fees in part on completed internal audits is presented to the Committee and, reflect the services and advice provided, including as Reporting where appropriate, action plans are reviewed.
Accountants, in connection with the Global Offering.
Non-Audit Fees in the year to 31 December 2017 are detailed in the following table: Jeffrey Vanneste Audit & Risk Committee Chairman Nature of service m 29 March 2018 Global-offer related corporate finance services 2.3 Tax compliance and advisory fees 0.6 Other 0.1 Total non-audit services 3.0 TI Fluid Systems plc 43 Annual Report and Accounts 2017
