64 | Corporate governance Corporate governance statement As part of the Board effectiveness evaluation conducted The role of the Board in October 2017, the Board as a whole was subject to an The Board is the main decision making body of the Company.
The evaluation considered the It provides leadership within a framework of prudent and effectiveness of processes and procedures established by effective controls enabling risk to be assessed and managed.
the Board to fulfil its duties, the Boards composition, skills It also carries ultimate responsibility for the effective direction and experience and the performance of the Board Chairman.
and control of the Group and is accountable to shareholders A number of actions for the coming year in relation to the for financial and operational performance.
There is a clear aforementioned areas have been agreed.
Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board, together with delegated authorities to Board Committees and management.
The respective Boards of Directors of the Groups regulated entities are responsible to the UKs Financial Conduct Executive and Non-Executive Directors have the same Authority FCA and the Gibraltar Financial Services statutory duties but are subject to a clear division of Commission GFSC for ensuring compliance with each responsibilities.
It is the responsibility of the Chairman to entitys regulatory obligations and that dealings with the FCA lead and manage the Board and for Non-Executive Directors and GFSC are handled in a constructive, co-operative and to monitor, review and challenge Executive Directors and transparent manner.
senior management by acting in the interest of the Companys stakeholders.
The overall responsibility for the day to day Board and Committee structure management of the Group is delegated to the Chief Executive The Board delegates certain matters to various Committees, Officer.
The Chief Executive Officer is supported in this role by each with their own Board approved Terms of Reference senior executive management responsible for management which are reviewed annually.
The Board has four Committees, oversight of the Group and its subsidiaries.
The roles and Audit, Nomination, Remuneration and Risk: all of their Terms responsibilities of the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and of Reference were reviewed by the relevant Committee and Senior Independent Director are clearly defined and allocated.
Reports from these Committees These responsibilities are set out in writing and are available describing their principal activities during the year are set at www.
out in their respective reports on pages 71 to 84.
Board and All Directors receive an induction on joining the Board Committee meetings are structured to allow sufficient time which is tailored to the individual needs of each Director: for consideration of all items and each Chairman encourages where a Director is joining a Board Committee the induction constructive debate and challenge.
Committees are authorised includes an overview of the operation of that committee.
On to obtain outside legal or other independent professional completion of the induction programme the Director should advice if required.
The Chairman of each Committee reports have sufficient knowledge and understanding of the nature to the Board on matters considered by each Committee at the of the business, and the opportunities and challenges for the subsequent Board meeting as appropriate.
All Directors have Hastings Group, to enable them to effectively contribute to access to the minutes of each Committee.
strategic discussions and oversight of the Group.
Directors The membership of Committees is a matter for the full regularly update and refresh their skills and knowledge.
Boardupon recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Board and Each of the Board Committees comprises solely Non-Executive takes the minutes of all meetings.
Each Committee is chaired by an Independent Nonwith the Chairman, the Company Secretary is responsible for Executive Director: the Nomination Committee is currently ensuring good governance and consults Directors to ensure chaired by the Chairman of the Board.
The current membership that good information flows exist and that the Board receives of each Board Committee can be found on pages 62 and 63. the information it requires in order to be effective.
Throughout Executive Directors, members of management and professional the year the Board and Committees receive regular updates advisers also attend meetings of the Committees when from the Executive Directors and senior executives of required to do so by the chair of the relevant Committee.
key developments in the business as part of their formal The Terms of Reference for the Committees can be meetings.
Directors are able to seek independent and found at www.
com company-information professional advice at Company expense to enable Directors corporategovernance.
to fulfil their obligations as a member of the Board.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 65 Board and Committee structure Board and Committee attendance Details of the number of meetings of the Companys Board and Committees held during the year and the attendance of each Director in office between 1 January 2017 and 31 December Hastings Group Holdings plc 2017 at those meetings are set out below.
Information on the role, responsibility and activity of each Committee are provided in their respective reports on pages 71 to 99.
Cross Committee memberships as at31 December 2017 R A N Re Risk Audit Nomination Remuneration Audit Nomination Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Committee Risk 2 0 2 Remuneration 1 1 Nomination 2 The Board has overall responsibility for the management of the business and affairs of the Group and the Company, establishes Group strategy and is ultimately accountable for Board and Committee attendance financial and operational performance.
Board Audit Nom Rem Risk The Risk Committee provides oversight and advice to the Total meetings held 14 7 3 6 4 Board on current and potential future risk exposures and risk strategy of the Group.
It reviews the Groups performance on Mike Fairey 10 2 4 risk appetite and oversees the effectiveness of the Group Risk Gary Hoffman 14 1 Management Framework.
It also ensures that responsibility Richard Hoskins 14 for managing and monitoring risk in each of the regulated 1 subsidiaries has been effectively delegated to the respective Herman Bosman 8 boards of directors.
Alison Burns 14 6 4 The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its Thomas Colraine 14 7 3 6 responsibilities for the integrity and disclosure of the financial Ian Cormack 12 6 2 affairs of the Group.
It ensures that the Company complies Malcolm Le May 11 5 2 with accounting policies and financial reporting obligations Pierre Lefvre 14 7 4 as well as monitoring the system of internal controls and the Groups processes for internal and external audit.
Sumit Rajpal 8 2 5 Teresa Robson- 14 5 4 The Nomination Committee assists the Board in the Capps selection and appointment of Directors in line with Group 2 Selina Sagayam 4 requirements.
It reviews the structure, size and composition 3 of Group Boards and membership and Chairmanship of Richard Brewster 9 1 1 Committees.
It also reviews succession planning at Board Edward 4 2 and Senior Executive management levels.
4 Fitzmaurice Michele 3 The Remuneration Committee assists the Board in, and has 4 Titi-Cappelli oversight of, the Groups policy on remuneration and makes recommendations to the Board on the remuneration of 1 Herman Bosman was appointed as a Director on 14 March 2017.
Executive Directors and Senior Executive management 2 Selina Sagayam was appointed as a Director on 14 August 2017. in the Company, HISL and AICL.
3 R ichard Brewster was appointed to the Remuneration Committee uponthe resignation of Edward Fitzmaurice.
Richard Brewster resigned as aDirector andmember of the Remuneration Committee on 14 August2017.
4 E dward Fitzmaurice and Michele Titi-Cappelli resigned as Directors and their Committee memberships on 14 March 2017.
Annual Report 2017 Hastings Group Holdings plc 66 | Corporate governance Board activity in 2017 At each meeting the Board received updates from the Chief Executive Officer, theChief Financial Officer and from the respective Chairmen following meetings ofBoard Committees.
A schedule of Board activity for the year is provided below.
Board activity in 2017 Matter reserved Responsibility Strategy Approved the Three Year Plan for 2018 2020 Received updates on performance and operational matters from subsidiary Boards Reviewed monthly operational performance of the Group Received briefings from external advisers on potential M&A and other market opportunities Held a Strategy Day to review the Groups operations and strategy Approved revised strategy performance targets Reviewed the Groups operational and financial performance for the financial year ended 2016 Approved objectives for the Company and Chief Executive Officer for 2017 Received regular updates on the performance and implementation of the Guidewire system Reviewed the Groups digital strategy Structure Reviewed and approved recommendations from the Remuneration Committee in relation to appointments of, and changes to, subsidiary Senior Executive management and Capital Approved the amendment and extension of the Groups financing facility Financial Reporting Approved the Annual Report, Preliminary Statement and Analysts Presentation for the financial year ended 31 December 2016 upon the recommendation of the Audit Committee and Controls Approved the Financial Statements, Preliminary Statement and Analysts Presentation for the financialhalf year ended 30 June 2017 upon the recommendation of the Audit Committee Reviewed and approved Trading Statements for Q1 and Q3 2017 Received quarterly reports on claims reserving outcomes within the Groups insurance company andanupdate on the impact of the change to the Ogden Rate Approved the Groups forecasting and budgeting approach Reviewed and approved final and interim dividends Approved material unbudgeted or operating capital expenditures Approved the Groups Tax Strategy Internal Control and Approved the Groups Statement of Risk Appetite upon recommendation of the RiskCommittee Risk Management Received updates from the Audit and Risk Committees in relation to the effectiveness and robustness of the Groups internal controls and risk management framework Received updates from the Audit Committees in relation to reviews undertaken by the internal Auditor Reviewed the Groups Assurance, Risk and Compliance framework Contracts Approved capital expenditures in excess of 1m Communication Approved resolutions and documentation for, and met with shareholders at, the AGM Approved press and non-routine market announcements Received updates on meetings with investors by the Chairman and Senior Independent Director Received an update on Investor Relations Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 67 Board activity in 2017 Matter reserved Responsibility Board membership Approved the nomination of Selina Sagayam as a Director of the Company upon the and other recommendation of the Nomination Committee appointments Approved the appointment of Herman Bosman as a Director of the Company upon the recommendation of the Nomination Committee Approved the appointment of Richard Brewster as a member of the Remuneration Committee upon the recommendation of the Nomination Committee Received updates from the Nomination Committee on Executive Director and senior executive management succession and talent development plans Considered recommendations from the Remuneration Committee and approved the Companys policy on Board and colleague diversity Approved the appointment of the Chief Financial Officer as a Non-Executive Director to an external companys Board upon the recommendation of the Nomination Committee Considered recommendations from, and provided guidance to, the Nomination Committee in relation to the appointments for Board Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Remuneration Reviewed and approved the Directors Remuneration Report contained in the 2016 Annual Report upon the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee Approved grants under the Long-Term Incentive Plan for 2017 upon the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee Approved a new Long-Term Incentive Plan, the Capital Appreciation Plan CAP, and approved the establishment of a new Employee Benefit Trust to administer and satisfy awards under the CAP Delegation of Authority Received updates on Board Committee activities Governance Reviewed and approved the Board Schedule of Matters Reserved and confirmed the Schedule had been adhered to during 2017 Reviewed and approved the Terms of Reference of the Board Committees Undertook a formal evaluation of the Board and its Committees and agreed improvement plans Determined the independence of the Non-Executive Directors upon the recommendation of the Nomination Committee Reviewed the Companys arrangements for, and received updates on, current corporate governance developments Approved the Board and Committee meeting calendar for 2018 and 2019 Policies Approved the Groups Statement on Modern Slavery Approved the Groups Tax Strategy and Policy Other Approval of the overall level of Directors and Officers Liability insurance and indemnification of Directors Ensured the Company and the Group complied with the terms of any relationship agreements with shareholders Received a report on corporate responsibility activities within the Group Reviewed the outcome of the Group colleague engagement survey for 2017 Annual Report 2017 Hastings Group Holdings plc 68 | Corporate governance Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code The Company is subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016.
The Company is subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 the Code and the assessment of its compliance with the Code is set out below.
The Board confirms that it fully complied with the Code as at 31 December 2017.
Code Principles Reference Every company should be headed by an effective board which is collectively A.
Leadership Discover more responsible for the long-term success of the company 60 67 There should be a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the 71 84 company between the running of the board and the executive responsibility for the running of the companys business.
No one individual should have unfettered powers ofdecision The chairman is responsible for leadership of the board and ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of its role As part of their role as members of a unitary board, non-executive directors should constructively challenge and help develop proposals on strategy B.
Effectiveness The board and its committees should have the appropriate balance of skills, Discover more experience, independence and knowledge of the company to enable them 60 67 to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively 69 There should be a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the 76 79 appointment of new directors to the board All directors should be able to allocate sufficient time to the company to discharge their responsibilities effectively All directors should receive an induction on joining the board and should regularly update and refresh their skills and knowledge The board should be supplied in a timely manner with information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties The board should undertake a formal and rigorous annual evaluationof its own performance and that of its committees andindividual directors All directors should be submitted for re-election at regular intervals, subject to continued satisfactory performance The board should present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment C. Accountability Discover more of the companys position and prospects 2 50 The board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the 71 75 principal risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
The board should maintain sound risk management and internal control systems The board should establish formal and transparent arrangements for considering how they should apply the corporate reporting, risk management and internal control principles, and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the companys auditors Executive directors remuneration should be designed to promote the D. Remuneration Discover more long-term success of the company.
Performance-related elements should 83 99 be transparent, stretching and rigorously applied There should be a formal and transparent procedure for developing policy on executive remuneration and for fixing the remuneration packages of individual directors.
No director should be involved in deciding his or her own remuneration There should be a dialogue with shareholders based on the mutual E. Relations with Discover more understanding of objectives.
The board as a whole has responsibility shareholders 69 70 for ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders takes place The board should use general meetings to communicate with investors and to encourage their participation Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 69 The results of the votes on the resolutions, including the Directors conflicts of interest number of votes for and against each resolution and the During the year no Director had any related party transactions number of shares for which the vote was directed to be or any beneficial interest in any contract significant to the withheld, will be provided at the meeting, published on the Companys business, other than a contract of employment or Companys website and publicly available by means of formal letter of appointment.
The Company has procedures in place announcement.
Individual Directors offer themselves for for managing conflicts of interest.
At the start of each Board election or re-election at each AGM.
meeting each Director reviews and confirms his her other directorships and advisory roles or trusteeships held.
Should The AGM for 2018 will be held at 11am on 24 May 2018 at a Director become aware that they, or their connected parties, Merchant Taylors Hall, 30 Threadneedle Street, London have an interest in an existing or proposed transaction with EC2R 8JB.
The Company confirms that it will send the Notice the Company, they are required to notify the Board in writing of AGM and related documentation to shareholders at or at a Board meeting.
The Companys Articles of Association least 20 working days before the meeting, either by post, to permit the Board to authorise potential conflicts of interest those shareholders who prefer a paper copy, or by email to and impose any limits on a Directors participation in Board those shareholders who have agreed that the Company can decision making relating to that conflict.
This process operated communicate with them electronically.
The Notice of AGM successfully for the year under review.
and the Proxy form are available from the Investors section on the Companys website www.
A whistle blowing policy is in force across the Group to enable colleagues to bring to the attention of any Director serious Company website matters of misconduct which they believe would damage the Shareholders and other interested parties can access performance or reputation of the Group.
furtherinformation about the Company at www.
Annual General Meeting AGM The Company welcomes the interaction with shareholders at its AGM and the Chairman of the Board and each of its Committees will be available at the AGM.
Shareholders are entitled to vote on all resolutions put to the AGM and votes cast will be counted, whether in person or by proxy, by means of a poll on every resolution in the Notice of AGM.
Annual Report 2017 Hastings Group Holdings plc 70 | Corporate governance Relations with shareholders During 2017, discussions with investors were focused on the Stakeholder engagement continued execution of our strategy and growth trajectory, Investor engagement and updated market guidance on performance through to The Board is committed to promoting effective channels of 2019, which was provided with our 2016 full year results.
communication with our shareholders and upholding good corporate governance as a means of building stronger and Investor meetings with the Chairman and Senior Independent more engaged relationships with them.
Our comprehensive Director which focused on corporate governance also took Investor Relations engagement with the market helps us place during the year, and we held an in-person presentation to understand investor views about Hastings, which are of our 2016 full year results in March 2017, and our 2017 half communicated regularly to the Board.
A webcast of each was made available to replay on our website shortly thereafter.
Institutional engagement In 2017, our Investor Relations engagement with institutional The Investor Relations section of our website is an important investors took place throughout the year, both following our communication channel that enables the effective distribution half yearly results as well as outside of the reporting cycle.
of information to the market in a clear and consistent manner.
This allowed the opportunity for existing and potentially new investors to engage with Hastings regularly, promoting Our AGM dialogue on longer-term strategic developments as well as The Board and the senior executive team continue to consider onthe recent financial performance of the Group.
our AGM as a key date in the diary.
The AGM provides us with our main opportunity to engage with shareholders, The Directors, in conjunction with the senior executive team particularly our private shareholders, on the key issues facing and Investor Relations, participated in various forms of the Group and any questions they may have.
The Directors, engagement, including investor meetings and conferences including the Board Chairman, were available for informal across many geographic locations, reflecting the increasingly discussion either before or after the meeting.
diverse nature of our institutional ownership.
The Senior Executive team also presented to investors, primarily through hosting site visits at our head office in Bexhill, which promotes greater awareness and understanding of our business and gives institutional investors an invaluable insight into what makes Hastingsdifferent.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017
