Corporate Governance report continued The UK Corporate Governance Code requires that at least Nomination half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise nonexecutive directors determined by the Board to be independent.
The Board comprises eight Directors, including the Independent Committee report Non-Executive Chairman, the Senior Independent Director, two Independent Non-Executive Directors, two Executive Directors and two Non-Executive Directors.
The Company regards this as an appropriate Board structure.
However, the Company intends Manfred Wennemer to appoint additional independent Non-Executive Directors within Nomination Committee Chairman a reasonable period of time to comply with the requirements of the Corporate Governance Code.
Diversity The Board acknowledges that diversity extends beyond the boardroom and supports management efforts to build a diverse organisation.
The Company believes in promoting diversity at all levels of the organisation.
28% of TI Fluid Systems employees are women.
At present 14% of our senior management are women.
However, we currently do not have any female directors on the Board.
In the coming year, when reviewing the composition of the Board, we will endeavour to achieve appropriate levels of diversity, while at the same time ensuring appointments are made on merit and there is an Dear Shareholder, appropriate balance of skills and experience within the Board.
The Nomination Committee was formed prior to the listing of TI Fluid System plc shares to the London Stock Exchange Key issues reviewed by the Committee in the year on 25 October 2017.
In the period since the year ended 31 December 2017 the Nomination Committee has met and considered This is TI Fluid Systems first year in public life and consequently the following issues: there has been considerable focus on establishing a robust Review the balance of skills, knowledge, experience Board with the necessary mix of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity on the Board and diversity to drive the strategic objectives of the business.
Establishing an induction programme for Non-Executive The Nomination Committee is responsible for leading this Directors process and making recommendations to the Board.
Planning for Board evaluation and review of succession planning The Nomination Committee will also lead the process of Board Review of the skills and independence of each of the Evaluation which will commence in 2018, our first full year as Non-Executive Directors and recommendation that each a public company.
of them be re-elected at the Companys first Annual General Meeting on 17 May 2018.
Membership of the Nomination Committee and attendance during the year Action plan for 2018 The Nomination Committee comprises the Chairman, the 2018 will be TI Fluid Systems first full year as a public company.
Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director, Neil Carson, It is intended the Nomination Committee will meet twice a year.
and the Non-Executive Director, Paul Edgerley.
The Board Below are some of the issues that the Nomination Committee considers the majority of the members of the Nomination plan to consider as part of an Action Plan for the year: Committee to be independent.
Undertake a Board performance evaluation and look to implement any recommended changes The Terms of Reference of the Nomination Committee Review development and induction programmes are available to view at for Board members http: investors.
com media Files T TiautomotiveContinue to review succession planning for the Board and IR documents .
pdf key roles across the business and identification of a future talent pipeline in the business The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-Executive Appoint additional independent Non-Executive Directors Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered in order to be compliant with the Code.
office during normal business hours and at the Annual General Meeting for 15 minutes prior to the meeting and during the meeting.
Manfred Wennemer Recruitment process Nomination Committee Chairman In preparation for the IPO and prior to the appointment of 29 March 2018 a Nomination Committee, the Board undertook a thorough process, with the assistance of advisers, to identify appropriate Non-Executive Directors with the correct balance of skills, knowledge and experience to be relevant to the Group and to drive the Company forward and the process included candidates meeting ongoing Directors prior to the recommendation for appointment to the Board.
TI Fluid Systems plc 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2017
