Corporate Governance Report Rivaz, Regine Stachelhaus and Philip Yea are the Board.
They are available for considered by the Board to be independent inspection on the Companys website at LEADERSHIP in their character and judgement.
There is no dominant individual or group In summary, the Chairmans role is to lead and of individuals on the Board influencing its manage the Board, and to help facilitate the The role of the Board decision-making ability and the Board is Boards discussion of the Groups strategy.
The The Board is responsible for the Groups comfortable that each Director makes a Chairman actively encourages contributions management and performance, and for valuable contribution to the Board.
from all Directors and is responsible for providing effective leadership to it.
There is ensuring constructive interaction between the a schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board, Appointments to, and development of, individual members of the Board.
The Chairman which includes considering and approving, the Board is also responsible for setting the Boards amongst other things, acquisitions, major The Nomination Committee leads the process agenda and ensuring that sufficient time is capital expenditure, Group strategy and for Board appointments.
Further detail on the available for discussion of all agenda items budgets, the Groups Consolidated Financial Committees role, membership and work during and, in particular, strategic issues.
The CEO is Statements and its dividend policy.
This the year is set out on page 64. responsible for the day-to-day management schedule is reviewed annually as a standing of the Groups operations and for the proper Board agenda item and it was updated during The Non-Executive Directors have all been execution of strategy, as set by the Board.
It can be found on our website at appointed for three-year terms.
and conditions of appointment of the Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Directors are available for Philip Yea is the Senior Independent Director.
Day-to-day management and operational He acts as a sounding board for the Chairman activities are delegated to an authorised Group inspection at the Companys registered office and at each AGM.
The Executive Directors are and, where necessary, as an intermediary Executive Committee including, amongst between the Chairman and other Directors.
others, the Executive Directors, Group Chief appointed on a rolling 12-month term.
The terms and conditions of appointment of all He is available to take representations from Operating Officer and Group Chief Commercial shareholders who do not want to raise their Officer.
Other Board-level matters are Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office and at each AGM.
Philip also leads delegated to the Nomination, Audit and the annual appraisal of the Chairmans Remuneration Committees, details of which Whilst the Companys Articles of Association performance, in consultation with the other can be found on pages 64, 68 and 74 Non-Executive Directors and without the respectively.
The Terms of Reference for each require a Director to be subject to election at the first AGM following his or her appointment Chairman being present.
The feedback from Committee can be obtained from our website, this appraisal is discussed at a subsequent investors.
com, or from the and thereafter every third year, the Board has decided that, in accordance with the Code, all Board meeting.
The composition of each Committee as at Directors should be subject to election or re-election at the Companys next AGM on The Boards key activities during the year 31 December 2017 appears on pages 64, 68 The Board held eight scheduled meetings and 80, as do reports from the Chairman 18 May 2018.
All Directors will then be subject to election or re-election at each AGM thereafter.
during the year, to deal with the standing of each Committee setting out the main items on its agenda, including reviewing and responsibilities of their respective Committee If the shareholders do not elect or re-elect a Director, or a Director is retired from office discussing any information provided to it by and its main activities during the year.
The Board views this as under the Articles, the appointment terminates immediately and without compensation.
sufficient to discharge its duties effectively.
The Board plays a key role in discussing, The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors reviewing and approving the Groups strategic Upon joining the Board, all Directors receive also met twice during the year, without the objectives.
By reviewing the business plans and Executive Directors being present.
budgets submitted by the Executive Directors a comprehensive induction programme organised by the Company Secretary, tailored and senior Management, it ensures that In 2017, the Board considered: adequate resources are in place to meet these to their specific background and requirements.
New Directors receive an induction pack which Terms of Reference for each of its aims.
The Board reviews the performance of Committees: the Executive Directors and Group Executive contains information on the Groups business, its structure and operations, Board procedures, Annual and Interim Reports: Management against targets relating to these Reports from the Committee Chairmen on agreed objectives, including a monthly review corporate governance matters and details regarding Directors duties and responsibilities.
the key activities of the Board Committees: of the financial performance of each of the The annual budget and three-year plan: Groups Country Units.
All new Directors are introduced to the Groups Executive Management team.
New Directors are The Viability Statement: Acquisition and disposal opportunities: The Composition of the Board required to take advantage of opportunities to meet major shareholders.
Significant new Managed Services bids: The membership of the Board as at Managements strategic planning and 31 December 2017 is set out on pages 60 to 61.
The Chairman regularly liaises with each execution: On that date, the Board included seven The performance of the Group and Non-Executive Directors and two Executive Director to discuss and agree their training and development needs.
The Board is confident Management: and Directors.
The Directors attendance at Board Succession planning.
and Committee meetings is set out on pages that all of its members have the knowledge, ability and experience to perform the functions 60, 61, 64, 68 and 80.
Insurance and indemnities required of a Director of a listed company.
The Company arranges insurance cover in The Board has considered the independence of respect of legal action against the Directors each Director, taking into account the guidance Division of responsibilities The roles of the Chairman and Chief and, to the extent allowed by legislation, has provided by the Code.
The Chairman, Greg Lock, issued an indemnity to each Director against was considered by the Board to meet the Executive Officer CEO are separate and their responsibilities are clearly set out in claims brought by third parties.
independence criteria set out in the Code on appointment, and each of Minnow Powell, Ros writing, reviewed annually and agreed by 62 GOVERNANCE REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Where Directors have concerns which cannot The Board is required by the Code to conduct be resolved, whether about the running of the an externally facilitated evaluation every three EFFECTIVENESS Company or a proposed action, their concerns years.
This was last carried out between will be recorded in the Board minutes.
The Board resignation, a Non-Executive Director would be anticipates that its next externally facilitated required to provide a written statement to the evaluation will be conducted over the period Time commitment Chairman, for circulation to the Board, if they December 2019 to January 2020.
The Non-Executive Directors letters of had any such concerns.
appointment set out the expected time The Senior Independent Director, Philip Yea, commitment required to execute their duties.
The Company Secretary advises the Board reviewed the Chairmans performance with Although the nature of the roles makes it on all corporate governance matters and input from the other Non-Executive Directors, difficult to be specific about the maximum time advises the Chairman to ensure that all Board and the feedback was discussed formally at commitment, a commitment of up to two days procedures are followed.
All Directors have the following Board meeting.
per month is expected, including attendance at access to the advice and services of the and preparations for regular Board meetings.
The appointment or In certain circumstances, for instance when removal of the Company Secretary requires the Company is engaged in acquisitions, Board approval.
restructuring or other corporate transactions, there may be additional Board meetings and Evaluation Non-Executive Directors are expected to attend The Board evaluates its effectiveness each these where possible.
year, as required by the Code.
Between December 2017 and January 2018, the There has been no increase in the Chairmans Company Secretary carried out an internal significant external commitments during the evaluation of the Board and each of its year, which would affect the time he has to Committees.
The review looked at key areas fulfil his role.
In light of the internal Board of responsibility including strategy, decision evaluation completed for 2017, the Board is making, composition and dynamics, satisfied that each Director is able to allocate leadership, talent development and succession sufficient time to the Company to discharge planning.
The Board also reviewed the balance his or her responsibilities effectively.
Provided the time commitment does not The review took the form of a series of tailored conflict with the Directors duties to the online questionnaires, covering the Board and Company, the Board may authorise the each Committee.
The Chairmen of the Board Executive Directors to take Non-Executive and the Committees were able to review and positions in other companies and shape both the questionnaires and the list of organisations, as this should broaden their non-Board respondents, to make best use of experience.
The Board would not agree to a the process.
The questionnaire responses were full-time Executive Director taking on more collated and analysed before inclusion in a than one Non-Executive Directorship of a FTSE report to the Board.
In February 2018, the 100 company or the Chairmanship of such a Company Secretary presented this report to company.
For the avoidance of doubt, no such the Board and led a discussion of the key positions have been taken by the Executive findings and the implications for the Boards Directors.
MJ Norris is a Director of the private development.
company Triage Services Limited and has a material interest in it.
The evaluation found there to be open and constructive dialogue between Board Information and support members and a sound and challenging All Directors receive appropriate relationship between Non-Executive and documentation in advance of each of Board Executive Directors.
The Board is satisfied that and Committee meeting.
This includes detailed there is a clearly articulated strategy and a briefings on all matters, to enable Directors to good process for managing risk.
Despite the discharge their duties effectively.
Individual encouragingly high scores, the Directors Directors can obtain independent professional concluded that improvements could be made advice, at the Companys expense, where they in one key area.
The Board addressed the believe it is necessary to discharge their need to enhance their understanding of the responsibilities.
The Company Secretary Companys business model and strategy so ensures that the Board Committees are that they are better able to monitor and provided with sufficient resources to contribute to the strategic direction of the undertake their duties.
An action plan has therefore been drawn up, against which progress will be monitored regularly.
63 Corporate Governance Report continued Attendance Current members Role record NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Non-Executive Chairman 1.
Greg Lock Chairman of the Board 2 2 2.
Philip Yea Non-Executive Director 2 2 Membership and attendance The Committees full terms of reference The members of the Nomination Committee are are available on the Companys website at the independent Non-Executive Directors and investors.
the Chairman of the Board.
Further detail on the membership of the Committee and attendance Main activities of the Committee in 2017 at its meetings can be found directly above.
The Nomination Committee met on two However, the Committee seeks input from all occasions during 2017 and its work included the Directors and it involves the Board when the following: performing its key responsibilities.
Board appointment The Company Secretary is the secretary to the Immediately following the 2017 AGM, the Board Committee.
initiated a process to identify a new Chairman to succeed Greg Lock, who would have served Responsibilities of the Nomination Committee 10 years by the time of the 2018 AGM.
The Board The key responsibilities of the Nomination felt it was important to identify a successor Committee are to assist the Board with: who could lead the Board in the coming years, the search and selection process for the when addressing Executive Director appointment of both Executive and succession would be increasingly important.
Non-Executive Directors, and ensuring that any such process is formal and transparent: No current Directors asked to be considered ensuring that the Board and its Committees for the role.
A Special Nomination Committee have the right balance of skills, knowledge was tasked with leading the search process, and experience to enable each to discharge comprising three independent Non-Executive its duties and responsibilities effectively: Directors including the Senior Independent reviewing whether to recommend a Director Director.
After a competitive process, Spencer for re-election at the Companys AGM: Stuart was appointed to assist in the reviewing whether each Director has preparation of the brief.
Spencer Stuart is a sufficient time to discharge his her duty global leader in assessment, recruitment and to the Company and its shareholders: succession planning for boards of directors succession planning for the Board and and had no connection with the Company other Senior Executives of the Group: and than providing this type of service.
reviewing the membership of the Boards Committees.
Notwithstanding the quality of the process and an agreed specification, in the final stages of the search, irreconcilable differences emerged concerning the minimum criteria for a successful candidate.
Consequently, the Board has asked the existing Chairman to continue in office, which he has agreed to do.
Greg Lock Chairman of the Nomination Committee 64 GOVERNANCE REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 As a result of the process and wider candidate Diversity search, conducted by Spencer Stuart, Peter The Committee, and the Board as a whole, Ryan was identified as a candidate for continues to recognise the benefits that appointment as an independent Non-Executive diverse skills, experience and points of view Director, due to his deep sector experience.
can bring to an organisation, and how diversity Prior to formally recommending his may assist the decision-making ability of the appointment to the Board, the Committee Board, thereby increasing its effectiveness.
considered and agreed that he would be However, appointments to the Board will independent in character and judgement, as remain primarily based on merit, and it has defined under provision B1.1 of the UK Corporate not therefore set any measurable targets Governance Code.
Peter was also appointed as in this area.
As at 31 December 2017, the a member of the Companys Remuneration, Computacenter Board had two female Nomination and Audit Committees all with Non-Executive Directors, Ros Rivaz and Regine effect from 13 February 2018.
Stachelhaus, representing 22.2 per cent of the total Board membership.
Succession planning The Committee focuses on effective succession planning to ensure the future Greg Lock prosperity of the Company, and this features Chairman of the Nomination Committee as one of the Companys key risks within the 13 March 2018 Principal Risks disclosed on pages 30 to 35 of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Developing future leaders and successor candidates is central to our strategy of creating and maintaining a culture that builds customer relationships.
The Committee, whilst recognising that internal talent development is primarily the responsibility of Management, has reviewed Managements pipeline of executive talent, both for emergency use and its long-term potential.
Election and re-election of Directors The Committee reviewed in detail the performance of the Directors who are standing for election or re-election at the Companys 2018 AGM.
The results of the Companys most recent Board evaluation process were considered, alongside the contribution made by each individual, with the exercise being particularly rigorous in respect of NonExecutive Directors who have been in their role for six years or longer.
Following this review, with the exception of Philip Yea who will not be standing for re-election, the Committee recommended that each Director on the Board as at 31 December 2017 be put forward for re-election by the Companys shareholders at the 2018 AGM.
Additionally, it is proposed to put forward Peter Ryan for election at the 2018 AGM.
65 Corporate Governance Report continued As a sales-led and customer-focused The Group Risk Committee considers each ACCOUNTABILITY organisation, effective risk management principal risk in-depth at least once a year, processes are vital to the Groups continued by receiving reports from the risk owner.
Therefore, the Board continues to The Group Risk Committees deliberations, apply a robust risk management and along with the current status of each Financial and business reporting governance model to provide assurance principal risk, are reported to the Audit The Directors are required to include the over the principal risks that might affect Committee and the Board.
following in this report under the Code.
the achievement of the Groups strategic The principal risk list is reviewed once a year Please see: objectives.
and leverages a bottom-up annual page 55 for the Boards statement on the operational risk review, where operational Annual Report and Accounts being fair, These strategic objectives are focused on management identify their everyday risks.
balanced and understandable and providing improving the services business and The Group Compliance Steering Committee, the information necessary for shareholders maintaining the longevity of the Groups which was added to the governance model to assess the Groups position and customer relationships, which in turn rely during 2016, assesses observance with performance, business model and strategy: heavily on the contribution made by the Groups laws and regulations, and reports to the page 54 for the statement on the status customer-facing staff and those involved in Group Risk Committee.
of the Company and the Group as a going innovation and design.
The Groups risk The bid governance process reviews bids or concern: management approach recognises this, major changes to existing contracts, which the Strategic Report from the inside front ensuring that risks are identified and mitigated aligns with the Groups risk appetite and risk cover to page 55 for an explanation of the at the appropriate level, leaving individuals management process.
Groups business model and the strategy empowered to make their vital contributions.
for delivering the Groups objectives: and There have been several enhancements to the the confirmation that the Directors have The model and process comply fully with the UK risk framework and processes over the last carried out a robust assessment of the Corporate Governance Code and the Financial year including: principal risks facing the Group, including Reporting Council Guidance on Risk Improvements in the governance of those that would threaten its business Management, Internal Control and Related contracts that were formulated during 2017 model, future performance, solvency or Financial and Business Reporting.
will be implemented during 2018. liquidity, is below.
High-level and emerging risks have been The Groups model uses the well-defined Three elevated to standing agenda items for the Risk management Lines of Defence methodology: Group Risk Committee.
This includes cyber The Board has carried out a robust assessment The First Line of Defence consists of risk, the risk surrounding the UKs departure of the principal risks facing the Group, including operational management, who own the from the EU and compliance with the those that threaten its business model, future risks and apply the internal controls General Data Protection Regulation GDPR, performance, solvency or liquidity.
Please necessary for managing risks day-to-day.
which the Group has recognised as a new refer to pages 30 to 35 for further information The Second Line of Defence offers guidance risk this year.
A committee has been formed on the Groups principal risks and uncertainties, and direction and provides oversight and to consider risks surrounding departure including how they are being managed and challenge at the appropriate level.
Internal from the EU more fully.
compliance and assurance functions fall Cyber risk reporting has been improved.
The primary responsibility for identifying The Third Line of Defence, provided by Group Internal control and managing the risks faced by the Group Internal Audit, gives an independent view of The Board has overall responsibility for lies with Executive and senior Management.
the effectiveness of the risk management maintaining and reviewing the Groups systems A comprehensive risk management programme and internal control processes.
It reports of internal control, ensuring that the controls has been developed and is monitored by the to the Audit Committee to ensure are robust and enable risks to be appropriately Group Risk Committee, whose members include independence from Management.
The Groups systems senior operational managers from across the and controls are designed to manage risks, Group, the Group Finance Director and the The Board reviews the operating effectiveness safeguard the Groups assets and ensure Group Head of Internal Audit and Risk.
The Group of the risk management model by directing the information used in the business and for Chief Operating Officer chairs the Committee.
reinforcement of the processes that underpin publication is reliable.
This system of control is it and by making sure it is embedded across all designed to reduce the risk of failure to achieve The Board sets the Groups risk appetite and, levels of the organisation.
Examples of this business objectives to a level consistent with through the Audit Committee, reviews the include: the Boards risk appetite, rather than eliminate operation and effectiveness of the Groups risk The Schedule of Matters Reserved for the that risk, and can provide reasonable, but not management activities.
The Board receives Board ensures that the Directors properly absolute, assurance against material regular reports from the Group Risk Committee address all significant factors affecting misstatement or loss.
and periodically reviews the strategic risks Group strategy, structure, financing and faced by the Group and its key mitigation plans.
The Board conducts an annual review of the The Board and Executive Committee effectiveness of the systems of internal Through a programme of assessment, consider the principal risks, which are the control, including financial, operational and appropriate measures and systems of control barriers to achieving the Boards strategic compliance controls and risk management are maintained and, where necessary, objectives.
In the Boards opinion, the Group developed and implemented.
Detailed business The Group Risk Committee, consisting of the has complied with the Codes internal control interruption contingency plans are in place for Executive Directors, members of the Group requirements throughout the year.
Where all key sites and these are regularly tested, in Executive Committee and senior managers material weaknesses or opportunities for accordance with an agreed schedule.
from across the Group, challenges the improvement are identified, changes are effectiveness of the mitigations of the implemented and monitored.
66 GOVERNANCE REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 All systems of internal control are designed externally in a timely manner.
Management to continuously identify, evaluate and manage reviews the Consolidated Financial Statements, significant risks faced by the Group.
The key to ensure that the Groups financial position elements of the Groups controls are and results are appropriately reflected.
Audit Committee reviews all financial information published by the Group.
Responsibilities and authority structure As discussed above, the Board has overall Centralised treasury function responsibility for making strategic decisions.
The Board has established and regularly There is a written schedule of Matters Reserved reviews key treasury policies, which cover for the Board.
matters such as counterparty exposure, borrowing arrangements and foreign exchange The Group Executive Committee meets formally exposure management.
The Group Treasury on a quarterly basis and, more informally, on Function manages liquidity and borrowing a fortnightly basis, to discuss day-to-day facilities for customer specific requirements, operational matters.
With the Group Operating ongoing capital expenditure and working Model now having been implemented across all capital.
The Group Treasury Function reports of the Groups main operating entities, ultimate to the Group Finance Director, with regular authority and responsibility for operational reporting to the Audit Committee.
governance sits at Group level.
The Group Treasury Committee enhances The Group operates defined authorisation and Management oversight.
It is responsible for the approval processes throughout its operations.
ongoing review of treasury policy and strategy, Access controls continue to improve, where and for recommending any policy changes for processes have been automated to secure Board approval.
The Committee approves, on data.
Management information systems have an ad hoc basis, any Treasury activities which been developed to identify risks and to enable are not covered by existing policies or which assessment of the effectiveness of the are Matters Reserved for the Board, and also systems of internal control.
Accountability monitors hedging activities for effectiveness.
is reinforced, and further scrutiny of costs The Committee is chaired by the Group Finance and revenues encouraged, by the linking of Director and also comprises the Group Financial staff incentives to customer satisfaction Controller, the Group Head of Financial Reporting and profitability.
and the Group Head of Tax and Treasury.
Proposals for capital expenditure are Quality and integrity of staff properly reviewed and authorised, based on The Groups rigorous recruitment procedures the Groups procedures and documented ensure that new employees are of a suitable authority levels.
The cases for all investment calibre.
Management continuously monitors projects are reviewed and approved at training requirements and ongoing appraisals divisional level.
Major investment projects are ensure that required standards are maintained subject to Board approval, and Board input across the Group.
Resource requirements are and approval is required for all merger and identified by managers and reviewed by senior acquisition proposals.
Planning and reporting processes Compliance policies Each year, senior Management prepares The Group has a number of compliance policies, or updates the three-year strategic plan, including those relating to Business Ethics and which is then reviewed by the Board.
Any breach of comprehensive annual budgeting process is these policies by an employee is a disciplinary subject to Board approval.
Performance is matter and is dealt with accordingly.
The monitored through a rigorous and detailed internal control regime is supported by a financial and management reporting system, whistleblowing function, which is now operated through which monthly results are reviewed by an independent third party.
against budgets, agreed targets and, where appropriate, data for past periods.
The results The Compliance Steering Committee and explanations for variances are regularly supervises compliance-related activity and reported to the Board and appropriate action issues across the Group and supports the is taken where variances arise.
Group Risk Committee in that regard.
Management and specialists within the Finance Audit Committee and the auditor Department are responsible for ensuring that For further information on the Companys the Group maintains appropriate financial compliance with the Code provisions relating records and processes, which ensure that to the Audit Committee, Group auditor and financial information is relevant, reliable, Internal Audit, please refer to the Audit in accordance with applicable laws and Committee report on pages 68 to 73. regulations, and distributed internally and 67
