Corporate Governance Report continued Attendance Current members Role record AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT 1.
Minnow Powell Chairman Non-Executive Director 4 4 2.
Philip Yea Non-Executive Director 4 4 Composition of the Committee Meetings of the Committee As at 31 December 2017, the Audit Committee The Committee met four times during 2017. comprised the four independent Non-Executive Meetings are attended routinely by the Directors.
All members are considered to be Chairman of the Board, Group Finance Director, appropriately qualified and experienced to Group Head of Financial Reporting, the Group fulfil their role and allow the Committee to Head of Internal Audit & Risk Management and perform its duties effectively.
For the purposes the external auditor.
The meetings cover a of Code provision C. 3.1, two members of the standing list of agenda items, which is based Committee, Minnow Powell and Philip Yea, are on the Committees Terms of Reference, and considered to have recent and relevant consider additional matters when I deem it financial experience.
The Committee notes the necessary, as Chairman of the Committee.
compositional requirements of the 2016 Code Meetings are also attended by the Group and confirms that, after having considered the Company Secretary, who acts as Secretary requirements against feedback provided to the Committee.
through the Board and Committee effectiveness review, the Committee as a whole has I am satisfied that the flow of supporting competence relevant to the sector in which the information to the Committee is appropriate Company operates.
Further details of specific and provided in good time to allow members relevant experience can be found in the sufficient opportunity to review matters due Directors biographies on pages 60 and 61. for consideration at each Committee meeting.
I am also satisfied that meetings were scheduled to allow sufficient time to enable full and informed debate.
In addition to the Committee meetings, I also met privately on occasion with individual members of Management during the year, principally to discuss the risks and challenges faced by the business and, importantly, how these are being addressed.
On two occasions during the year, the Committee met separately with the external auditor and the Group Head of Internal Audit and Risk Management, without Management present.
Minnow Powell Chairman of the Audit Committee 68 GOVERNANCE REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Principal responsibilities of the Committee New revenue recognition standard IFRS 15 The Committee was updated by Management effective 1 January 2018 on a series of consultations held with the senior Immediately following each Committee meeting, I report to the Board on the In March 2017, the Committee received a finance leaders of a number of competitors in presentation on IFRS 15 from PwC, who had the European reseller market.
It was noted Committees activities and how it is discharging its responsibilities as set out in its terms of been selected after a competitive tender, that the other reseller organisations would which informed the disclosure in note 2 to the also be adopting a gross recognition approach reference, which can be found on the Companys website: investors.
Consolidated Financial Statements of the 2016 to the agent principal aspect of revenue Annual Report and Accounts.
recognition on software and direct delivery The Committees main responsibilities during shipments.
The other resellers acknowledged Throughout the year, the Committee monitored that it was a finely balanced judgement, but the year, as set out in the Code, were to: monitor the integrity of the Companys progress towards implementation of the that the value-add nature of the channel forthcoming IFRS 15 standard, as a standing meant that gross recognition was appropriate.
Financial Statements and any formal announcements related to the Companys item at each Committee meeting.
Outside of the Audit Committee meetings, I met financial performance, and to review any significant financial reporting judgements Following the publication of both the 2016 Management, the accounting firm, PwC, assisting Annual Report and Accounts and the 2017 contained therein: with the implementation and the Groups review the effectiveness of internal Interim Report and Accounts, where we external auditor, KPMG LLP, to review progress, highlighted our preliminary analysis of the controls and of the risk management challenge findings and encourage the process.
framework: impact of transition to IFRS 15, further analysis At its December 2017 meeting, the Committee has been performed by Management and review the effectiveness of the Companys reviewed and approved the treatment of each Internal Audit: reviewed by the Committee.
review arrangements by which employees may, in confidence, raise concerns about Managements preliminary assessment was New lease accounting standard IFRS 16 based upon the Companys general contractual possible improprieties relating to financial effective 1 January 2019 or other matters, and ensure that terms and conditions and concluded that there The Committee reviewed the initial impact was a finely balanced judgement which would arrangements are in place for the assessment presented by Management and proportionate and independent result in a change in presentation of our Supply requested a further overview presentation Chain Software revenues and, potentially, investigation of such matters: from the external auditor.
The Committee is review, on an ongoing basis, the Companys certain Resold Service revenues to agency reassured by the steps taken by Management revenue on a net basis compared to the current relationship with its external auditor, to date in preparing for the implementation including monitoring its independence and presentation as gross principal revenue.
and continues to monitor progress with the objectivity and the effectiveness of the IFRS 16 implementation.
The implementation audit process, ensuring that an appropriate Following further evaluation, including detailed has been added to the standing agenda items analysis of how terms and conditions are applied policy is in place concerning any for each Audit Committee meeting in 2018. engagement of the auditor for the provision in practice, the weighting applied to the agent principal indicators and evaluation of emerging of non-audit services to the Company, and New financial instruments standard IFRS 9 making recommendations to the Board in practice, Management concluded that, whilst effective 1 January 2018 this remains a finely balanced judgement, no respect of the appointment, reappointment The Committee requested an update from both and removal of the auditor and the change to the presentation of those revenue the external auditor and Management on streams is required on transition to IFRS 15. remuneration paid to it by the Company: and implementation readiness for IFRS 9.
Whilst the advise the Board, to enable it to report on After review of the analysis, the Committee impact of the standard was not considered to accepted Managements recommendations whether the Annual Report and Accounts, be comparable to that of IFRS 15 and IFRS 16, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and that revenue for these items will continue to the Committee noted several areas of change be presented gross from 1 January 2018. understandable and provide the and directed Management to continue to focus information necessary for shareholders to on these.
The Committee met with PwC, who were in assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
agreement with the revised position and the Current financial reporting standards and treatment as gross revenues.
The Committee judgements Activities of the Committee noted that the Company had, in the past, had to The Committee reviewed the integrity of the remedy a situation where a software customer The Committees activities during the year, Groups Consolidated Financial Statements which are based upon its Terms of Reference, had been having difficulty with purchased and, in doing so, considered the following key licences and looked to the Company to resolve are set out below: judgements made in their preparation.
In the difficulty, as evidence of more commercial reviewing these matters, the Committee also risk than agency revenue implies.
It was further Future financial reporting standards and took account of the view of the external auditor, judgements noted that the Supply Chain business model of KPMG LLP.
the Company, which is to operate flexibly During the year the Committee monitored Managements plans and progress in relation between customers and vendors, supported Acquisition accounting this conclusion.
KPMG LLP confirmed to the to three new accounting standards as set out During the year, the Group acquired cITius AG below.
In reviewing the implications of the new Committee that the gross treatment of in Switzerland and TeamUltra Ltd in the UK.
software and certain resold services was not standards the Committee also took account of The Committee reviewed the acquisition the views of the external auditor, KPMG LLP.
out of line with peers and that KPMG LLP were accounting judgements and noted that there comfortable based on the evidence presented were no differences between the provisional to reach the same conclusion as Management, fair values and the book values at acquisition.
subject to detailed audit testing.
The Committee was satisfied that Management had conducted numerous meetings involving KPMG LLP, the IFRS 15 advisors, PwC, and myself as evidence that Management had followed a lengthy and rigorous process.
69 Corporate Governance Report continued The Committee was satisfied with The Committee remains satisfied with the variances.
The Committee concluded that the 1 Managements assessment that it is highly revenue recognition accounting judgements presentation of adjusted profit gave clarity probable that the maximum contingent but will continue to monitor the performance on performance and had sufficient equal consideration will become payable and of several contracts, in part to ensure that prominence with statutory profit.
accordingly the discounted maximum appropriate responses are formulated to contingent consideration has been included address material lessons from the execution Parent Company investment in subsidiaries in determining the provisional fair value to the of these contracts.
carrying value Group for TeamUltra, and the final fair value The Committee considers annually, or when to the Group for cITius.
Supply Chain revenue recognition and cut-off an indicator of impairment is identified, the procedures carrying value of the investments in The Committee noted the lack of identified Given the level of sales around year end, the subsidiaries held in the Parent Company intangible assets acquired as appropriate, Audit Committee suggested to the auditor that Balance Sheet to the net asset position of the given Managements review and the materiality it should pay particular attention to Supply subsidiary company as at 31 December 2017, of the acquisitions in total.
This is consistent as any subsequent impairment of these Chain revenue cut-off.
with the basis on which the Company decided investments, which are the primary asset on to make these investments, which was to the Parent Company Balance Sheet, may The Committee was pleased to note that no strengthen the Services offerings in both errors were found as a result of the auditors reduce the Companys distributable reserves.
The Committee enquired into whether work in this area.
a contingent consideration was actually Management presented further analysis to the consideration or remuneration and concluded Committee to support the carrying value of the Exceptional and other adjusting items it was consideration, on the basis that The Committee considered the nature and investments in subsidiaries held by the Parent individuals who were selling shareholders due Company, including assessing the cash flow quantum of those items disclosed as the contingent consideration were not required exceptional or as other adjusting items outside forecasts and assumptions of each subsidiary.
1 to remain in employment post-acquisition.
profit before tax in the Groups No impairment of carrying value in the of adjusted 2017 Annual Report and Accounts.
investment in subsidiaries has been identified The initial accounting for the TeamUltra during the year and the Committee remains acquisition has only been provisionally The Committee monitored the progress of the satisfied that the carrying value of each determined at the end of the reporting period Groups two remaining onerous contracts in subsidiary remains appropriate.
and the Committee will further review final Germany, by reviewing the history of the positions close to the anniversary of the provisions originally booked in 2013 and the Judgements and estimates acquisition date.
The accounting of the cITius performance of the contracts.
The Committee The 2016 Annual Report and Accounts were acquisition is now complete and there were no reviewed Managements judgements regarding selected by the Financial Reporting Councils changes to the fair values and the book values the continuing uplift in operational and FRC Corporate Reporting Review team for at acquisition.
financial performance and agreed that as the review as part of their thematic review of contracts have now returned to profitability, judgements and estimates.
Whilst the FRCs Segmental information restatement the remaining provisions for the contracts review only covered the specific disclosures During the year, the Committee reviewed the should be released, for an exceptional gain of relating to their thematic review and provides basis for the revenue reclassification of several 1.4 million.
The Committee was satisfied that no assurance that our Annual Report and key French Managed Services contracts from the release should be classified as exceptional, Accounts are correct in all material respects: the UK to the French Segment and the resultant as the provisions were originally booked as the FRCs role is not to verify the information prior period adjustment.
The Committee was exceptional items and several previous provided but to consider compliance with satisfied that this had no impact on Group releases were also classified as such.
reporting requirements, the Committee is revenue or on Segmental profitability, as the pleased with both the positive response within margins were previously shared on the same The disposal of an investment property in the subsequent letter from the FRC Corporate basis that the revenue now reflects and that Braintree, Essex, was completed on 26 May Reporting Review to the Group and the the change assists users of the accounts to 2017 for 14.5 million.
This property was let to highlighting of the Groups best practice within understand better the underlying performance a former subsidiary of the Group, R. D. Trading the thematic Review Reports findings.
Limited, which was itself sold in February 2015.
Due to the size and non-operational nature of Going concern basis for the Consolidated As the Group grows in both operational and the transaction, the Committee agreed with Financial Statements geographical complexity, Management will Managements view that the 4.3 million gain The Committee provides input to the Boards continue to monitor the relevance of the IAS 8 on disposal, net of disposal costs, was to be assessment of whether it is appropriate for Segments that the Group reports under classed as exceptional.
the Group to adopt the going concern basis in and will, as needed, make appropriate preparing Consolidated Financial Statements, recommendations to the Committee and The Committee also considered the at both the half year and full year.
presentation of adjusted profit in the first so, the Committee considered detailed reviews, half of the Annual Report and Accounts, after based on the Groups financial plans, in relation Professional Services and Managed Services taking account of the European Securities and to the Groups liquidity and solvency, taking into contract accounting Markets Authority Guidelines on Alternative consideration its cash position and committed The Committee continued to focus on Services Performance Measures, which promote the bank facilities.
It considered the Groups contract accounting during the year.
It received usefulness and transparency of such financing requirements in the context of a standing item update at each meeting from measures.
The Committee remains satisfied available committed facilities, including one Management on a number of material contracts with the detailed reconciliation between of 40 million which remained undrawn as at 1 across the Groups major geographies.
These statutory and adjusted measures that the 31 December 2017, and which was contracts were selected due to performance Group has presented since the 2015 Interim subsequently renewed in February 2018 being lower than anticipated at the bid stage of Report, and the level of disclosure which for a value of 60 million, and challenged the contract, or where there were complex explains both the variances between these Managements forecasts concerning trading revenue recognition elements to the contract.
measures and the reasons behind such performance.
The Committee noted the Code 70 GOVERNANCE REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 requirement for the Directors to state whether The Committee received regular updates on Compliance Steering Committee major Group governance initiatives, including The GRC established a Compliance Steering they consider it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting for a period of at the Group Opportunity and In-life Service Committee CSC during 2016.
The CSC meets Management programmes.
quarterly, two weeks before the GRC, and is least 12 months from the date of approval of the Groups 2017 Consolidated Financial chaired by the Group Head of Legal & Having been requested to do so by the Board Contracting.
The Group Human Resources Statements.
Following its considerations, the Committee was satisfied that the going in accordance with Code provision C. 3.4, the Director and the Group Head of Internal Audit & Committee also advised the Board on whether Risk Management make up the rest of the CSC.
concern basis of preparation continues to be appropriate.
The statement and explanation the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable The CSC is responsible for defining relevant from the Directors can be found within the Strategic Report on page 54. and provides the information necessary for areas of law or regulation applicable to the shareholders to assess the Groups position Group, assigning these to members of Viability Statement and performance, business model and Management and identifying levels of strategy.
The Committee sought assurance compliance and associated risk, with the aim The Code requires the Directors to explain in the Annual Report and Accounts how they as to the review procedures performed by of ensuring that these are appropriate for the Group.
Critical areas within the CSCs remit have assessed the prospects of the Group, Management, to support and provide taking into account the Groups current assurance to the Board in making this include anti-bribery and corruption, whistleblowing and data protection.
At the position and principal risks, over what period statement.
These include clear guidance they have done so and why they consider that issued to all contributors to ensure a beginning of the year, Management completed a questionnaire distributed by the CSC in order period to be appropriate.
The Directors are consistent approach and a formal review further required to state whether they have process, to ensure that the Annual Report and to establish ownership and current levels of compliance with laws and regulations within a reasonable expectation that the Group will Accounts are factually correct and include all be able to continue in operation and meet its relevant information.
Following a review, the the Group.
The CSC reported its findings to the GRC during the year and this has formed the liabilities as they fall due over the assessment Committee advised the Board that appropriate period they have chosen, drawing attention procedures had been applied.
basis for further ongoing work to combine various compliance activities across the Group.
to any qualifications or assumptions as necessary.
This requirement is known as Performance of the Committee During 2016, the CSC implemented a Groupa Viability Statement.
No major matters were raised in the internally facilitated annual evaluation of the wide whistleblowing hotline, provided by a third party, to provide a secure and anonymous Following its review of Managements Committees performance.
proposals, the Committee continues to means for employees to make disclosures they would otherwise feel unable to.
The CSC recommend to the Board that it set the period Refer to page 63 for further detail on the of assessment for the Viability Statement at evaluation carried out.
continues to monitor compliance with the Group Ethics policy, which has completed its three years, given the nature of the Groups business model and its strategic time horizon.
The effectiveness of internal controls and of rollout across the Group.
The CSC has assumed responsibility for implementing the General The Committee and Board also reviewed the risk management framework Managements financial forecasts for the On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee is Data Protection Regulation and has presented updates on progress to the Audit Committee.
three-year period, and challenged the process responsible for overseeing the effectiveness of undertaken and assumptions made by the the Groups systems of internal control and the Whistleblowing Groups Risk Committee, in assessing how risk management framework.
those forecasts would be affected by a The Committee confirms that it is satisfied that, as at the date of this report, realistic concurrence of the Groups principal The Group Risk Committee GRC meets on a risks.
As a result, the Committee recommended quarterly basis to review the key risks facing arrangements are in place i to ensure that staff are able, in confidence, to raise concerns to the Directors that they could make the the business.
These are identified and their statement required for the assessment period likelihood and impact are assessed within the about possible improprieties in financial and other matters, and ii for the proportionate without qualification.
The statement and Groups Heat Risk Map.
They are then reviewed explanation from the Directors can be found in conjunction with accompanying risk and independent investigation of such concerns, including appropriate follow-up within the Strategic Report on pages 54 and 55. mitigation plans.
The GRC minutes are circulated to the Audit Committee for review, action.
During the year, no incidents were reported to the Committee.
Other significant activity with any matters of note highlighted and During the year, the Committee reviewed its explained to the Committee by the GRC The effectiveness of the Internal Audit terms of reference against the Code and the Chairman.
This includes an analysis of how Guidance for Audit Committees, following which the Groups exposure to these risks may have function The Group has an Internal Audit function the terms of reference were amended and moved during the previous three months and subsequently approved by the Board.
how mitigations to the risks have been which reports to me, as Chairman of the Audit Committee, and also has direct access to the introduced or developed, and also provides The Committee reviewed policies, processes the GRCs assessment of the effectiveness CEO.
Its key objectives are to provide independent and objective assurance on and controls and the reporting of the Groups of the process.
tax and treasury functions, and controls risks, and the related mitigating controls, to the Board, the Audit Committee and senior around purchase to pay and order to cash.
To assist the Board, the Committee monitors the risk management processes and reports Management, and to assist the Board in meeting its corporate governance and A review of the Companys distributable from Internal Audit.
The Committee continues reserves was carried out prior to the to monitor implementation of agreed regulatory responsibilities.
The Board, acting through the Audit Committee, has directed the declaration of both the interim and final improvements, with an emphasis on dividends in respect of the reporting period.
work of the Internal Audit department towards those areas of the business that are The Committee continues to monitor the overall recovery of performance in France.
71 Corporate Governance Report continued considered to be the highest risk.
The Audit The integrity of the Groups relationship and their competency.
The results were with the auditor and the effectiveness of discussed as a specific agenda item at the Committee approves a rolling audit programme, ensuring that all significant areas the external audit process Committee meeting immediately following the External audit completion of the questionnaire process, and of the business are independently reviewed over, approximately, a three-year period.
The The Audit Committee is required to oversee actions requested by the Committee to the Groups relationship with its auditor, and enhance effectiveness were followed up and programme and the review findings are assessed continually, to ensure they take to make recommendations to the Board continue to be monitored as appropriate.
concerning the appointment, reappointment account of the latest information and, in particular, the results of the annual review of and remuneration of the auditor.
Auditor independence The Committee places considerable internal control and any shifts in the focus areas of the various businesses.
Reappointment of the auditor importance on ensuring the continuing Following the results of a review of the independence of the Groups auditor.
This topic The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness effectiveness of the external auditor, and is reviewed at least annually with the auditor, further discussions amongst the Committee, which confirms its independence to the of the Internal Audit department and the Groups risk management programme annually.
the Committee has recommended to the Board Committee twice a year.
that it propose the reappointment of KPMG LLP The formal review consists of an evaluation of Internal Audit activities by members of the as the Groups auditor for approval by the Non-audit services Companys shareholders at its 2018 AGM.
KPMG In support of maintaining the auditors Audit Committee, managers across the business who have been subject to audit during LLP was first appointed as the Groups auditor independence, the Committee has established a policy in relation to the scope and extent of the year, and a self-assessment by the Group with effect from May 2015, following a Head of Internal Audit & Risk Management.
The Committee provision of non-audit services by the Groups auditor, which is summarised on this page.
assessment covers areas such as departmental will continue to review the performance of organisation, business understanding, skills KPMG LLP, as set out below, on an annual basis.
The auditor is appointed primarily to report on and experience, communication and The lead audit engagement partner is Tudor Aw performance.
The positive results showed and he has been in place since the firms the annual and interim Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Committee places a high improvements in work planning, execution and appointment in 2015. reporting, with further work to be done in 2018. priority on ensuring that the auditors independence and objectivity is not During the reporting period, the Company The role of the Internal Audit function and its complied with The Statutory Audit Services compromised either in appearance or in fact.
Equally the Group should not be deprived of scope of work continue to evolve, to take for Large Companies Market Investigation account of changes within the business.
A Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender expertise where it is needed and there may be occasions where the external auditor is best formal audit charter, which was updated during Processes and Audit Committee the year, is in place to guide the functions work Responsibilities Order 2014. placed to undertake other accounting, advisory and consultancy work in view of its knowledge and procedures.
Effectiveness of the external audit process of the business, as well as confidentiality and cost considerations.
The Committee received an update from the The Committee places great importance on Group Head of Internal Audit & Risk Management ensuring a high-quality and effective external Following the changes to the FRCs Ethical at each meeting during the year on current audit process.
When conducting the annual audit activities, and any associated issues review, the Committee considers the Standard ES, the Committee revised its non-audit services policy during 2016.
Under resulting from the completion of the functions performance of the auditor as well as its work.
I met the Group Head of Internal Audit & independence, compliance with relevant this policy, the Group auditor should not be engaged to undertake work which constitutes Risk Management on a number of occasions statutory, regulatory and ethical standards, during the year, through which I was updated and objectivity.
a prohibited non-audit service as defined under provision 5.167 of the FRC ES.
Any other on the activities of the Internal Audit function and received a frequent assessment as to The Committee reviewed the effectiveness non-audit service a Permitted Service must, to the extent that they are not viewed as whether the function is resourced adequately.
and quality of the external audit process by: reviewing the audit plan and monitoring trivial, be approved in advance on an individual basis by the Audit Committee.
The Committee has continued to work with changes in response to new issues or the Group Head of Internal Audit & Risk changing circumstances: In each case where the Group auditor is Management on refining the audit universe, receiving reports on the results of the challenging and approving the Internal Audit audit work performed: and authorised to perform a Permitted Service, the Audit Committee will assess properly threats to plan and mapping that plan to the Groups considering the report of the FRCs Audit principal risks and related mitigating controls, Quality Review Team AQRT on KPMG LLP.
the auditors independence and the proposed safeguards to be applied when such Permitted as set out on pages 30 to 35.
This is kept under The Committee reviewed the report and review to reflect the changing needs of the discussed it with the lead audit Services are carried out.
It will also document what action was taken by the Group auditor, business and to ensure that new and emerging engagement partner for KPMG LLP.
business risks are appropriately considered including appropriate safeguards where necessary, to ensure that its independence within it, including reviewing and providing The Committee further reviewed the assurance to the Committee regarding the effectiveness of the external audit process by was not compromised as a result of performing the Permitted Service.
The Committee will also effectiveness of controls over bid management means of a survey, which was completed by key and contract reporting.
stakeholders and relevant Group Management.
discuss and document why it viewed the Group auditor as the most appropriate party to The matters covered by the survey included the quality of the service and the KPMG LLP perform the Permitted Service.
employees that are delivering it, including their understanding of the business and its audit risks, their degree of scepticism and challenge, 72 GOVERNANCE REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 2017 2016 000 000 Auditors remuneration: Audit of the Financial Statements 44 44 Audit of subsidiaries 559 493 Total audit fees 603 537 Audit related assurance services 55 56 Taxation compliance services 19 29 Other assurance services 10 9 Taxation advisory services 13 144 Other non-audit services 200 Total non-audit services 297 238 Total fees 900 775 The Committee monitors compliance with this policy by monitoring the level of non-audit work provided by the external auditor, resulting in non-audit fees being 49.3 per cent of the KPMG LLP overall audit fee during 2017 2016: 44.3 per cent, as set out below.
The Group auditor will, in no circumstances, undertake non-audit services for the Group to the extent that the total fee payable by the Group to its auditor exceeds 70 per cent of the average annual statutory fee payable by the Group over the last three consecutive years.
The Group ceased using the Groups auditor for all taxation services within the EU during 2017.
During the year, after a competitive tender, KPMG LLP was appointed to conduct financial due diligence in connection with a potential acquisition.
The Committee reviewed the tender documentation, Managements recommendations and KPMG LLPs review of the impact on its own independence against the Groups non-audit services policy.
The engagement did not constitute a prohibited non-audit service and the Committee concluded that KPMG LLP had provided the best tender, both in terms of quality and value, and were satisfied that the independence of KPMG LLP, as Group auditor, was not affected.
Minnow Powell Chairman of the Audit Committee 13 March 2018 73
