Just group PLC Annual Report and accounts 2017 48 Nomination Committee Report Executive development programme and CEO succession planning In setting out the succession plan for his executive team, the CEO provided an account to the Nomination Committee of his vision for the future structure and evolution of the management team.
The Committee reviewed the succession plans and contingency arrangements that were in place and the bench strength of the executive team.
To assess their potential and development needs, each member of the executive team took part in a Korn Ferry led assessment in October November 2017 against a role profile which described the competencies, skills and experiences required for a Just Group executive.
Highlights were reported to the Committee at the end of November 2017.
This review recognised that there was some exceptional talent within the business and was followed up by a Korn Ferry deep dive exercise and feedback provided to each executive.
The exercise included identifying individuals suitable to be considered for CEO succession planning purposes.
Just has put in place a structured development programme for all Statement from the Nomination Committee Chairman members of the executive team.
Some executives have business coaches and all have attended a number of professional development I am pleased to present the type events both in-house and externally.
Nomination Committee Report APPOINTMENTS POLICY AND PROCESS When considering Board appointments the Board follows formal and covering our work in 2017 transparent procedures to ensure that appointments of Directors are made having regard to a broad set of qualities and competences to This year the Board has become fully established, whilst continuing to fulfil the requirements of the role and to promote diversity among see a streamlining of its membership and that of the executive team.
The Committee has discussed at some length the In May, both James Fraser and Peter Catterall, at that time principal need for new strategies and behaviours not only among the Board shareholders through Permira and Cinven, left the Board.
Tom Cross but across all parts of the business, to improve diversity.
Brown, Deputy Chairman, has confirmed his intention to retire from Whilst the statistics had been adversely impacted by the merger and the Board at the 2018 AGM.
the decision to locate more roles in Reigate, it is the case that women are underrepresented at senior levels generally.
We acknowledge Following the successful implementation of the merger five that the Groups current diversity position is lagging behind other executives, below Board level, who had previously indicated their financial service companies in both the Board and executive team intention to do so, exited the business.
A challenge further down the business had been identified with emerging talent with lower than desired diversity in bands Accordingly, the focus of the Nomination Committee has been on reporting to the executive team.
A diversity and inclusion programme executive development, succession planning, and the development of is addressing these challenges.
the Boards skills and diversity.
The Deputy CEO has been designated as the executive sponsor and We are in the progress of recruiting an additional female Nondiversity champion for the Group.
Within this framework we are Executive Director.
This process is now at an advanced phase and will considering other measures of cultural diversity which is the focus of be followed by an appointment announcement in due course.
the Parker Report, such as educational background and wider experience.
Committee members The Committee is comprised of six Independent Non-Executive The Committee is sponsoring a number of initiatives to identify key Directors.
The members are Paul Bishop, Tom Cross Brown, Ian female, black and minority ethnic BME talent below executive Cormack, Michael Deakin, Keith Nicholson and myself.
A leadership programme was launched in Q2 and a talent programme was launched in Q3.
The Committee has signed up to the Role of the Committee Women in Finance Charter as a good way of demonstrating that The role of the Nomination Committee is to keep under review the commitment both internally and externally.
The Group will also be leadership needs of the Company, and regularly review the size and mindful of findings of the BME talent initiative led by Department for composition of the Board, where appropriate making Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy in its Diversity and Inclusion recommendations for the orderly succession of Executive and programme strategy.
Non-Executive Director appointments, and the progressive refreshing of the Board and its Committees.
In assisting and advising the Board, The Committee has amended its appointments policy and process to the Committee seeks to maintain an appropriate balance of skills, promote greater diversity in the composition of the Board and knowledge, independence, experience and diversity on the Board, improve in particular the gender balance.
It is currently reviewing the taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the process and actions necessary to put in place a diversity policy which Group.
best supports the business and promotes the success of the Company.
The current recruitment process begins by evaluating the The Committee meets at least twice a year, and the CEO and Group balance of skills, knowledge and experience of its existing members, Human Resources Director are normally invited to attend meetings.
the diversity of the Board and the on-going requirements and The Group Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee.
strategic developments of the Group.
The search process is then able Members biographies are set out on pages 38 to 41. to focus on appointing a candidate that will complement and enhance the Boards effectiveness and overall performance.
The Committees duties are explained in more detail in its terms The Committee uses the services of search firms to identify ofreference which are available on the Groups website at appropriate candidates.
The Committee will only use those firms that www.
Just group PLC Annual Report and accounts 2017 Governance 49 have adopted the voluntary Code of Conduct addressing gender diversity and best practice in search assignments.
Korn Ferry has been retained during the current reporting period.
It has also been retained to facilitate the executive development programme.
A long list of potential appointees is reviewed followed by the shortlisting of candidates for interview based upon the objective criteria set out in the agreed role specification.
Non-Executive appointees must be able to demonstrate that they have sufficient time available to devote to the role and prior to appointment all prospective Directors must identify whether they have any potential conflicts of interest.
Shortlisted appointees are interviewed by the Chairman, other Committee Members and the CEO.
The Committee recommends a preferred candidate who is invited to meet other Board members.
Finally, detailed external references are taken and following this the Committee makes a formal recommendation to the Board for appointment.
The Nomination Committee has met formally on three occasions during the period and considered in addition to the succession plans set out above: the proposed changes to the Board: the effectiveness review of the Board, its Committees, the Chairman and individual Directors which was conducted through an externally facilitated process: keeping under review the independence of Non-Executive Directors, considering the judgement, thinking and constructive challenge that they demonstrate in Board and Committee discussions: recommending to the Board that each of the Directors be proposed for election by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 17 May 2018.
The Committee made this recommendation having considered the balance of abilities and experience required of both Executive Directors and NonExecutive Directors, and on the basis that all Non-Executive Directors, whether independent or not, continue to demonstrate the personal qualities necessary to contribute to the leadership of the Company: and over the coming year, the Committee will focus on Board succession planning, progressing the diversity and inclusion programme and talent development.
On behalf of the Nomination Committee Chris Gibson-Smith Chairman, Nomination Committee 14 March 2018
