Just group PLC Annual Report and accounts 2017 42 Corporate Governance Report 2017 agm 26 97% 85% Resolutions Votes cast for Issued share 1 passed each resolution capital used BOARD ACTIVITIES DURING 2017 AND ALLOCATION OF AGENDA TIME 20% 5% Group strategy Structure and and business Capital plans 30% 8% 4 years 4 36% Over 4 s yigh earst o f risk Corpor1 at e 9% and risk governance 3 years 1 9% Chairmans introduction to Governance management 2 years 5 46% 25% 12% I am pleased to present the Groups Financial People, culture, reporting and succession controls, capital planning Corporate Governance Report for structure and and Board dividend policy effectiveness the period to 31 December 2017 Reviewed and challenged Group strategy and The Group Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate reports provided by its business plans governance in Just and demonstrates this commitment by the way in Committees on key matters Reviewed 2018-2022 which it conducts business and carries out its responsibilities in of financial reporting Group plan response to the challenges and opportunities of a changing market.
Held annual Board strategy The Board focuses primarily upon strategy, policy, governance and Structure and Capital meeting in October 2017 to Approved external and performance, acting in accordance with the best interests of the review and agree the Groups inter-Group financing, strategy shareholders as a whole.
It also approves the Group strategy, oversees including a five year 200m Received presentations in the allocation of resources and monitors the Groups performance.
revolving credit facility with a respect of strategy execution club of banks and performance against the The Board decisions aim to link the Groups strategy, its governance, Refinanced existing Group Plan and risk appetite to the pursuit of sustainable profit growth over the non-Solvency II compliant Critically reviewed updates longer term for the benefit of all stakeholders.
We lead the senior debt from the business on the development of a governance framework that promotes Reviewed prepatory work integration following April transparency, accountability and challenge as the fundamental which resulted in Fitch 2016 merger awarding an inaugural credit underlying principles for the Boards entrepreneurial and prudent Reviewed technological rating of A A to members of capabilities including progress approach to developing Justs business.
the Group on data governance and cyber security This year has been a year of considerable change and challenge.
In Corporate governance particular, the Group has been deeply engaged with regulatory Received regular updates Oversight of risk and risk matters and a number of significant issues for both the Group and the from Committees, management industry have been raised by the PRAs implementation of management and external Material interaction with Solvency II.
Like others in the industry, we have put considerable advisers on legal and regulators effort into ensuring that we have effective dialogue with industry regulatory developments Received Group Chief Risk regulators to ensure our Group is understood and well placed to Reviewed progress on data Officer Reports and assessed compete in markets and deliver good outcomes for consumers.
governance and cyber the Groups significant risk security and regulatory issues Much of the Board time has been engaged with the business plan, Approved the risk policies and risk framework for managing People, culture, including deep discussions about the nature of the business that the risk across the Group succession planning and Group should be pursuing.
This has resulted in highly satisfying Reviewed the Groups capital Board effectiveness financial outcomes.
The Board continually addresses the themes of and liquidity position Oversight of launch and customers, distribution channels, pricing and risk.
This is a business successful roll-out of Just that is continually investing to develop our existing markets, and to Financial reporting and brand in January 2017 positively disrupt new markets where we believe our Group can Discussed brand and controls, capital deliver better outcomes for customers.
We are also focused on customer proposition structure and dividend diversifying our portfolio.
Received results of policy organisation health check: Reviewed the Groups discussed employee financial performance, engagement financial results and dividend Significant focus was given payments to Board and executive Assessed the Groups capital succession planning and liquidity requirements Undertook externally including Solvency II position facilitated evaluation of the Boards effectiveness 1 The average issued share capital used in voting across the 26 resolutions passed.
Just group PLC Annual Report and accounts 2017 Governance 43 The effectiveness of the Board in making decisions and monitoring Board composition and succession planning their implementation was considered, and Board members were During the year James Fraser and Peter Catterall retired from the asked to identify any areas upon which they feel the Board should Board before the Annual General Meeting.
I would like to record my spend more or less time focusing over the coming year.
thanks to both James and Peter for their valuable contribution to the The Boards oversight of strategy and progress against each of the Board during their tenure.
Tom Cross Brown has also announced his Companys strategic objectives was considered, as was the Boards intention to retire at the forthcoming AGM.
Succession planning was a understanding of the Groups capacity to deliver the strategy.
The focus of the Nomination Committee at both the Board and senior Board members views as to the top strategic issues facing the management level.
The Boards focus on risk was assessed, as was the appropriateness Diversity of the Groups structure at senior levels and the adequacy of Last year, I undertook to take an active role in overseeing a succession plans for members of top management.
Board programme driven by the Nomination Committee to ensure that members were asked to consider the top human resources progress was made in achieving the Groups diversity goals.
priorities facing the Company over the coming years.
Particularly, the female representation on the Board, the Executive Committee and the direct reports to the Executive Committee.
You Lintstock produced a report on the Board and Committee evaluations can read more about my and the Committees work in this area in the that was circulated to all Board and Committee members and Nomination Committee report on page 48. discussed at a Group Board meeting, together with a review of the 2016 action points.
An action plan was drawn up by the Chairman CULTURE and Company Secretary for the Board and Committees and agreed The Group has continued its investment in the culture of the with the relevant Chair.
Progress against these actions will be organisation.
The programme to develop and implement the new Just reviewed during the year.
brand has been a beacon for change and we are building on this positive momentum with colleagues, customers and all our Investor Relations Activity 2017 stakeholders to ensure there is a clarity on what being Just means.
We The Group maintains an on-going dialogue with its major institutional are driven by a strong underlying belief in fairness.
Everybody deserves shareholders through a scheduled programme of meetings which are to be treated fairly and with integrity, particularly in retirement, and generally undertaken by the CEO and or CFO.
Ad hoc one-to-one this principle underpins our actions, which ultimately champion the meetings are held throughout the year with both existing and customer.
We have been accredited as one to watch in The Sunday prospective shareholders, in addition to managing on-going queries.
Times Best Companies to Work For 2017 survey.
The Investor Relations function also provides the Board with regular analysis of shareholder movements, market and peer activity, in evaluation addition to share price performance.
In 2017, Just Group engaged Lintstock to facilitate an evaluation of the performance of the Board of Directors.
Lintstock is an advisory Analysts and brokers reports are made available to all Directors, firm that specialises in Board performance reviews and has no other while the executive Directors receive anonymous feedback via our connection with the Group.
corporate brokers following investor meetings.
After its October 2016 Capital Markets Day, the Group Investor Relations function continued The first stage of the review involved Lintstock engaging with the to increase its engagement with fund managers and research Chairman and Company Secretary to set the context for the analysts throughout 2017.
During the year, we hosted shareholders evaluation, and to tailor survey content to the specific circumstances and analysts for three teach-in seminars focused on the market of Just Group.
All Board members and the Company Secretary were opportunity, and the Groups unique positioning within the key then invited to complete an online survey addressing the Defined Benefit fide-risking, Guaranteed Income for Life and Lifetime performance of the Board, its Committees, and the Chairman, as well Mortgage product lines.
In addition to the three seminars, Just Group as their own individual contribution to the Board.
The anonymity of attended five investor conferences, and held investor roadshows for the Board members was ensured throughout the process in order to equity investors in January, March and September.
promote an open and frank exchange of views.
Subsequent to the issuance of 250m of Tier 2 subordinated debt in Lintstock subsequently produced a report addressing the following October 2016, in August 2017, we were delighted to announce that areas of Board performance: members of the Group had been assigned inaugural A A credit ratings with Stable outlook by Fitch.
During 2017, we had an active The appropriateness of the Boards composition was assessed, programme of engagement with debt investors at investor and Board members were asked to identify any changes that conferences, in addition to a dedicated debt investor roadshow.
ought to be made to the profile of the Board over the next 3 - 5 Access to debt capital markets provides further optionality and years.
flexibility to the Groups future capital planning process.
Since the The Boards understanding of the views of key stakeholders, and of year end in February 2018, the Group issued a 230m BBB rated the products and services which the Company offers, was Solvency II Tier 3 qualifying instrument at par with a maturity date of considered.
The Boards oversight of digital issues facing the February 2025 and coupon of 3.5%, which has further reduced the Group, and the culture and behaviours throughout the Groups cost of capital.
The relationships between Board members and management, In 2017, two international investment banks initiated coverage, and the atmosphere in and management of Board meetings, bringing the total to ten analysts.
The Investor Relations team also were assessed, as was the quality of the Board packs and maintains an open dialogue with non-covering analysts, banks, management presentations.
brokers and other market participants.
As the year progressed, Just Group plcs shares increased by 14% to 170.4p as of 31 December 2017, compared to the FTSE 350 life insurance index which was up 13.3% during 2017.
The Senior Independent Director is available for consultation by shareholders if they have concerns which are inappropriate to raise with the Chairman, CEO or other Executive Directors.
Further information for shareholders is included on page 131.
Just group PLC Annual Report and accounts 2017 44 Corporate Governance Report continued The Group Executive Office Committee comprises of Rodney Cook GOVERNANCE IN OPERATION Group Chief Executive Officer, Alex Duncan Group Chief Risk Officer, The Group has complied with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Kathryn Gray Group Human Resources Director, David Richardson Group Deputy Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director UK The Group Board has delegated specific responsibilities to the Audit, Corporate Business, Simon Thomas Group Chief Financial Officer Remuneration, Nomination and Group Risk and Compliance and Jo Varley Interim Group Chief Operating Officer.
The Committee Committees toassist it with the direction and control of the Group.
meets bi-weekly to discuss and approve operational matters and is These Committees, together with the Investment Committee of the supported by the UK Business Executive Committee and the Just Retirement Limited and Partnership Life Assurance Company Management Sub-Committees focusing on the following areas: Limited Boards, the Group Executive Office Committee and UK operational risk, pricing, assets and liabilities, insurance, products and Business Executive Committee, are the principal operating propositions, change, and regulatory oversight.
The UK Business Executive Committee comprises of the following The Group Chief Executive Officer operates a Group Executive Office Group Executives:, David Cooper Group Marketing & Distribution Committee to support him in the performance of his duties, including Director, Alex Duncan, Jo Varley, Kathryn Gray, Steve Kyle Group the development and implementation of strategy, the monitoring of Regulatory & Audit Director, Hugh McKee Managing Director, UK operating and financial performance, the assessment of control and Retail Business, Giles Offen Group Chief Digital Information Officer, risk, the supervision and prioritisation of resources, the monitoring of David Richardson, and Paul Turner Managing Director, Retirement competitive forces and the day-to-day operational management of Lending, International and Group Development.
In addition to its principal operating committees, the Board has established a Market Disclosure Committee and an Allotment Committee, which meet whenever necessary.
The following chart illustrates the governance structure established by the Group Board JUST GROUP PLC BOARD Audit Risk and Compliance Remuneration Nomination Market Disclosure ALLOTMENT Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Integration Sub-Committee Other Subs idiary JRL Board PLACL Board Boards Disbanded 24 Nov 2017 JRL PLACL Investment Investment Committee Committee Group Executive Office Committee UK Business Management Executive Committee Sub-Committees Principal Board operating committee Other Board operating committee Just group PLC Annual Report and accounts 2017 Governance 45 Each Board Committee has written terms of reference setting out its The main Board Committees are comprised of Independent Nonduties, reporting responsibilities and authorities which are reviewed Executive Directors of the Company who were appointed by the Board annually.
Committee terms of reference are subject to periodic following review and recommendation by the Nomination updating to reflect any changes in legislation, regulation or best Committee.
The Chairman of each Committee reports on the practice.
Further details on Committees are set out on pages 48 to 72. proceedings of the previous Committee meeting at the next The terms of reference for the Audit, Group Risk and Compliance, scheduled Group Board meeting.
The Group Company Secretary is the Remuneration and Nomination Committees are available on the Secretary of every Committee.
The following table shows the Groups website at www.
co. uk members and invited attendees of the Board Committees: Group Risk and Investment Audit Remuneration Nomination Compliance JRL and PLACL Chris Gibson-Smith By invitation Member Chairman Member By invitation Tom Cross Brown Member Member Member Rodney Cook By invitation By invitation By invitation David Richardson By invitation By invitation By invitation Simon Thomas By invitation By invitation By invitation Paul Bishop Chairman Member By invitation Member Ian Cormack By invitation Chairman Member Member By invitation Michael Deakin By invitation Member Member By invitation Chairman Steve Melcher Member Member Member By invitation Keith Nicholson Member Member Chairman By invitation Clare Spottiswoode Member Member By invitation Audit Committee Groups regulatory systems and controls, risk management and The Audit Committees role is to assist the Board with the discharge of future developments.
It also provides advice on regulatory and risk its responsibilities in relation to financial reporting, internal and strategies including oversight of current risk exposures and the external audits, including reviewing the Groups annual financial Solvency II internal model.
The Committee will normally meet not statements, reviewing and monitoring the scope of the annual audit less than four times a year and is chaired by Keith Nicholson.
and the extent of the non-audit work undertaken by external auditors, advising on the appointment of external auditors and Investment Committees reviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit activities, internal The Investment Committees of the Board of Just Retirement Limited controls and risk management systems in place within the Group.
The JRL and Partnership Life Assurance Company Limited PLACL Audit Committee will normally meet not less than four times a year assist the Boards in achieving their investment objectives.
The and is chaired by Paul Bishop.
Investment Committees are responsible for reviewing and overseeing the implementation of JRL and PLACLs investment policy, including Remuneration Committee the performance of the investment portfolio, recommending the The Remuneration Committee recommends what policy the Group appointment and assessing the performance of the external should adopt on executive remuneration and, within the terms of the investment managers, and the effectiveness of reporting procedures.
Directors Remuneration Policy approved by the shareholders at the The Investment Committees will normally meet not less than four AGM in May 2017, determines the remuneration benefits, pension times a year and is chaired by Michael Deakin.
rights and compensation payments for all Solvency II staff, the Chairman, the Executive Directors of the Company, the Chief Actuary, The Market Disclosure Committee oversees the disclosure of the Group Company Secretary, the members of the Executive information by the Company to meet its obligations under the Market Committee and any other employees of the Group for when the Abuse Regulation MAR, and to ensure that decisions in relation Committee determines it will have oversight as agreed by the Board tothose obligations can be made quickly.
The Committees role is from time to time.
The Remuneration Committee will also generate todetermine whether information is inside information, when such an annual remuneration report to be approved by the members of information needs to be disclosed and whether any announcements the Group at the AGM.
The Remuneration Committee will normally are required.
Other responsibilities include reviewing and approving meet not less than twice a year and is chaired by Ian Cormack.
announcements concerning developments in Justs business and monitoring compliance with the Groups MAR disclosure controls and Nomination Committee procedures.
Its members comprise Tom Cross Brown Chair, Rodney The Nomination Committee assists the Board in determining the Cook, Chris Gibson-Smith, Keith Nicholson, David Richardson and composition and make-up of the Board.
It reviews the balance of skills, Simon Thomas.
experience, independence and knowledge of the Company provided by the Directors, with the aim of ensuring the Board has the The Allotment Committee has responsibility for overseeing the capabilities necessary to deliver its responsibilities for business allotment and listing of new ordinary shares in the Company in strategy and governance.
The Committee determines succession plans accordance with the Companys executive incentive plans and for the Chairman and the CEO.
It will normally meet not less than twice employee share plans.
Its members comprise any two Directors, a year and is chaired by Chris Gibson-Smith.
The Nomination oneof whom must be a Non-Executive Director.
Committee actively supports the Board on the principle of improving gender balance in the boardroom.
Further information about the Boards policy on diversity is given on page 48.
Board responsibilities and operation The Group Board is responsible for the proper management of Justs Group Risk and Compliance Committee Group strategy and direction, including its risk appetite.
It also The Group Risk and Compliance Committee is principally responsible oversees the activities and direction of JRL and PLACL and the Groups for assisting the Board and other members of the Group in the other operating subsidiaries.
There are 11 Board members: the discharge of their risk and regulatory oversight responsibilities.
The Chairman independent on appointment, three Executive and seven Committee reviews and challenges the overall effectiveness of the Non-Executive Directors all of whom are considered independent.
Keith Nicholson is the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
Just group PLC Annual Report and accounts 2017 46 Corporate Governance Report continued The Board considers that the Non-Executive Directors Paul Bishop, representation of the Groups interests in the UK and abroad: Tom Cross Brown, Ian Cormack, Michael Deakin, Steve Melcher, Keith maintaining dialogue with the Chairman on important business Nicholson and Clare Spottiswoode are each independent of and strategy issues: management in character, judgement and opinion.
The Board recommending budgets and forecasts for Board approval: benefits from the wide range of sector experience of its Non providing recommendations to the Remuneration Committee on Executive Directors.
Biographical details of all Directors are given on remuneration strategy for Executive Directors and other senior pages 38 to 41. management: and leading the communication programme with shareholders and The Board believes that documented roles and responsibilities for ensuring the appropriate and timely disclosure of information to Directors, with a clear division of key responsibilities between the the stock market.
Chairman and the Group Chief Executive Officer, are essential elements in the Groups governance framework and facilitate the effective As the Senior Independent Director, Keith Nicholson provides a operation of the Board.
sounding board for the Chairman, and serves as an intermediary for the other Directors when necessary.
The Senior Independent Director The Chairman is responsible for the effective leadership and will also meet annually with the Non-Executive Directors without the governance of the Board but takes no part in the day-to-day running Chairman being present to approve the Chairmans performance, and of the business.
His key responsibilities include: address any other matters which the Directors might wish to raise.
leading the Board effectively to ensure it is primarily focused on The Senior Independent Director conveys the outcome of their strategy, performance, value creation and accountability: discussions to the Chairman.
The Non-Executive Directors of the ensuring the Board determines the significant risks the Group is Board will meet at least twice per year without the Executive willing to embrace in the implementation of its strategy: Directors being present.
leading the succession planning process and chairing the Nomination Committee: Decisions on operational matters are delegated to the Executive encouraging all Directors to contribute fully to Board discussions Directors under documented policies and procedures.
and ensuring that sufficient challenge applies to major proposals: fostering relationships within the Board and providing a sounding In advance of scheduled Board meetings, each Director receives board for the CEO on important business issues: documentation providing updates on the Groups strategy, finances, identifying development needs for the Board and Directors: operations and development, and which have reference to a formal leading the process for evaluating the performance of the Board, schedule of matters reserved for Board approval, which includes: its Committees and individual Directors: and the Groups business strategy and risk appetite: ensuring effective communication with major shareholders.
business strategy plans and objectives, budgets and forecasts: extension of the Groups activities into new business or geographic The CEO is responsible for leadership of the Groups business and areas: managing it within the authorities delegated by the Board.
His key changes in capital structure and any form of fundraising: responsibilities include: major changes to the Groups corporate structure, including proposing and developing the Groups strategy and significant reorganisations, acquisitions, disposals and major capital projects: commercial initiatives: the Groups systems of internal control and risk management: leading the executive team in the day-to-day running of the changes to the membership of the Board: Group: interim and annual financial statements: and ensuring the Groups operations are in accordance with the dividend policy.
business plan approved by the Board, including the Boards overall risk appetite, the policies established by the Board, and applicable laws and regulations: The Board held 8 meetings during the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017.
The table below shows Directors attendance at Board and Committee meetings for the period.
Group Risk and JRL & PLACL 2 3 Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Compliance Investment 4 Chris Gibson-Smith 7 8 4 4 3 3 7 7 10 Tom Cross Brown 8 8 3 3 7 7 3 4 Rodney Cook 8 8 Paul Bishop 8 8 6 6 3 3 4 4 1 Peter Catterall 3 3 5,9 Ian Cormack 7 8 4 4 2 3 5 7 Michael Deakin 8 8 4 4 3 3 4 4 1 James Fraser 3 3 6 Steve Melcher 6 8 6 6 4 4 6 7 7 Keith Nicholson 8 8 5 6 3 3 7 7 David Richardson 8 8 8 Clare Spottiswoode 8 8 6 6 6 7 Simon Thomas 8 8 1 Peter Catterall and James Fraser retired from the Board immediately before the AGM on 18 May 2017.
2 Two additional Group Risk and Compliance meetings were held to approve discrete items of business between 1 January and 31 December 2017.
3 One additional JRL & PLACL Investment meeting was held to approve discrete items of business between 1 January and 31 December 2017.
4 Chris Gibson-Smith was unable to attend the 22 June Board meeting due to illness.
5 Ian Cormack did not attend one Board meeting and two GRCC meetings given the subject matter under discussion.
6 Steve Melcher was unable to attend two Board meetings and one GRCC meeting due to a clash of dates.
7 Keith Nicholson was unable to attend one Audit Committee Meeting due to external commitments.
8 Clare Spottiswoode was unable to attend a late scheduled additional GRCC meeting due to a prior commitment.
9 Ian Cormack was unable to attend one Nomination Committee meeting due to a prior commitment.
10 Tom Cross Brown was unable to attend one JRL & PLACL Investment Committee meeting for personal reasons.
Just group PLC Annual Report and accounts 2017 Governance 47 In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board It is the view of the Board that the Groups internal controls are believes that it has the appropriate balance of skills, expertise, appropriate to the Groups needs at this time.
Internal controls are independence and knowledge to enable it and its Committees to kept under review by the Board and its Committees and the Board is discharge their duties and responsibilities effectively.
committed to maintaining standards of internal controls that are in line with industry practice, the Groups needs and regulatory regimes, Non-Executive Directors appointments are subject to review every in particular the requirements of the PRA and FCA.
Their letters of appointment set out the expected time commitment, recognising the need for availability in exceptional All new Directors receive formal induction on joining the Board and circumstances, and request that the Board is informed of any atailored training plan.
Their induction includes discussions with the subsequent changes in their other significant commitments.
None of Chairman and Executive Directors as well as one-to-one briefings the Executive Directors hold a Non-Executive Directorship in a FTSE andpresentations from senior management on matters relating to 100 company.
All Directors appointments are subject to annual the Groups business, its procedures and regulatory developments.
Aspart of the annual Board effectiveness review, the Chairman discusses with each of the Directors their training and development A Group policy and process is in place to address possible conflicts of needs.
Any relevant conflicts and potential conflicts with the interests of the Company that arise must be disclosed Directors may seek independent professional advice at the atthenext Board meeting for consideration and, if appropriate, Companys expense where they consider it appropriate in relation to authorisation by relevant Board members in accordance with the their duties.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of Companys Articles.
The Board has established a broad risk governance and management The role of the Group Company Secretary is to support the Chairman framework, which is designed to provide control and oversight over and the Board, which includes bringing all governance matters to the the management of all financial and non-financial risks.
The Group attention of the Board and delivering a programme of Board and operates a Three Lines of Defence model.
The first line of defence Committee meetings, training and senior management presentations isline management who devise and operate the controls over the to ensure that each Director has the information required to business.
The second line functions are Risk Management and discharge their statutory duties.
Compliance, which oversee the first line, ensure that the system ofcontrols are sufficient and are operated appropriately, and also measure and report on risk to the Group Risk and Compliance Committee.
The third line is Internal Audit who provide independent assurance to the Board and its Committees that the first and second lines are operating appropriately.
Chris Gibson-Smith Chairman The Board is ultimately responsible for the effectiveness and 14 March 2018 monitoring of the Groups systems of internal control, covering all material financial, operational and compliance controls, and for undertaking an annual review of the control systems in place, while the implementation of internal control systems is the responsibility of management.
The Groups systems of internal control are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material financial misstatement.
The Groups internal control systems comprise the following key features: establishment of clear and detailed terms of reference for the Board and each of its Committees: a clear organisational structure, with documented delegation of authority from the Board to senior management: a Group policy framework, which sets out risk management and control standards for the Groups operations: and defined procedures for the approval of major transactions and capital allocation.
