Just group PLC Annual Report and accounts 2017 Governance 53 Group Risk and Compliance Committee Report The Committee has a standing agenda based on the annual cycle of business covering all areas of its responsibility.
The Chairman of the Committee also holds regular one-to-one meetings with the Group Chief Risk Officer and the Group Regulatory and Audit Director to ensure that all significant areas of risk are considered.
Summary of meetings during the period The Committee met formally on seven occasions and the subcommittee met formally on five occasions during the year.
Additional meetings to brief other Directors on progress of the internal model were also held on an ad hoc basis.
The main areas considered and activities undertaken by the Committee related to: Risk governance The Committee ensured that the risk framework continued to develop in line with the business needs, ensuring that policies and practices were kept up to date, and that the risk appetite, against which the business plan and strategy are assessed, remained appropriate.
In particular, it reviewed the frameworks for legal risk and strategic risk.
It also reviewed and approved the risk management plan for the year, and commissioned and reviewed a report into the effectiveness of risk management.
Risk oversight Statement from the group Risk and Compliance Committee The Committee regularly reviewed and challenged managements Chairman view of the developing risk and capital outlook for the Group by I am pleased to report on the Group considering the Own Risk and Solvency reports and updates provided to it.
The emerging risks from Brexit were given special consideration, Risk and Compliance Committees particularly in relation to the outlook for the economy and the property market in the UK, and also for potential implications of activities during 2017 Brexit on the Groups Belfast operations.
The Committee maintained oversight of the risks to and arising from the integration programme, andhas followed the associated integration activity through to The Committee has supported the Board by providing leadership, itsestablishment in business as usual.
As part of a programme of direction and oversight of the Groups overall risk appetite, its risk deepdives it commissioned reports on longevity risk, lifetime management framework and conduct risk.
In doing so, the mortgaging underwriting risk, liquidity risk and the risk of price Committee has played a key role in delivering effective oversight of competition in lifetime mortgages.
the risks inherent in the business.
In addition, the Committee has been responsible for reviewing the Groups Own Risk and Solvency Capital adequacy Assessment and the Solvency II Internal Model and recommending The Committee considers the adequacy of the capital resources of to the Board the Groups regulatory and internal control policies and the Group against both the regulatory capital and the underlying procedures and the compliance monitoring plan.
economic risks to the business.
Roles and responsibilities In considering the appropriateness of regulatory capital, the The Committees key roles and responsibilities include the review and Committee monitors the methodology and assumptions underlying recommendation to the Board of the Groups overall risk appetite, the Internal Model and the operation of the matching adjustment.
It strategy, monitoring the overall effectiveness of the risk management also ensured that management was appropriately interpreting and framework, governance, and compliance activity within the Group.
In implementing the application of Solvency II in accordance with the reviewing the Groups risk exposures, it ensures that these are emerging policy of the Prudential Regulation Authority as set out in adequately mitigated by the risk methodologies and managements the publication of supervisory statements including those relating to actions.
The Committee is also responsible for monitoring the illiquid assets, matching adjustments and transitional provisions.
To appropriateness of the Internal Model related to the implementation support it in this activity it reviewed the conclusions of internal and of the Solvency II regime requirements and for recommending any externally commissioned reports.
changes to the Model to the Board.
In this regard it established a sub-committee to provide a more flexible forum in which to consider The Committee also commissioned external support to stress-test emerging developments.
the adequacy of the Groups resources to pay claims in a number ofstringent economic scenarios, including those specified for Committee composition the banking sector by the Bank of England, and was satisfied with The Committee is chaired by Keith Nicholson, and its members are the results.
Chris Gibson-Smith, Ian Cormack, Clare Spottiswoode, Tom Cross Brown and Steve Melcher.
All members, including the Chairman of the Committee, are Non-Executive Directors.
Regular attendees include both Executive and other Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee, the Chairman of the Investment Committee of the life companies of the Group, the Group Chief Executive Officer, the Group Deputy Chief Executive Officer, the Group Chief Risk Officer, the Group Chief Financial Officer, the Group Chief Actuary and the Group Regulatory and Audit Director are regular attendees of the Committee.
Senior managers are also invited to attend the meetings to report as appropriate on their areas of responsibility.
Just group PLC Annual Report and accounts 2017 54 Business resilience The Committee reviewed and endorsed plans for strengthened measures in managing private information, in order to ensure compliance with the General Data Protection Regulation GDPR.
The Committee also considered reports presented by the Group Chief Digital Information Officer on the current business practices in respect of IT, operations and cyber issues, and endorsed plans to further develop information security and business resilience.
Conduct The Committee regularly reviews and challenges managements view of conduct across the Group.
The risk to appropriate customer outcomes is considered against a dashboard of measures in general and against the quality of advice provided by advisers in the HUB business and the number and cause of complaints arising within the Group in particular.
The Committee also reviews and approves the plan for monitoring compliance with law, regulation and policies across the Group and receives and challenges the results of those compliance reviews.
On behalf of the Group Risk and Compliance Committee Keith Nicholson Chairman, Group Risk and Compliance Committee 14 March 2018
