Just group PLC Annual Report and accounts 2017 12 Key Resources and Relationships Our customers are the focus Our customers are the focus of CUSTOMERS everything that we do.
Investing in our resources enables us to At Just, all our activities start by understanding how we can best meet the provide products and services to needs of our target customers.
Whether we are designing new services or new products, help them achieve a fair, fulfilling our customers are the focus of everything and secure retirement that we do.
We invest our resources to enable our customers to achieve a fair, fulfilling and secure retirement.
Distribution partners Distribution plays a key role in our ability to reach, attract and retain customers.
Building out and diversifying our distribution network helps ensure that we fully capitalise on the opportunities available to us in each of our markets.
Just has a highly effective multichannel distribution strategy which is one of our key strengths.
Our DB sales are made via employee benefits consultants EBCs who advise pension schemes trustees and we have developed strong relationships in this area.
We distribute our individual retail products through a number of channels, including generalist and specialist financial intermediaries and emerging channels accessed via our HUB business such as life insurance companies, banks, building societies, pension schemes and affinity partners.
Our consistent record in achieving the highest accolades in industry service awards demonstrates the strength and quality of our relationships with those to whom we provide services.
Just group PLC Annual Report and accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT 13 Our colleagues Our colleagues ensure we continue to It is our colleagues at Just who continue to respond effectively to the changing external deliver the strategy for the business and will environment.
Their resilience and enthusiasm drive future success.
We focus on recruiting the right people, helping them to understand were critical to the Group achieving the our values and their role, and then giving excellent set of results we have reported them the training and support to develop a high-performance culture.
Our approach to colleagues focuses on staff engagement, well-being, personal development and commitment to the highest level of performance, with a particular focus on reviewing our corporate working policies to enhance their daily working lives.
Development In 2017 we have continued to develop new Developing our colleagues is central to our Government and corporate partnerships and extend our overall business strategy and this regulators services to current business customers to commitment is set out in our Learning and broaden our distribution reach.
Our development helped our corporate partners to develop activities focus on the organisational Regulators and policymakers are important improved outcomes for their atand initiatives that have the biggest impact.
We believe that an in-retirement customers.
We continue to important part of our role in the retirement invest in our HUB business and we have Diversity income market is to engage positively with achieved success, winning mandates to We are committed to valuing diversity and government and regulators to encourage deliver services to other life insurance promoting equality of opportunity for our effective competition and consumer companies to provide regulated advice, and Group colleagues.
We ensure that they are protection that results in achieving better guidance services, together with access to selected and promoted on the basis of merit customer outcomes.
We engage regularly Justs products and those sourced from the and ability, regardless of age, gender, race, with ministers, government officials, external market.
religion, sexual orientation or disability.
We regulators and other policymakers directly aim to create and promote a safe and and through trade bodies.
As a leader in the healthy environment where diversity is markets we serve, we are well placed to share valued and colleagues have a sense of our customer and market insights to Reinsurers well-being.
We will not tolerate discrimination contribute to progressive policy development.
on any grounds, whether it relates to age, disability, sex, gender re-assignment, pregnancy, maternity, race, sexual These include the Groups key relationships orientation, religion or belief, and to marital with Hannover Ruck SE, RGA Global Suppliers civil partnership status.
Reinsurance Company Ltd, RGA International Reinsurance Company DAC and SCOR Life Benefits Global Life UK Branch, as well as strong The Group generally manages its own We value the contribution our colleagues working relationships with Achmea customer-facing systems and processes, and make to the business, so in return we offer a Reinsurance Company N. V. Pacific Life Re Ltd, uses professional partners to provide wide range of policies and benefits designed General Reinsurance AG London branch, specialist services.
This continues to allow us to attract, develop and retain the best and Hannover Life Reassurance Bermuda Ltd, to flex and adapt our services to meet most talented individuals.
Nomura Reinsurance 5IC Ltd and Partner evolving customer demands.
The Group outsources certain operational This diverse group of counterparties helps and administrative functions where to ensure strong risk mitigation and appropriate.
This includes the administration competitive terms.
of pension payments for our DB business, some sections of our Guaranteed Income for Life business and some lifetime mortgage books acquired from our heritage Partnership business.
The relationships with the suppliers of these services are managed through dedicated teams.
