Our resources and relationships The most important assets we need to make our strategy work and how we manage them We have a number of resources and Our people Barry Hoffman relationships underpinning our business.
Our people are a major source of competitive Group Human Resources Director The business model description on page 14 advantage for us and we continually review our sets out how we interact with and create value approach to attracting and retaining talented for our customers, and also describes the individuals.
infrastructure that supports our business How we manage our resources at and how our brand connects to our corporate Future talent Computacenter values.
The remainder of this section therefore Attracting young talent remains crucial for Managing our resources is critical to our covers how we manage our relationships with both our business and for the industry.
The people in our business two of our other critical resources our people UK in 2017, we had our largest ever intake from are valuable resources and as such we and our partners.
It also includes an overview our industrial placement programme, as well maintain a full set of business policies to of our community relationships.
as continuing with our graduate and sales support their growth and development as well associate programmes.
We again offered as making the working environment conducive numerous apprenticeships, bringing the total to them fulfilling their potential.
In addition, we attended many university and school careers fairs and By means of a series of charters for offered a range of other support and advice management and staff we ensure that to young people, including school interview expectations are set and are clear for all our employability days and work experience.
employees, which facilitates our performance management and feedback process.
Managing We were honoured to be recognised as a Top our resources in this way aligns with our 100 Graduate Employer and ranked first for Winning Together values, which we are very smaller intakes in the IT, Support and Telecoms proud of.
category at the 2017 18 JobCrowd Awards in London, with specific recognition for our culture, career progression and enjoyment.
We remain focused on attracting young women into Science, Technology, Engineering and Maths STEM careers and have developed our outreach programme in schools, colleges and universities.
In the UK, we have two Women in Science and Engineering WISE Ambassadors, who are trained to help young women identify their skills and understand their career options.
In addition, two members of our HR Team are STEMNET Ambassadors, who support a range of activities and events.
We also have three Inspire the Future Ambassadors, who link to schools nationally.
In Germany, we have continued to support future talent through a range of schemes.
These include giving young people professional and practical training in digital media and insight into working in the IT industry: bringing young women together to learn about technical and science careers: and sending apprentices to talk to school students about training, work and career opportunities.
Related material: Our business model page 14 Our strategic priorities page 16 Principal risks and uncertainties page 30 Directors Remuneration Report page 74 26 STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Diversity and inclusion Winning Together our values Diversity and inclusion is important to Winning These are the values on which we built this Computacenter.
We believe that gender and Together Company and they are the values on which Our Values ethnically diverse companies are more likely we will continue to grow Computacenter.
to outperform their competitors, as a business with a rich mix of backgrounds and views stimulates innovation, better mirrors its customers and attracts the best talent.
We have therefore continued our work on diversity We win by: We do this together by: and inclusion throughout 2017.
Understanding people matter Putting customers first We work hard to get to know our customers We build strong, rewarding, supportive Our People Panel, comprising more than 20 relationships.
And we treat people as we and really understand their needs.
That let us people from across the Group, met for the first use our experience to help them in the right expect them to treat us.
People Panel representatives way at the right time.
raise awareness of collaboration, diversity and inclusion: join up key initiatives: and give people Considering the long term Being straightforward the confidence to identify things that are Were practical and pragmatic.
We believe Were building a business for the long term.
This leads our decisions and actions and helps in solutions over talk.
We express ourselves in the clearest possible way.
And were open people really trust us.
Our other diversity and inclusion initiatives and honest in all of our dealings.
included running further Women in Sales events in the UK.
These cover topics ranging Inspiring success Keeping promises from the recruitment process to maternity We do our very best to keep our promises.
Were proud of the people we work with.
leave and returning to work.
We have also We do the best to support each other through And when thats difficult, we help our reviewed the experiences of our UK employees customers find other ways of solving the downs and we always celebrate the ups.
who go on maternity, adoption or shared their problems.
parental leave, and started workshops for employees who are returning to work in the next three to six months.
In Germany, we continued our women@work development programme.
It offers advice and support on their career path to selected young female executives.
To expand the reach of its women@work initiative, Computacenter Germany has significantly increased its external communications and attendance at job fairs exclusively for women.
The women@work team has also developed tangible objectives and measures, to promote gender equality.
To encourage and motivate others, we share the career successes of women in our organisation.
In addition, we invited managers from our customers and partners to share career insights and offer advice.
27 Our resources and relationships continued The table below shows our gender diversity at Our key measures are the Accident Incident the year end: Rate AIR, which is the number of accidents per 1,000 employees, and the Accident Frequency 2017 2016 Rate AFR, which is the number of accidents Men Women Men Women per 100,000 working hours.
Board 8 2 7 2 During 2017, we have seen a solid health and Senior safety performance driven by an established 66 15 80 20 management Health & Safety Management System which Other has seen the number of accidents reduced by 11,092 3,449 10,883 3,307 employees 13 per cent.
We have continued to maintain the Accident Incident Rate AIR, which is the Total 11,166 3,466 10,970 3,329 Employee Fun Club, Malaysia number of accidents per 1,000 employees, to 2.60 in the UK, and the Accident Frequency Rate In the UK we have been preparing and analysing AFR, which is the number of accidents per our gender pay gap figures, as required by the 100,000 working hours, to 0.48 in the UK.
Equality Act 2010 Gender Pay Gap information Regulations 2017, and these will be available Average results for 2017: on our website, investors.
AIR AFR UK 2.60 0.48 Health, safety and wellbeing Germany 4.66 0.97 Protecting the health and safety of our employees, customers, suppliers, France 2.76 0.58 subcontractors, visitors and members of the public is a priority for us.
Our policy is to create Online health and safety training has been and maintain, as far as reasonably practicable, refreshed for 2017 and rolled out to staff with Fresh fruit in Mexico a working environment which does not pose an over 3,884 courses completed so far Display undue risk to health and safety.
Our approach Screen Equipment 1,573, Manual Handling is based on identifying and controlling hazards.
1,134, Environmental Awareness 914, Fire Preventing all incidents, particularly those Warden 78 and Asbestos Training 185. involving personal injury and damage to equipment or property, is a priority.
We also We have continued to focus on the health investigate near-misses, to avoid similar and wellbeing of our people this year, with occurrences and maintain the efficient initiatives across the Group supported by operation of the business.
occupational health and health and safety specialists.
These range from webinars on All of our employees are made aware of the health topics and our employee assistance importance of health and safety and contribute programme in the UK, to promoting healthy to maintaining a safe working environment.
We eating and exercise in Spain, providing in-house promote consultation between employees and counselling services in South Africa, and managers concerning health and safety and working with our US healthcare provider to provide the necessary finance, equipment, promote health and wellbeing.
personnel and time to ensure it is implemented and maintained.
28 STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Wider community How we do business Related material: We recognise that our services require The Modern Slavery transparency in Supply Further information on the Groups contributions from a wide range of Chain Act requires us to review our Supply environmental impact and its related policies stakeholders and it is important that we Chain and publish a statement on our approach and programmes can be found on page 96 of support the communities that make a positive to preventing modern slavery.
This statement the Directors Report and by reference to our contribution towards them.
In doing so, we is available on our website.
Over the last year, website: investors.
hope to achieve three main aims: we have increased our focus on the risk of to demonstrate our commitment to the modern slavery and have worked across our wider community: business to identify our risk areas.
As a result, to motivate staff, by encouraging we have improved our governance processes teambuilding activities in a worthwhile and developed a new supplier Code of Conduct, cause: and which incorporates modern slavery and the to communicate Computacenters core 10 Core Principles of the UN Global Compact values to customers, staff and other UNGC.
Further information on how we adhere stakeholders.
to UNGC can be found on our website.
Moving forward, we will continue with our commitment There were many examples of community and to ethical and responsible business practices, charity support across the Group in 2017.
In ensuring that we do not tolerate modern France, these included providing employment slavery anywhere within our supply chain.
opportunities to those not currently working and supporting the schooling of children who Existing and prospective customers increasingly had been forced into child labour.
In Germany, view activity in this area as one of the factors we ran blood donation campaigns and our determining where they place their business.
Management and Works Council jointly decided Making an appropriate contribution in this area to donate 50,000 to support refugee is therefore the right thing to do for the wider integration projects.
Our UK business began community and for our business.
We are working with CERCO to help ex-members of committed to carrying out business responsibly.
the Armed Forces with their career transition, In accordance with the 10 Core Principles of the by providing six to 12-month development UNGC, we continue to ensure that our practices programmes in the business.
This helps them comply with human rights and employment integrate back into civilian life.
In Spain, we legislation wherever we do business.
support the local branch of UNCHR.
In the UK, we have three partner charities: Alzheimers We have zero tolerance of anti-bribery and Research UK, Rainbow Trust and Mind.
Events corruption in our business and are confident are steered by a Charity Committee and we in our internal processes and compliance.
also support many charity initiatives proposed Anti-bribery and corruption training is integral and run by employees.
to our induction process across the Group.
We have continued to develop our approach Our partners and awareness of this, through the rollout We carry out appropriate due diligence on across the Group of our external whistleblowing our vendors, for example to understand their hotline.
We have also designed an e-learning financial position, their environmental, social programme for managers on whistleblowing and ethical policies, their approach to IT and our senior sales team had further security and their business continuity plans.
awareness training on this, delivered When selecting who to work with, we ensure in partnership with Lewis Silkin LLP.
that our terms of engagement are clear and transparent, and support our Group values and wider corporate responsibility objectives.
