Just group PLC Annual Report and accounts 2017 50 Audit Committee Report Role and responsibilities The Committees key role is to provide effective governance and assurance over the Groups financial reporting, the performance ofthe internal audit function, the external auditor, and the management of the Groups systems of internal controls and related compliance activities.
The Audit Committee is focused on the integrity of the Groups financial reports and internal control framework.
The Audit Committee liaises closely with the Group Risk and Compliance Committee through some cross-membership and close cooperation of the Chairmen, which ensures that audit work is focused on higher risk areas and that the results of internal and external audit work can be used to inform the work of the Group Risk and Compliance Committee.
Committee composition The Committee members have been selected with the aim of providing the wide range of financial and commercial expertise necessary to fulfil the Committees duties and include appropriate lifeinsurance accounting expertise.
The Board considers that the Committee Chairman has recent and relevant financial experience asrequired by the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
Statement from the Audit Committee Chairman The Committee is chaired by Paul Bishop and its members are Steve I am pleased to report on the Melcher, Keith Nicholson and Clare Spottiswoode.
activities discharged by the Summary of meetings during the year The Committee held six formal meetings and two Working Group Committee during 2017 meetings during the year.
The matters covered, relating to the Groups financial reporting, external audit, and internal audit are as The Committee worked with executive management to continue follows: improving the appropriateness of the financial reporting and effectiveness of the internal controls.
Financial reporting and actuarial assurance The Groups Annual Report and Interim Reports.
Having conducted a thorough review of the significant financial The assumptions critical to assessing the value of assets and judgements and financial statement assumptions made in liabilities, in particular technical provisions and Lifetime Mortgages preparation of the Annual Report and Accounts of Board and LTMs.
Committee papers and minutes, and of the Annual Report and Other key issues including the going concern basis, longer term Accounts themselves, the Committee is satisfied that the judgements viability assessment and the accounting for goodwill and and assumptions are appropriate and that the Annual Report and intangibles.
Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable.
The annual plan from the actuarial assurance team and regular reports on progress and results.
The Committee continued to oversee the preparation and review of Regular updates on regulatory matters which impact the Groups the Solvency and Financial Condition Report SFCR as at Solvency II reporting.
31 December 2016 and the Quantitative Reporting Templates for the PRA submission in June 2017.
It also provided oversight of the project External audit work in preparation for the implementation of new standard IFRS 17.
Regular reports from the external auditor including meetings with the audit engagement partner without the presence of The Committee invited to its meetings members of the Executive management.
team and other senior managers to present reports on their areas of The 2017 year end audit work plan including the scope of the audit responsibility and provided effective challenge and debate.
The and the materiality levels adopted by the auditor.
external auditor was also invited to the meetings to report on its work The independence of the external auditor including approval for and had direct access to myself and the Committee to raise any the use of non-audit services provided by them.
As Chairman, I also held regular one-to-one meetings with The effectiveness of the audit process.
the Group Chief Financial Officer, the Director of Group Finance, the The reappointment, remuneration and terms of engagement Deputy Chief Executive Officer, the Group Chief Actuary, the Group letter of the external auditor.
Regulatory and Audit Director, and the external Audit Partner, to ensure that all significant areas of internal controls, including Internal audit financial reporting controls, were given appropriate consideration.
The annual plan from the Group Regulatory and Audit Director, regular updates on internal audit work carried out and his end of year report.
Just group PLC Annual Report and accounts 2017 Governance 51 The property assumptions used to value the Groups equity 2017 financial reporting release assets The primary role of the Committee in relation to financial reporting The value of the Groups lifetime mortgages, are reliant on a range of isto review with both management and the external auditor the assumptions as tofuture house price growth and the volatility of appropriateness of the interim and annual financial statements house prices which determine the expected shortfall on redemption concentrating on, amongst other matters: in respect of the NNEG which is given to all mortgagees.
the quality and acceptability of accounting policies and practices: the appropriateness and clarity of the disclosures and compliance The Committee addresses both the methodology underpinning these with financial reporting standards and relevant financial and valuations and their calibration by reviewing and challenging the governance reporting requirements: detailed analysis and recommendations put forward by the Group material areas in which significant judgements have been applied Deputy Chief Executive Officer in the year end and interim basis or there has been discussion with the external auditor: and papers, which are also reviewed by the external auditor as part of whether the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is their audit.
Where appropriate, the Committee will also seek views of fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information external experts and advisers.
necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Just Group plcs investment in subsidiaries In addition to considering matters relating to the consolidated To aid our review, the Committee considers reports from the Group financial statements of the Group, the Committee also considers Chief Financial Officer, the Deputy Chief Executive Officer, the Chief matters relating to the individual Company financial statements of Actuary, and it reviews reports from the external auditor on Just Group plc and its subsidiaries.
theoutcomes of their half-year review and year end audit.
As a Committee we encourage the external auditor in displaying the Just Group plcs investment in subsidiary undertakings is a significant necessary professional scepticism its role requires.
asset and underpins the net equity reported by Just Group plc in its individual Parent Company financial statements.
The carrying value The primary areas of judgement considered by the Committee in of this asset is assessed through consideration of the financial relation to the 2017 accounts, and how these were addressed, were: position and performance of the underlying subsidiary companies, including their net asset position and planned trading performance.
The discount rate used to calculate the Groups insurance liabilities, The Committee reviews these assessments, the recoverability of the reinsurance assets and deposits from reinsurers balances reported and appropriateness of accounting policies, as part The return on bond assets is adjusted for valuation purposes for of its work on financial reporting.
insurance liabilities, reinsurance assets and deposits from reinsurers to allow for credit risk for each bond by considering the spread the regulatory reporting oversight difference between the gross redemption yield and the yield on an The Committee receives regular updates on the Groups regulatory equivalent duration risk-free reference instrument.
The Group sets reporting matters including the oversight and preparation of the the credit risk as a fixed minimum component plus a percentage of Groups annual Solvency and Financial Condition Report, and the spread, calibrated significantly in excess of historic default rates, Quantitative Reporting Templates.
The Committee also receives which are provided by the leading rating agencies.
The return on regular updates relating to the on-going publication by the Prudential equity release assets is adjusted to allow for the risks associated with Regulation Authority of supervisory statements that set out its these assets namely, the potential shortfall resulting from the expectations for certain aspects of prudential regulation.
The Audit No-Negative Equity Guarantee NNEG.
The Group calculates the Committee also has responsibility for overseeing the recalculation of shortfall in respect of the NNEG using a variant of the Black-Scholes TMTP.
During 2017 the implementation of Solvency II in practice has option pricing model.
Inputs required e. g. current house prices, continued to evolve and is expected to do so in the future.
The future house price growth and house price volatility are derived from emergence of new supervisory statements could impact certain key available market data.
non-GAAP measures disclosed in the Annual Report and Acccounts and is closely monitored by the Committee to ensure disclosures are Longevity assumptions appropriate.
The length of time the Groups Retirement Income customers and Lifetime Mortgage holders will live and therefore the projected cash External audit flows for Retirement Income and mortgage assets are key The effectiveness of the external audit process is dependent on assumptions when setting the Groups insurance liabilities and fair appropriate audit risk identification at the start of the audit cycle.
We value of lifetime mortgages.
Longevity experience is a key area of receive a detailed audit plan from KPMG, identifying its assessment focus for the Board, and the Committee, and the Board receives ofthese key risks.
For the 2017 reporting period the primary risks regular reports on the actual against expected number of deaths and identified were in relation to the valuation of insurance liabilities, the likely causes, by condition, of anypositive or negative divergence equity release asset valuation, reinsurance assets and liabilities and as well as the output of industry studies such as CMI 2016.
Following the recoverability of Just Group plcs investment in its subsidiaries.
We the merger of Just Retirement and Partnership, theCompany is challenged the work done bythe auditor to test managements undertaking a comprehensive review of Retirement Income customer assumptions and estimates around these areas.
We assess the longevity which will be completed during 2018. effectiveness of the audit process in addressing these matters through the reporting we receive from KPMG at the interim and year end.
In addition, we also seek feedback from management on the effectiveness of the audit process.
For the 2017 reporting period, management were satisfied that there had been appropriate focus and challenge on the primary areas of audit risk and assessed the quality of the audit process to be good.
The Audit Committee concurred with the view of management.
Just group PLC Annual Report and accounts 2017 52 Audit Committee Report continued Auditor independence Risk management and internal control The Committee believes that the independence of the external The Board has overall responsibility for establishing and maintaining auditor is one of the primary safeguards for shareholders.
The the Groups systems of internal control.
The Audit Committee Committee reviewed audit independence and the scope of non-audit keeps under review the adequacy and effectiveness of theGroups services and independence safeguards with KPMG.
As part of this internal controls.
review, the Committee has received and reviewed written confirmation that, in KPMGs professional judgement, KPMG is The Committee has reviewed and is satisfied as to the effectiveness independent within the meaning of all UK regulatory and professional of the Groups internal control systems based on reports from the requirements and the objectivity of the audit engagement partner Head of Internal Audit and the Group Chief Financial Officer.
and audit staff is not impaired.
Internal audit An analysis of auditor remuneration is shown in note 5 to the Monitoring and review of the scope, extent and effectiveness of the consolidated financial statements.
The Committee was satisfied activity of the Group Internal Audit department is an agenda item at throughout the year that the objectivity and independence of KPMG each Committee meeting.
The Committee considers and approves was not in any way impaired by the nature of the non-audit services the internal audit plan annually and looks to ensure its alignment undertaken during the year, the level of non-audit fees charged or with the external audit and the Groups risk management approach.
any other facts or circumstances.
The Group has a policy on the Reports from the Head of Internal Audit include updates on audit provision by the external auditor of audit and non-audit services, and activities, progress of the internal audit plan, the results of any during 2017, KPMG was paid 1.0m for non-audit services.
These unsatisfactory audits and the action plans to address these areas.
services related to the audit of the Groups Solvency II regulatory The Committee reviews the resource requirements of the Internal returns, half year review procedures, and due diligence and reporting Audit department and is satisfied that it has the appropriate accountant services.
This amount is significantly lower than the prior resources identified.
An effectiveness review of Internal Audit is period, which included significant costs associated with the carried out every three to five years.
The Committee held private acquisition of Partnership non-audit services for the 18 month period discussions with the Head of Internal Audit as necessary during the ended 31 December 2016: 2.5m.
The Committee Chairman also meets with him regularly outside the formal committee process, approves his performance appraisal, Audit tender and tenure of external auditor and sets his annual objectives.
The appointment of KPMG as the Groups external auditor is kept under review.
KPMG has audited Just Retirement Limited, a public On behalf of the Audit Committee interest entity, since the 2006 year end.
As described in the Groups Annual Report and Accounts 2016, a formal audit tender process was completed during 2016.
In line with audit partner rotation rules, a new audit engagement Paul Bishop partner was appointed in 2017 following the rotation of the previous Chairman, Audit Committee audit engagement partner after the 31 December 2016 audit, at which 14 March 2018 point he had served five years as lead audit partner for the Group.
The Committee has approved KPMGs remuneration and terms of engagement and is fully satisfied, following a review, with the performance, objectivity, quality of challenge and independence of the external auditor.
The Committee will review the tenure of the auditor in 2018, and will continue to comply with the Code and extant regulations on audit tendering.
The Committee believes that, when a tender takes place, those asked to tender should have an equal chance of being appointed auditor.
The Company therefore intends, where appropriate, to use audit firms other than KPMG for non-audit services so that relationships are enhanced with those firms capable of performing the role of external auditor.
The Committee will seek, with management, to ensure that there are no contractual obligations which restrict the Committees choice of auditor.
