124 124 FRESNILL FRESNILLO PL O PLC C ANNUAL REPORT AND A ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 CCOUNTS 2017 BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS BOARD COMPOSITION As at the date of this Report, the Board consists of a Non-executive Chairman, seven Non-executive Directors that it considers to be independent and four Non-executive Directors not considered to be independent.
There are no Directors who have executive responsibilities within the Company.
BOARD ROLES The requirements of the roles of Chairman and of the Chief Executive Officer have been agreed by the Board and are set out in a written Statement of Responsibilities.
Octavio Alvdrez, the Chief Executive Officer, is not currently a member of the Board.
Charles Jacobs, the Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if they have concerns that have not been resolved through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer or Head of Investor Relations.
The composition of the Board has been structured to ensure that no one individual can dominate the decision-making processes of the Board.
CHAIRMANS INDEPENDENCE The Chairman, Mr Baillres, is beneficially interested in more than 50% of the share capital of the Company through his interest in Industrias Peoles S. A.
B. fide C. V. the Companys controlling shareholder.
Mr Baillres is also the Chairman of Peoles and other companies within the BAL Group.
Mr Baillres was appointed to the Board by Peoles pursuant to the Relationship Agreement, thus at the time of his appointment was not independent.
Having been responsible for overseeing the successful development of the Group over many years, the Board considers that his continued involvement as its Non-executive Chairman is very important to the continued success of the Company.
The Relationship Agreement continues to provide a transparent governance system, which ensures that the Company benefits from Mr Baillres leadership and experience while being able to demonstrate to other shareholders that the Fresnillo Group is capable of carrying on its business independently.
In particular, the Relationship Agreement ensures that transactions and relationships between the Fresnillo Group and its controlling shareholder are at arms length and on competitive commercial terms.
Further information regarding the Relationship Agreement can be found on pages 123 and 144.
INDEPENDENCE The Board considers the Directors listed as being independent on pages 119 and 120, to be independent in character and judgement.
For each of these Directors, their circumstances are assessed by reference to Provision B.
1.1. of the Code and the Board remains satisfied that they are each independent when the standards set out in Code Provision B.
In making this assessment, the Board has taken the following considerations into account: Charles Jacobs Charles Jacobs is the worldwide senior partner and chairman of Linklaters LLP.
Mr Jacobs is not involved in the provision of legal or any other services to the Company by Linklaters LLP.
Linklaters LLP is currently one of the Companys legal advisers where any such advice is limited to English law and is provided by a different partner of Linklaters LLP.
Selection of legal advisers is not a Board matter and is decided at the management level.
None of the Fresnillo management sit on the Board.
However, if any decision were to be made at the Board level regarding Linklaters LLP, which has not happened to date, Mr Jacobs would excuse himself in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 relating to Directors interests.
Mr Jacobs does not have, and has not had within the last three years, a material business relationship with the Company either directly, or as a partner, shareholder, director or senior employee of a body that has such a relationship with the Company.
By way of illustration, the legal fees paid to Linklaters LLP for the last three financial years were 177k for the year ended 31 December 2015, 148k for the year ended 31 December 2016 and 117k for the year ended 31 December 2017.
Thus, in each year, the fees paid to Linklaters represented less than 0.01% of Linklaters global earnings and less than 0.01% of the Companys global revenues.
The Audit Committee reviews the appropriateness of all professional advisers fees each year including legal fees as part of their review of ordinary course of business expenses.
Brbara Garza Lagera No issues to consider.
Dame Judith Macgregor No issues to consider.
FRESNILLO STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL TODAY REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 125 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Fernando Ruiz Fernando Ruiz has, since 2008, been a retired partner and consultant in the firm Chevez, Ruiz, Zamarripa y Cia.
S. C. a firm providing professional services to the Company.
Mr Ruiz was not involved in the provision of such services to the Company by Chevez, Ruiz, Zamarripa y Cia.
S. C. prior to his retirement.
Mr Ruiz is an independent non-executive director of Grupo Nacional Provincial, S. A.
B. and Grupo Palacio fide Hierro S. A.
B. fide C. V. which are companies within the BAL Group.
Given that he is not involved in executive duties in any of those companies and has a similar obligation to be independent for those two companies as for Fresnillo, the Board does not consider that Mr Ruiz position as an independent Non-executive Director of the Company is adversely impacted by those two appointments.
Fernando Ruiz breadth of knowledge and experience across a wide range of Mexican businesses, together with the invaluable audit and tax experience he brings to the role, are highly regarded by the Board.
Notwithstanding his length of service on the Board, the Board is satisfied that he continues to demonstrate the qualities of independence and objectivity in carrying out his role as a Non-executive Director.
Jaime Serra No issues to consider.
Alberto Tiburcio Alberto Tiburcio retired as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Mancera S. C. the Mexican firm of EY, the Companys auditors, in June 2013.
Mr Tiburcio was not involved in the provision of audit or any other services to the Company by Ernst & Young LLP prior to his retirement.
Mr Tiburcio is an independent non-executive director of Grupo Nacional Provincial, S. A.
B. and Profuturo Afore, S. A. fide C. V. which are companies within the BAL Group.
Given that he is not involved in executive duties in any of those companies and has a similar obligation to be independent for those two companies as for Fresnillo, the Board does not consider that Mr Tiburcios position as an independent Non-executive Director of the Company is adversely impacted by those two appointments.
Guy Wilson Guy Wilson retired as a partner of Ernst & Young LLP, the Companys auditor, in 2008.
Mr Wilson was not involved in the provision of audit or any other services to the Company by Ernst & Young LLP prior to his retirement.
COMMITMENT The Nominations Committee annually reviews the time commitments of the Non-executive Directors to the Fresnillo plc Board.
Its philosophy in doing so, is that the total workload of the Non-executive Director should be taken into consideration.
For those Directors who do not have a fulltime job elsewhere the availability of time is different to those that do.
The Board benefits from the experience of those Directors as well as from their other interests.
This is considered to be a strength.
Furthermore, public companies vary considerably in the expectations that they place on their non-executive directors.
A global company with various lines of business operating in many countries, should not count the same as a single-product company with operations primarily in just one country.
Fresnillo plc falls into the latter category and because of the relative simplicity of its activities, the Board does not consider that it needs more than four scheduled Board meetings a year, a factor which is reflected in the relatively low fees that the Company pays its Non-executive Directors.
This relatively low number of meetings is further justified by the degree of governance oversight of the Company which comes by virtue of it being also a member of the BAL Group of which five of its Non-executive Directors are also members.
The Non-executive Directors are required, by their letters of appointment, to spend 14 days per annum on Company business.
The BAL Group Directors usually meet with management prior to each Board meeting to extensively review the agenda and papers for the forthcoming meeting with them.
They also oversee management responses to actions arising from the Board meetings.
This time commitment, as well as the time required in travelling to the UK for the annual general meeting each year, significantly exceeds the time commitment specified in their letters of appointment.
The independent Directors have committee responsibilities which, in conjunction with their Board duties, take up more time than their letters or appointment require.
In addition, the UK-based Directors also travel to and from Mexico for Board and Committee meetings which also significantly increases the time that they spend on their Board duties.
OVERBOARDING During the year, the Company engaged specifically with shareholders and voting agencies on the subject of perceived overboarding on the part of some of the Board members.
Board members have discussed this issue both formally and informally during the year and their perspective on this matter is underpinned by two generic factors which may not always be apparent to shareholders: 1 A number of directors hold non-executive roles within companies listed in Mexico.
Mexican listed companies generally operate with large boards with the option for alternate directors to be appointed and generally lower expectations on the time and commitment required from their non-executive directors.
The Board estimates that the time commitment for board and committee meetings at a Mexican company is between a third and a quarter of the time required at a UK plc.
126 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS CONTINUED 2 The calendar for Board and Committee meetings is scheduled to align with all of the other meetings of companies, including listed companies within the BAL Group ownership structure.
This ensures that Fresnillo plc Directors who are appointed to the boards of other companies within the BAL Group do not have any time conflicts with their other commitments on BAL Listed Entity boards.
The near full attendance record of the non-independent Non-executive Directors over the ten years since the Companys IPO bears this out.
The other listed company directorships of the Fresnillo plc directors is set out on pages 118 to 120 of this report.
ATTENDANCE IN 2017 Attendance Audit Nominations Remuneration in 2017 Board Committee Committee Committee Comments Alberto Baillres 4 4 2 2 3 3 Alejandro Baillres 4 4 Juan Bordes 4 4 Arturo Fernndez 4 4 Jaime Lomeln 4 4 Charles Jacobs 4 4 3 3 Brbara Garza Lagera 3 4 2 2 Brbara Garza Lagera missed one Board meeting due to a conflict in the timing of a Fresnillo Board meeting and a FEMSA board meeting.
In 2018, the programming of FEMSA board meetings will be changed so that their board meetings do not coincide with Fresnillo meetings.
Fernando Ruiz 3 4 2 2 2 2 2 2 Fernando Ruiz missed a Board meeting due to a family commitment in Europe.
Dame Judith MacGregor 2 2 Jaime Serra 3 4 3 5 1 1 Jaime Serra missed a board meeting due to a business commitment in the USA.
He also missed two Audit Committee meetings: one because he was required to attend a meeting on the North American Free Trade Agreement NAFTA a subject in which he has particular expertise by virtue of his role in originally negotiating NAFTA: and one due to having emergency treatment for a minor injury.
Alberto Tiburcio 4 4 5 5 0 0 Guy Wilson 4 4 5 5 All Directors, with the exception of Mr Guy Wilson, will seek re-election by shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Mr Wilson will be standing down as an independent Non-executive Director at the 2018 AGM.
It is proposed that Ms Georgina Kessel will be appointed as an independent Non-executive Director, subject to shareholder approval at the 2018 AGM.
BOARD PROCESS The Board supervises the management of the Groups activities, including the implementation of both the Groups long-term plans and commercial strategy.
In addition, the Board provides leadership to the Fresnillo Group setting the key values by which the Group will continue to operate.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its approval which includes approvals of major expenditure, investments and key policies.
The schedule is annually reviewed to keep it up to date with any regulatory developments.
The last review and revision was undertaken in October 2017.
All meetings of the Board are held in Mexico.
The Board has a well-established programme of meetings.
Board members usually receive Board papers five days prior to meetings in order to enable the Directors adequate time to study and consider the documents.
Members of the Executive Committee, led by the Chief Executive Officer, are present at all of the Board meetings and present all of the papers on operational and financial matters.
Directors have the right to raise concerns at Board meetings, and can ask for those concerns to be recorded in the Board minutes.
The advice and services of the Company Secretary whose appointment and removal is a matter reserved for the Board are also available to the Directors.
The Group has also established a procedure which enables, in relevant circumstances, Directors to obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
FRESNILLO STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL TODAY REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 127 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 FRESNILLO BOARD BUSINESS DURING 2017.
STRATEGIC UPDATES Exploration strategy Update on San Julin development CSR Strategy update Annual strategy lunch REGULAR QUARTERLY REPORTS GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS Chief Executives Report Receipt of Board evaluation reports and action plan including project updates and HSECR Reports Meeting of independent Directors Board and Committee appointments Financial Report Approval of 2017 Met-Mex Contract rates Board Committee Reports Approval of Code of Conduct Risk and Internal Control Report REPORTING Anti-Bribery and Corruption update Approval of 2016 report Approval of Preliminary Announcement Investor Relations and Corporate Communications update Review and approval of Viability Statement Approval of Interim Report Legal and Company Approval of Modern Slavery Statement Secretarial Report including litigation update FINANCIAL AND CONTROLS Approval of budget and business plan 2018 Review and approval of dividend policy and dividend proposals Review and approval of Principal Risks & Uncertainties Annual review of the system of internal controls SETTING THE TONE FROM THE TOP CORPORATE CODE OF CONDUCT The Corporate Code of Conduct is approved by the Board as a guideline for all Directors, executives, employees and related third parties including clients, suppliers and the community to act in accordance with the Code.
The Code helps to ensure a foundation of values and works as a guide for behaviour that encourages an environment of ethics and responsibility for the benefit of our stakeholders.
It serves to complement the internal and external regulations already in force and also to establish corrective measures for anyone who fails to comply with the provisions of the Code.
It also provides the framework for the Companys compliance with the UK Bribery Act and the Mexican anti-bribery and corruption legislation.
Changes to the Code of Conduct were ratified by the Board in February 2017, the objective of these changes was to: incorporate a behavioural compass establishing basic questions that personnel should ask themselves before making decisions: highlight the corporate values: address topics such as money laundering and industrial espionage: emphasise that safety is a top priority: and give greater clarity on sanctions in the case of violations.
CULTURE During 2017, the Board received regular reports on the organisational culture and ethics programme, including a presentation at its July meeting.
The programme consists of three main elements: evaluation, support activities and training.
Reports are received on the three cultural KPIs, the number of whistleblowing line cases, reports on management the tone from the top and disciplinary cases.
The Group undertook an Ethisphere ethical, culture and perceptions assessment to benchmark its culture and these findings were reviewed by the Board.
The HSECR Committee has been given responsibility for overseeing the programme on behalf of the Board, and has reviewed the progress of the programme in detail during its meetings in 2017.
128 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS CONTINUED GOVERNANCE ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES THE BOARD COMPOSITION: KEY CONTRIBUTORS: Non-executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Independent Non-executive Directors Chief Financial Officer Executive Non-independent Committee VP of Exploration Non-executive Directors Chief Operating Officer AUDIT COMMITTEE COMPOSITION: KEY CONTRIBUTORS: Chief Financial Officer, External Auditor, All independent Non-executive Directors Internal Audit, Risk Manager, Company Secretary REMUNERATION COMMITTEE COMPOSITION: KEY CONTRIBUTORS: Chief Executive Officer, Majority independent Non-executive Directors Remuneration Consultants, Company Secretary NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE COMPOSITION: KEY CONTRIBUTORS: Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Majority independent Non-executive Directors Company Secretary HSECR COMMITTEE COMPOSITION: KEY CONTRIBUTORS: Chief Executive Officer, Head of Sustainability, Majority Non-independent Non-executive Directors Line Managers, Chief Legal Officer CULTURE AND VALUES Sets the tone from the top through review and approval of Code of THE BOARD Ethics, key policies and receipt of reports on cultural performance.
Day-to-day responsibility for the management of the Groups health & EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE safety, community relations and organisational culture programmes.
Oversees the health & safety system and the cultural programme.
HSECR COMMITTEE Oversees the effectiveness of the whistleblowing arrangements.
AUDIT COMMITTEE BOARD MEETING PROCESS PRE-MEETING DURING MEETINGS POST-MEETING PREPARATION OF AGENDA PRESENTATION OF PAPERS PRESENTATION OF MINUTES CEO CFO Company Secretary Executive Committee members Company Secretary PREPARATION OF PAPERS APPROVALS IMPLEMENTATION OF BOARD DECISIONS Schedule of matters reserved to Board Executive Committee members Executive Committee members Full Board INTERNAL REVIEW REPORTING ON POST-MEETING ACTIONS Executive Committee members APPROVALS Executive Committee members Relationship Agreement Non-independent Non-executive Directors Independent Non-executive Directors CIRCUL ATION CEO CFO five days before meeting Regular reports on the following are provided to Board members by the CEO and or CFO between meetings: i Safety and fatalities: ii, project developments and ii relevant industry and sector updates.
Terms of reference for each of the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations and HSECR Committees are available on the Companys website www.
FRESNILLO STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL TODAY REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 129 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 BOARD PERFORMANCE EVALUATION In order to evaluate its own effectiveness, the Board undertakes annual appraisals using a combination of externally facilitated and internally-run evaluations over a three-year cycle.
The cycle of the Boards evaluations is summarised as follows: YEAR 1 YEAR 2 YEAR 3 Externally facilitated Board evaluation Follow-up on action plan prepared in Focus on outstanding and emerging using questionnaires and or response to year 1 evaluation using issues arising from the action plan interviews  questionnaires using  questionnaires BOARD EVALUATION IN 2017 At the beginning of 2017 the Board considered an action plan in response to the findings of the  evaluation undertaken in 2016, being the final step in the previous three-year cycle.
In 2017, Fresnillo engaged Lintstock to facilitate an evaluation of the performance of the Board of Directors.
Lintstock is an advisory firm that specialises in Board performance reviews and has no other connection with the Company.
The first stage of the review involved Lintstock engaging with the key project sponsors, including Executive Committee and Non-executive Board members, to set the context for the evaluation and to tailor survey content to the specific circumstances of Fresnillo.
All Board members were then requested to complete an online survey addressing the performance of the Board and its Committees.
The anonymity of the respondents was ensured throughout the process in order to promote an open and frank exchange of views.
Lintstock subsequently produced a report addressing the following areas of Board performance: The appropriateness of the Boards composition was assessed and respondents were asked to identify any additional competencies from which the Board would benefit.
The Boards understanding of the views of key stakeholders and the markets in which the Company operates was considered.
The Boards oversight of the culture and behaviours throughout the organisation was also reviewed.
The relationships between Board members and management, and the atmosphere in and management of meetings, were assessed, as was the quality of the Board packs and management presentations at meetings.
The effectiveness of the Board in reviewing the Companys current performance, and influencing future performance, was considered and respondents were asked to identify areas upon which they feel the Board should spend more or less time focusing.
The Boards oversight of strategy and the Companys progress against its strategic pillars was considered, as was the Boards understanding of the capacity of the organisation to deliver the strategy.
Respondents views as to the top strategic issues facing the Company were also identified.
The Boards oversight of risk management was assessed, as was the Boards effectiveness in monitoring the Companys health and safety performance.
The appropriateness of the structure of the Company at senior levels was reviewed and the level of interaction between the Board and top management in various settings was considered.
As a result of the review, among other things the Board agreed to the following key actions: KEY FINDINGS FROM 2017 EVALUATION PROPOSED ACTIONS More time should be devoted to strategy In future there will be one general strategy discussion a year and specific strategy discussions e. g. in relation to health & safety or exploration, at each other meeting during the year.
More time should be allocated to succession planning A formal Board discussion of the succession plan will be scheduled once a year.
INDIVIDUAL PERFORMANCE REVIEWS Non-executive Directors occasionally meet the Chairman without executives being present.
The independent Non-executive Directors meet annually in order to evaluate the performance of the Chairman.
On the back of this meeting, the Senior Independent Director discusses the views of the independent Directors with the Chairman.
The Independent Directors held this meeting in 2017 after the February meeting and took the 2016 Board Evaluation review into account in their discussions and feedback to the Chairman.
130 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS CONTINUED BOARD DEVELOPMENT AND INDUCTION Senior management present on the Groups strategic initiatives to provide the Non-executive Directors with more information about the broader context to the Companys activities.
In addition, there is a regular distribution of industry briefings on technical, market and sector issues.
Directors are encouraged to visit the Companys mines to familiarise themselves with the Fresnillo Groups operations building on mine visits in recent years.
During 2017, there were two visits by members of the Board to the new San Julin development.
Mr Alejandro Baillres and Mr Arturo Fernndez, along with members of the Executive Committee visited San Julin in September 2017 and Messrs Wilson, Jacobs and Dame Judith Macgregor visited the same mine in October 2017.
Mr Jacobs and Dame Judith Macgregor also visited the Fresnillo mine in October 2017.
Briefings were arranged for all Directors from the Companys legal advisers.
These include presentations which were aimed at familiarising the Directors with the duties and responsibilities as Directors of a UK listed company.
In addition, the Chairman meets with Directors to discuss any training or development needs.
Following her appointment to the Board in May 2017, a series of briefings were arranged for Dame Judith Macgregor, including meetings with the Companys key advisers and a presentation about the duties of a director of a UK listed public company.
Meetings were also arranged with members of the Executive Committee to enable Dame Judith to discuss the Companys strategy and business plans in more detail.
Dame Judith also attended a meeting of the Audit Committee as an observer as part of her induction.
THE GOVERNANCE OF THE SIX CAPITALS The following table shows how the Board oversees the six Capitals of the Group within its governance activities: TYPE OF CAPITAL GOVERNANCE RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE ACTIVITIES DURING 2017 Human Board, Audit and HSECR Committees Review of culture and organisational ethics strategy and reports on metrics.
Approval of Modern Slavery Statement.
Natural Board and HSECR Committee Review of the Exploration Strategy.
Regular review of exploration and environmental KPIs.
Social and relationship Board, Audit and HSECR Committees Annual review of Payments to Governments reporting and monitoring taxation strategies.
Regular review of anti-bribery and corruption programme.
Financial Board and Audit Committee Approval of business plan and capex strategies.
Manufactured Board and Audit Committee Development of project monitoring methodologies and reporting for Board review.
Review of Internal Audit reports on new projects.
Intellectual Board and Audit Committee Reviews of IT Strategy.
Monitoring activity of the IT Governance Committee.
The Executive Committee is responsible for the day-to-day stewardship of all classes of capital and its members report to the Board on the key metrics and initiatives.
Indirectly, the Remuneration Committee supports the governance of the six types of capital by setting remuneration targets which incentivise value creation across all six types of capital.
