FRESNILLO STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL TODAY REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 131 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT DEAR SHAREHOLDER In my letter as Chairman of the Nominations Committee in the 2016 Annual Report, I stated that we remain strongly committed to the principle of equality of opportunity when considering new appointments to the Board.
Shortly after the publication of that report, we were delighted to announce that Dame Judith Macgregor would be joining the Board with effect from the 2017 AGM.
Dame Judith has now joined the Board and is adding useful counsel and insight to our discussions.
I am equally delighted that we propose to appoint Georgina Kessel to the Board following the 2018 AGM bringing the proportion of women on our Board to 25% compared to less than 10% just over a year ago.
Our policy is to make appointments to the Board on the basis of merit and there can be no doubt that we have kept to our policy in making both of these appointments.
The Nominations Committee remains mindful that we are in a phase during which careful consideration of the composition of the Board is required, particularly as some of our independent Non-executive Directors reach the ninth anniversary of their appointment.
We have therefore made changes to the composition of the Board and its Committees to retain the right number of independent Non-executive Directors on our Board and meet the standards set by the UK Corporate Governance Code.
As a Committee, we are also keen to ensure that our current Board members are committing appropriate amounts of time and effort to the Boards work and have scrutinised the other commitments and attendance record of our Directors very carefully.
We are aware that two of our Board members hold more external directorships than some of our stakeholders would prefer and levels of attendance at Board and Committee meetings also come under scrutiny.
We are delighted that our Board is made up of very talented and expert Directors and the contribution of each one both in and outside of Board meetings is valued.
Each year we monitor the contribution of our Directors and, in 2017, we had the additional assurance provided by our externally facilitated Board and Committee evaluation exercise to support our views on this point.
At present, the North America Free Trade Agreement, which is of critical importance to Mexico, is coming under increasing scrutiny and one of our Directors, Jaime Serra, who was key to its original introduction, is for a while, in demand because of his expertise in this area.
We are pleased that he is actively contributing to this important development for Mexico and are happy to accept that this meant that he just missed one Board meeting as a consequence.
During the year, the membership of the Nominations Committee changed with Fernando Ruiz standing down from the Committee following the Companys AGM in May and being replaced by Alberto Tiburcio, an independent Non-executive Director.
I would like to place on record my thanks to Fernando for his contribution to the Committee since its formation in 2008 and I am pleased to welcome Alberto to the Committee in his place.
Yours faithfully Mr Alberto Baillres Chairman of the Nominations Committee 132 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED MEMBERSHIP The members of the Nominations Committee are Alberto Baillres Chairman of the Committee, Brbara Garza Lagera and Alberto Tiburcio.
Mr Tiburcio was appointed as a member of the Nominations Committee on 23 May 2017, replacing Fernando Ruiz.
The majority of the members of the Nominations Committee are, therefore, independent Non-executive Directors.
ROLE The Nominations Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board on the structure, size and composition of the Board and its committees and succession planning for the Directors and other senior executives.
Before making appointments of new Directors, the Committee is responsible for evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and identifying and nominating suitable candidates.
The Nominations Committee has approved Board Appointments and Board Diversity Policies which provide the framework for the Nominations Committee and the Boards approach to Board appointments.
Attendance Mr Alberto Baillres 2 2 Mr Fernando Ruiz 2 2 Ms Brbara Garza Lagera 2 2 Mr Alberto Tiburcio both meetings were held prior to Mr Tibucio being appointed to the Committee 0 0 Board composition: gender split 2017 Post-2018 AGM Male 10 12 9 12 Female 2 12 3 12 Board composition: experience Finance and tax 4 UK capital markets and legal 2 Political and public policy 3 Mining mining sector 3 Mexican business 9 International business 8 NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE BOARD APPOINTMENTS POLICY AND PROCESS IN SUMMARY The Nominations Committee and Board are strongly committed to the principle of equality of opportunity when making new appointments to the Board while ensuing that appointments are made on the basis of merit.
The Nominations Committee continues to consider the composition of the Board with a focus on its continued commitment to diversity.
The criteria for determining the composition of the Board and future Board appointments continue to be based on: Relationship Agreement requirements for appointments to the Board by Peoles.
The Companys leading position as a precious metals miner in Mexico.
The Companys inclusion in the FTSE 100 Index.
The specific functions on Board committees which independent Directors will be required to fulfil.
The provisions set out in the current terms of reference of the Nominations Committee.
The Nominations Committee does not use open advertising or retain any external consultants when making new appointments to the Board as it is considered unnecessary considering the Companys contacts within Mexico and further afield.
BOARD DIVERSITY POLICY IN SUMMARY AND PROGRESS All Board appointments are made on merit.
The Board recognises and embraces the benefits of having a diverse Board: particularly the value that different perspectives and experience bring to the quality of Board debate and decision-making.
There are certain considerations which are taken into account in considering the composition of the Board such as: background and experience: age: gender: and shareholder perspectives.
The Board believes that setting targets for the number of people from a particular background or gender is not the most effective approach to take.
The Board will therefore look to follow the principles of this policy rather than specified quotas or targets.
Following the appointment of Dame Judith Macgregor as an independent Non-executive Director during the year, three of the seven new Directors that have been appointed to the Board since 2012 have been women.
This demonstrates the Boards commitment to gender diversity.
With 16.6% of the current Board composition being female, the Nominations Committee recognises that this does not meet the 33% target for representation of women on the board set by the HamptonFRESNILLO STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL TODAY REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 133 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Alexander Review.
Nevertheless, it will continue to keep the gender balance of the Board as a key factor in considering future Board appointments, which at all times will be based on merit.
The Board recognises that very few women are attracted to mining engineering and geology academic programmes in Mexico and, in view of the stage of development of Mexico, the participation of women in the labour force as a whole is still relatively low.
This will take time to rectify but it is changing and the Company is committed to hiring and developing women with educational training in mining engineering, geology, finance and accounting.
With nine Mexican and three British directors on the Board, the Nominations Committee is satisfied with the ethnic diversity of the Board.
Full versions of the Board Appointments Policy and Process and the Board Diversity Policy and the Group Diversity Policy, can be found on the Companys website www.
ACTIVITY DURING 2017 The Nominations Committee met twice during the year.
BOARD APPOINTMENTS The Nominations Committee is committed to a progressive refreshing of the Board, as recommended by Code Provision B.
2.3 of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Following departures from the Board in 2016, the Nominations Committee, led by the Chairman, considered options for the appointment of a new independent Non-executive Director at its meetings in February and April 2017.
In making its recommendation that Dame Judith Macgregor be appointed to the Board, the Nominations Committee recognised that Dame Judiths impressive credentials as a diplomat, including four years as the British Ambassador to Mexico, would bring a new and valuable perspective to the Boards work.
The Nominations Committee recognises that further independent Non-executive Director appointments are necessary as some of the current independent Directors reach the nine-year deadline for independence set by the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Consequently, Mr Guy Wilson will step down from the Board at the 2018 AGM and, subject to shareholder approval at the same meeting, be replaced as an independent Non-executive Director by Georgina Kessel.
COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP The Nominations Committee reviewed the composition and effectiveness of the Board Committees in 2017 and, while it was satisfied that the Committees are working well, it also considered that the membership of the Committees would need to be refreshed in order to ensure that they clearly reflect the appropriate representation of independent Non-executive Directors on each Committee.
The Nominations Committee therefore approved the following changes to the Board Committees in April 2017: Alberto Tiburcio was appointed to the Nominations Committee in place of Fernando Ruiz: Jaime Serra Puche was appointed to the Remuneration Committee in place of Mr Ruiz: and Mr Ruiz left the Audit Committee and was appointed a member of the HSECR Committee.
EXECUTIVE SUCCESSION PLANNING Each year, the Nominations Committee reviews a schedule of possible successors for all the positions on the Executive Committee Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Vice President of Exploration and Chief Operating Officer.
This review considers both short-term emergency and long-term planning scenarios.
Any actions needed to support the development of potential long-term successors are discussed.
The Nominations Committee also monitors the long-term evolution of the membership of the Board as a whole.
These matters were all discussed by the Nominations Committee in 2017 and it is satisfied with the actions that are being taken to support this.
OTHER NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE ACTIVITY The Nominations Committee also considered the following matters: Approval of the Nominations Committee Report prior to publication.
Review of the time commitment required from each Director.
The proposed re-election of each of the continuing Directors at the AGM.
A self-evaluation exercise which concluded that the Nominations Committee is functioning well.
The terms of reference of the Nominations Committee are available on the Companys website at www.
The letters of appointment for the Non-executive Directors are made available for inspection at the Companys registered office, during normal business hours.
