134 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT DEAR SHAREHOLDER In additional to our normal duties, which are set out in the following Report, we have been addressing three issues which arose in 2017, namely new accounting standards, the Non-Financial Reporting Directive and the increasing activities of the Mexican tax authorities.
NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS Management has modelled the effects of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers.
The results indicate that the financial effects on our Group financial statements of IFRS 15 are likely to be minimal.
The effect of IFRS 9 is estimated to be an initial adjustment from retained earnings to hedging reserves as at 1 January 2017 of US$23.0 million and an adjustment decreasing financial costs for the year ended 31 December 2017 of US$42.1 million.
THE NON-FINANCIAL REPORTING DIRECTIVE We have been monitoring managements actions to assemble the information required, using Internal Audit to validate the data extracted from our operational records.
We have also taken into consideration section 172 of the Companies Act 2006 to ensure that the resulting information is properly presented.
TAXATION During 2017, the Mexican tax authorities have opened a number of investigations into the tax returns of our subsidiaries, some of them going back several years.
These investigations are considered to be routine but the level of activity appears to have increased.
These investigations cover three main areas.
The normal reviews instigated by our recognised trade union seeking to ensure that PTU the statutory employee profit-sharing arrangement which is available to all Mexican employees has been correctly calculated.
Reviews looking at certain of our subsidiaries tax returns for the year 2013 which reflect the corporate reconstruction of our mining operations.
The tax inspections have been relatively straightforward so far in that activity has been limited to requests for information which we have promptly supplied by the due dates.
In addition, new legislation required us to obtain details of the tax compliance of certain contractors to whom we made payments.
We are working with our suppliers to ensure that full information is provided to the tax authorities.
So far, this is working well but it did consume a significant amount of time and resources in 2017 prior to the online portal to input this information to the tax authorities opening in 2018.
In all of the above, we are confident that no material tax costs or penalties will arise and therefore we do not consider that potential tax exposure in relation to the above matters is a significant issue for the financial statements for 2017, as reflected in note 10 to the financial statements, but we will continue to monitor the situation closely.
AUDIT COMMITTEE EVALUATION In the latter part of 2017, Lintstock, an independent advisory firm, carried out an evaluation of us, using a questionnaire-based approach which indicated that we were doing an effective job.
Nevertheless, we have done our own evaluation to identify a few areas of focus for 2018 which are set out in the Effectiveness section of this Report.
SAN JULIN During the year, I and two of my fellow Directors had the opportunity to visit San Julin which is the first time I have visited a new mine.
It is an amazing sight to see when, after flying over an impressive mountain range for some time, you see a transformed valley below.
As it is a new mine, you can see how the mine commenced and from the plans you can see its logical development over time.
The accommodation, community centre and recreational facilities are excellent and we also had a chance to see how the Company works positively with the local community.
All in all, it is a visit that I will remember for a long time as the whole operation is a credit to the hard work of the development team to have completed such a large project in a remote location in a relatively short time and on budget.
Yours faithfully Guy Wilson Chairman of the Audit Committee FRESNILLO STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL TODAY REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 135 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 AUDIT COMMITTEE COMPOSITION The members of the Audit Committee at 31 December 2017 were Guy Wilson Chairman of the Committee, Jaime Serra and Alberto Tiburcio.
Financial and auditing experience Sector experience Guy Wilson Previously a partner at EY UK with Previously an adviser to several UK appointed 1 July 2008 international audit, accountancy and natural resources company boards.
Jaime Serra Previously Secretary of Finance in Political insight through the various appointed 16 May 2014 the Mexican government.
Alberto Tiburcio Previously Chairman and CEO Previously a director of Pemex.
appointed 4 May 2016 of EY Mexico.
The Chief Financial Officer and representatives from external and Internal Audit attend all meetings.
The Chief Executive Officer, other members of the Executive Committee and management attend where appropriate and external advisors attend for specific matters if relevant.
THE ROLE AND ACTIVITY OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The role and duties of the Audit Committee are set out in its terms of reference, a copy of which can be found on the Companys website at www.
The Audit Committee met five times during 2017.
Its programme of activity is determined at the beginning of each year and is structured to ensure that it reviews all of the activities set out in its terms of reference.
The Audit Committee has six primary responsibilities and a secondary one for monitoring its own effectiveness.
This report is, therefore, presented under the following headings: FINANCIAL REPORTING INTERNAL AUDIT Overseeing the Companys financial Overseeing the work and findings reporting to shareholders.
of the Internal Audit team.
EXTERNAL AUDIT WHISTLEBLOWING Overseeing the Companys relationship Overseeing the effectiveness of the Companys with its external auditor.
RISK AND INTERNAL CONTROL RELATED PARTIES Overseeing risk, internal control, Overseeing financial aspects of the relationship going concern and viability.
EFFECTIVENESS Monitoring the Audit Committees effectiveness and that of the internal and external audit functions.
136 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED FINANCIAL REPORTING KEY ACTIVITIES IN 2017 Review of the financial statements and Annual Report for the year ending 31 December 2016. Review of the computations for Tax and PTU.
Review of Payments to Government disclosure.
Review of interim financial statements for 2017 and Interim Announcement.
Review of plan for preparing the financial statements and Annual Report for the year ending 31 December 2017.
Consideration of new accounting standards and their implications for the Companys financial reporting.
Consideration of whether any changes were required to the existing accounting policies.
SIGNIFICANT JUDGEMENT AREAS The Audit Committee spends time ensuring that there is consistency between the policies and judgements used in preparing both the full-year and half-year financial statements prior to respectively recommending those financial statements to the Board for approval.
In conjunction with management and the external auditor, the Audit Committee considers the principal areas of audit risk and judgements made in relation to the financial statements which should be considered during its review of the financial statements and the external auditors report thereon.
In many cases, these significant judgement areas will be the same as those considered in previous years: however, as the mining cycle progresses these judgement areas will evolve and new ones will need to be considered while others may become less important.
This process may be summarised in the following way: SIGNIFICANT JUDGEMENT PROCESS BY CATEGORY OF RISK ANNUAL IDENTIFICATION REVIEW OF DISCUSSIONS COMMITTEES ASSESSMENT OF KEY SOURCES OF WITH CONCLUSION ON OF KEY AUDIT VARIABLES ASSURANCE MANAGEMENT SUITABILITY OF RISKS TO CONSIDER AND EY DISCLOSURE SIGNIFICANT JUDGEMENT AREAS IN 2017 The significant judgement areas prioritised in 2017 are set out below.
In each case, the Audit Committee concluded that the accounting treatment and disclosure in the financial statements is appropriate.
MINERAL RESERVES AND RESOURCES SEE PAGES 274 TO 278 Reserves and resources are a primary driver of Fresnillos market valuation and a ASSESSMENT OF THE RISK significant input into calculations of depreciation and assessments of impairment.
Inaccuracies in the estimation of reserves and resources would lead to broad implications across the Annual Report and Accounts.
VARIABLES CONSIDERED The estimation of mineral reserves and resources requires significant judgement, not only in respect of mineral physically in place but also metal price and cost assumptions used to determine the cut-off grade for identifying economically viable ore bodies.
There is also judgment in developing and maintaining the mine plans which estimate the timing and quantities of related production.
The Audit Committee reviewed the report by SRK Consulting the Companys independent SOURCES OF ASSURANCE reserves and resources auditor on the reserves and resources excluding Silverstream and considered the year-on-year changes in SRKs estimation of reserves and resources quantities.
The Audit Committee also considered EYs evaluation of the competence and objectivity of SRK, in the context of financial reporting.
FRESNILLO STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL TODAY REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 137 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SILVERSTREAM CONTRACT SEE NOTE 14 TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Silverstream contract represents a large asset on our balance sheet which can, ASSESSMENT OF THE RISK as a result of movements in variables discussed below, give rise to large, albeit noncash, income or expense amounts in our income statement.
VARIABLES CONSIDERED The Silverstream contract is a derivative financial instrument which must be reflected at fair value at each balance sheet date.
The fair value is most sensitive to the timing and volume of forecast production derived from the reserves and resources and production profile of the Sabinas mine, estimated future silver price and the discount rate applied in the valuation.
The Audit Committee reviewed the inputs into the estimation of the valuation at the SOURCES OF ASSURANCE balance sheet date and associated sensitivity analysis.
This included managements consideration of a review of the Peoles reserve and resource estimation process performed by SRK in the year that had been commissioned by Peoles and the disclosures relating to the Silverstream contract.
It discussed with EY their procedures for their audit of the valuation and the key assumptions therein.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS INCLUDING REVENUE RECOGNITION SEE NOTE 27 TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ASSESSMENT OF THE RISK Fresnillo has a controlling shareholder and as a result has very strong ties both to Peoles and the broader BAL group.
There is a risk that related party relationships could be taken advantage of to manipulate earnings or otherwise distort our financial position.
Furthermore, related party transaction disclosure requirements allow investors to understand the Companys exposure to inappropriate related party transactions and there is a risk that disclosures in our financial statements could be inaccurate or incomplete.
VARIABLES CONSIDERED Every year, the Audit Committee scrutinises the probity of all major related party transactions to ensure that they are entered into transparently and fairly to all shareholders see the section of this report headed Transactions with Related Parties.
The Audit Committee has also considered transfer pricing assessments completed by the Groups external adviser, .
SOURCES OF ASSURANCE The Audit Committee reviewed EYs procedures to ensure that related party transactions are recognised accurately and correctly reported in the relevant disclosures in the Annual Report, to ensure that they are consistent with the information it is presented with during the year.
TAXATION AND PTU SEE NOTE 10 TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ASSESSMENT OF THE RISK The taxation of mining companies in Mexico has been the subject of much attention and governmental action in Mexico.
In accordance with the Mexican legislation, local companies also pay employee profit sharing PTU equivalent to approximately 10% of the taxable income of each fiscal year.
There is a risk that deductions taken when calculating tax and PTU charges may be challenged, and that any resulting exposures to payable taxation and PTU may not have been provided for appropriately.
In addition, certain tax assets and liabilities are denominated in Mexican pesos and may be revalued during the period, resulting in foreign exchange gains or losses which need to be taken into account when assessing the tax charge for the period.
VARIABLES CONSIDERED The Audit Committee seeks to conclude that the stated charges for PTU and taxation are fair and reasonable.
It reviews all the significant judgements and adjustments applied to accounting profit in determining profit subject to taxation or PTU for each subsidiary which are clearly set out in papers prepared by management.
SOURCES OF ASSURANCE Throughout the year the Audit Committee received updates on the status of tax inspections and the Companys progress in meeting the new legislation with respect to contractors tax compliance.
The Audit Committee also challenged managements detailed memorandum and sought EYs views and ascertained the degree to which such judgements and adjustments are supported by internal and or external subject matter experts and ensured that these explanations correspond with information it was presented with during the year prior to approving the relevant disclosures in the Annual Report.
138 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTINUED LICENCES AND LAND TITLE SEE NOTE 12 TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Without good title to land and licences to operate, the Company would be unable to ASSESSMENT OF THE RISK operate its mines.
Defective title or failure to comply with operating conditions set out in the mine licences would give rise to impairment risk.
VARIABLES CONSIDERED The Audit Committee considers whether the Company continues to have a robust process to ensure that all required legal documentation is completed correctly on acquisition of land titles particularly in light of litigation and ejido activity.
The specific questions arising from this are: i whether there are factors which may give rise to asset impairment: ii whether the level of legal provisions and narrative disclosures in the accounts are adequate: and iii whether when the Group would be able to resume operations at Soledad-Dipolos.
The Audit Committee has oversight over the progress of the land title review and SOURCES OF ASSURANCE throughout the year has received verbal and written reports from the Companys Head of Legal based on assessments by the Companys external legal counsel.
ENSURING THAT THE ANNUAL REPORT IS FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE There are a number of steps that the Board undertakes to ensure that the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable: Management prepares drafts of the Annual Report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017.
Two weeks prior to the Annual Report being approved by the Board, members of the Audit Committee and other Directors review a current draft enabling them to assess whether the information was consistent with their understanding of the Companys business.
Suggested changes put forward by the Directors, based on knowledge obtained through Board and Audit Committee papers and discussion and other interactions with management are taken into account by management in preparing the final version of the Annual Report.
Any Alternative Performance Measures APM used in the Annual Report are reviewed by the Audit Committee.
Internal Audit undertake a review exercise of the non-financial numbers in the Annual Report which are extracted from the Companys operational records.
The Audit Committee reviews the Annual Report and financial statements and then recommends them to the Board for approval.
As a result of the above procedures, the Board considers that, taken as a whole, the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable.
EXTERNAL AUDIT KEY ACTIVITIES IN 2017 Review EY report following completion of the audit for the year ended 31 December 2016. Review of the representation letter given to EY for the 2016 full-year audit.
Review effectiveness of the 2016 full-year audit process.
Recommendation to the Board of the reappointment of EY as auditors at AGM.
Review of letter from EY providing their observations and opportunities arising from the 2016 audit process and management responses to same.
Discussion with EY of the findings from their review of interim results for the period ended 30 June 2017. Review 2017 half-year representation letter given to EY.
Review and approval of the external audit plan, fees and terms of audit engagement.
Review of Financial Reporting Council FRC Report on EY as a firm in respect of 2016 Annual Reports.
Consideration of the independence, objectivity and qualifications of EY as external auditor.
Review of policy on the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor and approvals.
Review of the results of the hard close audit for the ten months to 31 October 2017.
FRESNILLO STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL TODAY REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 139 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 EXTERNAL AUDIT CONTINUED During 2017, the members of the Audit Committee met twice with representatives from EY without management present and once with management without representatives of EY present, to ensure that there are no issues in the relationship between management and the external auditor which it should address.
APPOINTMENT OF THE EXTERNAL AUDITOR In February 2017, the Audit Committee considered and recommended the re-appointment of the external auditor, EY, to the Board prior to the Companys Annual General Meeting.
This recommendation was made following a robust tender exercise which had been conducted during 2016 and was outlined in the Audit Committee Report for 2016.
EYs tender in 2016 made certain commitments to enhance the quality of the external audit and the Committee have monitored how EY has fulfilled the commitments made at that time.
The Audit Partner is Daniel Trotman and he has been the Audit Partner for three years.
EVALUATION OF THE EXTERNAL AUDITOR The key criteria against which the external audit tenderers were assessed in 2016, and which remain appropriate for the assessment of EY, are as follows: Experience in mining, with precious metals expertise preferred, in companies of a similar size and complexity.
London team experienced with FTSE 100 companies and associated regulation and governance supported by local Mexican team.
Quality of partners in UK and Mexico and quality of their teams, evidenced by firm and external evaluations.
Issues from the FRCs Audit Quality Review AQR of the firm relevant to audit of Fresnillo and details of internal processes used for quality assurance.
Quality and experience of other technical resources that may be used on assignments.
How the audit approach is aligned to Fresnillos specific circumstances as set down in detail in their audit plan for the year.
Communication skills in both written documentation and meetings.
Independence of firm and details of internal practices to ensure continuing compliance with independence requirements and freedom from conflicts of interest.
Co-ordination with parent company management and auditors.
The Audit Committee also reviewed the FRCs Audit Quality Review on EY as a firm, the FRC having not selected Fresnillo for review, and ensured that no findings concerning EYs audit quality were relevant to the audit of Fresnillo plc.
In February 2018, based on the above criteria, and following detailed discussions with management, the Audit Committee evaluated the performance of EY in 2017 and concluded that it was appropriate to recommend the re-appointment of EY as external auditor at the 2018 Annual General Meeting.
QUALITY AND INDEPENDENCE OF THE EXTERNAL AUDITOR AND NON-AUDIT SERVICES POLICY The Audit Committee is mindful of its responsibility to ensure that the external auditor maintains its independence and objectivity and is appropriately qualified with sufficient resources and expertise to fulfil the role.
The Audit Committee specifically reviewed, and is satisfied with, the independence of EY as the external auditor based on disclosures provided by EY in accordance with UK Ethical Standards for the audit profession.
The Audit Committee reviewed its policy for the provision of non-audit services to the Fresnillo Group by the external auditor the Policy during the year having updated it in 2016.
No further changes were made to the Policy in 2017.
The current policy permits the engagement of the external auditor to provide statutory audit services, certain assurance, and due diligence services where fees are less than US$5,000 to be pre-approved.
Any engagement of the external auditor to provide permitted services above US$5,000 is subject to the specific approval of the Audit Committee.
During 2017, the Audit Committee authorised EY to provide the following services under the Policy on the basis that neither piece of work was deemed by the Audit Committee to compromise EYs independence: i A short deferred tax training session for the Fresnillo financial reporting team in Torron US$4,200.
ii Accounting support for the finance team in relation to the application of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 US$23,500.
iii A review of the calculations underpinning the tax methodology in Pru US$7,000.
In February 2017, EY informed the Audit Committee that there had been a minor breach of the Ethical Standards on non-audit services as a result of EY undertaking less than two hours work on tax compliance services in the UK in January 2017.
Such work was permitted prior to 31 December 2016 and the services had been provided in error.
The Audit Committee was satisfied that there was no threat to EYs independence as a result of this matter.
Details of the fees paid to EY during the year as shown in note 28 to the financial statements.
140 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED RISK AND INTERNAL CONTROL KEY ACTIVITIES IN 2017 Quarterly reviews of the risk matrix and Key Risk Indicators KRIs.
RISK Half-yearly reviews of the Principal Risks and Uncertainties.
INTERNAL CONTROL Quarterly review of internal control monitoring reports to the Board.
Consideration of plan for the year-end review of the system of internal controls.
Annual review of the system of internal controls.
FINANCIAL Annual treasury policy review and investment of cash balances.
NON-FINANCIAL Review of reserves and resources data and report from SRK.
Quarterly review of Anti-Bribery and Corruption Programme ABAC.
Quarterly report on legal matters including land titles and litigation.
Regular reviews of IT governance, IT strategy, cyber security and data protection.
Annual review of compliance with mining licence conditions.
GOING CONCERN Half-yearly reviews of the Going Concern Statement and supporting papers.
VIABILITY Review of the process for preparing the Viability Statement including scenario planning assumptions and supporting paper.
Review of the draft Viability Statement prior to submission to Board for approval.
RISK Management continues to build on the existing risk management framework, seeking to enhance risk governance and management across the business in line with the changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code.
In order to support the Board in monitoring the normal risk management activities, the Audit Committee reviewed managements activities to: develop a continuous monitoring process consisting of validating the effectiveness of current controls: continue promoting ownership of risk mitigation and associated controls among the process owners at the business unit level being the first line of defence through their periodic reporting on the effectiveness of controls: and ensure that the Groups corporate values and control culture are embedded throughout the organisation.
These efforts have resulted in a transparent analysis of the operational, financial and executive management controls for each of the risks that have been identified by management in its risk universe.
A quarterly report is prepared for the Board which explains any significant variations in the KRIs and managements conclusion on the likely effect on the relevant risk ratings and or any modifications in the related controls.
This is reviewed by the Audit Committee prior to its submission to the Board.
During 2017, the Audit Committee and Board formally reviewed the Principal Risks and Uncertainties of the Group prior to the publication of both the interim and full-year reports.
Further details of the risk management system are set out on page 34.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT The Companys objectives and policies on financial risk management including information on the Companys exposures to market risk, such as foreign currency, commodity price, interest rate, inflation rate and equity price risks: credit risk and liquidity risk can be found in note 31 to the financial statements.
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY In the current year the Audit Committee continued to receive updates on the Groups IT strategy, its linkage to the Groups overall business strategy and the financial implications of that strategy for the business plan.
The Audit Committee has also focused on the related risks of cyber security.
The Audit Committee was satisfied that progress has been made during the year in each of these areas.
Further information about the Groups approach to IT is set out on pages 50 and 51 of the Strategic Report.
INTERNAL CONTROL The Group has in place internal controls and risk management systems in relation to the Groups financial reporting process and the Groups process for preparing consolidated accounts.
These systems include policies and procedures to ensure that adequate accounting records are maintained and transactions are recorded accurately and fairly to permit the preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS.
FRESNILLO STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL TODAY REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 141 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 During 2017, the Audit Committee has continued to review the quarterly internal control monitoring document which was introduced in 2016 and which is prepared and submitted to the Board at each of its regular meetings.
This document specifically reports on internal controls and the key findings from the quarterly Internal Audit reports.
The process agreed by the Audit Committee to monitor the Groups system of internal controls is focused on improving the understanding of how the various sources of assurance such as operational management, financial management, executive management and Internal Audit interact in the review and execution of material controls identifying and addressing any gaps in the control framework.
To this end, the Audit Committee, with the assistance of the risk function and management, has assessed its approach to monitoring the ongoing effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls.
The progress to date was reviewed by the Audit Committee in February 2018.
Further control exceptions identified in the current year include those relating to operational safety, compliance with regulations for handling hazardous materials and explosives, monitoring of electrical installations, installation of auxiliary services within the mine, monitoring and operation of tailings deposits and the oversight over contractors.
These issues are not pervasive throughout the Groups operations but each issue has occurred at least at one of the Groups operating areas and plans for remediation have been approved and these are being progressed.
On the recommendation of the Audit Committee, the Board agreed that the following statement be made about the review of the system of internal control in the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts.
The Board has, through the Executive Committee and the Audit Committee at its February 2018 meeting, reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls.
As a result of this review, the Board considers that the measures that have been or are planned to be implemented complement Fresnillos risk management framework and are appropriate to the Groups circumstances.
The Board is committed to the continued development of its internal control regime with a view to achieving and maintaining best practice levels of risk management and internal control for international mining companies listed on the London Stock Exchange.
GOING CONCERN The Directors must satisfy themselves as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern for a minimum of 12 months from the approval of the financial statements.
The Audit Committee supported the Board in this assessment by considering whether, in adverse circumstances, the Company has adequate liquid resources to meet its obligations as they fall due.
In February 2018, the Audit Committee reviewed the Group budget and cash flow forecasts for the period to December 2019, taking into account the Companys anticipated production profiles at each mine, budgeted capital and exploration expenditure and the sensitivity of the cashflow forecasts to movements in metal prices.
The Audit Committee also considered EYs report on this assessment and on the reasonableness of assumptions therein, including their consistency with assumptions and estimates used elsewhere in the preparation of the financial statements.
In particular, the Committee challenged management on the feasibility of the mitigating actions and the potential speed of their implementation.
As a result of the procedures performed, the Audit Committee satisfied itself that the going concern basis of preparation is appropriate and the financial statements appropriately reflect the conclusions on going concern.
LONGER-TERM VIABILITY Having adopted a robust process in 2015 for the preparation of the initial Viability Statement which was described in the 2015 Audit Committee Report, in 2016 the Audit Committee considered with management ways of further enhancing the disclosures by including references to contingency planning.
The Audit Committee agreed with management that no further changes were required in 2017.
The Boards Going Concern Statement and longer-term Viability Statement are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 48 and 49.
142 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED INTERNAL AUDIT KEY ACTIVITIES IN 2017 Review Internal Audit Plan and its resourcing for the following year.
ANNUALLY Evaluation of Internal Audit.
TWICE A YEAR Meeting between the Audit Committee and Internal Audit without management present.
EVERY MEETING Review of significant Internal Audit findings including progress on red flags based on the audits conducted during the most recent quarter.
The Head of Internal Audit and Internal Audit Manager attend all meetings of the Audit Committee.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee met separately with them five times during 2017 around the time of each Audit Committee meeting.
The Internal Audit team seeks to complete audits of all the operating risks across all of the Fresnillo Groups mining assets on a regular basis.
During the year, the Audit Committee received specific input from Internal Audit to focus on four particular areas: 1.
New mines: Following the emphasis on auditing the Companys new mines which was initiated in 2016, Internal Audit completed its examination to ensure that proper procedures were implemented from the beginning in those new operations and to ascertain whether there were any lessons to be learned.
This work was fundamental to refine methodologies and working arrangements between multiple disciplines to provide enhanced transparency to management about operational and financial performance throughout the process of building and commissioning new mines.
Red flags: At each meeting during the year, the Audit Committee has focused on the progress made by management in dealing with red flag items raised during internal audit visits to ensure that the management responses to remediation are appropriate and timely.
Significant progress, which has been monitored by Internal Audit, has been made during the year to reduce the number of issues requiring long-term remedial work that remained outstanding at the end of 2017.
IT issues: including cyber security : During 2017, the Audit Committee received presentations from the Head of IT setting out the Group IT Strategy for the year and demonstrating how this supports the overall Group Strategy.
Within these presentations, the Audit Committee considered the steps being taken by management to deal with cyber security threats, liaised with Internal Audit to ensure that appropriate controls are, or are planned to be, in place and reviewed the extent to which awareness has been raised internally.
Data protection: Internal audit monitored the steps being taken to ensure that appropriate levels of procedural compliance with the requirements of Mexican data protection legislation are in place.
Human Resources has taken over day-to-day responsibility for the implementation of the relevant procedures.
The Audit Committee understands the steps being taken by management to deal with these matters and is satisfied with the progress being made.
In addition, the Audit Committee also monitored the quality of the dialogue between Internal Audit and the Executive Committee in reviewing internal audit findings and agreeing action plans with appropriate levels of operational buy-in to deal with the points raised.
The Audit Committee met with the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Operating Officer several times during the year to review the outstanding points and is satisfied with the progress achieved through this dialogue.
The members of the Audit Committee evaluate the performance of the Internal Audit team annually and in 2017 this process was facilitated by the Chairman of the Audit Committee who discussed the findings of that review with the Head of Internal Audit and Internal Audit Manager and consulted with his colleagues on the Audit Committee before finalising the review.
When reviewing the Internal Audit Plan for the year, the Audit Committee also considered the personnel available within the Internal Audit team, their expertise and experience, to resource their increasing workload.
FRESNILLO STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL TODAY REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 143 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 WHISTLEBLOWING KEY ACTIVITY IN 2017 Review of whistleblowing cases considered by Honour Commission at each meeting of the Audit Committee.
The Fresnillo Plays Fair whistleblower hotline allows stakeholders to anonymously report via an independent third party violations of the Groups Code of Conduct.
The results are assessed by an independent third party and processed for review by the Honour Commission, which comprises the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Operating Officer, the Compliance Officer currently the Chief Financial Officer, the Director of Internal Audit, the Vice President of Exploration and the Legal Manager.
These arrangements have been established for some time and the Audit Committee is responsible for ensuring that appropriate investigation of all whistleblowing incidents is undertaken in a timely manner.
In 2017, there were a total of 46 reports, a 10% decrease over 2016.
The Audit Committee continues to view this level as encouraging for our efforts to promote a greater understanding of the benefits of reporting issues.
The Audit Committee considers that this indicates that employees recognise that such reports are valued and investigations are rigorously evaluated.
68% of the 2017 reports were actioned in the year with the remainder, having been raised in the latter part of the year, still being under investigation.
Fresnillo plc has a whistleblowing line available for all stakeholders, including employees, third parties and the general public.
Information regarding this whistleblowing mechanism is widely circulated with access available via our website in the Ethics and Culture Code of Conduct section.
The whistleblowing reports are reviewed on a quarterly basis by the Honour Commission and then presented to the Audit Committee.
The purpose of the whistleblowing line is to encourage employees and others to raise good faith concerns about misconduct that goes or appears to go against the Companys internal Code of Conduct and our institutional values.
The following table provides a summary of the cases that were received in 2016 2017: 2017 2016 Alleged inappropriate arrangements with suppliers 10 9 Alleged professional negligence 7 4 Alleged theft 7 6 Alleged harassment 5 16 Alleged abuse of authority 4 2 Other contractors 4 Alleged misuse of assets 3 4 Alleged fraud 1 Alleged conflict of interest 1 Alleged unethical arrangements with other third parties 1 Other 5 8 46 51 Reports received can be anonymous: all are investigated as to their merits and addressed by the designated area assigned by the Compliance Officer in coordination with the Honour Commission.
Once an investigation is concluded, results are presented to the Honour Commission which decides if any particular necessary action or sanction is required.
A summary of such actions are presented below: Status 2017 2016 Disciplinary steps taken 8 8 No disciplinary action was taken but steps were 12 23 Concluded taken to reinforce current control procedures Dismissed for lack of grounds 11 18 In progress of investigation 15 2 46 51 During 2017, the Audit Committee was satisfied that all matters had been or are being properly investigated with appropriate action taken.
The Audit Committee considers that current level of issues raised is good evidence that the programme is being taken seriously across the Group and is operating satisfactorily, albeit that it was noticed in 2017 that the process of investigating issues raised in the cases reported took more time to arrive at the appropriate solution which was the reason behind the increased number of cases in progress of investigation over 2016.
144 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED RELATED PARTIES KEY ACTIVITIES IN 2017 Review of related parties list and payments to key external advisors.
Review of insurance programme including the role of related parties in the insurance programme.
Review of Met-Mex treatment charge and refining charge rates for 2017. Review of preparations for the renewal of the Shared Services Agreement in 2018.
Peoles owns just under 75% of the issued share capital of the Company see page 148 and therefore has and will continue to have a significant level of influence over the affairs and operations of Fresnillo.
Being part of the same Group also provides an opportunity for synergistic benefits to be achieved operationally and administratively by combining the resourcing of common services that can be shared between Peoles and Fresnillo.
The principal arrangements between the Company and related parties are: THE SHARED SERVICES AGREEMENT The Shared Services Agreement is an agreement between the Company and Peoles under which 23 categories of services are provided to the Company by Peoles.
The Shared Services Agreement was renewed for five years with effect from 31 December 2012.
In order to ensure that Fresnillo is charged appropriately for services rendered by Peoles under the Shared Services Agreement, management has regular meetings with Peoles to discuss its performance against the Key Performance Indicators KPIs for each of the different categories of service where issues of non-compliance are addressed and remediation agreed.
In addition, Internal Audit conducts reviews of approximately one third of the services provided each year to ensure that these services are provided in accordance with the agreed KPIs.
As a result, all services are reviewed by Internal Audit over a three-year cycle.
During 2017, the Audit Committee reviewed the planning for the renewal of the Shared Service Agreement in early 2018.
Supported by KPMG, this process seeks to use third party benchmarking across all of the service categories covered by the Share Services Agreement to ensure that the scope and pricing for each service is appropriate.
The Audit Committee also reviewed the performance of Peoles in meeting the KPIs for the different service categories over the current term of the Shared Services Agreement.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that appropriate services have been achieved.
The Audit Committee discussed with KPMG their methodology for benchmarking prices for each of the 24 separate services now required and their evaluation of all of the prices tendered.
Their resulting conclusion was a price for 2018, the first year of the new five-year Shared Services Agreement, which represented an increase of less than 10% over 2017, made up from inflation and additional service levels required offset by operational efficiencies.
The Audit Committee concluded that the new five-year Shared Services Agreement was reasonable in all respects and recommended that the independent Non-executive Directors approve its signing by the Company, which they did at the Board meeting in February 2018.
THE MET-MEX AGREEMENT During the year, the Audit Committee considered the proposed charges in respect of the Met-Mex arrangements for 2017 comparing proposed prices to comparable prices charged by Met-Mex to independent customers and to those of other refineries taking account of ore composition and transport costs to ensure that they are reasonable.
Based on the satisfactory outcome of that review, the Chairman of the Audit Committee recommended to the Board that the independent Directors approve the proposed charges for 2017 under the Met-Mex arrangements, which they did at the Board meeting in October 2017.
There are other dealings with related parties in the ordinary course of business OTHER AGREEMENTS e. g. insurance brokerage which, although not requiring approval by independent Directors, will from time-to-time be reviewed by the Audit Committee to ensure that the arrangements are on a reasonable arms-length basis.
FRESNILLO STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL TODAY REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 145 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 EFFECTIVENESS KEY ACTIVITIES IN 2017 Review of the training and development activities for Audit Committee members and briefings from the external auditors relating to changes in financial regulation.
Annual review of the terms of reference of the Audit Committee in order to ensure that they remain up-to-date.
Since the inception of the Audit Committee, there has been a continuing programme of evaluation which has embraced the activities of the Committee itself as well as the performances respectively of the external auditor and the Internal Audit function.
At least once every three years, these reviews have been externally facilitated with internal evaluation exercises undertaken during the intervening years.
During 2017, there were two key workstreams to this activity: i follow-up to the  evaluation of the Audit Committee undertaken in 2016: and ii an externally facilitated review of the Audit Committee undertaken by Lintstock as part of its review of the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees.
2016 evaluation follow-up: The internal evaluation in 2016 was facilitated by the Company Secretary, using a questionnairebased approach.
This was the final step in a three-year process which commenced with the previous external evaluation in 2014.
The conclusions of the 2016 evaluation were that the Audit Committee was satisfied that its core duties were being performed well: however, it identified five further areas for review during 2017.
The following table shows the progress made on those five areas of review during the year: ACTION PROGRESS Review of the Boards post-investment review procedures.
A new format for reporting to the Board on postinvestment appraisal was presented to the Board at its July meeting.
Oversight of managements evaluation of the Shared A presentation on the process and metrics for the Services Agreement as it approaches its renewal date.
renewal of the Shared Services Agreement was presented at the February 2018 meeting of the Committee with the Agreement being presented to the Board for approval by the Independent Nonexecutive Directors in February 2018.
Oversight of the IT Governance Committee in relation The Audit Committee has received presentations from to the management of the IT strategy and IT-related the Head of IT on the IT Strategy and its interface with internal controls and the liaison with Internal Audit.
the Companys Business Plan and Strategy.
The Audit Committee Chairman has attended numerous meetings with IT personnel to oversee the production of detailed plans and timelines to deliver the IT requirements of the Companys Business Plan.
The role of the IT Governance Committee in overseeing the IT Strategy was reviewed and progress noted.
The interface between the Audit Committee, Internal Early in 2017, we decided to combine these two actions Audit and the HSECR Committee in relation to internal to better reflect managements efforts to rationalise the audit findings relating to health, safety and environmental various elements of non-financial information into a matters.
The Audit Committee has overseen this work and liaised with Internal Audit to The relationship between the Audit Committees ensure that any data required from operational records oversight of the Honour Commission and the wider is sourced appropriately.
governance of culture by the Board and the HSECR Committee.
146 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED EFFECTIVENESS CONTINUED 2017 external evaluation follow-up: The 2017 evaluation of the Committee by Lintstock used a questionnaire-based approach.
Lintstock concluded from the completed questionnaires that the management of Audit Committee meetings, in terms of the annual cycle of work, the meeting agendas and supporting documentation and the time and input during meetings, was highly rated, and that the Committee functioned effectively and no areas for improvement were noted.
Nevertheless, the Audit Committee, from its own evaluation, identified that there were areas which warranted further review in 2018.
Oversight to ensure that the lessons learnt from the post-investment appraisal exercise in 2017 are correctly reflected in managements methodologies for new projects.
Continued liaison with the IT Governance Committee over the development of IT-related internal controls and the interaction with Internal Audit.
Oversight of the development of performance indicators on non-financial information and the related work by Internal Audit.
Continued liaison with management over progress on the various outstanding matters with the Mexican tax authorities.
NEXT STEPS The Audit Committee intends to undertake an  evaluation of the Internal Audit function during 2018.
It will conduct an internal review of its own effectiveness in 2018.
