122 122 FRESNILL FRESNILLO PL O PLC C ANNUAL REPORT AND A ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 CCOUNTS 2017 FRESNILLO AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE APPROACH UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE The Board takes corporate governance seriously and COMPLIANCE STATEMENT considers its responsibilities under the UK Corporate As a company with a premium listing on the London Governance Code the Code with care.
With nearly 75% Stock Exchange, Fresnillo is required under the FCA of its share capital owned by Peoles, it is important Listing Rules to comply with the Code Provisions of to consider corporate governance in the context of the the Code a copy of which can be found on the website Companys relationship with its parent company.
The Board of the Financial Reporting Council www.
uk considers this to be a strength rather than a threat because or otherwise explain its reasons for non-compliance.
it brings the shareholder perspective into the boardroom and creates an additional level of accountability for the The following statement is therefore made in respect executive team compared to other listed companies.
of the year ended 31 December 2017 in compliance with such requirement.
The framework for corporate governance within Fresnillo plc therefore has three features which are relatively unusual for For the financial year ended 31 December 2017, UK public companies: in particular: the Company has complied with the provisions of the There are no Executive Directors on the Board: however, Code in all areas, save in respect of two instances.
the Fresnillo Board operates differently from the traditional Code Provision D. 1.1 provides that the Remuneration UK board with Non-executive and Executive Directors.
The Committee should include provisions that would non-independent and independent Directors on the Board enable the Company to recover sums paid or withhold engage with the business of the Board in slightly different the payment of any sum to senior executives, and ways.
The non-independent Directors have more regular specify the circumstances in which it would be day-to-day access to the executive management of appropriate to do so.
Following the approval by Fresnillo plc within the Peoles context and therefore are shareholders of the Companys Remuneration Policy able to engage with proposals put forward by the Executive at the 2017 AGM on 23 May 2017, the Remuneration Committee in a more direct manner.
The independent Committee now has discretion to reduce annual bonus Non-executive Directors bring an external perspective payments where circumstances justify it.
Thus, the to bear when evaluating proposals and conducting Board considers that the Company was in compliance the business of the Board.
Thus the non-independent with Code Provision D. 1.1 with effect from the date of Directors, the independent Non-executive Directors and approval of the new Directors Remuneration Policy.
the Executive Committee have complementary roles in Further explanation is set out in the Directors the business of the Board.
The membership of the Remuneration Committee Code Provision D. 2.1 provides that the Board should is made up of Non-executive Directors the majority establish a Remuneration Committee of at least three of whom are independent who are able to bring the independent Non-executive Directors.
The composition following perspectives to the working of the of the Fresnillo Remuneration Committee is made up Remuneration Committee: of three members including two independent Nonan understanding of shareholder expectations: executive Directors one of whom, Charles Jacobs, is an understanding of the evolving remuneration the Chairman of the Committee.
The Chairman of the expectations of investors on the London Stock Company, Alberto Baillres, who was not independent Exchange: and at the time of his appointment, is also a member.
an understanding of the general approaches to The Board believes that Mr Baillres experience and remuneration within the Mexican market.
knowledge of the Group and the Mexican market and In addition, given the Companys London premium his considerable contribution to the Remuneration listing and most of the remuneration requirements Committees deliberations justifies his membership being internationally driven, the Nomination Committee of the Remuneration Committee.
Mr Baillres is not and Board are of the view that Charles Jacobs, based involved in matters concerning his own remuneration.
in London, is the most appropriate chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
The following sections of this report explain how the Having the Chairman, who is non-executive but not principles of the Code were applied and provide crossindependent, as a member of the Remuneration references to other sections of the report and or the Committee, enhances the Committees collective ability Companys website www.
com where more to take these perspectives into account in its discussions.
Fresnillo plc derives synergistic benefits from services provided by Peoles.
Being a part of a group which has common requirements across a number of service areas, provides opportunities for resources to be shared efficiently from a cost point of view.
The Audit Committee has therefore developed governance processes to ensure that these arrangements provide the intended benefits to the Company in a transparent and controlled manner.
The key elements of the Boards approach to ensuring that the Companys commercial relationship with its parent company and other related parties are independent and maintained on an arms length basis are described later in this section.
FRESNILL FRESNILLO O STRA STRATEGIC TEGIC CORPORA CORPORATE TE FINANCIAL FINANCIAL T TO OD DAY AY REPORT REPORT GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE ST STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS 123 123 FRESNILL FRESNILLO PL O PLC C ANNUAL REPORT AND A ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 CCOUNTS 2017 THE GOVERNANCE OF FRESNILLOS RELATED PARTY ARRANGEMENTS RELATIONSHIP AGREEMENT Peoles has entered into a relationship agreement with the Company the Relationship Agreement to ensure that relationships between the Fresnillo Group and the Peoles Group are conducted at arms length and on normal commercial terms.
The non-independent Directors listed previously have been appointed to the Board by Peoles pursuant to the Relationship Agreement.
The Relationship Agreement complies with the independence provisions set out in Listing Rule 6.1.
The Company has complied with the independence provisions included in the Relationship Agreement during the financial year ended 31 December 2017.
As far as the Company is aware, such provisions have been complied with during the financial year ended 31 December 2017 by Peoles and or any of its associates.
Peoles has also undertaken not to exercise its voting rights to amend the Articles of Association in a way which would be inconsistent with the provisions of the agreement.
It has also agreed to abstain from voting on any resolution to approve a related party transaction as defined in paragraph 11.1.
5 R of the Listing Rules involving any member of the Peoles Group.
The following diagram summarises the approach taken to identify and manage related party transactions.
IDENTIFYING DIRECTORS INTERESTS PROCESS HOW THIS IS MANAGED RESPONSIBILITY Monitoring of If a Director is interested in a company which could potentially enter into Directors Directors interests transactions with a Fresnillo plc Group company, the Board will normally consider that interest under its arrangements for authorising conflicts of interest under s175 of Companies Act.
MANAGING A RELATED PARTY TRANSACTION PROPOSED Ongoing monitoring of Directors interests and related parties of the Company TRANSACTION provides the information to determine if a related party approval is required for a proposed transaction, where possible.
PROCESS HOW THIS IS MANAGED RESPONSIBILITY Contract The Executive Committee will seek to ensure that the best possible terms Fresnillo negotiation are achieved for a proposed transaction and that they are verified by industry management and verification benchmarking reports or independent valuation assessment, where possible.
and Executive Committee PROCESS HOW THIS IS MANAGED RESPONSIBILITY Financial scrutiny The Audit Committee reviews the key terms of major transactions which Audit are verified as to price and quality with external consultants or independent Committee benchmarking, where possible.
PROCESS HOW THIS IS MANAGED RESPONSIBILITY Independent Under the Relationship Agreement and the Listing Rules, the Independent Independent Director approval Directors must approve any transaction with the Peoles Group and its associates Directors without the non-independent Directors voting.
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The Group requires that Directors complete a Directors List.
The list sets out details of situations where each Directors interest may conflict with those of the Company situational conflicts.
Each Director has re-submitted their list as at 31 December 2017 for the Board to consider and authorise any new situational conflicts identified in the re-submitted lists.
At the beginning of each Board meeting, the Company Secretary reminds the Directors of their duties under sections 175, 177 and 182 of the Companies Act which relate to the disclosure of any conflicts of interest prior to any matter that may be discussed by the Board.
Further information about related party matters considered by the Board during the year are set out in the Audit Committee Report on page 144.
