V. Corporate Governance Report INTRODUCTION The Board is responsible for, and committed to, ensuring that procedures are in place so that good standards of corporate governance are operated at all levels in the Group in accordance with the guidance and principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in April 2016 the Code.
The Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Council website, frc.
The Board, supported by its Committees and the Senior Management team, have in place a governance and control environment which they believe is appropriate for the NMC Group and which they believe are consistent with the standards which would be expected of a FTSE 100 Company listed on the Premium Segment of the London Stock Exchange.
The Board ensures that governance processes are documented and implemented and, where appropriate, continue to be improved.
The Board has reviewed the Companys compliance against the provisions of the Code and believes that, with the exception of Code principle B.
6, the Company was compliant with the provisions of the Code for the 2016 Financial Year.
An evaluation of the Board and the individual Directors was not undertaken during the year.
The Board does consider that the balance of skills and experience as well as its diversity, continues to provide the Board with an excellent base from which to manage the Group on shareholders behalf.
Although the Group has continued to perform very well and the Board believes that it operates successfully and with consensus, the Board acknowledges the benefits of using an external facilitator to assess its own performance and therefore it has been agreed that Prism Boardroom will facilitate an independent review of the performance of the Board during 2018.
This Governance section describes how the Board has applied Corporate Governance principles during the 2017 financial year.
The Company operates within a traditional governance framework: JOINT CHAIRMEN Board Group Company Board Senior Independent CEO Secretary Committees Non-Executive Director Senior Management Team The roles and responsibilities of each of the individuals and groups above, and their role in the overall governance framework, are set out below.
THE BOARD Clinical Governance Nominations Remuneration Audit Committee Committee Committee Committee THE ROLE OF THE BOARD The Board is responsible for the overall conduct of the Groups business and: for the long term success of the Company ensuring that it meets its responsibilities towards all stakeholders: demonstrating leadership and focusing on matters that affect shareholder value: determining the strategic direction of the Group: and for ensuring the effectiveness of, and reporting on, the risks facing the Group and the systems of governance and internal control in place in the Group.
The Board seeks at all times to ensure that there is an appropriate balance between short term and long term considerations and objectives of the Group.
The Board has the powers and duties as set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
The Company has agreed a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board including: approval of strategic plans: approval of major capital projects, acquisitions and divestments: approval of long term financing plans: setting the annual budget: risk management and internal control systems and processes to ensure that the Group is managed appropriately: and approving the half-year and annual results and financial statements.
Specific responsibilities are delegated to Board Committees, details of which are set out on pages 45 to 52 or to the Chief Executive Officer who is responsible for delivering the Companys strategic objectives.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 41 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued THE BOARD CONTINUED BOARD COMPOSITION AND INDEPENDENCE The Company has controlling shareholders and therefore keeps under review the independence of individual Directors and the Board as a whole.
The Executive Directors and any Non-Executive Directors representing the interests of the Companys controlling shareholders are not considered to be independent by the Board.
The Board of the Company currently comprises eleven directors, all of whom have served on the Board for six years or less: the Independent Non-Executive Joint Chairman the Non-Executive Joint Chairman three Executive Directors five Independent Non-Executive Directors one Non-Independent Non-Executive Director The Board considers that it is independent.
The Senior Independent Director is Jonathan Bomford, who is available to shareholders should they have any concerns that they do not wish to raise with the Company or either of the Joint Chairmen directly.
The Senior Independent Director can be contacted through the UK corporate office, and registered office, of the Company.
BOARD DIVERSITY The Board considers that the extensive and diverse business, cultural and operational experience of all the Directors, both Independent and non-Independent, ensures a good balance in all aspects of Group decision making and control.
The above attributes also enable the Board to take account of diverse and independent judgement to bear on key issues of: strategy, including constructively challenging the strategic direction of the Group: the consideration of acquisition proposals and long term financing of the Groups growth strategy: scrutinising and challenging the performance of the Group: assessing risk and controls operating within the Group and in its decision making: and standards of conduct and governance and other matters presented to the Board.
Therefore the Board is structured to ensure that: an appropriate cultural and ethnic mix is in place considering the Companys listing in the UK and its diversified operations, the vast majority of which are in the GCC, as well as global drivers and practice in healthcare related services: the conclusions of the Davis Report on Women on Boards, and in particular the benefits of significant male and female representation on the Board, are taken into account: and the individual skills and experience that Directors bring to the Board are well balanced.
The Board will continue to consider appropriate skills, gender and cultural balance when reviewing future Board appointments.
Board diversity as at the date of this report is as follows: Board Gender Nationality Male 73% Emirati 3 Female 27% British 4 Indian 2 Kenyan 1 USA 1 Similar practices to ensure a diverse employee base are also operated within the Groups businesses and the diversity of employees in the Group is summarised in the Corporate Social Responsibility report on pages 32 to 35.
42 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 I. II.
V. KEY ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES IN THE GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE The roles of the Chairmen and Chief Executive Officer are separate.
INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE JOINT CHAIRMAN The Independent Non-Executive Joint Chairman was appointed to the Board in March 2012 in anticipation of the Companys IPO.
He was independent at the time of his appointment and is considered to be independent by the Board.
Alongside his Co-chair, the Independent Non-Executive Joint Chairman is responsible for the proper functioning of the Companys Board of directors including: the effective operation and governance of the Board setting the agenda and coordinating the style and tone of Board discussions The Independent Non-Executive Joint Chairman takes the lead in chairing board meetings.
NON-EXECUTIVE JOINT CHAIRMAN The Non-Executive Joint Chairman previously held the positions of CEO and Executive Vice Chairman of the Company.
His wealth of experience, his deep knowledge of the business and the management team, as well as his unrivalled contacts in the sector and region built over forty years continue to be invaluable to the Group.
His new role enables him to continue to be available to guide the Board and guide and mentor management as required as we continue to grow the business and deliver shareholder value.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER The CEO is responsible for identifying, with the Senior Management Team, opportunities that are deemed appropriate and in line with the Boards strategic objectives.
He is also responsible for delivering the key strategic objectives set by the Board.
The Chief Executive Officer is assisted in this task by his Senior Management Team who meet regularly to discuss the performance of the business, new development opportunities as well as other material matters arising within the business.
SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR The Senior Independent Director acts as a sounding board for the Joint Chairmen and serves as an intermediary for the other Directors as required.
The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if they have concerns which they have not managed to resolve through the normal channels of the Joint Chairmen or the Executive Directors, or who feel that such contact is inappropriate for the concerns that they may have.
The biography of each individual holding the above positions is set out on pages 38 to 39.
BOARD MEETINGS The Group Company Secretary supports the Joint Chairmen in finalising an agenda for each Board meeting and ensuring that appropriate papers are provided from the management team in a timely manner for circulation in advance of Board and Board Committee meetings.
This is to ensure that fully informed decisions can be reached.
BOARD FOCUS IN 2017 Matters considered at all Board Meetings include: Operational and financial performance through management reports Potential acquisition or organic growth opportunities being considered in pursuance of the Groups growth strategy Other development opportunities Board Committee updates Risk and risk management During the course of the 2017 financial year the Board has also considered, as appropriate: Review of the Groups strategy and future development and growth opportunities, including the risks associated with such strategy and opportunities the specific development of certain of the Groups business verticals and also geographic expansion of the Group into new key markets The progress of integration and centralisation projects designed to improve asset utilisation and operating efficiencies across the wider NMC group Long term acquisition and working capital financing The key competitive and regulatory environment drivers in the Groups key markets, particularly in the UAE The Groups half-year and full-year results The proposed operating budget for the following financial year The Groups strategic risks register and consideration of any changes to key risks, controls and mitigations BOARD ATTENDANCE IN THE 2017 FINANCIAL YEAR During the period under review, the Board met, as scheduled, on five occasions as well as other ad-hoc meetings, normally called at very short notice, on specific matters requiring board approval or consideration.
Scheduled periodic Board Meetings are normally split, where possible, between London and Abu Dhabi.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 43 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued BOARD MEETINGS CONTINUED BOARD ATTENDANCE IN THE 2017 FINANCIAL YEAR CONTINUED The attendance of the Directors at each of the scheduled Board meetings during the period is set out in the table below.
Board meeting attendance 2017 Scheduled Attended H. J.
Mark Tompkins 5 5 5 5 Dr B. R. Shetty Mr Khalifa Bin Butti 3 3 Mr Prasanth Manghat 5 5 Mr Hani Buttikhi 3 3 Dr Ayesha Abdullah 5 5 Mr Abdulrahman Basaddiq 5 5 Mr Jonathan Bomford 5 5 5 5 Lord Clanwilliam Salma Hareb 5 5 2 1 Keyur Nagori Binay Shetty 2 2 5 5 Dr Nandini Tandon BOARD EFFECTIVENESS DIRECTOR INDUCTION On appointment, directors have the benefit of a personalised induction programme available to be undertaken during the first few months of their tenure as a director.
Each induction programme covers a number of different areas including: briefings and presentations from management to understand the business operations and financial drivers their legal and regulatory responsibilities as directors and the governance environment in which the Company operates opportunities to visit the Groups key facilities and new capital development project locations meetings with the Companys key advisors BOARD INFORMATION AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT The Directors maintain an appropriate dialogue amongst themselves and with senior management, which ensures that NonExecutive Directors are kept up to date with major developments in the Groups business.
Non-Executive Directors meet with management and undertake visits to operational facilities as required in order to further understand the way the business operates and any change within the business.
The Board had presentations from management during the year in relation to the Groups material acquisitions and financing arrangements, as well as market conditions and drivers within the Groups key markets.
Directors also receive through Board and Board Committee meetings, as well as ongoing communications during the year, updates in relation to other key areas such as changes to the governance requirements and financial reporting as they apply to UK listed companies.
As part of their overall training and development needs, some non-executive directors have attended externally provided seminars and discussion forums relating to their general responsibilities as Directors or areas of specific responsibility, in particular in relation to the Board Committees on which they serve.
Such development opportunities are made available to all Directors on an ongoing basis.
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION During the year the Board did not undertake an evaluation of its own performance.
The Company has however agreed a project with Prism Boardroom to undertake an independently facilitated appraisal during 2018, the results of which will be reported on in the Companys 2018 Annual Report.
RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS All of the directors of the Company submit themselves for re-election at the annual general meeting of the Company to be held on 28 June 2018.
Each resolution for re-election or election of a retiring director will be proposed as a separate resolution.
The Board is satisfied that the contribution made by each director, and the Board as a whole, to board deliberations continues to be appropriate and effective to ensure good stewardship of the Group on behalf of the shareholders of the Company and believe that shareholders should support the re-election of each Director of the Company at the 2018 annual general meeting.
44 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 I. II.
V. OTHER BOARD DISCLOSURES CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The Board are aware of the interest that some Directors have in other businesses in which they have invested.
Any conflicts of interest and related party transactions that may arise are monitored with: Each of the Directors are asked to confirm that they have no other interests which would conflict them for the purposes of any item to be discussed at the meeting: where such conflict is reported, the respective Director is not permitted to take part in the consideration of that matter by the Board: Each Director discloses to the Board any related party transactions in which they are connected, and such transactions are reported in the Groups financial statements.
Whilst Directors on the Board have other business interests, the Board do not consider that these, nor the time commitment that they require, affect the ability of such Directors to undertake their role or comply with their statutory obligations.
INDEPENDENT ADVICE Each of the directors is permitted to obtain independent legal advice at the Companys expense in the performance of their duties as directors.
This would normally be managed through the Group Company Secretary.
All directors, and the Board as a whole, also have access to the advice and services of the Group Company Secretary who, under the Joint Chairmens direction, is responsible for ensuring that good Board procedures are followed.
INDEMNIFICATION OF DIRECTORS The Company has put in place a Directors and Officers Liability Insurance policy which provides all Board members with insurance cover in respect of liabilities that may arise against the Directors collectively or individually.
The Directors do not benefit from any form of qualifying third party indemnities made by the Company.
BOARD COMMITTEES The Board has established an Audit Committee, a Clinical Governance Committee, a Nominations Committee and a Remuneration Committee.
The terms of reference for each committee clearly set out its authority and duties and have been approved by the Board.
The terms of reference for each committee are available on our website at www.
com or available from the Group Company Secretary.
The composition of the Board Committees going forward has been changed.
This is in order to ensure that the Committees continue to have a fresh focus in their specific areas of work, which will be for the longer term benefit of the Board and Shareholders.
The new composition of each Committee is set out within each Committee report below.
Board Clinical Governance Nominations Remuneration Audit Committee Committee Committee Committee NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 45 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued BOARD COMMITTEES CONTINUED AUDIT COMMITTEE Overview provided by the Chair of the Audit Committee The 2017 financial year has been a year of continued growth and expansion which has been an important focus for the Audit Committee resulting in another busy year.
As UK listed company reporting and governance requirements continue to evolve, and as the Group grows, both management and the audit committee have been committed to appropriate focus on finance, governance and controls across the Group.
This report sets out the work of the Committee, significant matters addressed by the Committee during the year and the responsibilities of, and work undertaken by, the external and internal auditors.
In addition, the Board asks the Audit Committee to review various matters in relation to risk and internal control which, during a year of significant strategic activity and integration, is a significant aspect of the Board and Audit Committee focus.
Membership and attendance The Audit Committee has consisted entirely of independent non-executive directors during the year under review.
During the 2017 financial year, the following served as members of the Committee for the full financial year: Chairman: Committee members: Jonathan Bomford Dr Ayesha Abdullah Dr Nandini Tandon During the 2017 financial year, the Chairman of the Committee and the Committees financial expert was Mr Jonathan Bomford.
Mr Bomford is a Chartered Accountant and his brief biographical details and experience are set out on page 38 of the annual report.
The Audit Committee met 4 times during the year.
The Meetings are scheduled to align with the Groups reporting timetable with planning meetings in advance of both the half-year review and full-year audit, and approving meetings shortly in advance of the announcement of the Groups half-year and full-year results.
Board meeting attendance 2017 Scheduled Attended Jonathan Bomford 4 4 Dr Ayesha Abdullah 4 4 Dr Nandini Tandon 4 4 Meetings are normally attended by the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and Deputy Financial Officer.
Other Non-Executive Directors also attend meetings.
The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
The Committee also meets separately with the external auditors and management with the other parties not present.
The composition of the Audit Committee has been changed and will now be as follows: Chairman: Committee members: Lord Clanwilliam Mr Jonathan Bomford Dr Nandini Tandon 46 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 I. II.
V. Key role and responsibilities The key role of the Committee is to ensure the integrity of published financial reports: compliance with applicable legal and regulatory regulations in the group areas of activity: effectiveness of internal controls and assessing the independence and expertise of the external and internal auditors and assessing their effectiveness and performance in the year.
Risk management is dealt with by the board and the Audit Committee reports to the board their assessment of such matters.
During the year the Audit Committee assisted the Board in: discharging its responsibilities with regard to financial reporting, external and internal audits and controls: reviewing the Companys financial results announcements, Annual Report and audited financial statements, including review of the long-term viability and going concern assessments: monitoring the independence of, and extent of the non-audit work undertaken by, the external auditors: making recommendations to the Board on the appointment of external auditors and the level of their remuneration: reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit activities and internal policies: overseeing the Groups compliance processes: and oversight of the Groups internal controls and risk management systems although the Board retains control over these matters.
Consideration of principal risks and the risk management process in place across the Group is a matter retained for discussion and review by the Board.
The Audit Committee is required to report regularly to the Board of Directors in relation to its findings on the above and the discussions at each meeting.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the Companys Annual Report and audited financial statements and the half yearly reports remains with the Directors of the Company.
Main activities of the Committee during the year During the year, the Committee has focused significantly on areas relating to the growth strategy of the Group, including both acquisition accounting and the resulting effect of the changing IT and internal control environment across the Group.
The main activities on which the Committee focuses each year, being the Committees consideration, and approval, of the Interim Results and the Annual Report, remains unchanged.
The wider focus and additional issues discussed by the Audit Committee during the year included: Revenue Recognition In addition to reviewing the consistency of revenue recognition policies across the Group, particularly to ensure that the revenue recognition policies across the Groups acquired entities is appropriate, the implementation of IFRS 15 has been considered by the Committee and management with a full assessment of revenue recognition practices and policies by independent external experts or consultants, including site visits to all key locations and reviewing contracts, to assess the likely impact of IFRS 15 on the Group.
Acquisition Accounting There are a number of aspects in relation to the Groups acquisition strategy which had an impact on accounting and audit matters during 2017.
These included approving the appointment of financial experts independent of the Group auditors to assess the value of goodwill for acquisitions, accounting for goodwill, judgements in respect of contingent consideration, and specifically work on the purchase price allocation for transactions, including the identification of intangible assets, assessing the accounting policies within each business for consistency with NMC accounting policies.
Accounting for new loans and financing arrangements The audit committee has been concerned to ensure that the replacement or extension of group financing arrangements are dealt with appropriately in the Groups financial statements.
IT systems and the effect on control environment The Committee monitored progress on implementation of new IT systems during the year, including proposals to implement a new consolidation system which is expected to be completed by the end of H1, 2018.
Internal audit focus Internal Audit Reports are presented at Committee meetings twice a year with other updates from the Internal Auditors as required.
During 2017, in addition to ongoing work, the Internal Audit program has focused on acquired entities as well as developing and enhancing the work of the Internal Auditors within the IVF businesses.
The internal audit plan during this period of strategic growth has been focused on the internal control measures operating in the acquired businesses and to enhance such controls and processes as necessary.
IFRS 15 and 16 The committee reviewed and considered the potential impact that the implementation of IFRS 15 and IFRS 16 will have on the Groups financial statements, and discussed the accounting policies related thereto.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 47 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued BOARD COMMITTEES CONTINUED AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED External audit and auditor independence External Audit effectiveness The Committee believes that the effectiveness of the external audit is dependent on the identification and consideration of key risks by the Committee, management and, as part of their audit process, by the auditors during the financial year under review.
EY produces and discusses with the Committee a detailed audit plan identifying these key risks, the focus of audit procedures and the work to be done to test managements assumptions and accounting treatment in these areas.
The Committee meets separately with the External Auditors to ensure that an independent dialogue is maintained in relation to monitoring key business and financial risks and to ensure that management have not restricted the scope of their audit.
The Audit Committee Chairman also meets with the lead audit partner on a number of occasions during the year outside the formality of Audit Committee meetings.
The Committee did not commission an independent review of the effectiveness of the external audit during the year.
However the effectiveness of the Group Audit was discussed and considered, by the Committee, management and, as part of their audit process, by the auditors.
Auditor fees and appointment EY were appointed as auditor to the Company at the time of the Companys IPO in April 2012.
The level of audit fees paid in relation to the 2017 financial year is set out in note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Non-Audit fees During FY2017, the level of non-audit fees amounted to a total of US$891k.
The Audit Committee currently complies with regulations adopted by the FRC in their implementation of an EU directive in relation to non-audit fees.
The Audit Committee adopted a new policy in relation to the Companys non-audit services in March 2018.
Auditor Independence The Audit Committee formally reviewed the independence of the Companys auditor, EY, during the period under review.
The review took account of the relationship between management and the audit team, the processes that EY have in place internally to ensure objectivity and independence and also the level of non-audit fees incurred during the year.
As part of this review the Committee reviewed the potential threats to auditor independence as a result of: auditor self-interests, being those areas where the auditor may have a financial or other interest in the Company: auditor self-review, being areas where the results of non-audit services are reflected in the amounts included or disclosed in the financial statements: management threats, which may occur if partners or employees of the auditor take decision on behalf of management: and Other threats, such as familiarity and intimidation.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that in all areas sufficient safeguards were adopted by the auditor and that the independence of EY and of the audit engagement partner had not been compromised.
There is no limitation of liability in the terms of appointment of the Auditor for the audit of the Companys financial statements.
Audit re-tender policy In accordance with the requirements set out in the September 2014 Competition and Markets Authority Order, the Audit Committees approach to audit tendering is that it currently intends to undertake a competitive tender process in relation to statutory audit services provided to the Group in 2020 with the chosen statutory auditor being appointed for the FY2021 audit.
However, between now and the planned competitive tender date during which the Group is expected to grow substantially through execution of its organic and acquisitive growth strategy leading to transformational changes in the size and complexity of the NMC Group, the Audit Committee is conscious of the need to keep the provision of audit services under continual review for the benefit of both the Group and its Shareholders.
The Audit Committee has therefore not ruled out that an earlier tender process may be appropriate.
JONATHAN BOMFORD, FCA On behalf of the Audit Committee 48 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 I. II.
V. CLINICAL GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE I report to you this year as Chair of the Clinical Governance Committee with good progress having been made across the enlarged Group in relation to Clinical Quality matters.
The Clinical Governance Committee meets regularly to provide Board oversight in the key area of Clinical Governance.
The Committee works with management to ensure that the governance structure within the healthcare business is appropriate, that clinical care is enhanced in line with latest good practice and that clinical quality indicators are monitored and maintained at a high standard.
This oversight is designed to mitigate as far as possible the risks associated with operating a healthcare organisation.
In line with the experience of management, the Board and its other committees, a time of significant growth in the healthcare business is both exciting and challenging from a quality and clinical governance perspective.
Good progress has again been made during a very busy year with the majority of key clinical care indicators remaining at a strong level or improving.
With a number of integration and consolidation projects taking place across the Group, 2017 proved to be an ideal time for management to develop a clinical strategy document which was approved by the Committee in December 2017.
This provides a framework upon which the Clinical Governance Committee can monitor the progress of management and quality procedures across the NMC network, and it is a very welcome tool in that respect.
Membership and attendance The Committee consists of a majority of Non-Executive Directors plus Dr C R Shetty, the Group Medical Director.
Her experience of governance structures operating in the Group, and the standards by which the Healthcare businesses are monitored, is very important to the Committees ongoing monitoring of clinical care.
During the 2017 financial year, the following served as members of the Committee for the full financial year unless stated : Chairman: Committee members: Dr Ayesha Abdullah Binay Shetty until 28 June 2017 Dr C. R. Shetty Dr Nandini Tandon The Chair of the Clinical Governance Committee is also a member of the Audit Committee which assists in ensuring that the two committees provide an overall control and governance framework to manage the Groups key clinical risks.
The Clinical Governance Committee met twice during 2017.
In addition to the Clinical Governance Committee members, the Vice President Quality and Standards attends each meeting and the Group Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee.
Board meeting attendance 2017 Scheduled Attended Dr Ayesha Abdullah 2 2 Binay Shetty 0 0 Dr C R Shetty 2 1 Dr Nandini Tandon 2 2 The composition of the Clinical Governance Committee has been changed and will now be as follows: Chairman: Committee members: Dr Ayesha Abdullah Mr Prasanth Manghat Dr C. R. Shetty Key role and responsibilities The key role of the Committee is to oversee governance structures, processes and controls in relation to Clinical matters in place within the Group healthcare operations.
This is to ensure that the risks associated with clinical care are mitigated in the interests of the Company and its stakeholders.
Main activities of the Committee during the year Specific responsibilities of the Committee, and work undertaken by it during the year, include: Review and approval of a new clinical strategy document which sets out the future development of Clinical Quality monitoring and control: Review of clinical performance indicators quarterly.
These were reviewed either at meetings held or, in between meetings, with reports circulated to the Committee for review: Overseeing the continuing inclusion of additional group facilities in achieving JCI accreditation: Reviewing the implications of new regulations and standards compliance implemented by our local health authority regulators: Ongoing discussion in relation to the use and benefits of IT systems and solutions for all aspects of patient care and information monitoring.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 49 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued BOARD COMMITTEES CONTINUED CLINICAL GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE CONTINUED Principal Management activities on clinical governance matters during the year 2017 has again been a very busy year for management in relation to quality and clinical governance matters.
Three hospitals, Brightpoint Royal Womens Hospital.
NMC Royal Hospital and Al Zahra Hospital all achieved JCI accreditation in the year, bringing to seven the number of hospitals accredited.
Management consider independent accreditation, and the ongoing monitoring of accreditation KPIs and standards, and as an important aspect of the Groups approach to patient care and an important element to mitigate the risks associated with operating healthcare facilities.
In addition to the Groups other businesses, a clinical quality monitoring and governance structure has been implemented at Al Zahra Hospital in Sharjah.
The corporate quality team have produced a clinical quality strategy which sets out how the enlarged Group will further develop its approach to clinical quality in the coming years.
It was felt that with the significant expansion of the Group in recent years, such a strategy would be key to ensuring a standardised and high-level performance approach to quality across all NMC Group Healthcare facilities.
The Clinical Governance Committee will monitor progress that the Group is making towards the overall goals of this strategy.
The Committee is delighted with the dedication and determination of management, and all of our employees, to keep up to date with regulatory changes and new standards, ensuring that the Group is well positioned in compliance with its requirements as well as offering an excellent and safe service to our patients.
The Quality and Clinical teams also continue their excellent work ensuring that clinical care monitoring within the business, including the acquired businesses, has been further enhanced during the year, which gives assurance to management and the Board that clinical risk is effectively managed.
Finally, I would like to thank my fellow Committee members for their contribution during the year.
DR AYESHA ABDULLAH For and on behalf of the Clinical Governance Committee 50 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 I. II.
V. REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Membership and attendance The Remuneration Committee consists of four Non-Executive Directors, three of whom are Independent Non-Executive Directors, with an Independent Non-Executive Director holding the chairmanship of the Committee.
The Board consider that this is an appropriate structure to ensure that the interests of all shareholders can be reflected in the formulation of Executive Remuneration policies most appropriate for the long term success of the Group.
During the 2017 financial year, the following served as members of the Committee for the full financial year: Chairman: Committee members: Lord Clanwilliam Abdulrahman Basaddiq Jonathan Bomford Salma Hareb The Chief Executive Officer attends Remuneration Committee meetings and the Chairman of the Committee discusses proposed remuneration policies with him during their formulation.
No Director is present when their own remuneration is discussed.
The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Remuneration Committee and, along with the Committees independent advisors, Deloitte, provides advice to the Committee on Corporate Governance aspects relating to remuneration matters.
He also provides assistance to the Chairman of the Committee as required in discussions with the Remuneration Committee advisers and on implementation of Committee decisions.
The Group Company Secretary is not present when his own remuneration is discussed.
The Committee met four times during the financial year.
Board meeting attendance 2017 Scheduled Attended Lord Clanwilliam 4 4 Abdulrahman Basaddiq 4 4 Jonathan Bomford 4 4 Salma Hareb 4 4 The composition of the Remuneration Committee has been changed and will now be as follows: Chairman: Committee members: Mr Jonathan Bomford Dr Ayesha Abdullah Dr Nandini Tandon Mr H. J.
Mark Tompkins Key role and responsibilities The Remuneration Committee assists the Board in: making recommendations to the Board on the Companys Directors Remuneration Policy, the framework of executive remuneration, including the use of incentive arrangements within that framework: and determining, on the Boards behalf, the entire individual remuneration packages for each Executive Director and advising the Chief Executive Officer in relation to the level of remuneration the Committee feel is appropriate for the Senior Management Team.
All other recommendations must be referred to the Board for approval.
No Committee member is permitted to participate in any discussion or decision regarding his her own remuneration.
The remuneration of non-executive directors is a matter for consideration by the Executive Directors, in discussion with the Chairman of the Company.
The principal activities of the Committee during 2017 and the Annual Remuneration Report, are set out in the Directors Remuneration report on pages 58 to 77.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 51 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued BOARD COMMITTEES CONTINUED NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE Main activities of the Committee during the year The Nominations Committee consists of three Non-Executive Directors, two of whom are Independent Non-Executive Directors, one of whom holds the chairmanship of the Committee.
During the 2017 financial year, the following served as members of the Committee for the full financial year: Chairman: Committee members: H. J.
Mark Tompkins Abdulrahman Basaddiq Lord Clanwilliam The composition of the Nominations Committee has been changed and will now be as follows: Chairman: Committee members: H. J.
Mark Tompkins Abdulrahman Basaddiq Mrs Salma Hareb The Nominations Committee has a role to assist the Board in: reviewing and making recommendations to the Board in relation to its structure, size and composition: reviewing succession planning in place for senior management: determining the appropriate skills and characteristics required of directors: identifying individuals qualified to become Board members and recommending such individuals to the Board: recommending individuals to be considered for election as Directors at the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or to fill vacancies: and preparing a description of the experience and capabilities required for a particular Board appointment.
The Committee met once in March 2017 to discuss and approve both the appointment of Dr B. R. Shetty as Non-Executive Joint Chairman of the Company and the appointment of Mr Prasanth Manghat as Chief Executive Officer to replace Dr Shetty following his decision to step down from his day to day Executive role with the Group.
The Committee members also held discussions to approve the appointment of Mr Khalifa Bin Butti and Mr Hani Buttikhi as Executive Directors of the Company in June 2017.
Committee members also held a number of informal discussions during the year on matters of interest to the role of the Committee.
The Committee would expect to meet to consider appropriate candidates to fill any vacancy created on the Board should such a vacancy arise or be considered appropriate given other skills and experience on the Board.
The approach of the Committee, and of the Board, to the issue of diversity is set out in this Governance section on pages 33 and 42.
52 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 I. II.
V. BOARD OVERSIGHT OF SYSTEM OF INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK OVERVIEW Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal controls over financial reporting and operational matters across the Group.
The Board is responsible for reviewing such internal controls and for ensuring that they are effective to properly manage the Groups businesses.
STRENGTHENING OF INTERNAL CONTROLS In recent years, as the Group has progressed an organic and inorganic growth strategy, in order to strengthen the governance and control structure further across the Group, management have progressively been: incorporating additional key internal controls into its financial and operational processes: implementing new policies and procedures covering all aspects of the Groups accounting policies and controls: extending its Quality Team and the Groups Quality and Clinical Governance processes: enhancing the Groups Internal Audit function which independently reviews and monitors key business processes: and revising and extending the reach of delegated authorities across group businesses.
All of these changes are part of an overall process to improve the Governance structure within the Group and to improve further the Groups formal internal control processes.
CHALLENGES New businesses Businesses which have been acquired as part of the Groups strategic growth plan over the last three years, all operated under differing levels of control.
Some of these businesses had a very centralised approach to control, with the majority of the controls over all financial and operational aspects of each business resting with a small number of individuals and, in some of the businesses, being manual in nature.
We consider this to be a normal environment in which smaller privately owned businesses are used to operating.
In addition, the program to open new facilities since the Companys IPO has resulted in a significant level of growth in the Group.
This increases further the challenge on the Company in relation to controls and risk.
Integration Such transformational changes in the Group over the last 5 years inevitably results in different control environments operating across group businesses.
Measured integration, at a pace which is appropriate to each individual new business, and integration of those businesses, is undertaken to align control processes.
IT environment Management recognise that the Groups IT systems are not fully integrated and that an element of manual control procedures are still prevalent across the Group.
The growth of the Group, organically and through acquisition, together with significant regulatory changes in UAE healthcare businesses in recent years and the introduction of VAT with effect from 1 January 2018, have hampered focused efforts to develop integrated group IT systems.
Whilst this is still the case, the manual processes, supported by legacy IT systems in many of the Groups businesses, continues to provide a robust level of control.
APPROACH TO RISK A new approach to the monitoring and control of risks within the Group has now been operating for two years.
The Group operates a multi-layered approach to risk identification control and mitigation.
Groups business risks are identified through a bottom up process undertaken within each of the Groups businesses.
Senior Management then review these risks alongside the macro-economic environment within which the Group operates through a top down review process to establish a Strategic Risk Register.
This Strategic Risk Register is reviewed and, where necessary, updated regularly.
Having been through significant change in 2015 and 2016, no changes to the Strategic Risk Register were considered necessary in 2017.
Further details on the approach taken to assess risks, and of the Groups strategic risks, are set out on pages 28 to 31.
The internal controls and processes in place to mitigate business risks and the Boards review of the effectiveness of the control environment are set out below.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 53 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued BOARD OVERSIGHT OF SYSTEM OF INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK CONTINUED CONTROLS AND RISK MITIGATION Financial and operational controls The Group has, for over 40 years, grown into a substantial business and a leader in the provision of private healthcare in the GCC, as well as operating a substantial distribution business.
The Group is a regulated business operating many regulatory, financial, clinical and quality control procedures.
In the past three years, the Group has expanded operations into Europe, South America and the GCC, now having operations in 12 countries.
During this period of growth, management have continued to integrate and structure financial and operational controls appropriately across all of its businesses.
The key elements of the Groups financial and operational controls are as follows: An annual budget and updated long-term forecasts for the Group which are reviewed and approved by the Board.
As part of these reviews, management and the Board have processes in place to consider appropriate risks faced by the Group.
Regular meetings of the Senior Management Team take place to review Group financial and operational performance and other principal functional areas of the business.
A system of internal monthly operational and financial reporting which includes monthly comparison of results and against budget and forecast, and a review of key KPIs.
MIS teams monitor business performance within each subsidiary.
A defined process for controlling capital expenditure, including appropriate authorisation levels, which is monitored and approved by the Board as appropriate.
The financial statements of each subsidiary are drawn up by relevant accounting departments, which ensure compliance with local tax and regulatory requirements.
A complete audit carried out by the auditors of significant subsidiaries for the Groups year-end financial statements.
Reporting of accounting information, in standardised monthly reports, is carried out on the basis of a schedule established by the Corporate Accounts department.
Each subsidiary applies Group procedures for the recording of accounting data for inclusion in the interim and annual financial statements.
The reporting of subsidiaries is established according to the accounting policies of the Group, which are formalised in a Group policies manual given to all the subsidiaries.
Formal reviews which considers the Group long term viability and going concern basis of accounting are conducted.
A formal process through which approval for organic and inorganic expansion projects is given.
A formal transaction request paper is produced including details of the proposed transaction, how the transaction will be financed, market studies, strategic benefits and longer term effects on the Group, due diligence and key transaction risks are considered.
An appropriate approach to decentralisation and internal oversight within the Group.
Our larger NMC healthcare hospitals facilities have a Medical Director and Head of Administration who are accountable for the operation of the facility.
Smaller facilities are generally managed by the lead clinician.
Our other businesses normally have their own management structure.
Therefore all of our facilities and businesses have an appropriate and relevant organisation to provide effective and efficient management of both clinical and non-clinical areas.
In addition to facility management, we have created a number of geographic clusters, each cluster having an operational head responsible for business from across all the Groups business verticals located in that region.
Within the Healthcare division structure, a number of multidisciplinary committees are in place to monitor guidelines in respect of patient safety and quality, medication management, infection prevention and control, medical record documentation and facility management.
Medical Directors meetings to monitor clinical governance procedures.
Both Healthcare and Distribution divisions have Financial Controllers and a finance team and are managed through fundamental activities of planning, executing and checking.
The strategic direction of all operations is governed by the corporate office.
The Senior Management Team believes that these divisions of responsibility at both facility and corporate levels provide a natural check and balance across all internal control areas.
As the Group has grown, extending its reach and capacity across multiple jurisdictions, the Groups system of delegated authorities have been amended in order that management at Group, Divisional, cluster and facility levels have layered authorities within which they are permitted to operate.
Group businesses hold very sensitive as well as personal information and data as part of their operations.
To guard against the material risk of a cyber threat, Group businesses have processes and procedures in place to control such threats.
54 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 I. II.
V. Independent controls Internal Audit An effective externally provided Internal Audit program independently assists management in identifying key risks to business operations and monitors those risks through an Internal Audit program agreed with both management and the Audit Committee.
The Internal Auditors report directly to the Chairman of the Audit Committee but work in conjunction with the CFO.
Their reports to the Audit Committee are received and discussed at Audit Committee meetings twice a year, usually in June and December.
Following the completion of each review, the internal auditors identify areas for remedial action and the required action plans are discussed and agreed with management.
All areas requiring remedial action are highlighted as high, medium or low risk areas.
The internal auditors present the reviews and the agreed management action plans for any remedies to the Audit Committee and then monitor the implementation of any required changes on behalf of the Audit Committee.
Crowe Horwath provide internal audit services to the Group, except in relation to the IVF businesses where Deloitte provide internal audit services.
The internal audit services provided by external firms focus on key strategic areas of risk and this program works alongside operational internal audit functions in place within Group businesses.
Independent controls Quality and Regulatory oversight The Board is aware that as a significant healthcare and distribution business it is subject to a range of risks related to clinical care, quality and product safety.
The Healthcare division, and elements of the Distribution division, are regulated by governmental and non-governmental organisations.
In summary: Each UAE Healthcare facility is licensed by one of four regulatory bodies which exist in the UAE.
The regulatory bodies monitor performance and clinical procedures against its regulations, key metrics and guidelines: Clinica Eugin clinics are subject to local regulatory standards and laws applicable in each jurisdiction in which they operate: Healthcare facilities outside of the UAE are regulated by the relevant local responsible body in their relevant jurisdictions: Seven of the Groups owned Hospitals, as well as Sheikh Khalifa Hospital in Umm al Quwain which is managed by the Group, and the clinical laboratory of Dr Sunny Medical Centres are accredited by Joint Commission International, an internationally renowned organisation monitoring clinical metrics and quality of patient care: The distribution and disposal of pharmaceuticals is strictly controlled through the UAE Ministry of Health: The majority of the Groups healthcare revenue, particularly in our principal market of the UAE, results from medical insurance arrangements.
The Groups contractual arrangements with insurance providers include the monitoring of claims processing and clinical outcomes.
The Group has a Quality Team which operates in both the Healthcare and Distribution divisions.
Quarterly and annual Quality reports monitor performance against a range of key KPIs based on clinical quality and safety metrics.
The Board and its committees provide independent oversight of managements control systems, in particular the Audit Committee in relation to finance related matters and the Clinical Governance Committee in relation to clinical and quality matters.
The work and oversight of the board committees is set out on pages 45 to 52.
EFFECTIVENESS OF INTERNAL CONTROLS The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups systems of internal control and on behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee has been engaged in the process of ensuring that management have established continuous processes for identifying, evaluating and managing the risks the Group faces.
These processes include the reporting from the finance department on Group performance, the work of the internal auditors and issues identified by the external auditors to the extent covered by their audit work.
The Board is responsible for monitoring the ongoing effectiveness of these systems and for conducting a formal annual review of the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls.
A system of internal controls is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to meet business objectives and is designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In reviewing the effectiveness of the internal controls in place during the year, the Audit Committee considered, amongst other matters, manual controls in place, the independence of the separate operating units, the delegation of authority, the balance of centralised and decentralised systems and the reporting process in relation to exceptional items.
The Audit Committee has noted that the Group does not operate under a fully integrated high end IT environment and therefore an element of manual intervention is prevalent within the Group, including the businesses acquired in the last two financial years.
The Board has approved the implementation of a new Hospital Information System which, together with the implementation of a new financial system and new consolidation software, will result in a new integrated IT system becoming fully functional across the Group.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 55 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued BOARD OVERSIGHT OF SYSTEM OF INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK CONTINUED EFFECTIVENESS OF INTERNAL CONTROLS CONTINUED The Board notes that the implementation of new IT systems will not change the level of controls inherent in the business, but they will remove elements of manual intervention from financial and operational processes.
Management have taken time to ensure that all previous business processes are captured within the new IT systems.
The roll out of the new ERP system into the Healthcare division, whilst delayed during the initial execution of the Groups strategic growth plan due to the challenges faced by the group in the initial testing phase, and as a result of significant regulatory changes over the last two years, remains underway and a focus across the Group.
In addition to the growing nature and structure of the Group, there have also been challenges in relation to the roll out of the ERP system into the Distribution division, and this has also been delayed.
The Company has made a root cause analysis and course corrections are under way for a phased roll out over 2019.
The Audit Committee have also noted the challenges faced as the acquired businesses are integrated into the Group.
Such acquired businesses have differing levels of controls within their businesses.
The Audit Committee have noted the initial primary and delegated authority controls which are put in place in the acquired businesses following completion as well as the roll out of financial and operational reporting requirements.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal controls for the 2017 financial year, in light of the key elements of the Groups internal controls outlined above.
Given the additional internal controls that have been incorporated into the Groups financial and operational reporting process, such that sufficient internal controls were in place to monitor the Groups key risks, the Board believes, having evaluated the effectiveness of the internal controls and procedures, that these were effective during the period covered by this report.
The Board also believes that the process undertaken by the Board and its Committees to monitor the internal control environment, accords with the guidance provided in the FRCs Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT The Company is committed to communicating with shareholders and stakeholders and to be available to meet with shareholders who require additional explanation of any matter which is of concern to them.
During 2017, the Company has continued to focus on its formal program of investor interaction including one-to-one meetings with institutional investors and attendance at investor conferences.
Such meetings are attended by conducted by various members of the management team depending on the focus for specific meetings.
The Company also held a Capital Markets Day in November 2017 which included visits to the Al Zahra Hospital and NMC Royal Hospital as well as presentations on our businesses from the Groups wider management team.
Meetings were also held in 2017 and in January 2018 between Independent Non-Executive Directors and our larger institutional shareholders, the former meeting to discuss a range of governance matters and the latter organised to discuss matters connected with the remuneration of the Companys Executive Directors.
During the financial year ended 31 December 2017, the Company issued its 2016 audited results and its 2017 half year unaudited results.
In addition, given the significant strategic activities during the year, the Company kept shareholders updated regularly with regards to its long-term financing and its material acquisitions, and the effect that these have on the Group.
The Joint Chairmen and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director are also available, either through contacting the Company Secretary or at the Companys General Meetings, to discuss any matters within their areas of responsibility or where individuals do not feel it is possible to discuss these matters with management.
Aside from direct shareholder meetings, the principal ongoing communication with shareholders will be through the publication of the Companys Annual report and audited financial statements and Interim Results as well as the opportunity to question the Board and Committees at General Meetings.
Shareholders are encouraged to attend General Meetings and if unable to do so are encouraged to vote by proxy.
The Company has an investor relations section on its corporate website, www.
This has been updated regularly with information that the Company considers relevant to its investors.
Additionally, the number of analysts monitoring the Company and issuing notes in relation to their forecasts and expectations for the group continues to increase.
56 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 I. II.
V. ETHICS WHISTLEBLOWING POLICY A confidential whistleblowing procedure is in operation to allow employees to raise concerns of possible improprieties in relation to either operational or financial conduct.
BRIBERY ACT 2010 The Group has an Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy which applies to all directors and employees of all Group Companies.
The Policy, which has been communicated to employees, includes clear statements setting out the Groups Anti-Bribery measures and Anti-Corruption culture.
Practical guidance has been issued in relation to specific circumstances considered to be most relevant to Group employees.
These include guidance notes for clinical staff attending pharmaceutical and training and development conferences in relation to entertainment and other possible inducements, as well as guidance notes in relation to the receipt of free products and equipment and how such products and incentives may affect clinical judgement.
Specific guidance has also been provided in relation to the provision of sales incentives to senior sales and marketing staff within our Distribution division.
Employees have been provided with a copy of these policies and are aware of the significance of them.
New employees receive training on all company policies and procedures as part of their induction program.
The Corporate Governance Report set out on pages 41 to 57 has been approved by the Board and is signed on its behalf by: H. J.
MARK TOMPKINS Non-Executive Joint Chairman DR B. R. SHETTY Non-Executive Joint Chairman NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 57
