Governance External audit Nomination Committee Auditor objectivity and independence and non-audit services provided by the auditor With effect from 1 January 2017, the Committee adopted a new policy on the provision of nonaudit services by the external auditor.
We have defined the very limited non audit services which can beprovided by the external auditors.
Services can only be provided Nomination Committee membership if approved by the Committee and subject to a cap of 70% of the Since 1 January 2017 average of audit fees forthe preceding three years with discretion to exceed this until January 2020.
The policy is in compliance with Number of Appointment meetings the FRC Ethical Standard for Auditors issued in August 2016 and a Position Date attended full copy of the policy on the provision of non-audit services by the Neil Johnson Chair May 2012 1 1 external auditor is available on the Company website.
Senior independent Brendan Connolly non-executive director March 2014 1 1 Details of audit and non-audit fees paid to the auditor in 2017 are set Independent out in note 8 on page 111.
Non-audit fees principally relate to the Caroline Johnstone non-executive director April 2015 1 1 interim review at the half year and providing factual understanding about work performed for the Group prior to 1 January 2017 in relation to an overseas tax investigation.
The Committee concluded that Role PwCs independence and objectivity was not compromised by it The Committees remit includes responsibility for: providing these services and that, as a result of its knowledge of the the regular review of the structure, size and composition Group and its financial statements, it was in the Groups interests to including the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity engage PwC to do so.
ofthe Board and the making of recommendations with regard to any changes: As part of the 2017 audit, PwC confirmed that it was independent leading the process for Board appointments and within the meaning of applicable regulatory and professional nominatingcandidates for non-executive positions: and requirements.
Taking this into account and having considered the considering succession planning for directors and senior steps taken by PwC to preserve its independence, the Committee executives and reviewing the succession plans put forward concluded that PwC continues to demonstrate appropriate for ensuring the executive leadership needs of the Company independence and objectivity.
Effectiveness of the external audit During the year the Committee evaluated the performance and Activities in 2017 effectiveness of the external auditors.
Feedback was obtained from The Nomination Committee held one formal meeting during 2017. people across the business who were involved with the external The Committee reviewed senior management succession audit and the Committee reflected on the effectiveness of the planning within the Group during the course of the year.
external audit partner and team members, both in Committee Following Mr Jinya Chens retirement from the Board at the meetings and in discussions with the chair.
A review of performance endof 2017 the Committee has initiated a search for a against an evaluation checklist was also conducted by the Audit replacement independent non-executive director.
There were Committee Chair and the Chief Financial Officer.
The Committee noappointments to the Board during the year and accordingly assessed the robustness of the audit, the quality of delivery of the the Committee was not involved in any recruitment activity and audit against the agreed plan and the competence with which the did not appoint or work with any advisers.
auditors handled key accounting estimates and judgements.
Having Diversity considered all of these factors the Committee concluded that the The Board adopted its current policy on diversity in 2014 in external auditors were effective.
recognition of the importance of diversity in strengthening decision Re-appointment of the auditor making and competitiveness.
This policy seeks to ensure that PwC was re-appointed external auditor in 2016, following afull diversity in its broadest sense is taken into account in the process of retender process, having been the Groups auditors since 2012. making appointments on merit against objective selection criteria.
Having assessed the effectiveness of the external audit referred to Gender and ethnicity are acknowledged as significant elements above and the independence ofPwC, the Committee recommends ofdiversity and the Committee is mindful of the recommendations the re-appointment ofPwC at the 2018 Annual General Meeting.
of the Hampton-Alexander, Parker and McGregor-Smith Reviews but has not recommended to the Board the setting of quotas for Committee performance evaluation and future focus female or other representation at this time.
We addressed the areas of development for 2017 as planned and As there were no changes to the composition of the Board during reviewed the risk appetite as part of a wider programme of risk 2017, the Committee did not actively seek to implement the reviews.
In 2017, we decided to undertake an evaluation of the diversity policy and accordingly has not reported on its results.
Committees performance using an external questionnaire process.
A copy of the diversity policy is available at www.
The feedback was positive about our progress in overseeing and Further details on the Companys approach to, and reporting on, challenging the systems of risk management and supportive of diversity are contained within the Strategic report.
continuing to develop this in 2018.
Neil Johnson Chairman 1 March 2018 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2017 69
