Audit Committee report It is vitally important that we continually strengthen the controls culture and operate a robust control environment throughout our operations.
IAN DUNCAN CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Areas of particular concern for the The Committee plans on building on the DEAR SHAREHOLDER, Committee in relation to the overstatement programme in 2018 with continued focus I am pleased to present the Audit Committee of both cash and trade payables and the on areas of risk to the business to ensure report for the year ended 31 December overstatement of profit issues have been: that the control environment is effective 2017, on behalf of the Board.
to understand how the overstatements I was appointed a Non-Executive Director identified have accumulated over time, Although going concern is a matter for the with effect from 1 January 2017.
Jonathan how they have affected prior years whole Board see page 41, a review is made Nicholls retired as a Non-Executive Director results, and to consider whether the by the Audit Committee of the Groups and Chair of the Audit Committee on impact on past years results was such as headroom under its covenants and undrawn 31 March 2017.
I therefore succeeded Mr to require them to be restated: facilities in relation to the Groups financial Nicholls as Chair of the Audit Committee to understand the circumstances forecasts and sensitivity analyses.
surrounding the breakdowns in controls, The Committee has again considered the The Audit Committee provides effective as to why and how they happened and issue of external Auditor rotation and is oversight and governance over the financial what was done to resolve the issues: and continuing to keep this under review.
integrity of the Groups financial reporting to to satisfy itself, that the remedial steps ensure that the interests of the Companys The Company has complied during the proposed to the Groups financial Shareholders are protected at all times.
financial year ended 31 December 2017 systems and internal controls and the It assesses the quality of the internal and with the provisions of The Statutory Audit interim measures to be applied until external audit processes and ensures that Services for Large Companies Market these new steps are fully implemented the risks which our businesses face are being Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive are sufficient to avoid any repetition of effectively managed.
Tender Processes and Audit Committee the issues that have emerged in relation Responsibilities Order 2014 that are to the overstatements.
This was done The composition of the Audit Committee applicable to it.
in discussions with the Chief Executive meets with the requirements of the UK Officer and Chief Financial Officer and Corporate Governance Code April 2016 IAN DUNCAN the internal and external auditors and the Code but, in line with good practice, CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE advisors and included comprehensive membership is reviewed annually.
internal audit reviews of financial 8 March 2018 It is vitally important that we continually reporting controls at SIG Distribution.
strengthen the controls culture and operate Further details about the overstatements a robust control environment throughout are set out on page 31 of the Financial our operations.
Accordingly, the Audit Review and on page 61 of the Corporate Committee not only continually reviews Governance Report.
and updates our activities in line with new legislation but also against the context of the The Groups Internal Audit function receives evolving nature of our operating businesses.
specialist support, when required, from A major part of the Committees work this KPMG.
Management actions continued to year has been dominated by the discovery be taken to improve controls and bring of the overstatements in historical financial efficiencies across the business in 2017. information published by the Company.
An During the year KPMG performed reviews in Investigation Committee, which I chaired, was K8 Post-Implementation Review, UK Cashflow set up to investigate the allegations.
Forecasting, SIG Distribution Margin Management Review, UK Initiative Overload and France ERP Pre-Implementation Review to identify opportunities for further improvements to the control environment.
com Stock code: SHI 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six GOVERNANCE Audit Committee report As part of Corporate Governance the PURPOSE AND AIM AUDIT COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP Committee reviews its own performance The purpose of the Committee is to make As at 31 December 2017, the Committee annually and considers where improvements recommendations on the reporting, comprised the five independent Noncan be made.
The Committee reviewed its control, risk management and compliance Executive Directors of the Company.
own performance in January 2018 and the aspects of the Directors and the Groups results of this review were reported to Chairman of the responsibilities, providing independent Committee Members the Board.
monitoring, guidance and challenge to executive management in these areas.
B. Duncan Ms A. Abt The Chairman of the Committee reports to Ms J. E. Ashdown the subsequent meeting of the Board on Through this process the Committees aim is Mr M. Ewell the key issues covered by the Committee, to ensure high standards of corporate and Mr C. V. Geoghegan identifying any matters on which it considers regulatory reporting, an appropriate control that action or improvement is needed, and environment, a robust risk management The Board considers that each member makes recommendations on the steps to framework and effective compliance of the Committee is independent within be taken.
The Committee believes that the definition set out in the UK Corporate excellence in these areas enhances MEETINGS Governance Code April 2016 the Code.
the effectiveness and reduces the risks The knowledge and experience of the The Committee meets regularly throughout of the business.
Committee members means that the the year, with four meetings being held Committee as a whole is competent in the during 2017.
Its agenda is linked to events in KEY RESPONSIBILITIES sector in which the Company operates.
Mr the Companys financial calendar.
The accounting principles, practices and I.
B. Duncan has recent and relevant financial policies applied in, and the integrity of, the Attendance by individual members of the experience for the purposes of provision Groups Financial Statements.
Committee is disclosed in the table on page C. 1.3 of the Code.
The adequacy and effectiveness of the 64.
The Committee Chairman regularly internal control environment.
invites senior company executives to attend AUDIT COMMITTEE STRUCTURE meetings of the Committee to discuss or The effectiveness of whistleblowing The Committee operates under Terms present specific items, and in particular the procedures.
of Reference which can be found on the Chief Financial Officer, Mr N. W. Maddock, The effectiveness of the Groups Internal Companys website.
They are reviewed attended all four of the meetings in 2017.
Audit function and co-sourced Internal annually by the Committee, including The external Auditor also attended all four Audit function.
comparison against the Code, and changes meetings of the Committee in 2017 and has are recommended to the Board for approval.
The appointment, independence, direct access to the Committee Chairman.
effectiveness and remuneration of the The Committee has in its Terms of Reference The Committee also meets with the external Groups external Auditor, including the the power to engage outside advisors and to Auditor and the internal Auditors without policy on the award of non-audit services.
obtain its own independent external advice the Executive Directors being present.
The at the Companys expense, should it be Committee Chairman also meets with the The supervision of any tender process for deemed necessary.
During 2017 no member internal Auditor and the external Auditor in the Groups internal and external Auditor.
of the Committee, nor the Committee advance of Committee meetings.
External financial reporting and collectively, found it necessary to obtain such associated announcements.
separate advice beyond the advice that is The Groups risk management processes directly provided to the Committee by the and performance.
external Auditor, Deloitte LLP or from KPMG The Groups compliance with the UK LLP, who operate the Groups co-sourced Corporate Governance Code.
The Audit Committees Terms of Reference are available on the Companys website www.
74 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six The Committee addressed the following key agenda items during its four meetings in 2017: 9 March 2017 7 June 2017 2 August 2017 18 December 2017 Internal Audit update Review of the Internal Audit Review of 2017 interim Review of initial forensic report results reports on supplier rebates Review of going concern basis of accounting and Viability Review of the Committees Goodwill and intangible Review of internal control Statement Terms of Reference assets impairment review report Goodwill and intangible Review of whistleblowing and Review of going concern basis Consideration of the risk assets impairment review non-audit services policies of accounting management review process Consideration of the risk Discussion of the 2016 Review of the external Review and approve the 2018 management review process Annual Report compared to Auditors interim work and Internal Audit plan best and emerging practice report and year end planning Internal control review Review of audit pre-close Consideration of 2017 interim accounting and reporting Review of 2016 audit process results including goodwill issues and results, and discussion of and going concern significant accounting matters Goodwill and intangible Review Auditor plan for assets impairment discussion Review of the 2016 external interim review Auditor report Review of the updated year Assessment of performance end external audit planning Review of the 2016 of external Auditor report Annual Report including fair, balanced and Agreement of 2017 audit understandable and fee and review of Auditor preliminary results independence announcement Discussions regarding going concern and the Viability Statement Review of policy on non-audit services provided by external An additional meeting was held on 31 January 2018 in relation to the historical overstatement of profit and Auditor considered forensic reports, reports from Internal Audit and a revised external audit plan.
A further update on the investigation of overstatement of profit was provided at the 6 March 2018 Committee meeting.
It considered the systems FINANCIAL REPORTING AND CARRYING VALUE OF GOODWILL that have subsequently been put in place SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS by management to strengthen the control MATTERS The carrying value of goodwill and intangible environment within SIG Distribution.
The assets are systematically reviewed at each The Committee considered the following Committee considered whether these issues mid-year point and at year end.
A consistent financial reporting and key accounting issues could impact other parts of the Group.
The methodology is applied to the individual cash with regard to the Financial Statements: Committee agreed with the Auditor that generating units, taking account of market the procedures performed over supplier RECOGNITION AND MEASUREMENT outlook, risk-adjusted discounted future rebates should be enhanced to provide the OF SUPPLIER REBATE INCOME cash flows, sensitivities, and other factors Committee with assurance over the valuation The Committee examined the procedures and which may have a bearing on impairment of the rebate receivable.
controls in place to ensure that the reporting, considerations.
Specific focus has been reviewing and accounting for supplier rebate given to Larivire and SIG Distribution.
The The Committee has challenged and reviewed income is properly managed and that supplier Committee considered the appropriateness the control remediation plan proposed rebates are recognised appropriately in the of the assumptions including growth rates.
by management and considers that it is Group Financial Statements.
The Committee considered the work The Committee considered the nature and performed in investigating the historical amount of the misstatements identified overstatement of profit.
It received and and considered that they were qualitatively reviewed reports from the Investigation material and that the Financial Statements Committee, the forensic accountants were to be restated.
and the Auditor to enable the Committee Items marked as such are areas where judgement is involved in arriving at the accounting conclusion.
to understand the extent of the control 75 www.
com Stock code: SHI 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six GOVERNANCE Audit Committee report PRESENTATION OF CASH GOING CONCERN AND LONGER OVERSIGHT OF EXTERNAL The Committee considered the work TERM VIABILITY AUDITOR performed by the Investigation Committee The Group is subject to financial covenants The Board is aware of the need to maintain into the cash processes undertaken across related to its committed bank facilities and an appropriate degree of independence and the Group.
The Committee assessed whether private placement notes as set out on objectivity on the part of the Groups external the errors required restatement and page 39.
The Group had net debt of 223.8m Auditor.
The external Auditor reports to the considered that this was appropriate.
at 31 December 2017 and reported a Committee on the actions taken to comply headline financial leverage of 1.9x for the with both professional and regulatory The Committee considered the proposed period against the covenant maximum of requirements and with best practice changes to internal control and determined 3.0x.
The Committee reviewed the Groups designed to ensure its independence.
cash flow, net debt and leverage forecast The Group has an agreed policy with regard and note that there is sufficient headroom DISCLOSURE OF OTHER ITEMS to the provision of audit and non-audit forecast against the Groups financial The Committee gave careful consideration services by the external Auditor, which was covenants throughout the viability period.
to the judgements made in the separate operated throughout 2017.
The policy is Our assessment has placed additional focus disclosure of Other items.
In particular, based on the principles that they should on the covenant test points of 30 June with the Committee sought to ensure that undertake non-audit services only where particular reference to the working capital the treatment followed consistent they are the most appropriate and costseasonality of the business which would principles and that reporting in the Group effective provider of the service, and where ordinarily see leverage rise at the half year Financial Statements is suitably clear and the provision of non-audit services does and 31 December.
The Committee has also understandable.
not impair, or is not perceived to impair, reviewed the Groups potential mitigating the external Auditors independence and actions to reduce leverage in the short The Committee considered the nature of objectivity.
It categorises such services as term and consider these to be achievable items included excluded within from Auditor-permitted services, Auditor-excluded and commercially viable.
The Committee Other items, including the presentation of services and Auditor-authorised services.
is satisfied that the assumptions taken are property profits and consider that the split The fees permissible for non-audit services appropriate.
between underlying profit and Other items should not exceed 70% of the average audit is appropriate.
fees paid to the Groups external Auditors in OVERSIGHT OF INTERNAL AUDIT the last three consecutive financial years.
In RECOGNITION AND MEASUREMENT The Internal Audit function provides all cases, any instruction above a project cost OF TRADE RECEIVABLES independent assurance to senior of 20,000, or where the fee is contingent management and the Board on the Methodologies and judgements applied in in full or in part on success, must be preadequacy and effectiveness of SIGs risk establishing provisions for trade receivables approved by the Chief Financial Officer and management framework.
Internal Audit were examined to ensure consistent the Chairman of the Audit Committee before forms an independent and objective application and appropriateness to the the external Auditors are engaged.
The assessment as to whether risks have been trading position of the Group.
policy, which was reviewed at the December adequately identified, adequate internal 2017 meeting and can be viewed on the CORPORATE CULTURE controls are in place to manage those risks, Companys website www.
com, The Committee considered the and those controls are working effectively.
defines the types of services falling under circumstances that led up to the accounting The results of all assignments have been each category and sets out the criteria to irregularities that occurred, the cultural reported to the Audit Committee during the be met and the internal approvals required backdrop and actions which allowed the year.
Areas of weakness that were identified prior to the commencement of any .
This identified that senior during the year prompted a detailed action authorised services.
leadership of the organisation need to instill plan and a follow-up audit check to establish a culture whereby improvement in financial that actions had been completed.
No failings The external Auditor cannot be engaged to performance must come from underlying or weaknesses were identified during the perform any assignment where the output improvement in operational performance.
year which had a material effect on the is then subject to their review as external Companys financial performance, other than Auditor.
The Committee regularly reviews The Committee endorsed the actions those identified through the forensic review.
an analysis of all services provided by the identified by senior management to address external Auditor.
The policy and the external and embed this change in culture.
The Group Director of Risk & Internal Auditors fees are reviewed and set annually Audit was appointed on 2 October 2017, by the Committee and are approved by reporting directly to the Chairman of the the Board.
This is seen as a key measure and commitment from the Board to improve reporting and consequently control systems.
KPMG LLP who were appointed on 1 January 2014 as an outsourced Internal Audit function, continue to provide additional Items marked as such are areas where judgement is co-sourced support to the Group to cover involved in arriving at the accounting conclusion.
76 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six The total fees payable by the Group by its AUDIT TENDER FAIR, BALANCED AND external Auditor for non-audit services in UNDERSTANDABLE During the year, the Committee considered 2017 were 0.1m, primarily the Interim the Groups position on its Auditor services, The Committee has reviewed the contents of Review 2016: 0.1m.
The total fees payable taking into account the Code, together with this years Annual Report and Accounts and to them for audit services in respect of the the EU Audit Directive and Regulation and the advised the Board that, in its view, the Annual same period were 1.6m 2016: 1.5m.
Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, The ratio of audit to non-audit fee was Market Investigation Mandatory Use of is fair, balanced and understandable and 16:1.
Details of each non-audit service and Competitive Tender Processes and Audit provides the necessary information to enable reasons for using the Groups external Committee Responsibilities Order 2014.
Shareholders to assess the position and Auditor are provided in Note 4 to the performance, strategy and business model of Having previously acted as Auditor to parts Financial Statements on page 121. the Company.
of the Group since 2003, Deloitte was invited A full breakdown of Auditor fees are to tender for the entire Group audit in 2005 In reaching this conclusion the Committee disclosed in Note 4 to the Financial and this resulted in their appointment as the has considered the following: Statements on page 121.
The preparation of the Annual Report The external Auditor reports to the is a collaborative process between As noted previously, the Committee Committee each year on the actions taken Finance, Legal, Human Resources and continues to review the performance of the to comply with professional and regulatory Communications functions within SIG, external Auditor and has been satisfied with requirements and best practice designed ensuring the appropriate professional the independence, objectivity, expertise, to ensure its independence, including the input to each section.
External guidance resources and general effectiveness of rotation of key members of the external and advice is sought where appropriate.
Deloitte LLP, and that the Group is subjected audit team.
Deloitte LLP has formally to a rigorous audit process.
The Committee The coordination and project confirmed its independence tothe Board does not consider it necessary to conduct a management is undertaken by a in respect of the period covered by these tender process for the appointment of the central team to ensure consistency and Financial Statements.
Companys Auditor at this time, although completeness of the document.
the Committee will continue to keep this An extensive review process is The Committee reviewed the performance under review.
undertaken, both internally and through of the external Auditor at its meeting in the use of external advisors.
March 2017 and had been satisfied with The current lead audit partner, Simon the independence, objectivity, expertise, Manning, took over the audit for the year A final draft is reviewed by the resources and general effectiveness of ended 31 December 2013.
The Committee Audit Committee members prior to Deloitte LLP, and that the Group was reported its view in its Report last year consideration by the Board.
subjected to a rigorous audit process.
that it was potentially more effective to As a result of its work during the year, align the tender of the external Auditor More details of the tender plans are the Audit Committee has concluded with the rotation of the current lead audit reported below.
that it has acted in accordance with its partner.
This is in line with the transition Terms of Reference and has ensured the arrangements outlined by the Financial independence and objectivity of the external Reporting Council in relation to the Code.
The Committee has since reconsidered the On behalf of the Board position.
Given the recent appointment of a new Chief Financial Officer, coupled with IAN DUNCAN the recent appointment of Mr Duncan as the CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Chair of Audit Committee, the Committee 8 March 2018 believes that it is appropriate to delay the consideration of the audit tender until after the 2018 audit.
A new audit partner will however be appointed at the conclusion of the 2017 audit.
Therefore, the Committee recommends, and the Board agrees, that a resolution for the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as Auditor of the Company for a further year will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
com Stock code: SHI 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six GOVERNANCE
