Fidessa group plc 45 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Audit Committees report Introduction As Chairman of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to introduce to shareholders the Audit Committee Report for the year ended 31st December 2017.
The Audit Committee is a key part of Fidessas governance framework to which the Board has delegated oversight of the accounting, financial reporting and internal control processes and the relationship with external auditor.
The purpose of this report is to highlight the areas that the Committee has reviewed and considered during the year in order to show that it has effectively discharged its responsibilities.
The Committee has focused particularly on the integrity, completeness and clarity of financial reporting as well as the effectiveness of audit processes and other risk management activities.
During the year the Committee commenced the external audit tender process, including the identification of the proposed participant firms.
Further details of the external audit tender process are set out in this report.
As Chairman of the Committee, I will be available at the Annual General Meeting to respond to any questions that might be raised on the Committees activities during the year.
John Worby Chairman of the Audit Committee Membership, meetings and evaluation John Worby is the Chairman of the Committee and in line with the Code, John, who is a qualified accountant, has significant, recent and relevant financial experience serving as Group Finance Director of Genus plc until 2013 and through his other current and recent appointments, including his membership of the Financial Reporting Review Panel.
In addition to John, the Committee comprises three non-executive directors Ken Archer, Richard Longdon and Ishbel Macpherson, who have experience in technology and financial services businesses.
Accordingly, the Committee as a whole has experience in financial matters and competence relevant to the sectors in which Fidessa operates.
At the invitation of the Committee, the Chief Financial Officer and Group Financial Controller attend the Committee meetings together with representatives of the external auditor, the internal auditor, the Group General Counsel and the Head of Tax as appropriate.
In addition, the Committee meets with the external auditor and the internal auditor at least once a year without management being present.
The Committee met four times during the year and has met once since the end of the financial year to consider the results and the Annual Report for the year ended 31st December 2017.
The performance of the Committee was evaluated as part of the Board evaluation process and the conclusion was that the Committee was functioning effectively.
Responsibilities The Committee operates within its terms of reference, which are reviewed and updated annually and are available at www.
The Committees key responsibilities include: to make recommendations to the Board, for it to put to the shareholders for their approval in a general meeting, relating to the appointment, re-appointment, removal and remuneration of the external auditor and terms of engagement of the external auditor: to review and monitor the external auditors performance, expertise, independence and objectivity along with the effectiveness of the audit process and its scope: to assist the Board in monitoring the integrity, completeness and clarity of the financial statements and formal announcements relating to financial performance including any significant financial reporting judgements contained within them and to advise the Board that the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable: Fidessa group plc 46 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors and corporate governance report continued to monitor the appropriateness of accounting policies and practices and consistency of their application year to year: to monitor and review the effectiveness of internal financial controls and the internal control and risk management systems: to monitor and review the work and effectiveness of the internal audit function and review operational audit work undertaken by independent third parties: and to monitor the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor.
Key matters considered in relation to the financial statements During 2017, the Committee reviewed the results of the external audit for the previous financial year, the external auditors half year review and the half year results, as well as the external audit plan for 2017.
In February 2018 the Committee reviewed the 2017 Annual Report, including the financial statements contained within it and the Preliminary Results Announcement for the year ended 31st December 2017.
In undertaking this work, the Committee reviewed and considered reports from the Chief Financial Officer on key estimates and judgements and from the external auditor on their audit of the financial statements and Annual Report.
The Committees prime areas of focus were: the integrity, completeness and consistency of financial reporting, including the adequacy, clarity and appropriateness of disclosures: the areas where significant judgements and estimates are required in the financial statements: the scope and programme of external audit, along with the quality and effectiveness of the external audit processes: the materiality level used by the external auditor, concluding that it should be consistent with the previous year: whether the going concern basis of accounting should continue to apply in the preparation of the annual financial statements: considering the appropriateness of the viability statement: reviewing the processes and systems to identify and mitigate the financial and non-financial risks and to consider the appropriateness of the controls to reduce the risk of fraud and exposure to bribery and corruption: and reviewing and confirming to the Board that the Annual Report taken as a whole was fair balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the companys performance, business model and strategy.
The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements and estimates.
The material judgements and estimates are detailed in note 5 to the consolidated financial statements.
The key areas of judgements and estimates that have been reviewed and considered by the Committee were: Revenue recognition in relation to significant implementations, particularly those not completed at the year end, and contract amendments.
For the limited number of situations that required significant judgement the Committee received updates from management on the contractual terms, implementation timetable, technical risks being faced, uncertainties still to be resolved, significant contractual changes and the customers situation.
The Committee also reviewed the reports from the external auditor on revenue recognition.
As a result of their review of the management and external auditors reports, the Committee was satisfied that the explanations provided for judgements being made, particularly in relation to revenue being deferred, were applicable in the circumstances.
Development costs and the approach to their capitalisation and amortisation.
The Committee received updates from management and the external auditor and was satisfied that the methodology and process were appropriate.
The Committee concurred with management that the amounts capitalised met the criteria for capitalisation and that the short amortisation period of three years remained appropriate and that no material impairments had arisen.
Fidessa group plc 47 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 The carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets and also of investment by the Company in connection with the acquisition of LatentZero Limited in 2007 and the potential impairment of those assets.
The determination of whether or not goodwill has been impaired requires a review of the value in use of the assets: the conclusions of that review are then used to consider whether the value of the goodwill and intangible assets and the investment by the Company has been impaired.
The main judgements in relation to the review were considered to be the achievability of the long-term business plan, the potential impact on the business plan of macroeconomic and regulatory factors and the discount rate being applied to projected future cash flows.
The Committee reviewed the annual impairment review of the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets which was prepared by management and considered the report from the external auditor on the value in use, discount rate and sensitivities applied to the value in use.
The Committee also reviewed the proposed disclosures in the Annual Report on sensitivities.
After due challenge, the Committee concurred with the judgements associated with these calculations, including that no impairment provisions were necessary, and with the proposed disclosures.
The Committee at the same time concluded that the outcome of the annual impairment review of the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets supported the valuation of the investment by the Company.
The Committee received reports from management and advisors on the implementation of IFRS15 and was satisfied that the methodology and judgements being taken were appropriate.
Note 4 to the financial statements provides further detail on the adoption and of transition to IFRS15.
External audit and audit tender The Committee is responsible for recommending the appointment, reappointment or removal of external auditors and for approval of their remuneration.
Following approval by shareholders to re-appoint KPMG at last years Annual General Meeting, the Committee reviewed and approved the terms of engagement and remuneration of the external auditors for the 2017 audit.
Fidessas current audit partner is John Bennett, and he has held that role since 2015.
KPMG has been Fidessas external auditor since its stock market listing in 1997 and during that time the audit has not been formally tendered.
The Committee recognises the requirements regarding the retendering of audit services at least once every ten years for companies in the FTSE 350 required by the Competition and Markets Authority CMA and the requirement for auditor rotation as set out in EU regulations.
Under the transitional arrangements provided in these regulations, mandatory rotation of the Companys external auditors is required by 2020.
As reported in the 2016 Annual Report, it is intended that a new external auditor will be appointed at the 2019 Annual General Meeting.
During the year, the Committee commenced its preparations for the audit tender process including consideration of which firms to invite to participate in the tender.
After due and proper consideration, the Committee concluded that three firms will be invited to participate in the tender during the second quarter of 2018.
KPMG will not be invited to participate in the audit tender.
The Committees timetable for tendering the external auditor services complies with the CMA and EU auditor rotation requirements.
Audit Quality Review During the year the FRCs Audit Quality Review AQR team completed a review of KPMGs audit of Fidessas 2016 financial statements.
The Committee considered the findings of the review and discussed them with KPMG and the Chairman of the Committee also discussed the findings with the FRCs AQR team.
Whilst none of the findings were regarded by the Committee as significant, they noted two areas recommended for improvement in relation to the work on capitalised development costs and sensitivity analysis in relation to goodwill impairment.
The Committee noted improvements to the work done by the auditors in the 2017 audit in both these areas.
Overall, the Committee concluded that it was satisfied with the results of the review with no issues identified which could cast doubt on the fundamental quality of the audit.
Fidessa group plc 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors and corporate governance report continued Audit effectiveness The Committee conducted a review of the effectiveness of the external audit and the performance of the external auditor.
The review included consideration of the independence and objectivity of the external auditor, the appropriateness and quality of reporting to and interaction with the Committee, the suitability of the audit plan and the effectiveness of its execution and feedback from management and the finance team.
The Committee also took into account the satisfactory outcome of the Audit Quality Review referred to above.
Having considered all of these factors, the Committee concluded that the audit had been effective and that it was satisfied that the performance of KPMG was effective and efficient.
Auditor independence In conjunction with its review of the effectiveness of the performance of the external auditor, the Committee considered the independence of the external auditor.
The Committee received written confirmation from the external auditor of any relationships it has which may cause a conflict of interest, together with a declaration that it considered itself to be independent.
The Committee confirmed that it was satisfied with KPMGs confirmation that independence has been maintained and that it is appropriate to recommend re-appointment of KPMG as the external auditor.
The Committee therefore recommended to the Board that KPMG be re-appointed as the external auditor for 2017 and a resolution for its appointment will be submitted to the Annual General Meeting.
Non-audit services The Board has approved the external auditor undertaking very limited non-audit activities where the fees paid do not exceed 10,000 for any individual matter or related matters or 30,000 in total for the year: separate Board approval would be required for non-audit activities to be conducted outside those parameters.
The provision of non-audit activities has typically been very low at Fidessa with the vast majority of such work in the past being related to tax advisory services.
Following the recent EU regulations on permitted non-audit services KPMG ceased providing tax advisory services to the Company with effect from 1st January 2017.
The fees for non-audit related activity represented 0% of the fees for audit activity.
Details of the external auditors fees including fees for non-audit work are set out in note 8 to the consolidated financial statements.
The Committee believes that Fidessas approach to non-audit services and demonstrable low levels of non-audit activities safeguards auditor objectivity and independence.
Internal control and risk management The Board is ultimately responsible for Fidessas internal controls and risk management systems.
Those controls and systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The concept of reasonable assurance recognises that the cost of control procedures should not exceed the expected benefits.
Details of the principal risks are set out in the Strategic Report.
As required by the Code, the Committee has reviewed the internal controls and risk management systems, including those relating to financial, operational and compliance matters and the Committee has confirmed to the Board that it is satisfied that Fidessa has established internal controls and risk management systems that are effective and compliant with the current governance provisions and that no significant weaknesses were identified during the Committees review.
Details of the internal controls and risk management and key activities undertaken in that regard are set out in the Directors and Corporate Governance Report.
Fidessa group plc 49 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Internal audit The Committee focuses the activity of the internal auditor on those primarily financial areas where it considers the need to review controls, test processes and monitor risk levels, including assurance that the relevant controls and processes are working effectively.
Fidessa engages an external consultant, who reports directly to the Committee, to conduct these internal audits.
During the year the Committee approved the internal audit work plan and reviewed the reports from the internal auditor of work done, recommendations for control improvements together with corrective action planned.
The Committee also reviewed the effectiveness and independence of the internal auditor and concluded that they are satisfactory.
The review included discussions amongst the Committee and feedback from management.
Additionally, the Committee also reviewed reports on compliance risk matters prepared by the Group General Counsel, together with operational audit reports from independent auditors regarding Fidessas quality management system ISO 9001.2008 and its service organisation controls ISAE 3402 SSAE 18.
The ISAE 3402 SSAE 18 reports currently relate to the UK, US, Canadian and Hong Kong operations.
The requirement to conduct additional external operational audits in other regions in which the Group operates is kept under review.
Financial Reporting Council FRC Fidessa received a letter from the FRC confirming that the Annual Report for the year ended 31st December 2016 had been subject to review by its Conduct Committee, which is responsible for reviewing and investigating the annual accounts, directors and strategic reports of public companies in the UK.
The letter from the FRC communicated that following this review, it had no questions or queries it wished to raise with Fidessa.
The FRC noted that the letter provided no assurance that Fidessas report and accounts were correct in all material respects, and that the FRCs role was not to verify information, but to consider compliance with reporting requirements, and it did not take responsibility for reliance on its letter by any party.
Separately and as noted above, during the year the FRC carried out a quality review of the external auditors audit of Fidessas 2016 financial statements.
The Committee regarded the conclusions of both reviews as very satisfactory.
Other matters During the year the Committee also considered and reviewed: the Groups treasury policy: the appropriateness of the whistleblowing procedures in place whereby staff may confidentially raise concerns about possible improprieties: and its terms of reference, and recommended to the Board changes to those terms.
