Corporate Governance report The review had also identified an OVERSTATEMENT OF CASH AND THE BOARD overstatement of balances at 30 June 2017 TRADE PAYABLES At 31 December 2017, the Board was relating to recoverable balances brought The Group reported in its Trading Update made up of eight members comprising the forward from 2016 and some additional on 9 January 2018 that during the initial Chairman, two Executive Directors and five receivables accrued in the first half of 2017. year end close processes, the Group Non-Executive Directors.
The Directors who This resulted in up to a further 2.5m identified a historical overstatement of cash held office during the year were: overstatement of profit for the half year and trade payables related to cash cut-off ended 30 June 2017.
This was associated with the MR A. J. ALLNER that these misstatements were qualitatively issue of cheques around previous period Non-Executive Chairman appointed material and required restatement under IAS ends whereby cheques had been written 1 November 2017 8.
The Group has restated previous Financial and passed to suppliers but not accounted MR M. OLDERSMA Statements for the overstatements in these for.
There was no impact from this on the Chief Executive Officer appointed Financial Statements on pages 100 to 166, Consolidated Income Statement, but it 3 April 2017 which have been subject to audit.
resulted in an overstatement of cash of MR N. W. MADDOCK 20m at 31 December 2016 and 27m at A number of employees are leaving the Chief Financial Officer 30 June 2017.
Internal Audit has completed business following disciplinary investigations appointed 1 February 2017 a review of the controls around cheque into the circumstances.
also confirmed that, whilst no incentives MS A. ABT were paid in error as a result of the Independent Non-Executive Director After adjusting for the overstatement, the overstatements, potential bonus payments headline financial leverage at 31 December MS J. E. ASHDOWN to certain individuals in relation to 2017 will 2017 is 1.9x 2016: 2.4x.
This did not impact Independent Non-Executive Director not be payable.
compliance with the Groups covenants MR I.
B. DUNCAN but resulted in additional interest charges In addition, the Group identified a number Independent Non-Executive Director of 0.4m.
The Group continues to target a of actions to remediate the control appointed 1 January 2017 1.0-1.5x leverage range during 2018 and is environment in SIG Distribution, including aiming to maintain leverage below 1.0x over MR M. EWELL some specific additional controls around the medium term.
Independent Non-Executive Director rebates and other supplier recoverables, served as Interim Chief Executive from 11 which were implemented with immediate OVERSTATEMENT OF PROFIT November 2016 until 31 March 2017 effect.
The Group had also engaged KPMG On 1 February 2018, following a thorough to conduct a detailed review of financial MR C. V. GEOGHEGAN review, the Group released a stock exchange reporting controls at SIG Distribution to Senior Independent Non-Executive Director announcement in relation to identification of confirm the accounting treatment of other a historical overstatement of profit relating to MR D. G. ROBERTSON material items at 31 December 2017, prior to the year ended 31 December 2016 and prior Group Finance Director finalising the year end results.
years and relating to the half year ended 30 retired 31 January 2017 June 2017.
MR J. C. NICHOLLS Following a whistleblowing allegation of Independent Non-Executive Director potential accounting irregularity at SIG retired 31 March 2017 Distribution, the core insulation and MR L. VAN fide WALLE interiors business in the UK, the Group, NonExecutive Chairman with support from its external Auditor retired 31 October 2017 Deloitte and from KPMG, conducted a forensic review of the recoverability of a number of balances recognised at 31 December 2016 in relation to rebates and other potential recoveries from suppliers.
Findings from this ongoing review were presented to the Audit Committee of the Board on 31 January 2018 and confirmed that a number of these balances were overstated at 31 December 2016, in some cases intentionally.
This resulted in an overstatement of profit for the year ended 31 December 2016 of 3.7m, with a further 0.4m overstatement of profit relating to years before 2016.
com Stock code: SHI 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance report Mr I.
B. Duncan was appointed a NonThe Board has satisfied itself that there is no CHAIRMAN Executive Director with effect from compromise to the independence of those Responsible for overall leadership 1 January 2017.
Mr J. C. Nicholls retired Directors who have other appointments in and governance of the Board from the Board on 31 March 2017 as a outside entities.
The Board considers that including induction, development and Non-Executive Director and Chair of the each of the Non-Executive Directors brings performance evaluation.
Mr Duncan succeeded their own senior level of experience and Ensures that the Directors have an Mr Nicholls as Chair of the Audit Committee expertise and that the balance between understanding of the views of the following Mr Nicholls retirement on Non-Executive and Executive representation Companys major Shareholders.
31 March 2017. encourages healthy independent challenge Ensures a healthy culture of to the Executive Directors and senior Mr S. R. Mitchell stepped down from challenge and debate at Board and management.
The Board is also satisfied the Board as Chief Executive by mutual Committee meetings.
that each of the Non-Executive Directors is agreement on 11 November 2016.
Mr able to dedicate sufficient time to their role The Chairman, at the time of his appointment M. Ewell, a Non-Executive Director, was and responsibilities.
met the independence criteria set out in appointed as Interim Chief Executive from the Code.
11 November 2016 on a full time basis while The Non-Executive Directors have been the Board conducted an external search appointed for their specific areas of CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER for a new Chief Executive.
Mr M. Oldersma expertise and knowledge.
Their wide-ranging Responsible for the effective leadership of was appointed as Chief Executive Officer experience and backgrounds ensure that the Group.
Mr Ewell stepped down as they can debate matters constructively in Interim Chief Executive on 31 March 2017 relation to both the development of strategy Strong and focused management and and remained as an Executive Director until and performance of SIG against objectives development of the Groups operations.
He resumed his Non-Executive set out by the Board.
Biographical details of Implementation of the Groups objectives Director duties from 1 May 2017. each of the Directors, which illustrate their and strategy agreed by the Board.
range of experience, are set out on pages 58 Maintains good relationships and Mr D. G. Robertson retired from the Board and 59. communications with investors.
as Group Finance Director with effect from 31 January 2017 and was succeeded The Companys policy relating to the terms Works closely with the Chief Financial by Mr N. W. Maddock with effect from of appointment and remuneration of both Officer to ensure appropriate financial 1 February 2017. the Executive and Non-Executive Directors controls are in place.
is detailed in the Directors Remuneration Develops and implements policies integral Mr L. Van fide Walle retired from the Report on pages 80 to 96. to improving the business, including in Board as Non-Executive Chairman on relation to Health & Safety and Corporate 31 October 2017 and was succeeded by Mr The roles of the Chairman and Chief Responsibility.
A. J. Allner with effect from 1 November 2017.
Executive Officer are separate and clearly defined.
The division of responsibilities is Biographical details of the Directors holding SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR set out in writing, reviewed by the Company office at the date of this report appear on Available for approach by or Secretary and agreed by the Board on a pages 58 and 59.
Details of Committee representations from investors and regular basis.
The Board approves any memberships are set out on page 65.
Shareholders, where communications necessary changes to reflect changes through the Chairman or Executive in legislation, policy and practices.
The At 31 December 2017, SIG had two female Directors may not seem appropriate.
Chairman leads the Board and sets Board members, equating to 25% female its agenda, ensuring that all Directors, representation of its Directors.
A sounding board for the Chairman and particularly the Non-Executive Directors, an intermediary for the other Directors Each of the Non-Executive Directors are are able to make an effective contribution.
when necessary, considered by the Board to be independent He also ensures that there is a constructive Available to chair the Board in the of management and free of any relationship relationship between the Executive and absence of the Chairman.
which could materially interfere with the Non-Executive Directors.
The Chief Executive exercise oftheir independent judgement.
Officer has responsibility for all operational The Senior Independent Director is Mr C. V. matters which include the implementation of Geoghegan.
Mr Geoghegan will complete the Groups strategy and policies approved three full terms this year and in accordance by the Board.
with the Code he has offered himself to retire from the Board on 9 March 2018.
Mr The roles for the Chairman, Chief Executive M. Ewell will succeed Mr Geoghegan as the Officer and the Senior Independent Director Senior Independent Director until a new are agreed and set out in writing: a summary Non-Executive Director is appointed.
of their roles and division of responsibility is set out below: 62 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six There is no maximum number of Directors in a form and of a quality appropriate to Full details of delegated matters to the but there shall at no time be less than two.
enable them to discharge their duties.
Group Executive Committee and Terms of Directors may be appointed by the Company Board and Committee papers are sent out Reference for each of the Board Committees by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
A seven days before meetings take place.
The are available on request from the Director appointed by the Board shall hold Directors are provided with opportunities Company Secretary or on the SIG website office only until the next Annual General for training to ensure that they are kept www.
Meeting AGM and shall then be eligible for up to date on relevant new legislation and To enable the Board to perform its duties reappointment by the Shareholders.
regulation changes, corporate governance effectively, all Directors have full access to all developments and changing commercial relevant information and to the services of ELECTION AND RE-ELECTION risks.
There is an agreed schedule of matters the Company Secretary, whose responsibility OF DIRECTORS reserved for the Board for collective decision, it is for ensuring that Board procedures are Under the Articles of Association, all which can be viewed on the Companys followed.
The appointment and removal Directors are subject to election at the AGM website www.
of the Company Secretary is a matter immediately following their appointment and These matters include: reserved for the Board.
There is an agreed to re-election every three years.
However, in procedure whereby Directors wishing to Determining the strategy and control of accordance with the Code, all Directors will take independent legal advice in the the Group.
seek election or re-election at the Companys furtherance of their duties may do so at the AGM each year.
To enable Shareholders to Amendments to the structure and capital Companys expense.
make an informed decision, the 2018 Notice of the Company and Group.
of AGM includes biographical details and a The Company Secretary is responsible Approval of financial reporting.
statement as to why the Company believes for ensuring that Board procedures are Oversight of the Groups internal controls.
that the Directors should be re-elected.
followed including the formal minuting of Approval of capital and revenue any unresolved concerns that any Director It is the view of the Board that each of expenditure of a significant size.
may have in connection with the operation the Non-Executive Directors standing for of the Company.
During the year there Board membership and appointments.
election or re-election brings considerable were no such unresolved issues.
Further, management experience and an Acquisitions and disposals above a on resignation, ifaNon-Executive Director independent perspective to the Boards prescribed limit.
had any such concerns, the Chairman would discussions and is considered to be Corporate governance matters.
invite him her to provide a written statement independent of management and free from Approval of Group policies and risk for circulation to the Board.
any relationship or circumstance that could management strategies.
affect, or appear to affect, the exercise of All Board Committees are provided with their independent judgement.
The Board has formally delegated specific sufficient resources to undertake their responsibilities to Board Committees, duties.
Appropriate training is available to all The Chairman intends to confirm at the AGM including the Nominations, Audit and Directors on appointment and on an ongoing that the performance of each individual Remuneration Committees.
The Board also basis as required.
continues to be effective and demonstrates appoints Committees to approve specific commitment to the role.
Following the successful roll-out of a secure processes as deemed necessary.
For iPad based paperless meeting system in The terms of the Directors service contracts example, during the year, Board Committees 2012, the Group moved from BoardPad to are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration were established to approve share the Diligent software system during 2017.
Full details of allotments, and the preliminary and interim This further supports our online drive across Directors remuneration, interests in the results announcements.
the Group and is consistent with reducing share capital of the Company and of share The Board has delegated the following the impact of our operations on options held are set out on pages 89 to 96 in matters to the Group Executive Committee: the environment.
The development and implementation Directors service contracts and the letters of of strategy, operational plans, policies, appointment of the Non-Executive Directors procedures and budgets as agreed by the are available for inspection at the Companys Board.
registered office and will be available at the The monitoring of operating and financial AGM, which is scheduled to take place on performance.
The assessment and control of risk.
BOARD PROCEDURES AND Consider proposed significant changes RESPONSIBILITIES to the Groups capital structure, The Board meets regularly during the year, management and control structures, as well as on an ad hoc basis as required listings or status as a public limited by time-critical business needs.
met formally on 15 occasions during the The development and assessment of the year and individual attendance at those Groups Health and Safety and Corporate and the Board Committee meetings is Responsibility policies and performance.
set out in the table on page 64.
All Board members are supplied with information 63 www.
com Stock code: SHI 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance report DIRECTORS CONFLICTS ATTENDANCE BY DIRECTORS AT MEETINGS OF THE BOARD AND OF INTERESTS COMMITTEES IN 2017 Each Director has a duty under the The following table shows the attendance of Directors at meetings of the Board, Audit, Companies Act 2006 the Act to avoid any Remuneration and Nominations Committees during the year to 31 December 2017: situation where they have, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or Board Audit Remuneration Nominations possibly may conflict, with the Companys 1 15 meetings 4 meetings 7 meetings 6 meetings interests.
This duty is in addition to the A. Abt 15 4 7 6 obligation that they owe to the Company to disclose to the Board any transaction or J. E. Ashdown 14 4 7 6 arrangement under consideration by the I.
B. Duncan 15 4 7 6 Company in which they have, or can have, 2 M. Ewell 15 3 4 6 a direct or indirect interest.
Directors of public companies may authorise conflicts C. V. Geoghegan 15 4 7 6 and potential conflicts, where appropriate, 3 N. W. Maddock 14 N A N A N A ifa companys Articles of Association permit and Shareholders have approved 4 M. Oldersma 10 N A N A 4 appropriate amendments.
5 A. J. Allner 3 N A N A 1 Procedures have been put in place for 6 Mr L. Van fide Walle 13 N A N A 3 the disclosure by Directors of any such 7 Mr J. C. Nicholls 6 1 2 2 conflicts and also for the consideration and authorisation of any conflicts by the Board.
There were seven unscheduled Board meetings in 2017.
The attendance to all the meetings is detailed above.
These procedures allow for the imposition 2.
Mr M. Ewell resumed his Non-Executive Director duties from 1 May 2017 and attended all meetings to which he was of limits or conditions by the Board when entitled to attend.
authorising any conflict, if they think this 3.
Mr N. W. Maddock was appointed to the Board on 1 February 2017 and attended all meetings to which he was is appropriate.
These procedures have entitled to attend.
been applied during the year and are now 4.
Mr M. Oldersma was appointed to the Board on 3 April 2017 and attended all meetings to which he was entitled included as a regular item for consideration to attend.
by the Board at its meetings.
Mr A. J. Allner was appointed to the Board on 1 November 2017 and attended all meetings to which he was entitled believes that the procedures established to attend.
to deal with conflicts of interest are 6.
Mr L. Van fide Walle resigned from the Board on 31 October 2017. operating effectively.
Mr J. C. Nicholls resigned from the Board on 31 March 2017.
The Board is aware of the other Of the 15 Board meetings held in 2017, seven were held by telephone conference call.
commitments of its Directors and is satisfied that these do not conflict with their duties as This table only shows those meetings which each Director attended as a member rather Directors of the Company.
Where N A appears in the table the Director listed isnot a member of the Committee.
Directors do not participate in meetings when matters relating to them COMPLIANCE WITH S172 OF THE are discussed.
COMPANIES ACT 2006 The Chairman also holds meetings with the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive The Directors consider that they have Directors present.
The Senior Independent Director also meets with the other Independent performed their fiduciary duty, as stipulated Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman present.
In general, the Board endeavours under s172 of the Act in good faith to to hold at least two Board meetings each year at Group business locations both in the UK promote the success of the Company for the & Ireland and Mainland Europe to help all Board members gain a deeper understanding benefit of its members as a whole.
They have of the business.
This also provides senior managers from across the Group with the taken into consideration: opportunity to present to the Board as well as to meet the Directors on more informal the likely consequences of any decision occasions.
Board members also attend divisional and Group management conferences in the long term: whenever possible.
the interests of the Companys All Directors attended the 2017 AGM and were available to answer any questions raised by employees: the Shareholders.
the need to foster relationships with suppliers, customers and others: the desirability of the Company to maintain a reputation for high standards of business conduct: and the need to act fairly between members of the Company.
64 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six GROUP BOARD NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE AUDIT COMMITTEE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Audit Committee operates under The Nominations Committee operates The Remuneration Committee written Terms of Reference, which are under written Terms of Reference, operates under written Terms of consistent with current best practice.
which are consistent with current best Reference, which are consistent with The Committee comprises only practice.
The Committee comprises current best practice.
The Committee Independent Non-Executive Directors.
the Chairman, the Chief Executive comprises only Independent NonThe Chairman of the Committee Officer and the Independent NonExecutive Directors.
The Chairman attends the AGM to respond to any Executive Directors.
The meetings of of the Committee attends the AGM Shareholder questions that might be the Committee are chaired by the Nonto respond to any Shareholder raised on the Committees activities.
The Chairman questions that might be raised The Committees report is set out on of the Committee attends the AGM on the Committees activities.
The pages 73 to 77. to respond to any Shareholder Committees report is set out on pages questions that might be raised on the 80 to 96.
The Group has an Internal Audit Committees activities.
The Committees function and additional outsourced DELEGATED AUTHORITIES: report is set out on pages 78 to 79. specialist support from KPMG LLP.
Sets remuneration and incentives The Board annually reviews the DELEGATED AUTHORITIES: for the Executive Directors, approves need for such a function and the Ensures that the Board and its and monitors remuneration effectiveness of the outsourced Committees have the optimum balance and incentive plans for the Internal Audit function.
of skills, knowledge and experience Group, and assesses and makes by nominating suitable candidates for recommendations to the Board on DELEGATED AUTHORITIES: approval by the Board to fill Executive the policy of Executive remuneration.
Monitors the integrity of financial and Non-Executive vacancies.
reporting, the performance of the MEMBERS: external Auditor and reviews the MEMBERS: Ms J. E. Ashdown replaced effectiveness of the Groups systems Mr A. J. Allner replaced Mr Van fide Walle Mr Geoghegan as Chair from of internal control and related as Chair from 1 November 2017 19 December 2017 compliance activities.
Ms A. Abt Ms A. Abt Ms J. E. Ashdown Mr I.
B. Duncan replaced Mr Nicholls Mr M. Ewell Mr C. V. Geoghegan to 9 March 2018 as Chair from 31 March 2017 Mr C. V. Geoghegan to 9 March 2018 Mr J. C. Nicholls to 31 March 2017 Ms A. Abt Mr M. Oldersma Ms J. E. Ashdown Mr L. Van fide Walle Mr M. Ewell to 31 October 2017 Mr C. V. Geoghegan to 9 March 2018 Mr J. C. Nicholls to 31 March 2017 Mr J. C. Nicholls to 31 March 2017 GROUP EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE GROUP TAX AND TREASURY COMMITTEE The Executive Committee operates under written Terms of Reference, details of The Treasury Committee operates which are provided on page 63.
The Committee addresses operational issues and is under the written Treasury Policy responsible for implementing Group strategy and policies, day-to-day management Manual.
The Committee considers and monitoring performance.
The Committee met 27 times during the year.
liquidity and funding, interest rate risk management, tax risks, MEMBERS: Mr E. Hutt foreign exchange risk management, Mr M. Oldersma Chairman Group Chief Information Officer counterparty credit risk management Chief Executive Officer from 1 September 2017 and any other current Group tax or from 3 April 2017 Mrs L. H. Kennedy-McCarthy treasury issues.
Group Human Resources Director Mr N. W. Maddock to 31 December 2017 Chief Financial Officer MEMBERS: from 1 February 2017 Mr I. Jackson Chairman Ms G. Hannen Group Financial Controller European Finance Director Mr R. T. Barclay to 18 December 2017 Managing Director, UK & Ireland Mr N. W. Maddock Chief Financial Officer Mr L. Lvovich Mr A. Wakelin from 1 February 2017 Corporate Development Director Managing Director, Exteriors to 15 September 2017 Mr R. C. Monro Mr C. Horn Company Secretary Mr M. Pearson Group Operations Director Group Chief Information Officer and Ms H. Jones Mr P. Dnec Programmes Director Group Treasurer Managing Director, France to 15 September 2017 from 29 August 2017 Mr J. Neves Mr M. Hamori Mr A. Gupta Group Director of Risk & Managing Director, Benelux Managing Director, Germany to 7 July Internal Audit Mr L. Hemels 2017 from 2 October 2017 Managing Director, Air Handling Mr D. G. Robertson Mr I. Norris Risk & Financial Controller Mr M. Szczgiel Group Finance Director to 30 June 2017 Managing Director, Poland to 31 January 2017 Mr M. Chappell Mrs S. Clarke Group Treasurer to 25 Mr M. Ewell Interim Group Transformation Director August 2017 Interim Chief Executive 20 November 2017 to 2 March 2018 to 31 March 2017 65 www.
com Stock code: SHI 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance report increasing Board focus on people, OPEN CULTURE BOARD EFFECTIVENESS AND culture, succession planning, employee PERFORMANCE EVALUATION The Board considers that the Group engagement and organisational The effectiveness of the Board and its operates a risk-aware culture with an open effectiveness.
Committees is vital to the success of the style of communication.
During the year the Board early identification of problems and issues, ensuring the Non-Executive Directors continued its ongoing evaluation process to so that appropriate action is taken quickly become closer to the business assess its performance and that of its three to minimise any impact on the business.
through a programme of visits to principal Committees Audit, Remuneration The details and processes in identifying the operations, attendance at leadership and Nominations.
overstated cash and trade payables and of team conferences, greater access to profits are provided on page 61. management below Executive Director Under the Code, the Board is required to level and improved Board information.
undertake a formal and rigorous annual ONGOING PROCESS FOR RISK IDENTIFICATION, evaluation of its own performance and The Chairman regularly reviews and EVALUATION AND MANAGEMENT that of its Committees and individual agrees with each Director their training This process includes the following: Directors.
In January 2018 an effectiveness and development needs.
During the year a The Board maintains an overall corporate review of the Board and its Committees number of the Directors attended training risk register, the content of which is Audit, Remuneration and Nominations courses and seminars on various subjects, determined by regular discussions was undertaken.
This was facilitated by including those that the Chairman had between senior management, the Group the Chairman, who conducted one-to-one identified as being areas where training Board and the Audit Committee.
As a result, the summary report would increase the knowledge and also formally reviewed twice yearly by was presented to the Board in January 2018. effectiveness of the Director.
The Board the Audit Committee and discussed with The discussions then focused on how the received agenda specific training throughout the Board.
The risk register contains actions and improvements identified through the year and as a whole received training the significant risks faced by the Group the process should be implemented.
The from its advisors on the Listing Rules.
Further and identifies the potential impact and Board was satisfied that the evaluation of its training is programmed for 2018. likelihood at both a gross level before performance was a worthwhile exercise and consideration of mitigating controls and The Non-Executive Directors, chaired by the that the Directors had participated on an net level after consideration of mitigating Senior Independent Director, meet once a open and frank basis.
This provides the Board with year without the Chairman present to assess In accordance with the requirements of the the opportunity to review the level of risk his performance, taking into account the Code, this being the third year in the cycle, that the business is prepared to accept.
views of the Executive Directors.
the evaluation should have been externally The register also contains the assurance RISK MANAGEMENT AND facilitated.
However, due to the number of provided over current key mitigating INTERNAL CONTROL recent Board changes and more recently controls.
Where further actions have the appointment of the new Chairman in The Board has ultimate responsibility for been identified to mitigate risks to a level November 2017, it was felt that an internally the Groups system of internal control and deemed acceptable, these are agreed facilitated evaluation be undertaken by the for reviewing its effectiveness.
It is the role with specific timelines for delivery and are Chairman at this time.
of management to implement the Boards monitored closely until fully implemented.
policies on risk and control through the This is summarised in the Strategic Report Whilst concluding that the Board, its design and operation of appropriate internal on pages 6 to 55: individual Directors, and its Committees control systems.
Such systems are designed The risk management process is cascaded continue to improve key processes and to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk throughout the Group, with operating effectiveness, the evaluation identified a of failure to achieve the business objectives subsidiary boards responsible for number of areas for improvement, including: and can therefore only provide reasonable maintaining their own risk registers and improved management information and not absolute assurance against material assessing their internal control systems.
at meetings to assist in making misstatement or loss.
A defined organisation structure with informed decisions.
The Audit Committee monitors and reviews better understanding of the business the effectiveness of the Groups internal Formal authorisation procedures for and its divisions.
control systems, accounting policies and all investments with clear guidelines on increased emphasis on people and practices, standards of risk management appraisal techniques and success criteria.
and risk management procedures and Clear responsibilities on the part compliance controls.
of financial management for the maintenance of good financial controls The proposed Board priorities for 2018 The key elements of the existing systems of and the production and review of will cover: internal control, which accord with the FRCs detailed, accurate and timely financial Guidance on Risk Management and Internal monitoring the progress in executing management information.
Control and Related Financial and Business the medium term strategy and business Reporting September 2014, are as follows: turnaround.
focusing on developing the long term vision and strategy for SIG beyond turnaround.
66 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six A comprehensive system of financial process, which has been further Code issued by the FRC.
An annual budget for each developed since year end giving Group significant breakdown of internal controls in operating company is prepared in detail and local management an improved relation to supplier rebates and presentation and approved by the Chief Executive oversight of procedures and controls.
of cash, which is discussed further on Officer.
TheBoard approves the overall The Key Controls Framework has greater page 61.
Monthly actual focus over cash and supplier rebates.
WHISTLEBLOWING results are reported against budget and A structured and approved programme The Group has in place a Whistleblowing prior year and the forecast for the year of Internal Audit visits with the Policy under which employees may, in isrevised where necessary.
Any significant implementation of recommendations confidence, raise concerns about possible changes and adverse variances are made being monitored as part of a wrongdoing in financial reporting or other questioned by the Board and remedial continuous programme of improvement.
A copy of this policy is available on action taken where appropriate.
Thereis the Companys website www.
also regular cash and treasury reporting FINANCIAL REPORTING to the Chief Financial Officer and periodic In addition to the general internal controls The Company also has in place a confidential reporting to the Board on the Groups tax and risk management processes described hotline which is available to all of the Groups and treasury position.
on pages 66 to 67, the Group also has employees and provides a facility for them to specific systems and controls to govern the Provision to management and the bring matters to managements attention on financial reporting process and preparation Board of relevant, accurate and timely a confidential basis.
The hotline is provided of the Annual Report and Accounts.
These information including relevant key by an independent third party.
During 2017 systems include clear policies and the performance indicators, based on reliable these systems were operational throughout procedures for ensuring that the Groups management information systems the Group.
A full investigation is carried financial reporting processes and the which are continually being improved out on all matters raised and a report is preparation of its Financial Statements and updated.
prepared for feedback to the complainant.
comply with all relevant regulatory reporting Monthly reports to the Board from The Company Secretary is required to report requirements.
These are comprehensively the Chief Executive Officer and Chief to the Audit Committee semi-annually on detailed in the Group Finance Manual, Financial Officer.
the integrity of these procedures, the state which is used by the businesses in the Regular business unit management board of ongoing investigations and conclusions preparation of their results.
Financial control meetings periodically attended by the reached.
During 2017 Group employees requirements are also set out in the Group Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial used this system to raise concerns about a Finance Manual.
Officer, Executive Board meetings and number of separate issues, all of which were the Company Board meetings at which ANNUAL ASSESSMENT OF THE EFFECTIVENESS appropriately responded to.
existing, new and evolving operational, OF SYSTEMS OF INTERNAL CONTROL During the year a matter was raised financial and other risks are discussed, During 2017 the Board conducted a review under the Whistleblowing Policy in respect and appropriate actions to manage these of the effectiveness of the Groups system of supplier rebates and other supplier risks are agreed and followed up.
This review covered all receivables, which was fully investigated.
Discussion of any significant issues or controls including operational, compliance Details of the investigation and outcomes are control weaknesses identified and, if and risk management procedures, as well covered in this Report on page 61. considered necessary, their inclusion in as financial controls.
The Board will continue reports to the Executive Board and the to assess the effectiveness of systems of OVERALL ASSESSMENT Company Board.
The risk framework, as outlined above, gives Operating units, both trading sites reasonable assurance that the structure The Board and Audit Committee requested, and central functions, completed of controls in operation is appropriate to received and reviewed reports from Group comprehensive Control Self-Assessment the Groups situation and that there is an Internal Audit, senior management, its CSA questionnaires for the early part acceptable level of risk throughout the advisors, the outsourced Internal Audit of 2017.
These questionnaires required business, apart from the two significant function and our external Auditor in order managers to respond to questions deficiencies as set out on page 61. to assist the Board with their annual about procedures and controls in the assessment of the effectiveness of the The Board confirms that there is an ongoing unit for which they have responsibility.
Groups systems of internal controls.
process for identifying, evaluating and These were analysed by local and Group Through the ongoing processes outlined on managing the significant risks faced by the management and all potential risks pages 66 to 67, improvements in internal Group and that this has been in place for or control failure issues which were controls are continuously identified and the year under review and up to the date of raised by the CSA process were classed action plans are devised.
Progress towards approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
in terms of escalation levels with any completion of actions is regularly monitored significant Group level issues being by management and the Board.
reported to the Audit Committee.
As part TheBoard considers that the information of the continually improving approach that it receives is sufficient to enable it to to risk and internal audit, the control review the effectiveness of the Groups self-assessment underwent a complete internal controls in accordance with the refresh during the year and this has now internal control guidance for Directors on the become the Key Controls Framework 67 www.
com Stock code: SHI 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance report Throughout the year, the Company The Notice of Meeting is sent to RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS responds to correspondence received from Shareholders at least 20 working days before The Company recognises the importance Shareholders on a wide range of issues and the meeting.
The Company provides a facility of communicating with its Shareholders, also participates in a number of surveys forShareholders to vote electronically and including its employee Shareholders, to and questionnaires submitted by a variety the Form of Proxy provides Shareholders ensure that its strategy and performance ofinvestor research bodies.
Although the with the option of withholding their vote on a is understood.
This is achieved principally other Non-Executive Directors are not resolution if they so wish.
Shareholders vote through the Annual Report and Accounts at present asked to meet the Companys on a show of hands, unless a poll is validly and the AGM.
The Groups annual and Shareholders, they regularly review called and, after each such vote, the number interim results, aswell as all announcements the presentations of the annual and of proxy votes received for or against the issued to the London Stock Exchange, are interim results.
resolution together with the number of published on the Companys website.
The Company Company issues regular trading updates to The Board recognises that the AGM is the Secretary ensures that votes are properly themarket and these, together with copies principal forum for dialogue with private received and recorded.
Details of the proxies of the presentations made to analysts, can Shareholders and all Shareholders are invited lodged on all resolutions are published on also be found on the Companys website.
All Directors attend the AGM and the Companys website immediately after In addition, a range of other corporate are available to answer any questions that the AGM.
information is available to investors on the Shareholders may wish to raise.
The Chief Executive Officer and Chief SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS Financial Officer are primarily responsible At the date of approval of the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts, the Company had received for direct investor relations.
The Board is notification of the following shareholdings in excess of 3% of its issued share capital kept informed of investors views through pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority as at distribution and regular discussion of 31 December 2017 and 8 March 2018: analysts and brokers briefings and a summary of investor opinion feedback.
In Voting Rights Voting Rights as at as at addition, feedback from major Shareholders Shareholder 31 December 2017 % 8 March 2018 % isreported to the Board by the Chairman and the Chief Financial Officer and discussed Investec Asset Management 70,084,874 11.86% 70,084,874 11.86% at its meetings.
Formal presentations are made to institutional Shareholders following IKO Enterprises Limited 40,539,710 6.85% 40,539,710 6.85% the announcement of the Companys annual Templeton Investment Counsel LLP 30,321,866 5.13% 30,321,866 5.13% and interim results.
FIL Limited 29,955,004 5.06% 29,955,004 5.06% Following a review of strategy in 2017, the Tameside MBC re Greater Manchester Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Pension Fund 29,951,996 5.06% 29,951,996 5.06% Officer met with the Shareholders in November 2017 to update them on the Below notifiable conclusions, the resulting medium term UBS Asset Management 29,578,718 5.00% threshold n a financial targets and the plans to achieve Massachusetts Financial these targets.
Services Company 26,799,365 4.53% 26,799,365 4.53% Each year, the Chairman offers one-to-one Kames Capital Plc 29,196,351 4.93% 23,339,648 3.95% meetings with SIGs largest Shareholders.
Schroder Investment Following the November 2017 strategy Management Limited 23,005,522 3.89% 23,005,522 3.89% day, the Chairman met with SIGs large institutional Shareholders.
Norges Bank 18,163,702 3.07% 18,163,702 3.07% Contact is also maintained, where appropriate, with Shareholders to discuss STATEMENT OF THE DIRECTORS ON THE DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION overall remuneration plans and policies.
TO THE AUDITOR The Chairman and the Senior Independent The Directors who held office at the date of approval of the Directors Report confirm that: Director are available to discuss governance So far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the and strategy with major Shareholders Companys Auditor is unaware: and ifrequested, and both are prepared to Each Director has taken all steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director to contact individual Shareholders should any make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the specific areas of concern or enquiry be raised.
Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
68 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six Details of the Groups policies in relation to GOING CONCERN OTHER STATUTORY DISCLOSURES employees including disabled employees The Going Concern Statement can be found PRINCIPAL ACTIVITY AND are disclosed in the Corporate Responsibility on page 41 of the Strategic Report.
BUSINESS REVIEW Report onpages 46 to 49.
The principal activity of the Group is the VIABILITY STATEMENT supply of specialist products to construction POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS The Viability Statement can be found on and related markets in the UK, Ireland and Details of post balance sheet events are pages 39 to 40 of the Strategic Report.
The main product sectors included in Note 11 on page 131 of the supplied are insulation and interiors, roofing INDEPENDENT AUDITOR Financial Statements.
and exteriors and air handling.
On the recommendation of the Audit RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Committee see pages 76 to 77, in The Chairmans Statement and Strategic Except as disclosed in Note 30 to the accordance with Section 489 of the Report on pages 2 to 55 contain a review of Financial Statements on page 157 and Companies Act 2006, resolutions are to be these activities and comment on the future except for Directors service contracts, proposed at the AGM for the reappointment outlook and developments.
The financial risk the Company did not have any material of Deloitte LLP as Auditor of the Company management objectives, policies and key transactions or transactions of an unusual and to authorise the Audit Committee to performance indicators of the Company are nature with, and did not make loans to, fix its remuneration.
The remuneration also set out in the Strategic Report.
related parties in the periods in which any of theAuditor for the year ended Director is or was materially interested.
31 December 2017 is fully disclosed in Note POLITICAL DONATIONS 4 to the Financial Statements on page 121.
It is the Groups policy not to make political DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS LIABILITY donations and no political donations were INSURANCE AND INDEMNITIES PUBLICATION OF ANNUAL REPORT made during the year 2016: nil.
The Company purchases liability insurance AND NOTICE OF AGM Details of the Groups policies in relation cover for Directors and Officers of the Shareholders are to note that the SIG plc to Corporate governance are disclosed on Company and its subsidiaries which gives Annual Report 2017 together with the Notice pages 46 to 49. appropriate cover for any legal action convening the AGM have been published on brought against them.
The Company has also the Companys website www.
GROUP RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS provided an indemnity which was in force If Shareholders have elected to receive The Consolidated Income Statement for the during the financial year for its Directors to Shareholder correspondence in hard copy, year ended 31 December 2017 is shown on the extent permitted by the law in respect then the Annual Report and Notice convening page 100.
The movement in Group reserves of liabilities incurred as a result of their the AGM will be distributed to them.
during the year isshown on page 103 in office.
The indemnity would not provide the Consolidated Statement of Changes in ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING any coverage to the extent that a Director Equity.
Segmental information is set out in is proved to have acted fraudulently or The Notice convening the AGM, which is to Note 1 to the Financial Statements on pages dishonestly.
be held at the Mercure Sheffield Parkway 114 to 118.
Hotel, Britannia Way, Catcliffe, Sheffield, S60 No claims or qualifying indemnity provisions 5BD at 12 noon on Thursday 10May 2018, The Board is recommending a final dividend and no qualifying pension scheme indemnity together with explanatory notes on the of 2.50p per share 2016: 1.83p which, provisions have been made either during resolutions to be proposed and full details together with the interim dividend of 1.25p the year or by the date of approval of this of the deadlines for exercising voting per share 2016: 1.83p, makes a total for Directors Report.
rights, will be circulated to all Shareholders the year ended 31 December 2017 of 3.75p that have elected to receive Shareholder 2016: 3.66p.
Payment of the final dividend, FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS correspondence in hard copy at least 20 if approved at the AGM, will be made on 6 Information on the Groups financial risk working days before the meeting along July 2018 to Shareholders registered at the management objectives and policies on with this Report.
The document will close of business on 8 June 2018. the exposure of the Group to relevant risks also be available onthe SIG plc website arising from financial instruments is set out www.
All Shareholders are GREENHOUSE GASES on pages 36 to 39 and in Note 19 to the invited to the Companys AGM, at which they Details of the Groups greenhouse gas Financial Statements on pages 140 to 143. will have the opportunity to put questions to emissions are detailed on pages 52 to 53 of the Board.
ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS Details of acquisitions made and businesses EMPLOYEES identified for sale or closure are covered in Details of the Groups policies relating to Note 11 on pages 128 to 131 and Note 14 employees are detailed on pages 46 to 49 of on page 136 of the Financial Statements.
com Stock code: SHI 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance report A resolution put to the vote of a general GROUP COMPANIES VOTING AT GENERAL MEETINGS meeting is decided on a show of hands A full list of Group Companies and their Any Form of Proxy sent by the Company unless before or on the declaration of registered office addresses is disclosed on to Shareholders in relation to any general the result of a vote on a show of hands, a pages 191 to 192. meeting must be delivered to the Company, poll is demanded by the Chairman of the whether in written form or in electronic SHARE CAPITAL meeting, or by at least five Shareholders form, not less than 48 hours before the The Company has a single class of share or their representatives present in person time appointed for holding the meeting or capital which is divided into ordinary shares and having the right to vote, or by any adjourned meeting at which the person of 10p each.
At 31 December 2017, the Shareholders or their representatives named in the appointment proposes to vote.
Company had a called up share capital of present in person having at least 10% of the The Board may determine that the 591,548,235 ordinary shares of 10p each total voting rights of all Shareholders, or by Shareholder is not entitled to exercise any 2016: 591,460,301. any Shareholders or their representatives right conferred by being a Shareholder if he present in person holding ordinary shares in During the year ended 31 December 2017, she or any person with an interest in shares which an aggregate sum has been paid up of options were exercised pursuant to the has been sent a Notice under Section 793 at least one-tenth of the total sum paid up Companys share option schemes, resulting of the Companies Act 2006 which confers on all ordinary shares.
in the allotment of 87,934 new ordinary upon public companies the power to require Shareholders can declare final dividends shares.
No new ordinary shares have been information with respect to interests in their by passing an ordinary resolution but the allotted under these schemes since the voting shares and he she or any interested amount of such dividends cannot exceed the end of the financial year to the date of person failed tosupply the Company with the amount recommended by the Board.
Details of outstanding options information requested within 14 days after Board can pay interim dividends on any class under the Groups Employee and Executive delivery of that Notice.
The Board may also of shares of the amounts and on the dates Schemes are set out in Note 9 on pages 126 decide that no dividend is payable in respect and for the periods they decide provided to 127 which also contains details of options of those default shares and that no transfer the distributable profits of the Company granted over unissued share capital.
of any default shares shall be registered.
The Board may, if These restrictions end seven days after RIGHTS ATTACHING TO SHARES authorised by an ordinary resolution of the receipt by the Company of a Notice of an The rights attaching to the ordinary shares Shareholders, offer any Shareholder the approved transfer of the shares or all the are defined in the Companys Articles of right to elect to receive new ordinary shares, information required by the relevant Section Association.
The Articles of Association which will be credited as fully paid, instead of 793 Notice, whichever is the earlier.
may be changed by special resolution of their cash dividend.
A Shareholder whose name Any dividend which has not been claimed for TRANSFER OF SHARES appears on the Companys Register of 12 years after it became due for payment The Board may refuse to register a transfer Members can choose whether his shares will be forfeited and will then belong to of a certificated share which is not fully are evidenced by share certificates ie in the Company, unless the Directors decide paid, provided that the refusal does not certificated form or held in electronic ie otherwise.
prevent dealings in shares in the Company uncertificated form in CREST the electronic from taking place on an open and proper settlement system in the UK.
If the Company is wound up, the liquidator basis.
The Board may also refuse to register can, with the sanction of an extraordinary Subject to any restrictions below, a transfer of a certificated share unless: i resolution passed by the Shareholders, Shareholders may attend any general the instrument of transfer is lodged, duly divide among the Shareholders allor any meeting of the Company and, on a show stamped if stampable, at the registered part of the assets of the Company and he of hands, every Shareholder or his office of the Company or any other place she can value any assets and determine representative who is present at a general decided by the Board accompanied by a how the division shall be carried out as meeting has one vote on each resolution certificate for the share to which it relates between the members or differentclasses and, on a poll, every Shareholder or his and such other evidence as the Board may of members.
The liquidator can also transfer representative who is present has one vote reasonably require to show the right of the whole or any part of the assets to on each resolution for every ordinary share the transferor to make the transfer: ii is in trustees upon any trusts for the benefit of which they are the registered Shareholder.
respect of only one class of shares: and iii is of the members.
NoShareholders can be in favour of not more than four transferees.
compelled to accept any asset which would give them a liability.
Transfer of uncertificated shares must be carried out using CREST and the Board can refuse to register a transfer of an uncertificated share in accordance with the regulations governing the operation of CREST.
70 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six vi His her appointment terminates in VARIATION OF RIGHTS ACQUISITION BY THE COMPANY OF accordance with the provisions of the If at any time the capital of the Company is ITS OWN ORDINARY SHARES Companys Articles: divided into different classes of shares, the Shareholders authority for the purchase by special rights attaching to any class may be vii the Company of 59,146,030 of its own shares He she is dismissed from Executive office: varied or revoked either: existed at the end of the year.
The Company viii He she is convicted of an indictable i has made no purchases of its own ordinary with the written consent of the holders offence and the Directors resolve that shares pursuant to this authority.
The of at least 75% in nominal value of the it is undesirable in the interests of Company will seek to renew this authority at issued shares of the class: or the Company that he she remains a the 2018 AGM.
ii with the sanction of an extraordinary Director: or resolution passed at a separate general ix AUTHORITY TO ALLOT ORDINARY The conduct of the Director is the subject meeting of the holders of the shares of SHARES of an investigation and the Directors the class.
Shareholders authority to allot ordinary resolve that it is undesirable in the shares up to an aggregate nominal amount interests of the Company that he she The Company can issue new shares and of 39,430,686 existed at the end of the year.
attach any rights to them.
If there is no The Company has not issued any ordinary restriction by special rights attaching to The Board may, from time to time, appoint shares pursuant to this authority.
The existing shares, rights attaching to new shares one or more Directors as Managing Director Company will seek to renew this authority at can take priority over the rights of existing or to fulfil any other executive function within the 2018 AGM.
shares, or the new shares and the existing the Company for such term, remuneration shares are deemed to be varied unless the During the year ended 31 December 2017, and other conditions of appointment as rights expressly allow it by a reduction of options were exercised pursuant to the it may determine, and it may revoke such paid up capital, or if another share of that Companys share option schemes, resulting appointment subject to the provisions of the same class is issued and ranks in priority for in the allotment of 87,934 new ordinary Companies Act.
payment of dividend, or in respect of capital shares.
No new ordinary shares have been or more favourable voting rights.
AGREEMENTS WITH EMPLOYEES allotted under these schemes since the AND SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS end of the financial year to the date of ELECTION AND RE-ELECTION OF CONTRACTS OF SIGNIFICANCE this Report.
Details of outstanding options DIRECTORS There are no agreements between the under the Groups Employee and Executive The Company may, by ordinary resolution, Company and its Directors or employees Schemes are set out in Note 9 on pages 126 of which special notice has been given in providing for compensation for loss of office to 127 which also contains details of options accordance with the Companies Act, remove or employment whether through resignation, granted over unissued share capital.
any Director before the expiration of his her purported redundancy or otherwise that period of office.
The office of a Director shall FAIR, BALANCED AND occurs because of a takeover bid.
be vacated if: UNDERSTANDABLE i The Companys banking arrangements are He she ceases to be a Director by virtue The Directors have a responsibility terminable upon a change of control of of any provision of law or is removed for preparing the 2017 Annual Report the Company.
Certain other indebtedness pursuant to the Companys Articles and Accounts and for making certain becomes repayable if a change of control of Association or he she becomes confirmations concerning it.
In accordance leads to a downgrade in the credit rating of prohibited by law from being a Director: with C. 1.1 of the Code, the Board has the Company.
Bank consent is required for reviewed the contents of this years Annual ii He she becomes bankrupt or any major acquisition or disposal of assets.
Report and Accounts and it considers that compounds with his her creditors the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a generally: FIXED ASSETS whole is fair, balanced and understandable, iii In the opinion of the Directors, there is no He she becomes of unsound mind or a and provides the information necessary material difference between the book value patient for any purpose of any statute for Shareholders to assess the Companys and the current open market value of the relating to mental health and the Board position and performance, business model Groups interests in land and buildings.
resolves that his her office is vacated: and strategy.
More information can be found iv in the Audit Committee Report on page 77.
He she resigns: CREST v He she fails to attend Board meetings for The Companys ordinary shares are in CREST, CAUTIONARY STATEMENT six consecutive months without leave of the settlement system for stocks and shares.
The cautionary statement can be found on absence from the Board and the Board page 41 of the Strategic Report.
2018 INTERIM REPORT resolves that his her office is vacated: Current regulations permit the Company not to send hard copies of its Interim Reports to Shareholders and therefore the Company intends to publish its Interim Report only on its website at www.
com Stock code: SHI 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance report the Companys business in the year ended SIG has been mindful of the best practice CONTENT OF DIRECTORS REPORT 31 December 2017 and its position at the guidance published by Defra and other The Corporate governance report including end of the year, and which covers likely bodies in relation to environmental, the Board biographies, which can be found future developments in the business of the community and social KPIs when drafting on pages 58 to 72, the Audit Committee Company and Group.
The Sustainability the Strategic Report.
The Board has also Report on pages 73 to 77, the Nominations Report forms part of the Strategic Report.
considered social, environmental and Committee Report on pages 78 to 79, and ethical risks, in line with the best practice the Directors Responsibility Statement on For the purposes of compliance with recommendations of the Association of page 97 are incorporated by reference and DTR 4.1.
8R, the required content of the British Insurers.
Management, led by the form part of this Directors Report.
Management Report can be found in the Chief Executive Officer, has responsibility for Strategic Report and this Directors Report, The Board has prepared a Strategic Report identifying and managing such risks, which including the sections of the Annual Report including the Chief Executive Officers are discussed extensively in this Annual and Accounts incorporated by reference.
Statement which provides an overview Report and Accounts.
of the development and performance of All the information cross-referenced is hereby incorporated by reference into this For the purposes of LR 9.8.
4C R, the information required to be disclosed by LR 9.8.
found in the following locations: APPROVAL OF THE Section Topic Location DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors Report set out on pages 58 to 1 Interest capitalised Financial Statements, Note 13, 97 was approved by the Board of Directors page 135 on 8 March 2018 and signed on its behalf by 2 Publication of unaudited financial Not applicable the Company Secretary, Richard Monro.
information 4 Details of long term incentive schemes Directors remuneration report, RICHARD MONRO pages 91 to 92 COMPANY SECRETARY 8 March 2018 5 Waiver of emoluments by a Director Not applicable 6 Waiver of future emoluments by a Director Not applicable 7 Non preemptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable 8 Item 7 in relation to major subsidiary Not applicable undertakings 9 Parent participation in a placing by a listed Not applicable subsidiary 10 Contracts of significance Not applicable 11 Provision of services by a controlling Not applicable Shareholder 12 Shareholder waivers of dividends Not applicable 13 Shareholder waivers of future dividends Not applicable 14 Agreements with controlling Shareholders Not applicable 72 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six
