S G Bennett 53 Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Nationality: British Nationality: British Nationality: British Position and date of appointment: Chairman of Position and date of appointment: Chief Executive Position and date of appointment: Chief theBoard and the Nomination and Disclosure Officer since January 2015: member of the FinancialOfficer since May 2015: member of Committees.
Neil joined the Board in 2011 and Disclosure Committee.
Key appointments: Calum was appointed as a Key appointments: No external appointments.
Key appointments: Neil is Chairman of Motability non-executive director of Saudi Basic Industries Skills and experience: Stephen was previously at Operations Group plc, Centaur Media plc and SABIC headquartered in Riyadh in October 2017.
INEOS where he had been chief financial officer at Electra Private Equity plc and the senior Skills and experience: Calum was previously a senior Petroineos Refining since 2006.
In addition to this independent non-executive director of the board executive of INEOS and was a founder member role, Stephen had acted as chief financial officer of BusinessGrowth Fund.
At INEOS he was most INEOS Upstream Limited, a start-up oil and gas Skills and experience: Neil held senior executive recently executive chairman of INEOS Olefins and exploration business, and of INEOS Olefins and positions at British Aerospace and in the UK Polymers Europe and chairman of Styrolution, INEOSs Polymers South and INEOS Phenol.
He joined motor manufacturing industry before becoming joint venture with BASF, and Petroineos Refining, Coopers & Lybrand in 1986 and is a qualified Chief Executive of RAC Holdings from 1995-1999.
INEOSs joint venture with PetroChina.
He was at Full Circle Neil has considerable experience as an been Chief Executive of a number of its principal Industries plc as company secretary independent non-executive director and public business units and actively involved in merger and and group controller before moving to company chairman gained in multiple sectors acquisitions, strategy and implementation.
Prior to  LLP PwC in 1997 andgeographies.
INEOS, he spent six years at Inspec International as a director in transaction services.
At PwC, he Speciality Chemicals, a publicly listed company on the specialised in public and private equity transactions London Stock Exchange that was originally formed across a variety of sectors including chemicals.
through a management buyout of BP Chemicals.
Dato Lee Hau Hian 64 Non-executive director Nationality: Malaysian Position and date of appointment: Non-executive director since 2002: first joined theboard in 1993 and stood down in 2000 to become an alternate director.
Key appointments: Hau Hian is a Director of KualaLumpur Kepong Bhd and is the president ofthe Perak Chinese Maternity Association.
He alsoserves as a Director of Yayasan fide La Salle.
Skills and experience: Hau Hian is the Managing Director of Batu Kawan Bhd, a listed Malaysian investments holding company, with interests in plantations and chemicals manufacturing.
58 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2017 Governance 7 9 5 6 8 7.
Dr J J C Jansz 61 Senior Independent Director Non-executive director Non-executive director Nationality: British Nationality: British Nationality: Dutch Position and date of appointment: Independent Position and date of appointment: Independent Position and date of appointment: Independent non-executive director since January 2014: non-executive director since March 2015: Chair of non-executive director since April 2012: member Chairman of the Remuneration Committee: the Audit Committee: member of the Nomination ofthe Audit and Remuneration Committees.
memberof the Audit, Disclosure and Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Key appointments: Just is founder and managing Committees.
Senior Independent Director since Key appointments: Caroline is non-executive director of Expertise Beyond Borders BV, an April 2015. director and Chair of the Audit Committee of independent business and technology management Key appointments: Brendan is a non-executive Shepherd Building Group Limited and is a member consultancy, providing services globally to chemical director of Victrex PLC and two private equity of the governing council of the University of Leeds.
He is a senior advisor at backed companies, one of which he chairs.
She also provides extensive consulting services Natrium Capital UK and Siluria Technologies US.
Skills and experience: Until June 2013 Brendan toarange of global chemical and industrial Skills and experience: Just has over 30 years was a senior executive at Intertek Group plc and organisations.
Until January 2018 Caroline was chemical industry experience at Shell, Basell and had previously been chief executive officer of deputy chair, non-executive director and Chair of the LyondellBasell.
Until July 2010 Just was President, Technology Business, and a member of the Moody International which was acquired by Intertek Audit Committee of Leeds Teaching Hospitals Trust.
management team of LyondellBasell, overseeing in 2011.
Prior to Moody, he was managing director Skills and experience: Caroline is a chartered process technology licensing, polyolefin catalysts of Atos Origin UK, and spent more than 25 years of accountant and member of the Institute of Chartered and new ventures.
Just has previous experience as his career with Schlumberger in senior international Accountants of Scotland.
She was a partner in a non-executive director in the US and as an advisor roles over three continents.
Brendan has previous  PwC until 2009, having in Saudi Arabia.
experience as chairman of the remuneration worked extensively with large global organisations committee of a UK listed company.
on turnaround, culture change, delivering value frommergers and acquisitions and cost optimisation programmes.
She sat on the board of the Assurance practice of PwC in the UK.
R Atkinson 54 Non-executive director Chief Counsel & Company Secretary Nationality: British Nationality: British Position and date of appointment: Position and date of appointment: Company Non-executive director since 1981.
Secretary since 1998: Group Chief Counsel.
Key appointments: Alex is managing director of Key appointments: No external appointments.
CairnSea Investments Limited, a private investment Skills and experience: Richard qualified as a company, and a non-executive director of several solicitor in 1988 practising as a corporate lawyer early stage companies that have been backed by before moving into industry.
His current other directorships include Neptune Investment Management Limited.
Skills and experience: Prior to the establishment ofCairnSea Alex was a director of Morgan Grenfell & Co and then Lazard Brothers & Co Ltd. Synthomer plc Annual Report 2017 59
