Governance | Corporate governance report Introduction Statement of compliance The following sections explain how the Company applies The Code sets out the principles and provisions relating to the main provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code good governance of UK listed companies and can be found the Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC, on the FRCs website at frc.
as required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct We are pleased to confirm that, for the year under review, Authority FCA and meets the relevant information provisions the Company has complied fully with the principles and of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the FCA.
The statement of corporate governance covers: The Boards role the structure and role of the Board and its committees: The Board is collectively responsible to shareholders for the overall direction and control of the Group and has the powers relations with the Companys shareholders and the Annual and duties set out in the Companies Act and the Companys General Meeting AGM : and Articles of Association.
The Board delegates certain matters to the reports of the Audit Committee and Nomination the Board committees and delegates the day to day operational Committee including Board effectiveness and evaluation.
aspects of the business to the executive directors.
The report of the Remuneration Committee is set out The schedule of matters requiring Board approval includes: separately in the Directors Remuneration Report on Rightmoves business strategy: pages 50 to 51. the annual business plan: changes to the Groups capital structure: The Groups risk management and internal control the capital management and dividend policies: framework and the principal risks and uncertainties are the annual and half year results and shareholder described on pages 21 to 23.
The Directors Report on communications: pages 46 to 48 also contains information required to be major acquisitions and disposals: included in this statement of corporate governance.
appointment and removal of officers of the Company: and the system of internal control and risk management.
The key responsibilities and actions carried out by the Board during the year are set out below: Responsibility Specific actions and information received during the year Strategy and The June Board meeting Strategic initiatives The Groups 2018 budget Presentations were direction was devoted to identified at the strategy and three-year business received in relation to Rightmoves strategy and away day were prioritised plan was approved innovation in the rental included a discussion of then monitored, analysed market including: the potential influences, and discussed at every RentLondon, an threats and opportunities Board meeting experimental app that to Rightmoves business explores trends in search model arising from to make the process of economic, regulatory and finding a rental property other market changes more efficient and incorporates a messenger bot and RentReady, a tenant passport initiative Performance Regular market updates The Board regularly Senior management gave The Board received an monitoring and reports were received reviewed updates on detailed presentations on update on Rightmove on the competitive business performance Agency and Overseas Discover, the predictive landscape including new in relation to analyst business performance algorithm product business models and consensus forecasts and progress against launched in 2017 to innovation and the business plan other business initiatives Agency customers, following the acquisition of The Outside View in the prior year 32 rightmove.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Responsibility Specific actions and information received during the year Shareholder Investor feedback was Monthly reports are Rightmoves corporate The Remuneration engagement received via the executive received on the broker UBS gave a Committee initiated directors throughout the shareholder demographic presentation, updating investor correspondence year, particularly following and analysis of significant the Board on the key relating to the application the results and investor changes to the share market drivers of the of the Remuneration roadshows register Groups valuation Policy for 2018 Governance The Board conducts a Reports were received The Groups regulatory Senior management gave and risk bi-annual review of the from the Audit results announcements briefings and entire risk register, with Committee on Rightmove and Annual Report were presentations covering a particular focus on Assurance reviews, with reviewed in detail and wide range of topics principal risks affecting particular focus on the approved including cyber and the business together Groups readiness for the information security risks, with the consideration of General Data Protection corporate governance new and emerging risks Regulation in May 2018 and the 2017 insurance renewal programme People and The Board considered the The Board received Group employee The Board considered the values organisations strengths, presentations from senior satisfaction scores as part gender pay gap analysis capability requirements managers throughout the of the Have your say and the proposed actions and succession for senior year to ensure exposure survey were monitored to reduce the gap going managers as well as skills to the breadth and depth across a range of criteria forward and experience of talent supporting possessed by its directors business growth relative to those skills and capabilities identified in the Board Strategy Review that are necessary to help Rightmove achieve its strategic objectives There are usually seven scheduled Board meetings each Board committees year including one meeting or away day devoted to The Board has established three principal committees, consideration of the Groups strategy.
Additional meetings the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and can be arranged at short notice at the request of any the Nomination Committee, to assist it in the execution director, if required.
In addition to scheduled Board meetings, of its duties.
The Chairman of each Committee reports on there is regular informal dialogue between the directors.
the respective Committees activities at the subsequent Board meeting.
Directors receive Board papers well in advance of meetings to allow sufficient time for review and consideration.
If any The Committees terms of reference are available on the director raises a concern or challenges any aspect of the Companys corporate website, plc.
co. uk or by business conducted at a Board meeting, the Company request from the Company Secretary.
Secretary will ensure their comments are appropriately Each of the Committees is authorised, at the Companys recorded in the Board minutes.
In addition to formal Board expense, to obtain legal or other professional advice to papers, directors receive monthly management and financial assist in carrying out its duties.
No person other than a reports on the operational and financial performance of the Committee member is entitled to attend the meetings business, setting out actual and forecast financial of these Committees, except by invitation of the performance against approved budgets and other key Chairman of that Committee.
The Board also receives copies of broker reports and market reviews relating to Rightmove.
Current membership of the Committees is shown on page 36.
The composition of these Committees is reviewed regularly, taking into consideration the recommendations of the Nomination Committee.
Rightmove plc annual report 2017 33 Governance | Corporate governance report continued Membership required under the terms Minimum number of Committee Committee Role and terms of reference of reference meetings per year report on pages Audit Reviews and reports to the Board on: At least three members Three 38 to 43 Group financial reporting: who should be the system of internal control and risk independent nonmanagement: executive directors independence and effectiveness of the external audit process: and the internal audit plan, results and effectiveness of Rightmove Assurance, the outsourced internal audit function.
Recommends the appointment of the external auditors to the Board for approval by shareholders.
Remuneration Makes recommendations to the Board on: At least three members Two 50 to 51 and the Remuneration Policy and strategy for who should be 63 to 76 executive directors and senior managers: independent nonlong-term incentive arrangements: executive directors the design and determination of targets under any performance-related pay scheme: and any major changes in employee benefit structures with the objective of ensuring that directors and employees are incentivised and fairly rewarded for their individual contributions to the Groups overall performance.
Careful consideration is given to the interests of the shareholders and to the financial and commercial health of the Group.
Nomination Undertakes an annual review of organisation At least three members, Two 44 to 45 and succession planning and ensures that the the majority of whom membership and composition of the Board, should be independent including the balance of skills, remains non-executive directors appropriate.
Makes recommendations for the membership of the Board, Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Board composition Board changes The Board at the date of this report comprises two executive Nick McKittrick, Chief Executive Officer, retired from the Board directors and seven non-executive directors, including the on 9 May 2017 and Peter Brooks-Johnson, formerly Chief Chairman.
The two executive directors are Peter BrooksOperating Officer, was appointed as Chief Executive Officer Johnson Chief Executive Officer and Robyn Perriss from that date.
Colin Kemp retired from the Board on 9 May Finance Director and the non-executive directors are Scott 2017, having served nine years as a non-executive director.
Forbes Chairman, Peter Williams Senior Independent Andrew Findlay was appointed as a non-executive director Director, Ashley Martin, Rakhi Goss-Custard, Jacqueline fide on 1 June 2017 and Lorna Tilbian was appointed with effect Rojas, Andrew Findlay and Lorna Tilbian.
All other directors served throughout Biographical details of all directors at the date of this report the year.
appear on pages 30 to 31 and details of Committee membership appear on page 36.
The Boards size and composition is kept under regular review by the Nomination Committee.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Division of responsibilities The posts of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate and there are clear written guidelines to support their division of responsibilities.
The key responsibilities of the Board members are summarised below: Chairman Responsible for the leadership and governance of the Board, including: ensuring its effectiveness by creating and managing constructive relationships between the executive and non-executive directors: ensuring there is ongoing and effective communication between the Board and its key stakeholders: and with the assistance of the Company Secretary, setting the Boards agenda and ensuring that adequate time is available for discussion and effective decision making, and that directors receive sufficient, relevant, timely and clear information.
Chief Executive Officer Responsible for the day to day management of the Group, including: the operational and financial performance of the Group: developing the Groups objectives and strategy and following Board approval, the successful execution of strategy: effective and ongoing communication with stakeholders: and chairing the Executive Committee.
Non-executive directors The role of the non-executive directors is to: constructively challenge the executive directors: and monitor the delivery of the strategy within the risk and control framework set by the Board.
The non-executive directors bring wide and varied commercial experience and independent judgement to the Board and the Committees deliberations.
The breadth of management, financial and listed company experience of the non-executive directors is described in the biographical details on pages 30 to 31 and demonstrates a range of business expertise that provides the right mix of skills and experience given the size of the Group.
Senior Independent Director The role of the Senior Independent Director is to: act in an advisory capacity to the Chairman: deputise for the Chairman if required: serve as an intermediary for other directors when necessary: be available to shareholders if they have concerns which they have not been able to resolve through the normal channels of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer or other executive directors for which such contact is inappropriate: and conduct an annual review of the performance of the Chairman and, in the event it should be necessary, convene a meeting of the non-executive directors.
Company Secretary The Company Secretary: monitors compliance with appropriate Board procedures: advises the Board on corporate governance matters: assists the Chairman in ensuring that all the directors have full and timely access to relevant information: and assists the Chairman by organising directors induction and training programmes.
The Company Secretary also acts as Secretary to the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for Board approval.
Board diversity and experience At 31 December 2017, 38% of Board members were female We are committed to a Board comprised of directors from and following the appointment of Lorna Tilbian, that different backgrounds with diverse and relevant experience, proportion has risen to 44% of Board members.
Following perspectives, skills and knowledge.
We believe that diversity, the retirement of Ashley Martin in May the proportion of including gender diversity, amongst directors contributes female Board members will rise to 50%.
We remain towards a high performing and effective Board and business, committed to recruiting the best people and appropriate so we strive to maintain the optimal balance.
We endorse talent for the business whilst seeking to maintain as near both a meritocratic Board appointment process and 50:50 gender balance on the Board as possible.
balanced gender representation on the Board.
Rightmove plc annual report 2017 35 Governance | Corporate governance report continued The range of skills and experience the Board considers Board tenure Balance of directors necessary to deliver Rightmoves business strategy, and as at 31 December 2017 as at 31 December 2017 which were identified in the Board Strategy Review, includes: Finance and governance Voice of the customer and property market 1 2 2 Technology and innovation 2 Voice of the consumer and retail 5 1 Digital marketing and online media, and 3 Corporate transactions.
Board independence The Code provides that the Board should identify in the 0-3 3-6 6-9 9 Executive Chairman NonAnnual Report each non-executive director that it considers years years years years directors executive directors to be independent.
That is, to determine whether the director is independent in character and judgement and Re-election to the Board whether there are relationships or circumstances Directors are appointed and may be removed in accordance which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, with the Articles of Association of the Company and the the directors judgement.
provisions of the Companies Act.
All directors are subject to The Board reviews non-executive director independence election at the first AGM following their appointment and in on an annual basis taking into account such factors as their accordance with the Code, all directors will seek re-election contribution to unbiased and independent debate during at the 2018 AGM with the exception of Ashley Martin, who meetings.
The Board considers that there is an appropriate will retire from the Board on that date.
balance between the executive and non-executive directors Board and Committee membership and attendance and that all non-executive directors are fully independent of The membership of the Committees of the Board and management and independent in character and judgement.
attendance at Board and Committee meetings for the Ashley Martin will have completed nine years service as a year under review are set out in the table below: non-executive director in June 2018 and will retire from the Board following the 2018 AGM.
The Nomination Committee Remuneration Audit Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee carefully considered the independence of Lorna Tilbian before her appointment to the Board and details of that Total meetings 7 6 5 3 process is set out in the Nomination Committee report Scott Forbes 7 3 on page 45.
Peter Brooks-Johnson 7 To safeguard their independence, a director is not entitled to Robyn Perriss 7 vote on any matter in which they may be conflicted or have a Ashley Martin 7 5 3 personal interest.
Where necessary, directors are required to absent themselves from a meeting of the Board while such Peter Williams 7 6 5 3 matters are being discussed.
In cases of doubt, the 1 2 Rakhi Goss-Custard 7 6 4 3 Chairman of the Board is responsible for determining 3 2 Jacqueline fide Rojas 7 3 2 whether a conflict of interest exists.
4 4 4 Andrew Findlay 5 3 2 The Chairman is also the Chairman of two other publically listed companies.
The executive directors do not hold any 1 Rakhi Goss-Custard was a member of the Audit Committee until 9 May 2017 and attended two further meetings as a guest.
other non-executive directorships or commitments 2 Rakhi Goss-Custard and Jacqueline fide Rojas joined the Nomination Committee requiring disclosure under the Code.
on 9 May 2017 and attended all meetings after that date.
Rakhi attended one meeting before that date as a guest.
3 Jacqueline fide Rojas joined the Remuneration Committee on 9 May 2017 and attended all meetings after that date.
4 Andrew Findlay joined the Board, Audit and Nomination Committees on 1 June 2017 and attended all meetings after that date.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements In addition to the above meetings, the Chairman conducts Shareholders are also kept up to date with the Groups meetings with the non-executive directors without the activities through the half year results statement and executive directors being present when required.
Annual Report and the investor relations section of its Peter Williams, the Senior Independent Director, chaired a website, at plc.
co. uk, which provides details of meeting in December 2017 of the non-executive directors all the directors, the financial calendar, latest news including at which the performance of the Chairman was also financial results, investor presentations and Stock Exchange reviewed, without the presence of the Chairman.
Indemnification of directors Annual General Meeting The Articles of Association of the Company allow for a The AGM provides an opportunity for shareholders to qualifying third party indemnity provision between the vote on aspects of the Companys business, meet the Company and its directors and officers, which remains in directors and ask them questions.
The AGM will be held force at the date of this report.
The Group has also arranged on 4 May 2018 at the offices of UBS Limited at 5 Broadgate, directors and officers insurance cover in respect of legal London EC2M 2QS.
Neither our indemnity nor the The Company will arrange for the Annual Report and related insurance provides cover in the event that a director is papers to be available on the Companys corporate website proven to have acted dishonestly or fraudulently.
co. uk or posted to shareholders where The Group has a Dealing Code setting out the process requested at least 20 working days before the AGM.
and timing for dealing in shares, which is compliant with The Company continues to comply with the Code, with the Market Abuse Regulation.
The Dealing Code applies the separation of all resolutions put to shareholders.
to all directors, who are persons discharging managerial The Company proactively encourages shareholders to responsibility, and other insiders.
vote at general meetings by providing electronic voting for Shareholder relations shareholders who wish to vote online and personalised proxy The Board is accountable to shareholders for the cards to shareholders electing to receive them ensuring that performance and activities of the Group and welcomes all votes are clearly identifiable.
The Company presently opportunities to engage with shareholders.
takes votes at general meetings on a show of hands on the grounds of practicality, owing to the limited number of Within the terms of the regulatory framework, the directors shareholders in attendance.
All proxy votes are counted and have conducted regular and open dialogue with the level of proxy votes, including votes witheld for each shareholders through ongoing meetings with institutional resolution are reported after each resolution and published investors and research firms to discuss strategy and on the Companys website.
Contact in the UK is principally with the Chief Executive Officer and the Finance Director.
The Chairman attends selected investor meetings in the UK and the USA.
The Senior Independent Director is also available to shareholders if they wish to supplement their communication, or if contact through the normal channels is inappropriate.
The Remuneration Committee proactively engaged with the Companys top shareholders ahead of setting the Remuneration Policy, which was approved at the 2017 AGM and again in late 2017 when setting executive director base salary levels for 2018.
The Board is kept informed of the views and opinions of those with an interest in the Companys shares through reports from the Chief Executive Officer and the Finance Director, as well as reports from the Companys brokers, UBS and Numis.
Rightmove plc annual report 2017 37 Governance | Corporate governance report continued Audit Committee report Ashley Martin Chairman of the Audit Committee Dear Shareholder As a result of the breadth of the reviews this year, the I am pleased to present the 2017 report of the Audit Committee has had the benefit of exposure to the broader Committee the Committee.
organisation, which has brought added insight to the topics under discussion.
This report provides an overview of the principal activities of the Committee and details how it has discharged its Looking forward to the next 12 months, the Committee will responsibilities during the year.
continue to focus on the audit, assurance and risk processes within the Group, including a review of the control The Committee is an essential part of Rightmoves effectiveness of key billing processes, a counter fraud governance framework to which the Board has delegated workshop and an update on the progress towards GDPR oversight of the accounting, financial reporting and internal compliance.
control processes, the outsourced internal audit function and the relationship with the external auditors.
The key I have greatly enjoyed my time as Chairman of the Audit responsibilities are set out on page 34 of the Corporate Committee over the last nine years, and thank my fellow Governance Report.
Committee members for their wisdom and support over this period.
Andrew Findlay will succeed me as Chairman The Committee has overseen a detailed programme of work of the Audit Committee at the end of the 2018 Annual in 2017 in relation to its remit, including agreeing the scope General Meeting.
of work delivered by the  LLP PwC outsourced internal audit function, known as I will be available at the AGM to answer any questions about Rightmove Assurance.
The role of Rightmove Assurance has the work of the Committee.
become well established throughout the organisation and Written terms of reference that outline the Committees continues to provide insight and value in both core financial authority and responsibilities are published on the investor control areas and the broader business operations.
relations section of the Groups website at plc.
The Committee has given particular focus this year to the co. uk and are available in hard copy form from the readiness of the Group to meet the requirements of the Company Secretary.
forthcoming General Data Protection Regulation GDPR, which becomes effective in May 2018.
The business has established a comprehensive GDPR programme, coordinated by a full-time project manager, and is on track to be substantially compliant by May 2018.
There has also been continued focus on the progress of the Disaster Recovery and Business Continuity Plans, including a planned closure of the Milton Keynes office which took place during December 2017.
The oversight of financial controls Ashley Martin continues to be a key area of work of the Committee.
Chairman of the Audit Committee 38 rightmove.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Committee membership and meetings After each meeting, the Chairman reports to the Board on All the members of the Audit Committee are Independent the main issues discussed by the Committee and minutes Non-Executive Directors in accordance with provision C3.1 of the Committee meetings are circulated to the Board of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and the once approved.
Board has determined that both Andrew Findlay and Audit Committee effectiveness Ashley Martin have recent and relevant financial experience The effectiveness of the operation of the Committee was as required by the Code.
Ashley Martin is a qualified reviewed in December 2017 through a questionnaire accountant and was formerly Global Chief Financial Officer completed by all members of the Committee, which focused of Engine Holding LLC and Group Finance Director of on areas such as the appropriateness of the focus of the Rok plc.
Andrew Findlay and Peter Williams are also Committee, how it operates and professional development qualified accountants and Andrew Findlay is currently of the members.
This was supplemented with responses Chief Financial Officer of easyJet plc.
Andrew Findlay will from the effectiveness review of the Board and its succeed Ashley Martin as Chair of the Audit Committee committees where each Board member responded to key at the end of the 2018 Annual General Meeting.
As a whole, questions on Board performance and commented generally the Committee has competence relevant to the sector in on the performance of Board Committees.
The feedback which the Group operates through the digital experience on the Committee was positive and confirmed that the of Andrew Findlay and Peter Williams, and the media Committee is effective and provides appropriate challenge.
Financial reporting Biographies of the members of the Committee are set out The Committee is responsible for reviewing the on pages 30 to 31. appropriateness of the Groups half-year reporting and annual financial statements.
The Committee does this by Number of meetings considering, among other things, the accounting policies Committee members Eligible to attend Attended and practices adopted by the Group: the correct application Ashley Martin Chairman 5 5 of applicable reporting standards and compliance with broader governance requirements: the approach taken by Peter Williams 5 5 management to the key judgemental areas of reporting and 1 Andrew Findlay 3 3 the comments of the external auditor on managements 2 Rakhi Goss-Custard 2 4 chosen approach.
1 Andrew Findlay was appointed to the Committee on 1 June 2017.
Significant issues 2 Rakhi Goss-Custard retired from the Committee on 9 May 2017 and attended two further meetings as a guest.
The key significant issue in the context of the 2017 Consolidated Financial Statements is revenue recognition.
The Committee met five times in 2017 and attendance of The Committee considers this area to be significant taking the members is shown above.
In order to maintain effective into account the level of materiality and degree of focus communication between all relevant parties, the Committee given by management, and discussed the issue in detail to invited the Finance Director and Head of Finance, together ensure that the approach taken was appropriate.
In relation with appropriate members of the management team, and to the Company Financial Statements, the key significant the external and internal auditors, to meetings as necessary.
issue is the recoverability of the investment by the Company The Committee sets aside time periodically to seek the in Rightmove Group Limited, due to its materiality in the views of the external auditor, in the absence of management.
context of the total assets of the Company.
The external auditor has direct access to the Chairman to raise any concerns outside formal Committee meetings.
The Committee also meets separately with the internal auditor during the year, and in between meetings the Chairman keeps in touch with the Finance Director and external audit partner as well as other members of the management team.
Rightmove plc annual report 2017 39 Governance | Corporate governance report continued Issue Committee review Revenue During the year, management performed data analytics procedures on the amounts billed As more fully described on page 17 to the two largest customer groups Agency and New Homes, together 92% of revenue.
and 93 the majority of the Groups This included investigating anomalies and outliers identified and reporting to the Committee revenue is derived from subscriptions in this regard.
for core listing fees and advertising Revenue is a prime area of audit focus and KPMG evolved their approach in this area this year products on Rightmoves platforms.
as a result of management performing the revenue data analytics procedures that had The Group recognises this revenue previously been part of the audit approach.
KPMG designed and performed new data over the period of the contract or the analytics procedures which covered all revenue streams matching customer billings to cash, point at which advertising products and results of this work were reported to the Committee.
The Committee discussed any anomalies with management and with KPMG in relation to the data analytics work they performed.
The Committee was satisfied with the explanations provided and conclusions reached.
The approach to data analytics performed by KPMG expands their audit coverage to 100% of revenue, which together with the data analytics performed by management has led to increased overall assurance in this area.
The data analytics work above is supplemented by a detailed analytical review by management of margins, and ARPA together with a comprehensive analysis on the treatment of discounted and free member offers.
Investment by Rightmove plc in The Committee reviewed the assumptions made by management, including the strong Rightmove Group Limited RMGL track record of profitable growth and cash generation by RMGL.
Furthermore, the The investment by the Company Rightmove plc share price has increased significantly since 2008, resulting in a current in RMGL is carried at cost, adjusted for market value of c. 4 billion, significantly in excess of the investment carrying value of subsequent additions to the 0.5billion.
As RMGL is the main trading entity of Rightmove plc, we therefore see no investment.
Cost was initially assessed evidence of impairment.
The Committee was satisfied with the assumptions made.
as at 28 January 2008 being the date that Rightmove plc became the parent company of RMGL.
Share-based payment awards to RMGL employees are accounted for as a deemed capital contribution by Rightmove plc to RMGL of the value of the share-based payment charge for those awards, increasing the value of the investment.
Further details are provided in note 15 to the financial statements.
The investment is not considered at risk of material misstatement or subject to significant judgement, however it is considered a significant risk due to its size in relation to the Company balance sheet.
The Committee also reviewed and considered the following nature and therefore did not classify them as significant areas due to their materiality and the application of issues in the context of the 2017 financial statements.
However, it considered them to be stable in Issue Committee review Share-based payment charges and The Committee reviewed the judgements, assumptions and estimates made by management related deferred tax asset as part of the review of the financial statements to ensure that they were appropriate.
The Committee also obtained the external auditors assessment of the calculations.
The results of this review were that the Committee was satisfied with the calculations made.
Going concern and viability In assessing the validity of the statements detailed on pages 24 and 89, the Committee statements reviewed the work undertaken by management to assess the Groups resilience to the Principal Risks under various scenarios.
The Committee gained appropriate assurance that sufficient rigour was built into the process to assess going concern and viability over the designated periods.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Fair balanced and understandable and key messages being communicated.
Feedback was One of the key governance requirements is for the Annual provided by the Committee in advance of the February Report and the financial statements, taken as a whole, to be Board meeting, highlighting any areas where the fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information Committee believed further clarity was required.
The draft necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position report was then amended to incorporate this feedback and performance, business model and strategy.
prior to being tabled at the Board meeting for final comment and approval.
The Committee was provided with an early draft of the Annual Report in order to assess the strategic direction When forming its opinion, the Committee reflected on the information it had received and its discussions throughout the year.
In particular, the Committee considered: Is the report fair?
Is the whole story presented and has any sensitive material been omitted that should have been included?
Are key messages in the narrative aligned with the KPIs and are they reflected in the financial reporting?
Are the KPIs being reported consistently from year to year?
Is the reporting on the business areas in the narrative reporting consistent with the financial reporting in the financial statements?
Do you get the same messages when reading the front end and back end of the Annual Report independently?
Are threats identified and appropriately highlighted?
Are the alternative performance measures explained clearly with appropriate prominence?
Are the key judgements referred to in the narrative reporting and significant issues reported in this Committee Report consistent with disclosures of key estimation uncertainties and critical judgements set out in the financial statements?
How do these judgements compare with the risks that KPMG are planning to include in their Auditors Report?
Is there a clear and cohesive framework for the Annual Report?
Are the important messages highlighted appropriately throughout the Annual Report?
Is the Annual Report written in easy to understand language and are the key messages clearly drawn out?
Is the Annual Report free of unnecessary clutter?
Following its review, the Committee is of the opinion that the 2023.
The external auditor is required to rotate the audit 2017 Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and partner responsible for the Group audit every five years in understandable and provides the information necessary for order to ensure independence.
The lead audit partner, shareholders to assess the Groups position, performance, Karen Wightman, has been in place for five years, and business model and strategy.
therefore in accordance with the FRCs Ethical Standard 3 Revised, Anna Jones will take over from Karen Wightman External audit for the financial year ending 31 December 2018.
The Committee has primary responsibility for overseeing the relationship with, and performance of, the external auditor.
The Committee approved the fees of KPMG for the year as The Committee approves the terms of engagement and fees set out in Note 6 of the financial statements.
of the external auditor, ensuring they have appropriate audit Independence and non-audit services plans in place and that an appropriate relationship is The Committee has policies and procedures in place in maintained between the Group and the external auditor.
relation to the provision of non-audit services by the external The Committee is responsible for making recommendations auditor and the non-audit fee policy was reviewed by the to the Board in relation to the appointment of the external Committee during the year.
The non-audit fee policy ensures auditor.
KPMG LLP was re-appointed as the Groups auditor that the Group benefits in a cost-effective manner from the in 2013 following an audit tender, and in accordance with the cumulative knowledge and experience of its auditor, whilst EU Audit Directive implemented in 2016, the Group will be also ensuring that the auditor maintains the necessary degree required to put the external audit contract out to tender by of independence and objectivity.
Rightmove plc annual report 2017 41 Governance | Corporate governance report continued Non-audit service Policy Assurance-related services directly related to the audit for The half year review is approved by the Committee as part of the example, review of the half-year financial statements.
Management is given the authority to incur additional non-audit services of up to 15,000 in any financial year without prior approval of the Committee.
Permitted non-audit services Thereafter all additional fees are to be referred to the Audit Including but not limited to: accounting advice, work related to Committee in advance, subject to a cap on permitted non-audit mergers, acquisitions, disposals, joint ventures or circulars: and fees of 70% of the average audit fees over the three preceding corporate governance advice.
Prohibited services Prohibited, in accordance with the EU Audit Reform.
In line with the EU Audit Reform, these are services where the auditors objectivity and independence may be compromised.
Prohibited services are detailed in the FRC Revised Ethical Standard 2016 and include tax services, accounting services, internal audit services and valuation services.
Internal audit The level of non-audit fees as a proportion of the audit The Group has an Internal Audit function, known as fee has typically been low at Rightmove.
During the year, Rightmove Assurance, which is fully outsourced to PwC.
KPMG charged the Group 30,000 for non-audit services, The aim of Rightmove Assurance is to provide independent representing less than 21% of the 2017 audit fee.
Of this, and objective assurance on the adequacy and effectiveness 18,000 relates to the half-year review, and 10,000 for a of internal control, risk management and governance review of the Groups gender pay gap calculations and processes.
This includes assurance that underlying financial methodology.
Further details of these services can be controls and processes are working effectively, as well as found in Note 6 to the financial statements.
specialist operational and compliance reviews that focus on Effectiveness and reappointment emerging risks in new and evolving areas of the business.
The Committee considered the quality and effectiveness of The Rightmove Assurance plan for 2017 was approved by the external audit process, in light of the FRCs Practice Aid the Audit Committee and covered a broad range of core for Audit Committees May 2015.
The effectiveness of the financial and operational processes and controls, focusing external audit process is dependent on a number of factors.
Specialist reviews were undertaken in These include the quality, continuity, experience and training the following areas: of audit personnel, business understanding, technical Data privacy, including a readiness assessment in relation knowledge and the degree of rigour applied in the review to GDPR: processes of the work undertaken, communication of key Cyber maturity assessment, covering technical, process accounting and audit judgements, together with appropriate and people controls.
The review also included particular audit risk identification at the start of the audit cycle.
focus on data loss management, Bring Your Own Device The Committee reviewed the report of the FRCs Audit BYOD and end point management, corporate network Quality Review team relating to KPMG as a firm and management and identity and access management: discussed the actions taken by KPMG in light of the Employment taxes: recommendations, including in relation to the firms Procure to pay cycle and cash management: approach to the audit of revenue.
Pre-implementation review of a new HR system: and a The Committee evaluated the effectiveness of the audit Payroll controls review.
process together with input from management.
Areas the Committee considered in this review included the quality Reports setting out the principal findings of the Rightmove of audit planning and execution, engagement with the Assurance reviews and agreed management actions were Committee and management, quality of reporting, and discussed by the Committee.
The Committee also reviewed capability and experience of the audit team.
For the 2017 open actions from previous reviews, together with financial year, the Committee was satisfied that there had monitoring the progress by management in completing been appropriate focus and challenge on the primary areas these actions.
of audit risk and concluded that the performance of KPMG remained efficient and effective.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Effectiveness of the internal audit process Rightmove has an internal audit function, known as Rightmove The work of Rightmove Assurance provides a key additional Assurance, which is fully outsourced to PwC.
Rightmove source of assurance and support to management and the Assurance provides the Group with additional independent Audit Committee on the effectiveness of internal controls as assurance on the effectiveness of internal controls.
well as providing guidance and recommendations to further The key elements of the system of internal control are: enhance the internal control environment, and provide Major commercial, strategic, competitive and financial risks specialist insight into areas of change in the business.
are formally identified, quantified and assessed, discussed During the year, the Audit Committee undertook a review with the Executive Committee, after which they are of the effectiveness of the Rightmove Assurance function.
considered by the Board: The evaluation was led by the Committee Chairman and A comprehensive system of planning, budgeting and involved issuing tailored evaluation questionnaires which monitoring Group results.
This includes monthly were completed by Rightmove management, the external management reporting and monitoring of performance auditors, KPMG, the Committee and PwC themselves.
against both budgets and forecasts with explanations for The evaluation concluded that the Rightmove Assurance all significant variances: function had an appreciation of the key issues facing the Clearly defined policies for capital expenditure and business, was realistic and robust with audit suggestions investment exist, including appropriate authorisation and added value to the business.
It included a number of evels, with larger capital projects, acquisitions and recommendations which were incorporated into the 2017 disposals requiring Board approval: Rightmove Assurance plan.
A treasury function which manages cash flow forecasts Whistleblowing and cash on deposit including counterparty risk : The Group has a whistleblowing process which enables An organisational structure with clearly defined lines of employees of the Group to raise concerns on an entirely responsibility and delegation of authority, and an confidential basis.
The Committee receives reports on the embedded culture of openness where business decisions communication within the business of the whistleblowing and their associated risks and benefits are discussed and policy and external confidential reporting arrangements, challenged: and the use of the service including any whistleblowing A comprehensive disaster recovery plan and business incidents and their outcomes.
continuity plan based upon: Internal controls - co-hosting of the Rightmove platforms across three The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system separate locations, which is regularly tested and reviewed: of internal controls and has established a framework of - the ability of the business to maintain business critical financial and other controls, which is periodically reviewed activities in the event of an incident: in accordance with the FRC Internal Control: Guidance to Directors publication for its effectiveness.
- the capability for employees to work remotely from home or a third party location in the event of a loss of one of our The Board has taken, and will continue to take, appropriate premises.
This was tested for the Milton Keynes office measures to ensure that the chances of financial during the year through a planned full office closure.
irregularities occurring are reduced as far as reasonably Regular testing of the security of the IT systems and possible by improving the quality of information at all levels in platforms, regular backups of key data and ongoing threat the Group, fostering an open environment and ensuring that monitoring to protect against the risk of cyber-attack: and the financial analysis is rigorously applied.
Any system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate Whistleblowing and bribery policies of which all employees the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only are made aware, to enable concerns to be raised either with provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against line management or, if appropriate, confidentially outside material misstatement or loss.
The Groups management have established the procedures Through the procedures outlined above, the Board, with necessary to ensure that there is an ongoing process for advice from the Audit Committee, has considered all identifying, assessing and managing the significant risks to significant aspects of internal control for the year and up the Group.
These procedures have been in place for the to the date of this Annual Report.
No significant failings or whole of the financial year ended 31 December 2017 and weaknesses were identified during this review.
However, up to the date of the approval of these financial statements, had there been any such failings or weaknesses, the Board and they are reviewed regularly.
confirms that necessary actions would have been taken to remedy them.
Rightmove plc annual report 2017 43 Governance | Corporate governance report continued Nomination Committee report Scott Forbes Chairman of the Nomination Committee Composition and attendance at meetings Dear shareholder The Chairman and all the non-executive directors are I am pleased to present the report of the Nomination members of the Committee.
Peter Brooks-Johnson and Committee the Committee for 2017.
Robyn Perriss attended meetings by invitation.
The Committees role is to keep the structure, size and The Committee met three times during the year and composition of the Board under review with the objective of attendance at the meetings is shown on page 36. matching the skills, knowledge and experience of directors to business requirements.
Our priority is to optimise the Boards Membership performance to enable the Group to prosper, compete The Committee is comprised entirely of non-executive effectively and manage risk in an evolving market.
directors, whose biographical details can be found on pages A copy of the terms of reference of the Committee can be found 30 to 31.
As at 31 December 2017, all the non-executive on the Companys website at: plc.
These were directors five out of six members of the Committee were reviewed and updated with minor changes during the year.
considered by the Board to be independent.
The quorum for meetings of the Committee is two members.
At the request The Committee fulfilled its terms of reference during 2017 by: of the Committee Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer is reviewing the Group organisation and succession plans: normally invited to attend the meeting to discuss the annual r ecommending the appointment of new non-executive organisation and succession plan.
directors: and The Chairman of the Company may not chair the Committee conducting internal Board and Committee evaluations.
Further in connection with any discussion about the appointment of details of the Board evaluation can be found on page 45. his successor.
In these circumstances, the Senior Independent Director will take the chair.
The Committee continued to review Board succession and Andrew Findlay was appointed as a non-executive director on Appointments are for a period of up to three years, extendable 1June 2017, following an external search by Korn Ferry by no more than two additional three-year periods, so long as International Korn Ferry.
Andrew will succeed Ashley Martin Committee members continue to be independent.
as our Audit Committee Chairman following the 2018 AGM.
Lorna Tilbian joined the Board on 1 February 2018, following Principal activities of the Committee during 2017 her retirement from Numis Corporation PLC.
During the year the Committee has: reviewed the composition and diversity of the Board: The Board currently consists of nine directors including seven reviewed the Board committees composition: non-executive directors, six of which are considered to be appr oved the plans for the organisation and succession of independent.
Following the retirement of Ashley Martin nonthe executive directors and senior management: executive director at the 2018 AGM, the Board will comprise eight directors two executive and six non-executive directors r ecommended the implementation of the Board succession and equal representation of men and women directors at both plan and the appointment of Peter Brooks-Johnson as Chief executive and non-executive levels.
Executive Officer following the retirement of Nick McKittrick: r ecommended the appointment of two non-executive I will be available at the AGM to answer any questions about the directors including consideration of independence in relation work of the Committee.
to the Code: Scott Forbes Chairman of the Nomination Committee 44 rightmove.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements agr eed the process for and considered actions based upon independence, as it does for every director, but the Board also the findings of the Board evaluation: sought independent legal advice to ensure compliance with Code requirements.
The Committee concluded that no considered potential conflicts of interest for non-executive material relationship existed with Numis over the past three directors appointed to other boards: years, no material ongoing relationship exists and that Lorna is r eviewed and considered actions to address the Groups independent in character and judgment.
In addition to Lornas gender pay gap: and media sector experience, her capital markets experience will conducted an annual review of its terms of reference.
be a great asset to Rightmove and the Board.
Board induction and training The Board considered the primary tests under the Code: All new non-executive directors joining the Board undertake a whether there is a material financial relationship between tailored induction including meetings with key members of the Numis and Rightmove and whether that relationship would management team.
Directors are also encouraged to spend a influence Lornas judgement.
Numis Securities receives a day on the road with a sales director meeting our customers.
standard commission from Rightmove for the share buyback New directors receive a comprehensive induction pack of programme and there is no retainer or special fees agreement corporate information and a briefing from the Company in relation to brokerage or research: the commission Secretary covering corporate governance, Group policies payments of c100,000 per annum are immaterial to and relevant regulations.
Lorna retired from the Numis Board in September 2017.
The Board carefully considered Lornas Individual Board members have access to training and can prior dealings with the Rightmove management team, seek advice from independent professional advisers, at the which were meetings in the ordinary course of business with Groups expense, where specific expertise or training is our former Chief Executive Officer.
The Board therefore required in furtherance of their duties.
determined that Lorna is independent in character and Board succession and independence judgement and there are no other factors that are likely to At the end of 2016, the Committee confirmed the candidate impair her judgement or prevent her from fulfilling her duties profile identified through the Board Strategy review process and responsibilities as a non-executive director effectively.
and initiated the search for a non-executive director with Board effectiveness and evaluation suitable skills and experience to replace Ashley Martin, The Board is committed to undertaking annual reviews of its when he retires from the Board and as Audit Committee own performance and also the performance of its Committees Chairman in May 2018.
Following an external search, and individual directors.
facilitated by Korn Ferry, the Committee recommended the appointment of Andrew Findlay as an experienced The Board again completed an internal self-assessment Finance Director with suitable financial skills and experience during 2017.
Directors were invited to provide feedback via to Chair the Audit Committee.
the Company Secretary on Board and Committee performance and answer key questions relating to the Boards strengths, With due consideration to the conclusions of the Board improvements during the year and which business risks and Strategy Review externally facilitated by Korn Ferry in 2015, development opportunities should receive more focus.
the current Board composition and the Groups strategic plan, The whole Board discussed the feedback at the Committee the Committee agreed that a director with a broader media meeting in December 2017 and concluded that the Board and industry background would benefit the business.
Following its Committees continue to operate effectively, with an open a process including Korn Ferry, the Board recruited and and effective Board dynamic resulting in effective challenge then agreed to appoint Lorna Tilbian as an independent and collaboration between non-executive and executive non-executive director, following her retirement from directors.
The Board also agreed initiatives to further improve Numis Corporation PLC Numis in December 2017.
Board effectiveness including a greater variety of business As Numis is Rightmoves joint corporate broker together with presentations from senior management covering a wide UBS, the Board is aware that there may be a perception that range of Company business operations.
a material relationship could exist or continue to exist that An externally facilitated review of the performance of the might impair Lornas independence.
Therefore, Rightmove Board and its Committees will be conducted in 2018. not only conducted a rigorous review to evaluate Lornas Rightmove plc annual report 2017 45
