Corporate governance Division of Responsibilities Chairman primarily responsible for the working and effectiveness of the Board facilitating an effective contribution from the non-executive directors and a constructive relationship with the executive directors ensuring the balance of membership of the Board is appropriate ensuring that the Board is in full control of the Companys affairs and has an effective dialogue with itsshareholders leading on all aspects of corporate governance Chief Executive senior executive responsible for operational management of the Group Officer development, preparation and implementation of the Groups strategy as approved by the Board communication of the Groups culture and values communicating the Groups financial performance to investors in conjunction with the Chief Financial Officer keeping the Board fully informed of all material issues Senior Independent to be available to shareholders when concerns have not been resolved through normal channels Director to lead the annual appraisal of the Chairman to develop a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders to provide a sounding board for the Chairman Non-executive to bring an independent and objective judgement to bear on issues of strategy, performance and resources of Directors the Group to challenge constructively and scrutinise management performance Board reserved setting of long term objectives and strategies to be employed in achieving them including the approval of matters annualbudgets policy setting for safety, health and environmental matters, business conduct, diversity and human rights, recruitment and employment, risk management and treasury material decisions on capital raising, financial commitments, capital expenditure, acquisitions and disposals andthe prosecution, defence and settlement of litigation approval of information contained in communications to shareholders the review and monitoring of performance Board structure Board Audit Committee Disclosure Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Company Secretary provides advice and services to the Board and its Committees supports the Chairman in all governance matters CEO Executive Committee Chief Financial Company Secretary Executive Vice Vice President Vice President Vice President Vice President Officer & Chief Counsel President Asia Europe Americas and Specialities, Operations Middle East, Investor Business Relationsand Development & Communications Global HR Director 60 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2017 Governance During 2017 the Board held seven meetings with a full day In addition, arrangements are made each year for the Board dedicated to an annual strategy development review.
The tovisitup to two of the Groups operational sites and meet directorsreceive in advance full information on all matters to localmanagement.
Ad hoc site visits are facilitated for individual bediscussed at Board meetings as well as a detailed review of non-executive directors on request.
The non-executive directors met once without heldoneof its meetings in Belgium and in conjunction with theChairman to appraise his performance.
The Board met once thatBoardmeeting visited the Companys newly acquired plant without the executive directors to appraise their performance.
nearGhent where presentations were given by local senior management and aplanttour took place.
Board activity in 2017 Safety, health and environment Investing in Innovation organicgrowth Internal control Growth through and risk acquisition management Governance Financial and stakeholder performance relations Leadership and people Board activity in 2017 Supporting our strategy Safety, Health and Environment SHE Leadership and People SHE performance and initiatives are reviewed at every meeting Succession planning processes and progress were reviewed supported by a written report and presentation by the Vice withsupport from the Global HR Director.
Governance and Stakeholder Relations Investing in Organic Growth Routine reports on governance and investor relations matters Material capital expenditure projects are subject to Board review and weregiven at each meeting and developments in Corporate Social approval.
During the year investment in capacity expansion projects Responsibility and non-financial reporting were reviewed periodically.
were approved at sites in Finland, Italy and the USA.
Progress on The new remuneration policy was implemented following shareholder themajor capacity expansion projects approved in 2016 at sites in approval at the 2017 AGM.
An externally facilitated evaluation of the Malaysia and Germany were monitored throughout the year.
Board and its Committees was carried out.
Growth Through Acquisition Internal Control and Risk Management The acquisition of Speciality Additives and of BASF Pischelsdorf were As well as receiving regular reports from the Audit Committee on subject to detailed review and approval.
The post completion progress theCompanys internal control and risk management processes on integration and synergy achievement of the PAC Dispersions particular attention was paid to cyber and information systems security.
acquisition which completed in June 2016 was monitored throughout Innovation the year.
Several acquisition opportunities were reviewed and the deal As a core pillar of business growth the global Innovation function log was considered at each meeting.
and its resources together with the product development pipeline Financial Performance was reviewed at the annual strategy development day.
Financial and operational performance and strategic initiatives are Site Visits reviewed at every meeting supported by reports and presentations The Board visited the Speciality Additives plant near GhentBelgium from the executive directors and vice presidents.
Detailed reviews acquired in March 2017.
Visits were made by individual nonofspecific business areas were provided by the responsible vice executive directors to the Groups plants in Sokolov Czech president or functional head in conjunction with budget and Republic and Langelsheim Germany.
strategydiscussions and capital expenditure project reviews.
Synthomer plc Annual Report 2017 61 Corporate governance continued Board membership and balance Committees The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Disclosure Senior Independent Director together with Chairs and members of Number of the Audit, Nomination, Remuneration and Disclosure Committees meetings held 7 4 3 1 9 are identified on pages 58 and 59.
The Board considers that Caroline Johnstone, Just Jansz and Brendan Connolly are independent in Number of accordance with the provisions of the Code.
The Board considered meetings that Jinya Chen was independent until the date of his retirement on attended 31 December 2017.
The Board composition remained unchanged Stephen Bennett 7 7 N A N A N A 9 9 until 31 December 2017 and therefore maintained a balanced Alex Catto 7 7 N A N A N A N A position between independent and non independent directors Jinya Chen 7 7 N A N A N A N A throughout 2017.
As there has been an imbalance between the number of independent and non-independent directors since Brendan Connolly 6 7 4 4 3 3 1 1 8 9 1January 2018 the Nomination Committee has initiated a search Just Jansz 6 7 4 4 3 3 N A N A fora replacement independent non-executive director in order to Neil Johnson 7 7 N A N A 1 1 9 9 bring the Board composition back into balance.
Caroline Johnstone 7 7 4 4 3 3 1 1 N A Non-executive directors are appointed for one-year terms.
Lee Hau Hian 7 7 N A N A N A N A Alldirectors submit themselves for annual election at each AnnualGeneral Meeting.
Calum MacLean 7 7 N A N A N A 8 9 Induction and training Induction arrangements are in place in order to ensure new A balanced Board during 2017 directors receive a full formal and tailored induction on appointment.
The Chairman reviews and agrees the training and development needs of the directors and the skills and knowledge of the Board Chairman asa whole are updated by briefings provided by the Companys internal resources and materials, workshops and seminars offered by external advisers.
During 2017 briefings were delivered to the Board on developments in corporate governance reporting andgovernance and best practice in remuneration.
The Audit Committee was provided with updates and workshop training Independent Executive and provided by PwC LLP.
As no directors were appointed during  non-independent theyear no induction training was required to be given.
non-executive directors Performance evaluation Caroline Johnstone Calum MacLean In 2017, Lintstock were engaged to undertake an evaluation of Just Jansz Stephen Bennett theperformance of the Board of Directors.
Lintstock is an advisory firm that specialises in Board performance reviews and has no Jinya Chen retired Alex Catto otherconnection with the Company.
31 12 2017 Lee Hau Hian The first stage of the review involved Lintstock engaging with Brendan Connolly theChairman, the Chairs of the Audit and Remuneration Committees and Company Secretary to set the context for the evaluation, and to tailor survey content to the specific circumstances of the Company.
The adjacent table shows the number of meetings of the Board, All Board members were then requested to complete online surveys Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and Disclosure Committees addressing the performance of the Board, its Committees, and the heldduring the year and the number of meetings attended by Chairman.
Non-Board members of the Executive Committee, as eachdirector.
Where a director is unable to attend a Board or regular attendees at Board meetings, were also invited to complete Committee meeting his or her views on agenda items are the online survey relating to the Board.
Members of the Group canvassedin advance of the meeting and incorporated into Finance Department who attended Audit Committee meetings during thediscussions.
The non-executive directors disclose to the the course of 2017 were invited to complete the online survey relating Boardtheir other significant commitments.
The surveys were distributed following the Board and Annual Strategy review meetings held in November 2017.
The anonymity of the respondents was ensured throughout the process inorder to promote an open and frank exchange of views.
62 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2017 Governance Lintstock subsequently produced a report addressing the following Relations with shareholders areas of Board performance: Dialogue with institutional investors is conducted on a regular basis by the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer and meetings The appropriateness of the Boards composition was assessed, take place following the announcement of half and full year results and and respondents were asked to identify any changes that ought at other times according to circumstances.
In addition to half and full to be made to the profile of the Board.
year reporting, the Board has decided to continue with the practice The Boards understanding of the views of key stakeholders and ofproviding interim management statements notwithstanding that it is the markets in which the Company operates was considered, no longer a regulatory requirement to do so.
and the Boards oversight of relevant technological developments, and the culture and behaviours throughout the The Board has adopted a set of shareholder communication Company, was reviewed.
principles in order to ensure that Board members develop an The relationships between Board members and management, understanding of the views of the Groups major shareholders.
and the atmosphere in and management of meetings, were These principles require the Chairman to be present with the assessed, as was the quality of the Board packs and ChiefExecutive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer at sufficient management presentations.
shareholder presentations and meetings that he fully understands The effectiveness of the Board in reviewing the Group's the issues and concerns of major shareholders.
Alternatively, the currentperformance, and influencing future performance, Chairman is also available for meetings with major shareholders at wasconsidered, and respondents were asked to identify their request.
areasupon which they feel the Board should spend more or lesstime focusing over the coming year.
The Chief Executive Officer reports on shareholder relations at The Boards oversight of strategy and progress against each of eachBoard meeting.
Communications with shareholders relating the Companys strategic priorities was considered, as was the tocorporate governance matters are conducted by the Chairman flow of information to the Board around potential acquisition with the assistance of the Chairs of the Audit and Remuneration opportunities, and the integration of acquired businesses.
Reports on all meetings between non-executive Respondents views as to the top strategic issues facing the directors and institutional shareholders and their representative Company were also identified.
bodies are given to the Board at the first opportunity following The Boards focus on risk was assessed, as was the adequacy suchmeetings, as is all correspondence with them.
of succession plans for members of top management.
Respondents were asked to consider the top Human The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if they Resourcespriorities facing the Group over the coming years.
have concerns and where contact through the normal channels of the Chairman or the Chief Executive Officer has failed to resolve or The performance of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration for which such contact is inappropriate.
Committees of the Board was also reviewed in separate reports.
The report on the performance of the Chairman was provided to the Senior The Board seeks to encourage participation of all shareholders, Independent Director who discussed it with the Chairman and the andin particular private investors, at the Companys Annual General report on individual Board members was provided to the Chairman.
Meeting and endeavours to ensure all Board members are in attendance.
In particular, the Chairs of the Audit, Nomination and The Lintstock reports on the Board and its Committees were Remuneration Committees are available to answer questions.
distributed to Board members in early January 2018 and were discussed and considered in detail at the Board meeting held The Company makes use of its website www.
A representative of Lintstock attended that Board communicate with its shareholders and also publishes half and full meeting in order to assist with the Boards consideration of the year results, Company announcements, share price and corporate reports.
The findings of the evaluation are reviewed in the letter governance and other investor information there.
Information on the Companys major shareholdings and share Board Committees capital is included in the Report of the Directors on pages 85 to 87.
The Board has formally established Audit, Nomination, Remuneration and Disclosure Committees, each with their own Accountability terms of reference which set out their respective roles and the An explanation of the directors responsibilities for preparing the authority delegated to them by the Board.
Copies of the terms of financial statements, their report that the business is a going reference are available upon request from the Company Secretary concern, a viability statement, a responsibility statement and their and can also be downloaded from the Companys website.
All statement as to disclosure of information to the auditor are set out non-executive directors have a standing invitation to attend on pages 86 to 88 respectively.
Statements by the auditor about its Committee meetings unless they are notified otherwise.
reporting responsibilities are set out on pages 89 to 94.
The Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committee reports A report on the approach to internal control is set out below.
areset out at the end of this Corporate Governance report.
Thedirectors endeavour to make the Annual Report and financial statements as informative and understandable as possible.
Synthomer plc Annual Report 2017 63 Corporate governance continued Risk management and internal control Environmental matters The Board of Directors has ultimate responsibility for the Groups The maintenance of high standards of environmental together with systems of risk management and internal control and for reviewing health and safety protection is central to the Groups business.
their effectiveness and sets appropriate policies to ensure that the Aseparate statement on safety, health and environmental SHE Code requirements are met.
The systems of risk management and matters has been a feature of the Annual Report for a number internal control deployed within the Group are designed to reduce ofyears.
The Sustainability report on pages 44 to 55 includes the risks of failure to meet business objectives, but these risks areport on the initiatives the Group has adopted regarding cannot be eliminated.
The risk management and internal control sustainable development.
systems adopted can therefore only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance about meeting such business objectives or Social, community and human rights matters against material misstatement or loss.
The Group risk management The Board takes account of social and ethical matters as part of framework is set out on pages 32 to 37.
Risks associated with itsreview of internal control which, by virtue of its approach to risk safety, health and the environment are, by the nature of the Groups identification, covers areas which encompass social and ethical matters.
business, always of the utmost concern and the Sustainability report on pages 44 to 55 reviews the Groups performance in this The Board is conscious of its responsibility to the communities regard in 2017.
The Board confirms that a robust assessment of inwhich the Groups businesses operate and encourages theprincipal risks facing the Group has been carried out and that it localengagement by management which includes supporting has monitored and reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups risk environmental, health and education initiatives.
management and internal control systems in 2017.
The Board is also aware of the reputational and legal risks The Groups internal controls over the financial reporting and associated with social and ethical issues and has a Group-wide consolidation processes are designed under the supervision of the code of business conduct on corruption and anti-competitive Chief Financial Officer to provide reasonable assurance regarding activities, which is available on the Companys website and upon the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation and fair request from the Company Secretary.
The purpose of this code is presentation of the Groups published financial statements for toensure that the Groups employees have a clear understanding external reporting purposes in accordance with IFRS.
ofthe principles that are important in these areas when conducting the Groups business.
The application of the code is explained to The processes which are used by the Board either directly or, senior management at regular intervals and they are charged with whereappropriate, through the Audit Committee to review the its communication throughout their businesses supported by effectiveness of the internal control and risk management systems internal and external training.
A compliance procedure involving in relation to the financial reporting process and the process for annual certification by senior management and a procedure for preparing consolidated accounts include the following: maintaining a register of, and where appropriate gaining prior approval for, gifts, entertainment and corporate hospitality operates a review of the external and internal audit work plans: throughout the Group.
A report is made to the Audit Committee consideration of reports from management and external parties, annually on the code and the Companys whistleblowing procedure.
including the internal and external auditors, on the system of internal financial control and any material control weaknesses: The Groups operating activities are highly regulated in all territories discussion with management of the actions taken on any and largely carried out in countries that have established legislation possible problem areas for the business that are identified.
As such, information on human rights issues is not considered to be necessary for an understanding of the In addition, the Board: development, performance or position of the Groups business.
TheGroup has nonetheless adopted a policy on equal opportunities, receives copies of the minutes from all Audit Committee meetings: diversity and human rights which is available at www.
receives regular written and oral reports from management The Company is a member of the FTSE4Good Index.
onallaspects of production, operations, financial and risk management matters.
Further details of the Group's social and community activities can be found on pages 48 and 49.
