Group risk committee report Group risk committee chairmans annual statement The group risk committee plays a vital part in helping support the firms governance structure and the ongoing monitoring of the firms risk management framework.
During the year, the economic challenges and heavy regulatory agenda, coupled with firm-specific risks, have kept the committee fully occupied.
There have been ongoing enhancements to our risk management and risk appetite frameworks and we are satisfied that we have the skills and talent across the group to meet the challenges and opportunities that lie ahead.
The committee apportions its time between the planned periodic review of key risks and the close scrutiny of topical business risks as they develop.
This approach allows us to ensure that emerging risks can be identified and debated.
Details of management risk mitigation plans are well understood and appropriate resource is Membership and attendance provided.
The committee saw further improvement in the quality Director Meetings attended eligible to attend of the management information that it receives.
K A Matthews chairman 4 4 During the year, I met with the Prudential Regulatory Authority J W Dean 4 4 PRA to keep them apprised of our key risks and mitigating S F Gentleman 4 4 factors and the impact of the regulatory agenda on the firm.
1 J N Pettigrew 2 3 Committee meetings Former director 2 D T D Harrel 1 1 Our current members are the independent non-executive directors, who met on four occasions in 2017 2016: four.
Jim Pettigrew joined the committee on 6 March 2017 Pettigrew was appointed to the committee following David 2.
David Harrel retired from the committee on 10 May 2017 Harrels retirement as a director in May 2017.
Roles and responsibilities In addition to the members of the committee, standing invitations The key activities of the committee are to provide oversight are extended to the chairman, the executive directors, the chief risk officer and the head of internal audit.
All attend committee on the firms risk appetite and framework.
To do this we: meetings as a matter of course and inform the committees Review reports from the risk team on risk appetite discussions.
Other executive committee members and risk team issues including any early warning signals and advise members are invited to attend the committee from time-to-time the board accordingly as required to present and advise on reports commissioned.
Discuss any loss events and near misses, the lessons I regularly meet with the chief risk officer and her risk team in a learned and management action taken combination of formal and informal sessions and with senior Review end-to-end process risk assessments undertaken management across all divisions of the group to discuss the and any resulting internal control enhancements business environment and to gather their views of emerging risks.
Advise the board on the risk aspects of proposed major The committee has an agreed annual standing agenda to cover strategic change key risk events in the year and are required to be addressed in Review risk weightings on performance objectives for accordance with the terms of reference.
Prior to each meeting, I executive remuneration agree the agenda with the chief risk officer and the company secretary to identify key issues impacting on the firm that may Review prior to board approval key regulatory require the committees attention.
submissions including the Group Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP document At each meeting, the committee reviews and considers the risk and compliance dashboards, which highlight changes in key risks Full terms of reference for the committee are reviewed impacting on the firm.
These dashboards are designed to enable annually and are available on the companys website.
the committee to monitor and focus on ongoing or emerging risks.
In addition, the committee receives reports and presentations on compliance and anti-money laundering matters, including any regulatory changes impacting on the firm.
68 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 68 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 Governance Finally, the committee conducted deep dive reviews on key risks September 2017 such as the General Data Protection Regulation GDPR, internal Assessment of key risks of GDPR and investment process investment processes and the Internal Liquidity Adequacy Review of risk register and emerging risks Assessment Process ILAAP.
December 2017 Approval of risk management policy statement Committee effectiveness Review of remuneration policy and associated risks with A formal and rigorous evaluation of the committees effectiveness executive remuneration was undertaken during the year as part of the external board Review of risk register and emerging risks effectiveness review.
The review found that the committee operated well and ensured that the firms risks were sufficiently Approval of 2018 ICAAP and ILAAP stress testing proposals analysed during the year.
Looking ahead to 2018 In addition, the committee is satisfied that it has access to sufficient resource to enable it to carry out its duties and continue In reviewing the committees priorities for the coming year, to perform effectively.
consideration will be given to the following areas: Preparation and continued risk assessment of recent and Committee activity in 2017 upcoming regulatory changes such as GDPR Further enhancements were made to the groups risk management Effective risk management framework for external and internal framework in 2017, including the continued evolution of the three emerging risks lines of defence model to ensure that it remains aligned to industry Continued assessment of the firms risk culture against its and regulatory standards.
The committee also reviewed the risk core values assessment on the firms various strategic initiatives.
Risk assessment on the impact of technology, Know Your A number of areas of operational risk were stressed as part of Client KYC and suitability requirements.
Following robust debate and challenge, the We are committed to the continuing development of our committee and board were satisfied that the groups business model and allocated risk appetite remained appropriate.
This is an approach to risk management across the three lines of defence.
In the first line, we expect to see delivery of a number of projects important outcome given the number of change management programmes underway across the group, and in our regular currently underway that should strengthen further the sustainability of good client outcomes.
We have recently agreed meetings there is specific focus on the progress of key projects and initiatives.
several additional resources, which will be used to strengthen the second line teams in anticipation of the likely demands arising The list below summarises the key issues that the committee from the current change agenda.
considered at each of its meetings during the year in addition to We also see further convergence between culture, risk and standing reports from each control function.
compensation as the risk culture approach in the firm is February 2017 developed and revised compensation schemes are implemented.
Review of investment risk report The group risk committee and remuneration committee will Annual review of the firms risk appetite continue to work in cooperation to ensure that risk behaviours and the management of risk issues over the course of the financial Review of the compliance report year are appropriately reflected in decisions taken about Approval of ICAAP operational risk factors performance and reward.
Approval of the firms risk assessment plan Full details of our risk management framework are included in the Review of risk register and emerging risks strategic report on pages 21 to 27.
June 2017 Approval of ICAAP and reverse stress testing Kathryn Matthews Approval of ILAAP and liquidity contingency plan Chairman of the group risk committee Approval of recovery and resolution plan 21 February 2018 Review of the firms culture dashboard Review of risk profile for business continuity Approval of the money laundering reporting officers MLRO annual report Review of risk register and emerging risks Review of terms of reference rathbones.
com 69 69 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017
