Corporate governance report The biggest challenges to our culture include the increase in the size of our business and the plethora of new regulation.
This brings with it the need for greater formalities in processes and for more detailed data on clients and their changing circumstances.
Board and executive succession After a rigorous recruitment process, we were delighted to welcome Jim Pettigrew to the board in March 2017.
A comprehensive and tailored induction programme was arranged for Jim to introduce him to the business and provide industry context.
Additional detail of the induction programme is provided later in the report.
Jim was appointed senior independent director in May 2017 following the retirement of David Harrel.
The board recognises the importance of planning for the future and ensuring that succession plans are in place and embedded throughout the firm.
Kathryn Matthews is due to stand down by the end of 2018, having served nine years as a director.
We have I am pleased to introduce the corporate governance report for engaged independent search consultants to find someone with 2017, which includes commentaries from me and the other the experience and skills to replace Kathryn as chairman of the committee chairmen.
The report explains how we applied the group risk committee.
Following a skills audit, which was initiated principles of good governance including the provisions of the 2016 by the nomination committee and presented to the board, edition of the Financial Reporting Councils FRC UK Corporate consideration is being given to recruiting an additional non- 1 Governance Code the Code.
executive director with the aim of bringing new skills to the board, taking account of the existing balance of knowledge, experience The board recognises and champions the benefits of good and diversity.
We understand that a good governance framework creates a solid foundation which In addition, the board has discussed and approved the enables us to act in the best interests of our clients, shareholders recommendations from the nomination committee to strengthen and other stakeholders.
and formalise executive succession planning and talent management processes throughout the firm.
Culture The board places great importance on the firms culture which has developed over many years and represents a key competitive advantage.
The firms client focus and integrity is fundamental to achieving the best results for clients and shareholders over the long term.
In order to assess the firms culture, a fundamental review was conducted in 2016 and the findings were discussed at length by the board and executive committee.
A number of metrics were agreed, with ongoing monitoring by the conduct risk committee and quarterly board updates.
In addition, a culture dashboard relating to clients, colleagues and other stakeholders has been developed which enables the group risk committee and the board to review and monitor key metrics.
To provide helpful colour to this data, an additional paper is prepared giving illustrative examples of good and poor conduct in the firm.
My non-executive director colleagues and I have also continued during the year to assess the firms culture through direct engagement, both formal and informal, with investment managers and other employees throughout the business.
The Code can be found at: www.
uk 58 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 58 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 Governance Board meetings Looking forward During the year, the board held seven scheduled meetings and The nomination committee continues to take into consideration met formally and informally on many occasions.
Prior to each the recommendations of the Davies report and the McGregorscheduled board meeting, I meet with the non-executive directors Smith initial review on board diversity.
Currently, our two female to discuss any significant matters arising from the board papers directors represent 29% of the total board membership.
As a board, and the focus of any challenges.
We receive written reports on the we acknowledge the importance of board diversity and, looking development of the business and key performance indicators, forward, regard will be given to female representation targets together with detailed updates on the progress of agreed strategic during the recruitment process.
The firm will ensure that there are initiatives.
Each board meeting is attended for relevant items by no barriers to women succeeding at the highest levels.
members of the executive committee so that we can discuss their respective areas of responsibility in depth.
Mark Nicholls In between board meetings, I maintain frequent contact with the Chairman executive team and, in particular, the chief executive who keeps me apprised of progress and key developments.
Philip and I also 21 February 2018 discuss how to bring issues to the board in the most effective way.
Our senior independent director, Jim Pettigrew, and I are in frequent contact and I often discuss with him my thinking on significant board issues.
Jim and I are also in regular dialogue with our other non-executive colleagues to ensure that any areas of concern are aired.
Board effectiveness As it had been three years since our last external board evaluation, Independent Audit were appointed during 2017 to conduct a review of the board.
Their report provided a helpful analysis of the boards strengths and weaknesses and overall was both positive and constructive.
Further details can be found later in the report.
Remuneration policy We are due to present our remuneration policy for approval at the 2018 annual general meeting AGM, as it has been three years since our policy was last approved in 2015.
The remuneration committee has assessed our policy in the context of a changing external environment and the firms own requirements.
While maintaining the principal features of our existing policy, a number of small changes have been proposed to align the interests of executives and investors more closely.
The chairman of the remuneration committee, Sarah Gentleman, carried out an extensive consultation exercise with our largest shareholders before finalising the new policy.
Further details about the changes to our policy can be found in the remuneration report on page 80. rathbones.
com 59 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 59 Corporate governance report continued Governance at a glance Our governance framework An overview of the firms governance structure and respective roles are provided below.
Chairman Non-executive Directors Leads the board and sets the agenda for board discussions Provide constructive challenge to management performance and strategy Ensures the board is effective Contribute to the firms strategy Encourages the presentation of accurate, clear and timely information Provide independent judgement to the board Promotes effective and constructive dialogue between non-executive directors, executive directors and the executive team Chairs the nomination committee which considers the composition of the board and succession plans Evaluates the performance of the board, its committees and individual directors on an annual basis Board of directors Company Secretary Chaired by Mark Nicholls Develops board and committee agendas and distributes board Chief Executive Officer packs Accountable to shareholders for the long-term, Board Provides executive leadership and management to Ensures board procedures are sustainable success of the group.
This is achieved the business observed through setting out the strategy, monitoring Responsible for the effectiveness of the executive strategic objectives and providing oversight Advises on corporate governance committee of the implementation of these objectives matters Delivers on strategic objectives set by the board in line by the management team.
Available to all directors with the groups risk appetite Oversees the financial position of the group Maintains strong relationships with the chairman, the board and key shareholders Board committees Remuneration committee Chaired by Sarah Gentleman Determines and sets the firms Senior Independent Director remuneration philosophy, ensuring Acts as a sounding board for the chairman and serves as an intermediary it is aligned with the business plan for the other directors if required and risk appetite Approves the remuneration policy for Holds meeting with the non-executive directors without the chairman executive directors for final approval by present at least annually shareholders and makes remuneration Leads the board in the ongoing monitoring and annual performance decisions within the policy evaluation of the chairman Approves total annual remuneration Is available to meet with a range of major shareholders to develop a for executive directors based on balanced understanding of their issues and concerns and report the achievements against objectives set outcome of such meetings to the board by the committee Reviews total annual remuneration for executive committee members and material risk takers 60 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 Governance Independent non-executive 57% Board activities in 2017 Executive 29% Chairman 14% Strategy Performance review Held strategy day with group Oversight of the financial Board executive to review and performance of the group compositon discuss progress Reviewed and approved Reviewed and analysed capital requirements of strategic acquisition the firm opportunities Approved 2018 budget Focused on delivery of 0-2 years 20% organic growth initiatives 3-6 years 40% Risk management Governance Over 6 years 40% Monitored the firms principal Conducted an external board risks and compliance evaluation Board programme Appointed senior tenure Received detailed report on independent director significant regulatory risks Approved the firms Modern Reviewed the implications of Slavery Act statement Brexit on the organisation Assessed and oversaw the firms culture Male 5 Female 2 Board diversity Group risk committee Audit committee Nomination committee Executive committee Chaired by Kathryn Matthews Chaired by James Dean Chaired by Mark Nicholls Chaired by Philip Howell Reviews the effectiveness of Reviews the integrity of the firms Reviews the structure, size Implements the agreed strategy the risk management financial reporting and financial and composition of the and the day-to-day framework statements board and committees management of the firm Reviews the firms risk Assesses the performance and Assesses and nominates Reviews and discusses appetite independence of the external auditor suitable candidates to be the annual business plan appointed to the board and budget Assesses the firms Approves the annual internal audit compliance and anti-money plan Considers talent and Implements investment laundering policies succession planning for process and client proposition Reviews the effectiveness of the directors and senior Reviews key regulatory internal audit function and management submissions managements response to their findings rathbones.
com 61 Corporate governance report continued Our leadership Chairman Executive directors Mark Nicholls Philip Howell Paul Stockton Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director Appointment: 01 12 2010 Appointment: 01 12 2013 Appointment: 24 09 2008 Age: 68 Age: 62 Age: 52 Board committees: Re, N Board committees: E Board committees: E Background and career Background and career Background and career Mark is a lawyer and Philip was appointed in 2013.
Paul was appointed corporate financier and was Following an early military group finance director in appointed as chairman at our career, Philip spent over 2008.
After studying law 30 years in the investment chartered accountant with at Cambridge, he qualified as banking and private banking PriceWaterhouse in 1992. a solicitor at Linklaters before sectors, undertaking a range In 1999, he joined Old Mutual joining S G Warburg in 1976. of leadership roles as well as Plc as group financial He became a director of gaining considerable general controller, becoming director Warburgs in 1984 and head of management experience.
of finance in 2001 and investment banking in 1994.
He was with Barclays for finance director of Gerrard In 1996, he joined Royal Bank 24 years, which included Limited eight months later.
of Scotland and became head leadership assignments in Two years after the sale of of their private equity group, Asia and South Africa and Gerrard in 2005, he left to leaving in 2003 to pursue a subsequently as head of work initially for Euroclear plural career.
He is currently strategy and corporate and, subsequently, as a chairman of the West development, focused divisional finance director Bromwich Building Society on the international and of the Phoenix Group.
and a non-executive director private banking divisions.
He He was formerly a director of Northern Investors continued his involvement in of the Financial Services Company PLC.
private wealth management, Compensation Scheme.
firstly as chief executive Current external non-executive Current external non-executive of Fortis Private Banking director roles director roles and subsequently of Northern Investors None Williams fide Bro.
Company PLC West Bromwich Current external non-executive Board committees director roles Building Society A Audit committee None E Executive committee N Nomination committee Re Remuneration committee Ri Group risk committee Bold in biographies indicates committee chairman 62 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 Governance Non-executive directors Jim Pettigrew James Dean Sarah Gentleman Kathryn Matthews Non-executive Director and Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Senior Independent Director Independent Independent Independent Appointment: 06 03 2017 Appointment: 01 11 2013 Appointment: 21 01 2015 Appointment: 06 01 2010 Age: 59 Age: 60 Age: 47 Age: 58 Board committees: A, Re, N, Ri Board committees: A, Re, N, Ri Board committees: A, Re, N, Ri Board committees: A, Re, N, Ri Background and career Background and career Background and career Background and career Jim was appointed as a James was appointed as a Sarah was appointed as a Kathryn was appointed as a non-executive director at our non-executive director in non-executive director in non-executive director in 2017 AGM and was appointed 2013 and is chairman of our 2015 and is chairman of our 2010 and is chairman of the as senior independent audit committee.
He is a chartered accountant with She started her career as a spent her entire career in chartered accountant and over 30 years experience consultant at McKinsey and investment management, was formerly president of working in financial services.
Company and then worked including her time as ICAS and Chief Executive He has worked in a variety of for several years in the chief investment officer, Officer of CMC Markets plc, roles at Ernst & Young over a telecoms and digital sectors, Asia Pacific ex Japan Chief Operating Officer of period of 14 years, including latterly as chief financial for Fidelity International.
Ashmore Group plc and holding the position of officer of the LCR Telecom Prior to that, she held senior Group Finance Director of managing partner for the UK Group.
In 1999, she joined appointments with William ICAP plc.
He was previously Financial Services Audit the internet bank Egg, the M Mercer, AXA Investment non-executive director of Practice for four years.
internet banking subsidiary Managers, Santander Global Aberdeen Asset Management of Prudential, where she Advisers and Baring Current external non-executive plc, AON UK Ltd, Hermes was responsible for business Asset Management.
director roles Fund Managers Ltd, Crest development and strategy.
Liverpool Victoria Current external non-executive Nicholson Plc and Edinburgh In 2005, she joined Sanford C. director roles Friendly Society Investment Trust Plc.
Bernstein & Co, the The Stafford Railway Aperam S. A. institutional research and Building Society J P Morgan Chinese Current external non-executive trading arm of Alliance director roles Investment Trust Plc Bernstein as a banking CYBG Plc BT Investment Management analyst covering the RBC Europe Limited Limited European banking sector.
Miton Group Plc Barclays Bank UK Plc Scottish Financial Enterprise Current external non-executive director roles None rathbones.
com 63 Corporate governance report continued Assessed and approved the firms capital adequacy annual The role of the board budget The board provides the leadership and oversight to ensure Monitored and assessed the firms culture long-term success for the company and its stakeholders.
To achieve this goal, the board requires a diverse and talented Approved interim and full year financial statements, interim membership with a range of skills and experience and the ability dividend and recommended final dividend to challenge and support the executive management.
The board Approved the firms viability statement and going concern has a strong non-executive team which currently comprises disclosure for the year ended 31 December 2016 former executives with financial, risk management and Approved the 2016 report and accounts to shareholders operational experience drawn from a variety of financial against the fair, balanced and understandable criteria.
In addition, the broad experience of the non-executive directors allows them to understand the challenges and Operations of the board opportunities that face the firm and enables them to contribute The board has a rolling agenda which ensures that key matters are to discussions and decisions.
The board held seven scheduled meetings during the Board meetings year, a strategy day and had a number of additional formal and informal meetings.
The board also appointed a committee to Most scheduled board meetings are preceded by a board dinner, ensure close non-executive director involvement in the which allows for broader discussions on particular topics.
The discussions with Smith & Williamson.
The chairman and the board dinners also provide an opportunity for the board to meet company secretary manage board and committee meetings and members of the management team or to receive training.
In ensure that the board and particularly the non-executive months where no formal board meeting is scheduled, an informal directors receive appropriate and balanced information.
The meeting of the non-executive directors, the chairman and the company secretary manages the timely circulation of information chief executive is generally held.
The non-executive directors also to the board.
All board papers are prepared by executives and have informal meetings without the chairman or chief executive clearly indicate the action required.
As part of the annual board present.
The roles of the chairman, the chief executive, the senior evaluation process, board members provided input into the level independent director and the non-executive directors have been and quality of the information that is provided.
In addition, the clearly defined and agreed by the board to ensure a separation of company secretary ensures board procedures are complied with power and authority.
and applicable rules are followed.
At every board meeting, the chief executive updates the board on The company secretary facilitates the induction process for new the implementation of strategy and recent developments.
The directors, assists with their professional development and advises finance director reviews the financial performance and forecasts the board on corporate governance matters and on the rules and against plan and market expectations.
The chief risk officer regulations that affect a UK-listed company.
The appointment or updates the board on key risk areas and any emerging regulatory removal of the company secretary is a matter for the board.
issues which impact the business.
The board is updated on shareholder sentiment and significant changes in the share Board attendance register.
In addition, members of the executive committee attend Meetings attended meetings as required to present and discuss progress in their Director eligible to attend individual businesses and functions.
M P Nicholls chairman 7 7 Specific areas of focus and major decisions taken by the board J W Dean 7 7 during the year in line with its matters reserved mandate are S F Gentleman 7 7 1 listed below.
J N Pettigrew 6 6 P L Howell 7 7 Reviewed and assessed strategic initiatives K A Matthews 7 7 Scrutinised the benefits of, and monitored progress on, R P Stockton 7 7 the proposed merger with Smith & Williamson Former directors Approved the firms risk framework and appetite 2 D T D Harrel 2 3 Reviewed the firms risk management and internal 1.
Jim Pettigrew joined the board on 6 March 2017 controls systems 2.
David Harrel stepped down as a director on 10 May 2017 Oversaw financial performance against plan and market expectations Focused on managements delivery of organic growth initiatives 64 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 64 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 Governance Independence Board procedures and governance framework Board structure, processes and relationships The board, on the recommendation of the nomination committee, considers that all of the non-executive directors are independent.
Board interaction with key business areas All board members are required to disclose any external positions Overview of listed company obligations, reporting and or interests which may conflict with their directorship of governance framework Rathbones prior to their appointment so that any potential conflict Directors duties and responsibilities can be properly assessed.
The board has regard to the fact the experienced non-executive directors in financial firms are a Board development valuable resource and may sit on several boards.
Conflicts of The firm is committed to the training and development of all staff interest can generally be managed by due process and common to ensure professional standards are maintained and enhanced.
In this regard, the board carefully analysed the regulatory directors are encouraged to update their skills and any training and governance risks attached to the appointment of Jim needs are assessed as part of the board evaluation process.
Their Pettigrew since he is chairman of Miton Group.
After consulting knowledge and the non-executive directors familiarity with the with Jim, and assessing his time commitments, the board firm is facilitated by access to senior management and visits to approved the appointment, but put in place procedures and teams in London and offices across the country.
The company requirements, which need to be observed by Jim.
The board secretary assists with professional development requirements of also considered carefully the risks attached to the proposed the board.
In addition, the board receives mandatory annual appointment of Kathryn Matthews to the board of Barclays Bank training on the following areas: UK Plc.
After consulting with Kathryn, and assessing her time commitments, the board approved the appointment, but put in CASS place procedures and requirements, which Kathryn must observe.
SEC obligations ICAAP and ILAAP Board induction During the year, the board received presentations on the impact Our non-executive directors are offered a comprehensive and tailored induction programme to introduce them to the business, of the General Data Protection Regulation GDPR and MiFID II Markets in Financial Instruments Directive on the firm, including industry and regulatory context.
The programme is based on oneto-one meetings with the executive directors and executive the associated change programmes that will be involved.
Finally, committee members also receive regular updates on technical committee members, the heads of group functions and the company secretary and covers the areas of business outlined developments at scheduled meetings.
Governance of the company Business review In relation to compliance with the Code, this report, together Strategic direction and priorities with the directors report, states the position at 21 February 2018. Business strategy and market analysis The Code was updated in April 2016 by the FRC and applies to the companys 2017 financial year.
The directors have considered the Risk appetite, principal risks and risk management framework contents and recommendations of the Code and confirm that Operations throughout the year the company has applied the main principles Performance and market positioning and complied with the provisions of the Code.
Review of financial and market performance Board diversity policy Recent analyst and media coverage Diversity, including professional and ethnic diversity, is a key Budget review factor when assessing the boards composition.
It ensures there is Analysis of shareholder base and investor perception the correct balance of skills, experience and expertise amongst non-executive directors to lead decision-making and assess the Shareholder engagement performance and strategy of the company.
Regulatory environment The board has adopted a board diversity policy to ensure transparency Overview of the groups key compliance and regulatory policies and diversity in making appointments to the board on the Recent changes in regulatory landscape and impact of recommendation of the nomination committee.
This policy expresses upcoming regulatory developments our commitment to the principle of non-discrimination and to the promotion of fair participation and equality of opportunity for all.
Hot topics and key priorities People, culture and values The gender balance of the board is also taken into consideration when recruiting a new non-executive director.
This is reflected by Discussion of key business principles and the firms culture the current composition of the board.
Key people and succession plans rathbones.
com 65 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 65 Corporate governance report continued Overall, the conclusion from the board evaluation and appraisal Board and board committee evaluation process was positive, with all directors contributing actively to the The boards effectiveness, composition and operation are effective performance of the board and the board committees of reviewed and assessed on an annual basis.
Every three years, the which he or she is a member.
The new non-executive director had evaluation is undertaken externally.
Accordingly, in 2017, settled in well and felt he had received a comprehensive and Independent Audit Limited were selected to evaluate the board.
The review confirmed the strengths that had Independent Audit have no connection to the firm.
been identified in 2014 and identified a number of areas of focus for further improvement.
The board is committed to making This evaluation involved observing a board meeting, reviewing improvements in these areas.
board papers and conducting interviews with all board members, members of the executive committee who attend board meetings In addition to the board evaluation process, the senior and the company secretary.
The review covered a number of independent director led a separate performance review in topics, including succession planning, board operations and respect of the chairman, which involved a review with the dynamics, governance and composition.
The evaluation also non-executive directors, excluding the chairman, and a separate looked at the board committees and how they operated.
consultation with the chief executive.
The senior independent director subsequently provided feedback to the chairman on The review concluded that all directors enjoy serving on the board his appraisal, which confirmed his effectiveness.
and are proud to be associated with Rathbones.
The review identified a number of strengths but also areas for further Succession planning improvement.
All the interviewees described the very high degree of integrity shared by all directors, matched by a strong The nomination committee is responsible for both executive and commitment to Rathbones and a universal desire to see it flourish.
non-executive director succession planning and recommends The key themes identified in the report were as follows.
new appointments to the board.
When making board appointments, the board seeks to ensure that there is a diverse Strengths of the board range of skills, backgrounds and experience, including relevant industry experience.
Further information is included in the Board dynamics: the board is not only functioning well but also nomination committee report.
has the capacity and will to improve.
Interactions have a balance between efficiency and amicability, although there is Board committees still a need to work on building a more collegiate atmosphere and sense of common purpose Details of the work of the principal board committees are set out in the separate reports for each committee, which follow this report.
Risk control: there have been significant improvements in this area in recent years.
It was widely felt that risks are correctly Accountability identified and that mechanisms for controlling and mitigating The statement of directors responsibility for preparing the annual them are effective report and accounts is set out at the end of this governance Internal audit: praise for the way audit issues are managed at section.
Within this, the directors have included a statement that board level the annual report and accounts present a fair, balanced and Board committees: the board committees were found to be understandable assessment of the groups position and prospects.
operating effectively and were well run.
There was timely and To help the board discharge its responsibilities in this area, the effective reporting to the board board consulted the audit committee, which advised on the key considerations to comply with best practice and the Codes Areas for improvement requirements.
Following the committees advice, the board Communication: communication from top management could considered and concluded that: be improved.
This is an area where relatively minor changes the business model and strategy were clearly described could deliver significant improvement the assessment of performance was balanced Succession planning: the board should have clearer timelines the language used was concise, with good linkages to different generally and greater visibility of the executive succession parts of the document planning process, including increasing the non-executive exposure to senior management below executive an appropriate forward-looking orientation had been adopted.
committee level The directors report on viability and the going concern basis of Board diversity: a need to review the composition of the board accounting, which the directors have determined to be to ensure that diversity in its broadest sense age, outlook, skills appropriate, can be found in the strategic report, which also and ethnicity is considered describes the groups performance during the year.
66 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 66 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 Governance Risk management Relations with shareholders In accordance with the Code, the board is required to monitor the The board is committed to proactive and constructive firms risk management and internal controls systems on an engagement with the firms investors and is keen to develop its ongoing basis.
They carry out a review of their effectiveness and understanding of shareholder views.
report on this review to shareholders.
Details of the companys Effective communication with investors and analysts regarding ongoing process for identifying, assessing and managing the the firms strategy and performance is held through regular principal risks faced by the firm are contained in the risk meetings and roadshows by the chief executive and finance management section on pages 21 to 27, together with details of director.
The board receives and discusses shareholder and those principal risks and their related mitigating factors.
Whilst the analyst feedback at each board meeting.
The chairman and board retains overall responsibility for the firms risk management non-executive directors are also available to meet with investors and internal controls systems, it has delegated oversight to the at the AGM.
Investor relations activity in 2017 included the following: The groups financial controls framework is designed to provide assurance that proper accounting records are adequately 2016 year-end results: UK investor roadshow and analyst maintained and that financial information used within the business presentations and for external publication is reliable and free from material Q1 trading update: analyst call misstatement, thereby safeguarding the companys assets.
Annual general meeting: all directors available for questions The board receives regular reports from the chairman of the risk 2017 interim results: UK investor roadshow and analyst committee and chief risk officer on the key risks facing the firm presentations.
that may impact on operational and financial objectives.
This assessment is completed together with assurance that the level On the initiative of the chairman of the remuneration committee, of risk retained is consistent with and is being managed in shareholder consultation letters were issued to our 15 largest accordance with the boards risk appetite.
These reports include shareholders on our proposed new remuneration policy and current and forward-looking assessments of capital and liquidity meetings held with those interested to discuss the proposed adequacy and a summary risk dashboard is presented.
We will also continue to engage with ISS Institutional Also, during the year, the board reviewed and approved the Shareholder Services and the Institutional Voting Information operational risk assessment process for the 2017 ICAAP document, Service IVIS of the Investment Association and Pensions & which includes a capital assessment of financial, conduct and Investment Research Consultants Ltd PIRC before the AGM.
During 2017, the key areas which the chief executive and finance The board assesses the effectiveness of the firms internal controls director have discussed with investors included: on an annual basis and a report is provided for consideration.
progress on strategic initiatives The report is considered one element of the overall assurance the proposed merger with Smith & Williamson processes, and other references for board consideration include reports emanating from first line of defence and second line of industry trends including consolidation and the increased use defence assurance teams, including group compliance, antiof technology money laundering AML, as well as the investment risk team and upcoming changes to regulation including MiFID II, the FCA information security.
Asset Management Review and GDPR A one-year risk-based approach drives internal audit coverage and, the closure of our defined benefit pension schemes over the course of the year, review work by the function covers all the London office move to Finsbury Circus and progress on material controls across the firm including, compliance, operations the letting of our Curzon Street premises.
The observations arising from this work form the basis for the annual internal audit opinion.
Shareholder meetings Following these reviews, the board concluded that the firms We welcome shareholders to our AGM in May each year.
At every risk management processes were effective and there were AGM, our shareholders are given an overview of the progress of no significant weaknesses or failings in the system of the business and outlook for the year.
This is followed by the internal controls.
opportunity for shareholders to ask questions about the resolutions before the meeting and about the business more generally.
We look forward to meeting shareholders and providing a further business update at our 2018 AGM in May this year.
com 67 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 67
