Nomination committee report Nomination committee chairmans annual statement The nomination committees primary focus this year has been on succession planning for the board and executive team.
In April 2017, the committee agreed to recommend to the board that Jim Pettigrew be appointed senior independent director following the annual general meeting AGM.
In the following months, a number of informal discussions were held about the appropriate composition of the board in the event of a merger with Smith & Williamson.
Following termination of these merger discussions, the committee approved the appointment of Independent Audit Limited to carry out an external board effectiveness review.
This generally positive review was discussed at the November nomination committee meeting prior to being presented to the board in December.
A draft skills matrix was presented to the committee in November Membership and attendance in the context of a wider discussion about strategy and succession planning.
As Kathryn Matthews, chairman of the group risk Director Meetings attended eligible to attend committee, will be close to the end of her nine year tenure as a Mark Nicholls chairman 3 3 director by the end of 2018, a job description for an experienced S F Gentleman 3 3 replacement non-executive director was approved in November J W Dean 3 3 and an independent search consultant, Zygos now part of Russell K A Matthews 3 3 Reynolds, was chosen to undertake the search.
It was agreed that J N Pettigrew 3 3 a second non-executive appointment would be made if an appropriate candidate is identified.
Former directors During 2017, a number of discussions have taken place in the D T D Harrel 1 1 committee about identifying and developing future leaders within the firm.
There has historically been a reluctance among Roles and responsibilities investment managers to take on management responsibilities.
The responsibilities of the committee include reviewing the The firm is addressing this by developing a broader management composition including the skills, knowledge, experience and structure within investment management together, with a diversity of the board and making recommendations to the remuneration structure that encourages investment managers board for the appointment of directors.
The board as a whole to take on management responsibilities.
then decides on any such appointment.
Succession planning and talent development The committee also has wider responsibilities for succession planning and the leadership needs of the organisation, both As mentioned above, a key responsibility of the committee is to executive and non-executive, to ensure the continued ability ensure that the board maintains a balance of skills, knowledge and of the firm to implement its strategy and compete effectively experience appropriate to the operation of the business and in the marketplace.
required to deliver the strategy.
During 2017, the committee reviewed the composition of the board and considered a the core Full terms of reference for the committee are reviewed skills and experience of each director, b the independence of annually and are available on the companys website.
each director and c the diversity, including age and gender, of the board as a whole.
This was used to develop a skills matrix which will underpin the evolution of the board.
Following this review the committee was satisfied that the board continues to have an appropriate mix of skills, knowledge and experience to operate effectively.
In addition to their professional skills, the directors have collectively many years of experience gained in a wide range of businesses and excellent track records in a range of sectors.
During this process, the committee assessed areas which require further development or skills and experience that could be addressed through the recruitment of a new nonexecutive director.
76 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 76 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 Governance The committee also takes a keen interest in executive succession Board diversity plans, which include executive directors, the group executive The board recognises the importance of diversity and that it is a committee members and management roles across the business.
We believe that members of the board Potential successors have been identified for many senior should collectively possess a diverse range of skills, expertise, management positions and non-executive directors have met industry knowledge, business and other experience necessary for key individuals as part of normal board interactions and their the effective oversight of the group.
The nomination committee visits to various teams in London and offices across the country.
considers diversity as one of many factors when recommending The committee continues to receive reports on the talent pipeline new appointments to the board.
For further information on our which identifies high-calibre individuals with management approach to diversity, please refer to the corporate responsibility potential.
The committee acknowledges that, in a company the report on pages 43 to 56. size of Rathbones, there may not always be successors for every senior role.
The committee will continue to focus on this issue Board effectiveness review as a key part of its remit.
Full details of the process and outcome of this review are set out on page 66.
Independence and conflicts of interest It is of the utmost importance that the board of a financial services Looking forward firm has high-quality, experienced non-executive directors with We will continue to keep under review a succession timetable the skills and integrity to undertake senior management roles.
for both executives and non-executives.
We will also monitor the At Rathbones, we are fortunate to have such non-executives.
development of management talent below board level in light I maintain a dialogue with each of them on potential conflicts of of the Hampton Alexander review and encourage greater interest and time commitments.
I am quite satisfied that in each diversity and challenge management to develop the talent that case potential conflicts of interest are likely to be rare and will be exists in the firm.
handled appropriately by the individual concerned.
I have also been impressed by the whole-hearted commitment of all our nonexecutive colleagues to Rathbones during a year in which they Mark Nicholls were often called upon to attend non-scheduled or informal Chairman of the nomination committee meetings at short notice.
21 February 2018 All non-executive directors will be standing for re-election at the 2018 AGM.
