Audit committee report Audit committee chairmans annual statement The audit committees key role is to ensure there is confidence in the integrity of our processes and procedures as they relate to internal financial controls and corporate reporting.
The board relies on the committee to review financial reporting and to appoint and oversee the work of the internal and external auditors.
During 2017, the external environment and market conditions impacted Rathbones, which led to another busy year for the audit committee.
The committee has considered a wide range of topics with a focus on the following areas: analysis of the firms financial reporting with particular consideration of accounting judgments taken during the preparation of the financial statements review of the firms client assets sourcebook CASS audit and Membership and attendance submissions Director Meetings attended eligible to attend impact of the reporting standards relating to IFRS 9 Financial J W Dean chairman 6 6 Instruments, IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with S F Gentleman 6 6 Customers and IFRS 16 Leases.
K A Matthews 6 6 1 In addition, the Financial Reporting Council FRC informed the J N Pettigrew 4 5 company that it had reviewed the presentation of investment performance in the annual report for the year ended 31 December Former director 2 2016.
The FRC stated that the disclosure on investment D T D Harrel 4 4 performance metrics for asset managers should be expanded to 1.
Jim Pettigrew joined the committee on 6 March 2017 provide additional information on the quartile rankings for fund 2.
David Harrel retired from the committee on 10 May 2017 performance.
The firm submitted a response to the FRC, which included the information requested and consideration of potential Roles and responsibilities disclosure in the future.
The FRC confirmed in October 2017 that The key activities of the committee are as follows: this matter was closed.
Provide oversight of the firms financial performance and reporting, announcement of results and significant judgements areas Review the firms whistleblowing arrangements and ensuring appropriate and independent investigations on matters Review the firms internal controls and effectiveness of the internal audit function Oversee the appointment, performance and remuneration of the external auditor, including the provision of non-audit services to the firm Full terms of reference for the committee are reviewed annually and are available on the companys website.
70 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 70 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 Governance Committee meetings Our current members are the independent non-executive directors who met on six occasions in 2017 2016: six.
The board is satisfied that at least one member of the committee has recent and relevant financial experience.
I am a chartered accountant while the other committee members have extensive experience of financial matters and of the financial services industry.
In addition to the members of the committee, standing invitations are extended to the chairman, executive directors, chief risk officer, head of internal audit, financial controller, the external audit partner and manager.
Other executives and external advisers are invited to attend the committee from time-to-time as required to present and advise on reports commissioned.
During the year, I have regular meetings with the finance director, head of internal audit and the external audit partner to discuss key audit-related topics ahead of each meeting.
Following the publication of the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and revised FRC Guidance for Audit Committees, the committees terms of reference were updated.
The changes formalise the committees oversight of internal and external audit arrangements.
The committee has an agreed annual standing agenda to ensure key areas are covered during the year, which it is required to address under its terms of reference.
Prior to each meeting, I agree the agenda with the finance director and the company secretary.
Committee effectiveness A formal and rigorous evaluation of the committees effectiveness was undertaken during the year as part of the external board effectiveness review.
The review found that the committee was well run and performed at a high standard.
For further information, please refer to the corporate governance report.
com 71 Audit committee report continued July 2017 Committee activity in 2017 Approval of half year report for 2017 Below is a summary of the key issues that the committee Assessment of the firms statement of going concern considered at each of its meetings during the year.
External auditors half year review January 2017 Review and approval of representation letter Review of the report and accounts Review of external auditors letter of independence Review of key judgements for the annual report Proposed audit plan for the year end Assessment of going concern and the viability statement Review of non-audit services fees for the year Review of 2016 internal audit plan and 2017 internal audit cycle Review of internal audit plan for 2017 and completed February 2017 assessments across the firm Annual review of audit fees Approval of committees terms of reference Approval of the report and accounts October 2017 Assessment of the report being fair, balanced and Review and approval of the Q3 interim management understandable statement Review of the firms distributable reserves and dividend policy Review of internal audit plan for 2017 and completed for 2017 assessments across the firm Year end external audit report and audit opinion Review planning of internal audit plan for 2018 Review and approval of representation letter Approval of the firms non-audit service policy Review of external auditors letter of independence December 2017 Review and approval of the firms CASS submission Review of key judgements and provisioning for the year end May 2017 Review of audit and non-audit fees for the year Annual review of external audit firm processes Assessment of reporting standard changes relating to IFRS 9, 15 Review and approval of the Q1 interim management statement and 16 Review and approval of the external auditors letter of Review of internal audit plan for 2017 and approval of the 2018 engagement and audit fee internal audit plan Review of internal audit plan for 2017 and completed assessments across the firm Annual review of the whistleblowing reports for 2016 72 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 72 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 Governance The valuation of defined benefit pension obligations Financial reporting We reviewed the key assumptions supporting the valuation of Accounting judgements defined benefit pension obligations, particularly salary increases, As part of the committees role of monitoring the integrity of the investment returns, inflation and the discount rate, which are firms financial information contained in the interim and annual disclosed in note 27 to the financial statements.
We reviewed the financial statements, a review of key accounting judgements and professional advice taken by the company and discussed the policies that were adopted by management was conducted and assumptions used by us and by other companies with the assessed.
Following discussion with management and the external auditors.
We satisfied ourselves that the assumptions external auditors, the committee concluded that these used were reasonable.
judgements were appropriate and proportionate for the firm.
Details of these key significant judgements can be found in note 2 Provisions and contingent liabilities of the financial statements on page 126.
The committee discussed provisions totalling 23.7 million, which have been summarised in note 25 to the financial Fair, balanced and understandable statement The committee considered whether the interim statement and statements.
The main areas of provisions relate to the recognition of the onerous lease relating to 1 Curzon Street, deferred payment report and accounts were fair, balanced and understandable and provided the information necessary for shareholders to assess the for acquired business and property dilapidation liabilities.
firms performance, business model and strategy.
The committee New accounting standards reviewed the interim and annual financial statements in conjunction with the narrative sections of the reports to ensure During the year, the committee reviewed three new accounting that there was consistency in the information reported, that standards that will be implemented over the next two years appropriate weight had been given to both positive and negative and will impact on the financial statements as they will have a aspects of business performance and that key messages had been number of transitional arrangements.
The committee looked at presented coherently.
The committee concluded that, taken as a the following: whole, the interim statement and the annual report and accounts i IFRS 9 were fair, balanced and understandable.
Following a review of this standard internally and having received external advice, the committee ensured that the firms Viability and going concern accounting policies and working models were updated to reflect The committee considered the requirements contained in the the changes from this standard.
It was noted that no material Code regarding the companys viability statement, including the changes to the financial statements are anticipated as result of proposed three-year assessment period.
After significant adopting this new standard.
discussion, and having considered the firms current position and impact of potential risks, the committee concluded that the threeii IFRS 15 A review was conducted on the impact of this standard and the year assessment period continued to be appropriate and recommended the draft viability statement as set out on page 28 manner in which the firm is required to capitalise earn out payments.
Following an extensive review of our contracts, it was to the board for approval.
The committee also reviewed the going concern disclosure as set out on page 105 and concluded that the determined that the net impact of this standard would result in a 8 million adjustment to the opening equity position and is firm had adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and confirmed to the board that it was disclosed in the financial statements.
appropriate for the firms financial statements to be prepared on a iii IFRS 16 going concern basis.
A review of the firms future lease payments was conducted during the year to establish the potential financial liability that The carrying value of assets will need to be recognised on the balance sheet.
The firms most We reviewed the methodology for valuing assets where a significant property lease contracts were examined and may significant amount of judgement is required, including intangible lead to the firm being required to hold additional capital from assets, particularly goodwill and client relationships.
the inception of the standard from 1 January 2019.
For further information, please refer to note 1.3 to the financial statements on page 118. rathbones.
com 73 Audit committee report continued Internal audit External audit Internal audit plan Audit work 2017 The 2017 internal audit plan was approved by the committee KPMG present their audit plan to the committee for review each ahead of the start of the year with a greater focus on thematic year.
The committee reviewed and challenged reports from work.
The internal audit plan is subject to an annual risk-based KPMG, which outlined their risk assessments and audit plans for appraisal.
In setting audit scope, the internal audit function will 2017 including their proposed materiality level for the take into account business strategy and form an independent performance of the annual audit, the status of their audit work view of whether the key risks to the organisation have been and issues arising from it.
Particular focus was given to their testing identified, including emerging and systematic risks, and assess of internal controls, their work on the key judgement areas and how effectively these risks are being managed.
The status of possible audit adjustments.
We can confirm that there are no such scheduled work, and the follow-up of agreed actions arising from material items remaining unadjusted in the financial statements.
reviews is reviewed at each meeting, to ensure that agreed External audit effectiveness and reappointment recommendations are acted upon promptly and regularly We place great importance on the quality, effectiveness and reported to the committee.
independence of the external audit process.
In order to review the At each meeting, the committee reviewed the internal audit external audit process, including the performance of the external reports presented by the head of internal audit and monitored auditors, feedback is gathered from both committee members and progress against the 2017 plan.
In response to feedback from the management.
This process was undertaken by internal audit.
We committee, a number of changes were made to the format of the also reviewed the annual FRC Audit Quality Inspection report committee report to strengthen the focus on any significant issues prepared on our external auditor and discussed this report with identified in the audits and highlight any overdue items.
Whilst no the audit partner.
The assessment of the auditors effectiveness significant weaknesses were identified in any of the internal audit forms part of our annual consideration of whether the auditor reports, a number of improvements to certain processes and should be recommended to the board for reappointment.
We controls were implemented in response to the recommendations continue to believe that KPMG LLP are performing effectively and put forward.
their reappointment will be recommended to shareholders at the 2018 annual general meeting AGM.
There are no contractual or Internal audit function similar obligations restricting the firms choice of external auditors.
The internal audit function is an independent, objective assurance activity designed to add value and improve the organisations External audit review operations by bringing a systematic, disciplined approach to The committee is responsible for reviewing external audit evaluating and improving the effectiveness of risk management, arrangements and for any recommendation to the board control and governance processes.
The internal audit function is regarding change of audit firm.
This includes consideration of the third line of defence within the controls framework, providing the external auditors period in office, their compensation and the independent assurance to both senior management and the audit scope, quality and cost-effectiveness of their work.
The last audit committee, and reporting to the chairman of the audit committee.
services contract tender process was undertaken in June 2009, Deloitte LLP were engaged on 1 July 2015 as a co-source partner which led to the appointment of KPMG in 2009.
We plan to supplementing the in-house team.
Deloittes significant resource undertake an audit services contract tender process and planning and knowledge base means they are able to provide specialist will commence during 2018.
The committee is satisfied that the assistance supporting the annual internal audit planning process, company has complied, during the financial year under review as well as technical input into individual audit reviews.
A and up to the date of this report, with the provisions of the combined assurance map has been developed, linking significant Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market risks to first line controls, second line monitoring and oversight Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitor Tender Processes and internal audit work.
and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014.
The committee reviewed the effectiveness of the internal audit Auditor independence and non-audit services function during the year to assess whether the function continued We discussed the independence of the external auditor, the to meet key stakeholder objectives.
The outcome of this review nature of non-audit services supplied by them and non-audit fee indicated that the internal audit function continued to be effective, levels relative to the audit fee.
As a result of the EU Audit Directive operating in line with professional standards and well supported and Audit Regulations, the non-audit services policy was updated by Deloitte.
The revised policy includes prohibited services and sets a fee guide that aims to achieve a target cap of 70% of As well as meetings with management, I have regular meetings the statutory audit fee in any year by 2019.
The committee's on a one-to-one basis with the head of internal audit before audit prior approval is only required where the fee for an individual committee meetings to ensure that any concerns can be raised non-audit service is expected to exceed 50,000, and it is on the in confidence.
74 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 74 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 Governance Non-audit fees, excluding services required by national legislation, Overview of priorities for 2018 payable to the auditor in 2017 were 274,000.
This represents 71% As well as considering the standing items of business, the of the three-year average statutory audit fee of 385,000.
Other committee will also focus on the following areas during 2018: non-audit work undertaken by the auditor in 2017 was largely in relation to the potential corporate transaction, pensions advisory Initiation of the external audit tender process work and the annual ISAE3402 internal controls report.
We Assessment and implementation of new accounting standards recognise that, given KPMGs knowledge of the business, there are often advantages in using the external auditor to provide certain In light of its work, the committee was content with the non-audit services and we are satisfied that their independence effectiveness of the groups processes governing financial and has not been impaired by providing these services.
This was the regulatory reporting and controls, its ethical standards and its relationships with regulators.
case in respect of the work relating to the proposed corporate transaction during the year, which resulted in fees slightly exceeding the 70% target cap on non-audit services.
Approval This report, in its entirety, has been approved by the committee Prior to undertaking any non-audit service, KPMG LLP also and the board of directors and signed on its behalf by: completes its own independence confirmation processes, which are approved by the engagement partner.
To provide the committee with oversight in this area, it submits six-monthly James Dean reports on the non-audit services it has provided.
Chairman of the audit committee Following a formal assessment of the external auditors 21 February 2018 independence and objectivity, the committee concluded that KPMG continued to be independent and objective.
We agreed the external auditors fees which are shown in note 7 to the financial statements and reviewed the audit engagement letter.
We also had discussions with the external auditor with no management present to provide an opportunity for any concerns to be raised and discussed.
Whistleblowing policy We annually review the firms whistleblowing policy, approve any changes to the document and receive details of any reports made.
As well as meetings with management, I have regular meetings on a one-to-one basis with the head of internal audit before audit committee meetings to ensure that any concerns can be raised in confidence.
