Nominations Committee report It has been a busy year for the Committee in terms of various new appointments to your Board.
The Committee continues its work of ensuring the Board composition is right and supports good governance of the Board ANDREW ALLNER CHAIRMAN OF THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE As at 31 December 2017, the Committee and who was appointed to serve for a PURPOSE AND AIM comprised the Chairman, the Chief Executive further year of office expiring at the May The Terms of Reference of the Nominations Officer and the five independent Non- 2018 Annual General Meeting AGM.
Committee, a copy of which is available on Executive Directors of the Company.
It was the Committees view that, noting the Companys website www.
com, the skills and experience of Ms Abt and in are closely modelled on those set out in the Chairman of the particular her knowledge of the European UK Corporate Governance Code April 2016 Committee Members market, it would be in the best interests the Code.
The principal responsibility of of the Companys Shareholders, subject Mr A. J. Allner Ms A. Abt the Nominations Committee is to ensure to careful and rigorous review, for Ms Abt that, collectively and at any given time, Ms J. E. Ashdown to offer herself for re-election at the 2018 the members of the Board possess the Mr I.
In the Committees view, Ms Abt brings necessary balance of knowledge, skills considerable management experience and experience to support and develop Mr M. Ewell and an independent perspective to the the strategy of the Company.
In seeking to Mr C. V. Geoghegan Boards discussions and is considered to achieve this, the Nominations Committee be independent of management and free will recommend new Board appointments as Mr M. Oldersma from relationship or circumstance that could and when considered appropriate and will affect or appear to affect, the exercise of her ensure that appropriate succession planning BOARD SUCCESSION PLANNING independent judgement, therefore providing procedures are inplace.
In accordance with The Nominations Committee gives full continued valuable support.
Therefore, our Terms of Reference, I, as theChairman consideration to succession planning for Ms Abt has, subject to her re-election by of the Nominations Committee, report Directors, both Non-Executive and Executive, Shareholders at the AGM in May 2018, been our conclusions tothe Board and it is the and other Senior Executives of the Company invited to serve for a further term of office Board as awhole which is responsible in the course of its work, taking into account expiring at the May 2021 AGM.
for making new appointments upon our the challenges and opportunities facing the recommendation.
B. Duncan was appointed a NonCompany and determining what skills and Executive Director on 1 January 2017.
The Committee keeps under review and expertise will thus be required on the Board evaluates the composition of the Board and in the future.
Mr D. G. Robertson retired from the Board as its Committees to maintain the appropriate Group Finance Director on 31 January 2017 It was intended that a consultation with balance of skills, knowledge, experience and and Mr N. W. Maddock was appointed as Shareholders concerning the Companys independence to ensure their continued Chief Financial Officer on 1 February 2017. remuneration plans for Senior Management effectiveness.
Appropriate succession would take place in early 2018 and noting Mr J. C. Nicholls retired from the Board on plans for the Non-Executive Directors, that Mr Geoghegan would have completed 31 March 2017 as a Non-Executive Director Executive Directors and the Groups senior three terms nine years as a Non-Executive and Chair of the Audit Committee.
management are also kept under review.
Director of the Company in May 2018 and Mr I.
B. Duncan succeeded Mr Nicholls as MEETINGS AND MEMBERSHIP would therefore cease to be regarded Chair of the Audit Committee following as independent as defined in the Code, During the year theCommittee met on six Mr Nicholls retirement.
proposed that Ms Ashdown be appointed occasions.
A quorum is three members, Mr M. Oldersma was appointed as an Chair of the Remuneration Committee in the majority of whom must be independent Executive Director and Chief Executive order that she could lead that consultation.
Members of the Officer with effect from 3 April 2017.
It was agreed that Ms Ashdown be appointed Committee are not involved in matters Chair of the Remuneration Committee with affecting their own position.
Mr L. Van fide Walle retired from the Board effect from 19 December 2017. as Non-Executive Chairman with effect from 31 October 2017.
I was appointed as The Committee considered the position Non-Executive Chairman with effect from of Ms A. Abt, who will complete her first 1 November 2017 and will offer myself for three-year period of office in March 2018, election at the May 2018 AGM.
78 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six Mr C. V. Geoghegan is due to complete three who are signed up to the voluntary code diversity of perspective in the boardroom.
terms this year, and as such in line with the of conduct on gender diversity on The policy on Board diversity is available on Code he has offered to retire from the Board corporate boards.
on 9 March 2018 and will not offer himself Shortlisted candidates would then be invited SIG supports the principles of gender for re-election.
to interview with members of the Committee diversity.
Female representation on Taking the considerations mentioned above and, if recommended by the Committee, the Board is 25%.
The Committee will and subject to annual re-election by would be invited to meet the entire Board continue to consider gender diversity the Shareholders, Ms Ashdown was offered before any decision is taken relating to when recommending any future Board to serve a further two years as a the appointment.
appointments, and final appointments will Non-Executive Director.
The Committee is During the year under review, in connection seeking to increase female representation, in A process to identify a new Non-Executive with the appointments of Mr I.
B. Duncan, particular at senior management level across Director has commenced.
As part of the Mr N. W. Maddock, and myself, the the Group.
succession process the Committee agreed Committee used the services of The Zygos that Mr Ewell, who has been a NonPartnership who have no other connection As part of corporate governance, the Executive Director since 1 August 2011 and with the Company.
Committee reviews its own performance served as the Interim Chief Executive from annually and considers where improvements During the year under review, in connection 11 November 2016 to 28 March 2017, would can be made.
The Committee reviewed with the appointment of Mr M. Oldersma, continue to serve until a new Non-Executive its own performance in January 2018 and the Committee used the services of Korn Director has been identified.
Subject to the results of this review were reported to Ferry who have no other connection with annual re-election by Shareholders, Mr Ewell the Board.
Details of the process and its the Company.
was offered to serve a further year as a outcomes are covered on page 66 of the Non-Executive Director, expiring at the Corporate Governance Report.
The process described above was May 2019 AGM.
followed in respect of the appointments 2018 OBJECTIVES of Mr I.
B. Duncan as a Non-Executive It was the Committees view that Mr Ewell It is the Nominations Committees intention Director with effect from 1 January 2017, continues to bring management experience to continue to oversee the composition Mr N. W. Maddock as Chief Financial and independent perspective to the and structure of the Board, ensuring Officer with effect from 1 February 2017, Boards discussions and is considered to that the Group is at all times structured Mr M. Oldersma as Chief Executive Officer be independent of management and free to successfully deliver its strategy and to with effect from 3 April 2017, and my own from relationship or circumstance that compete effectively in the marketplaces appointment as Non-Executive Chairman could affect or appear to affect the exercise within which it operates.
During 2018 the with effect from 1 November 2017. of his independent judgement.
Noting Nominations Committee will also continue to the departure of Mr C. V. Geoghegan, the Following the appointment of a new closely monitor the structure, membership Committee appointed Mr Ewell as the Senior Director, the Chairman, in conjunction with and succession plans of its Committees and, Independent Director until a new Nonthe Company Secretary and the Group more generally, the leadership requirements Executive Director is appointed.
Human Resources Director, is responsible of our businesses, making recommendations for ensuring that a full, formal and tailored to the Board where considered appropriate.
GENERAL induction to the Company is given.
Although In general terms, when considering The proposed activities for the Committee in not an exhaustive list, the induction includes candidates for appointment as Directors of 2018 are: one-to-one meetings with key management the Company, the Nominations Committee, including HR, Finance, Risk and Corporate review the terms of reference of the in conjunction with the Board, drafts a Development and an overview of the Committee to ensure they reflect best detailed job specification and candidate Groups structure and strategy including site practice: profile.
In drafting this, consideration visits and an overview of operations.
review findings of the Parker Review on would be given to the existing experience, ethnic diversity on the Board as well as The Committee also carefully reviews and knowledge and background of Board reporting against the recommendations makes recommendations concerning members as well as the strategic and of the McGregor-Smith Review and the reappointment of any Non-Executive business objectives of the Group.
Hampton-Alexander Review: Director at the conclusion of their specified Once a detailed specification has been term of office.
continue to monitor and assess the agreed with the Board, the Committee would Boards composition and diversity in light The Board acknowledges the importance then work with an appropriate external of the second report of the Hamptonof diversity in its broadest sense in search and selection agency to identify Alexander Review: and the boardroom as a driver of board candidates of the appropriate calibre and longer term succession planning.
Diversity encompasses with whom an initial candidate shortlist could diversity of perspective, experience, be agreed.
The consultants are required ANDREW ALLNER background, psychological type and personal to work to a specification that includes the CHAIRMAN OF THE attributes.
The Board also recognises that strong desirability of producing a full list of NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE gender diversity is a significant aspect of candidates who meet the essential criteria, 8 March 2018 diversity and acknowledges the role whilst reflecting the benefits of diversity.
that women, with the right skills and The Board will only engage such consultants experience, can play in contributing to 79 www.
com Stock code: SHI 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six GOVERNANCE
