Governance Audit Committee The Committee has been pleased to support the Chief Financial Officer as he has continued to strengthen finance, ITand tax teams across the group with a small number of senior appointments during the year bringing additional and relevant talent and experience into the organisation.
Audit Committee The Groups 2016 Annual Report was included in the Financial Membership since 1 January 2017 Reporting Councils thematic review of Alternative Performance Number of Measures APMs.
Executive management and the Appointment meetings Committee reviewed all aspects of how we report APMs, Position Date attended discussed our approach with the external auditor and, where Caroline Johnstone Chair April 2015 4 4 appropriate, made some changes to enhance our presentation Independent of our reported performance measures.
The FRCs review Just Jansz non-executive director May 2012 4 4 concluded that there were no issues to raise regarding the Senior independent Brendan Connolly non-executive director March 2014 4 4 Groups approach to Alternative Performance Measures.
In 2018, alongside our core remit, the Committee will continue Other attendees: to focus on the Groups internal control and risk management Chief Executive Officer Company Secretary processes as well as reviewing recent acquisitions and Chief Financial Officer Group Operational Review Manager capitalinvestments.
We will also oversee the development Director of Group Finance External Auditors ofunderlying business information systems and to look at risk assurance mapping.
We set out further details of our work in the following pages.
Dear Shareholder In another year of progress for Synthomer, the Audit I am happy to answer any questions the shareholders may Committee has continued to develop its programme of have at any time and look forward to meeting those who workin 2017.
Alongside our formal meetings, members of attend the AGM.
thecommittee visited our new facility in Ghent with the rest ofthe Board and we also separately visited the Langelsheim Caroline Johnstone plant to meet with managers and staff there and hear about Audit Committee Chairman the plants approach to risk management.
1 March 2018 Our core remit is assessing the integrity of the Group financial The FRC's review only covered the specific disclosures relating to reporting, internal controls and risk management systems thisthematic review and provides no assurance that the report and and overseeing the work of the external and internal audit accounts for the year are correct in all material respects: the FRC's role functions.
The Committee has also continued to focus is not to verify the information provided but to consider compliance onouroversight of the Groups internal control and risk with reporting requirements management processes and the development of our finance, internal audit and other functions which are important in an organisation with a growth strategy.
The terms of reference ofthe committee have been expanded to include the review of taxation matters to support the Board in monitoring the Committee membership and meetings Companys approach totransfer pricing and the Base Erosion The Committee is made up of Caroline Johnstone chair, Brendan and Profit Shifting legislation.
Connolly and Just Jansz their experience is set out on page 59.
Mrs Johnstone is considered by the Board to have recent and During 2017, as part of the Committees oversight of the relevant financial experience for the purposes of Provision C. 3.1 riskmanagement processes, senior management from ofthe Code as a Chartered Accountant, her roles chairing other Procurement, IT and R&D met with us to present how AuditCommittees and her previous position as a partner at PwC.
theyembed the Groups risk management approach and Together, the Committee members have a wide range of financial, mitigating controls across all aspects of their function.
operational and commercial experience across the chemicals and Weasked for regular updates to theBoard on particular engineering sectors.
aspects from the developing procurement function and the review of our business information processes and systems.
Both the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer attend our The recently appointed Group Head of Tax presented the Committee meetings as well as other senior members of the finance Groups proposed tax strategy to the Committee, which, team and the Group Operational Review Manager who leads the afterdiscussion, we approved ahead of publication on the Internal Audit function.
PwC, led by audit partner Matthew Mullins, also Companys website.
We revisited the Groups risk appetite attend our meetings.
Other senior managers have regularly attended statement during the year resulting in a formal discussion at Committee meetings in 2017, at our request.
Other members of the the Boards strategy day in November 2017.
This will continue Board have a standing invitation to attend meetings unless notified to form part of the Committee and Board discussions in 2018. otherwise and we regularly have the full board in attendance.
Synthomer plc Annual Report 2017 65 Audit Committee continued The Committee meets on a regular basis with PwC and with the Group Monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial reporting, financial Operational Review Manager without management present.
The reporting procedures and the quality of the externalaudit.
Committee also had a private meeting to discuss forthcoming agendas.
Reviewing and challenging significant financial estimates andjudgements.
In addition, outside of the formal meetings, Caroline Johnstone had Supporting the Board in considering whether the annual regular dialogue with the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer, report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable.
other senior members of the head office finance team and PwC Reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups todevelop the Committee's programme of work as well as review internal controls and risk management systems, including the progress in addressing actions agreed by the Committee.
Groups internal audit function and the Groups whistle blowing and fraud detection arrangements.
As set out in the Chairs introductory comments, members of Reviewing and monitoring the independence, objectivity and theCommittee visited both the Ghent and Langelsheim sites theeffectiveness of PwC, approving their remuneration and duringthe year as part of an ongoing programme of engagement anynon-audit services.
Reviewing and monitoring the implementation of the Groups The role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee taxstrategy.
The Committee has established a detailed remit focused on theintegrity of our financial reporting, internal controls and The full terms of reference, which were updated during the year, riskmanagement systems: areincluded on the Companys website.
Activities during the year The Committee met formally four times during 2017 and carried out the following principal activities: Mar Apr Aug Nov Financial Reporting Full year results, announcement and Annual Report Half year results and announcement Significant accounting judgements Going concern statement Viability statement Fair, balanced and understandable statement Update on new accounting standards Internal Controls and RiskManagement Update and specific areas of risk review Formal assessment of internal controls and risk assessment processes External audit Assessment of external auditors independence, objectivity and effectiveness Reappointment of external auditor Management representation letter Non-audit fees Non-audit fees policy External audit plan Internal Audit Reviewing IA reports, progress against plan and implementation of actions Assessment of internal audit effectiveness Internal audit plan Other Tax Strategy Review of compliance with group IT standards Report on whistleblowing and fraud prevention policies Committee training, including developments in forthcoming accounting standards Review and update on the funding arrangements of the Group's UK pension scheme Consideration of compliance policies including Gifts and hospitality, sanctioned countries, code of business conduct and General Data Protection Regulation Review of transfer pricing arrangements across the Group Audit Committee terms of reference update Specific areas of risk management review during the year included Working Capital, Capital Expenditure reviews, R&D, IT and Procurement other areas such as Project Excellence were presented at full Board meetings.
66 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2017 Governance Addressing our remit The Committee discussed the fair, balanced and understandable Systems of risk management statement at its meeting in February 2018 in the light of the above and internal  and, having done so, recommended that the Board provide it in the Each year, the Board is required to conduct a review of the form set out on page 88. effectiveness of the Groups systems of risk management and internal control.
The Boards statement about this review is set Going concern outon page 64.
At its meeting in February 2018, the Committee The principal aspects of the review process conducted by the reviewed managements assessment of the key elements of these Committee and management to support the Boards statement were: systems and confirmed their overall effectiveness.
In forming its conclusion, the Committee reflected on matters such as: Reviewing the Groups available sources of funding and, in particular, testing the covenants and assessing the available The internal audit programme completed during 2017 and headroom using a range of assumptions.
theprogress in implementing actions arising therefrom.
Reviewing the short, medium and long-term cash flow forecasts The risk management processes rolled out across the Group in various material downside scenarios.
in2016 and 2017 and implemented in new acquisitions as Assessing the level of available facilities, which are considered soonaspractical.
necessary to support the Groups ability to trade and deliver Our own programme of risk reviews and discussions with future growth.
seniormanagers across the Group throughout the year.
Assessing the Groups current and forecast activities, including any Assurance Committee papers, Board and Committee long-term contracts and order books, and those factors considered presentations and discussions that management continued likely to affect its future performance and financial position.
toreview the Groups key financial controls to ensure that they supported the Groups continued growth.
The Committee discussed the going concern statement at its The key controls questionnaire developed in 2017, which is meeting in February 2018 and, having done so, recommended completed and signed by each operating unit across the Group thatthe Board provide it in the form set out on page 87. on a quarterly basis.
Half yearly representations from financial and commercial Viability statement management in the business to the Chief Financial Officer.
The Board has chosen to consider the prospects of the Group over a five year period ending 31 December 2022, consistent with the Whistle-blowing five year Strategic Plan of the Group, as they consider it to be a At each Committee meeting during the year, the Committee was period over which the Group actively focuses on its long term provided details of the issues reported during the period and how product development and capital expenditure investments.
management had investigated them, together with any update on ongoing investigations.
No material issues were reported during The Committees robust assessment of the principal risks facing theyear.
theGroup included a review of the potential impact of severe but plausible scenarios that could threaten theviability of the Group 2017 Annual report and accounts andthe potential mitigations that management believes would be Fair, balanced and understandable available.
These scenarios included trading volatility, increased The work undertaken by management and the Committee to competition, delays in capacity improvement, failure of new support the Boards statement included: products and the temporary loss of a manufacturing site.
They alsoincluded significant foreign currency exchange rate and interest establishing a working group of key individuals, who are rate movements, which are deemed to be outside the control of appropriately qualified, within the Group to oversee the drafting theGroup.
The Committee discussed the viability statement at its of the Annual Report: meeting in February 2018 and, having done so, recommended that the CEO and CFO confirming that, in their opinion, the drafting the Board provide it in the form set out on page 37. ofthe Annual Report was fair, balanced and understandable: where appropriate, requesting that certain key contributors to sections of the Annual Report for example, Vice Presidents and Finance Directors of business units sign a declaration confirming the accuracy of the information provided: arranging for Deloitte LLP, the Companys remuneration consultants, to review the Directors Remuneration Report: requesting that an audit trail was completed by the Director of Group Finance formaterial data underpinning non financial information in the Annual Report: circulating drafts of the Annual Report to PwC, the Committee and the Board for review: and discussing material disclosure items at a meeting of the Committee held in February 2018.
Synthomer plc Annual Report 2017 67 Audit Committee continued assumptions.
The Group uses appropriately qualified external External audit actuarial advisers to help establish the actuarial assumptions At its meetings in November 2017 and February 2018, the used in the valuation of the Groups pension assets and liabilities.
Committee discussed the 2017 audit process: During their audit, the external auditor evaluated the assumptions Outcome action taken and methodologies used by the Groups actuarial advisers and November 2017 by the Committee management and assessed whether the assumptions made PwCs audit plan Challenged and agreed by were appropriate and not materially different from external the Committee benchmarks for similar types of schemes.
The external auditors PwCs audit risk assessment Discussed with PwC including reported to us that they were satisfied with the assumptions the approach toidentified risks used and with the way that the schemes had been accounted Materiality level for the audit Agreed with PwC for.
The Committee reviewed the assumptions and methodology at a similar level to 2016 used by the management and concurred with their conclusions.
PwCs resources Reviewed and discussed with PwC Audit fee and terms of engagement Reviewed, challenged and Purchase of business: approved by the Committee The accounting for the acquisition of the Speciality Additives February 2018 business is shown in the note 31 to the accounts.
For the Confirmation of PwCs audit plan PwC confirmed no material acquisition, the assets and liabilities have been included at fair changes made to agreed plan value with the balance of consideration shown as goodwill.
Audit findings, significant issues Discussed with PwC KPMG LLP were engaged to advise on the fair value of the andother accounting judgements andmanagement Property, Plant and Equipment PPE.
Overall their conclusion Management representation letter Reviewed and approved was that the total fair value of the PPE was higher than the bytheCommittee carrying value mainly in relation to Land and Buildings.
KPMG PwCs independence and objectivity Independence and objectivity LLP also performed a valuation of the intangibles, of which the and quality control procedures confirmed: quality control procedures reviewed only one of significant value was the customer relationships.
The external auditors reviewed the work undertaken by KPMG LLP.
The Committee reviewed the methodology used by KPMG LLP The chair of the Committee was in discussion regularly with PwCs along with their conclusions and discussed them with the lead audit partner to discuss the progress of the audit.
TheCommittee concurred with managements andfollowing the conclusion of the February 2018 meeting, the view on the fairvalue of the acquired business.
Committee met PwC without management being present: no significant issues, other than those discussed at the Committee Internal audit meeting, were raised.
The Group Operational Review Manager who leads the Internal Audit function was appointed in 2016.
We now have a dedicated Financial reporting and significant judgements and focused in-house internal audit function, which draws on As part of their monitoring of the integrity of the financial statements, specialist resources as required.
At each meeting, the Committee the Committee assesses whether suitable accounting policies have reviewed progress against the internal audit annual plan and been adopted and considers particular areas where management explored areas identified for action.
has had to exercise judgement or make estimates.
The main areas which we reviewed in the year ended 31 December 2017, together To assess the effectiveness of Internal Audit, the Committee with a summary of our work, are set out below: reflected on: Provisions for uncertain taxation positions: Internal Audit reports during the year.
Significant judgement is exercised by management, with advice Feedback from operational and finance functions on the quality from appropriate tax advisors, to arrive at the amounts provided of the Internal Audit reports and activities.
for tax given that the final tax outcome of several transactions is Compliance with appropriate Internal Audit uncertain and may not be known for several years.
As part of professional standards.
their audit, the external auditor reviewed the judgements that had Implementation of Internal Audit recommendations.
been made, using tax specialists as appropriate, and provided the Committee with an assessment of the appropriateness of There was positive feedback regarding the constructive and management judgements.
The Group Head of Tax presented to challenging approach of Internal Audit as well as the development the Committee on the rationale and judgement on each of the ofnew internal audit reporting, with clear summaries and provisions held by the Group and the Committee considered recommendations.
Inthe coming year, the function will focus whether these provisions were appropriate and in line with the onagreeing the scopeofeach audit and continuing to ensure Group tax strategy and took the external auditors conclusions implementation of recommendations on a timely basis.
The Committee concurred with basisof our review, theCommittee concluded that the function managements views and in addition reviewed the adequacy wasoperating effectively although we continue to review the ofthe tax disclosures in the financial statements.
resources required for the developing Group.
The internal audit plan for 2018 was reviewed at our meeting in Defined benefit pension accounting: November 2017 and includes auditing areas which account for more The Group operates a number of defined benefit schemes which than 75% of operating profit as well as certain key central functions have significant liabilities as outlined in note 26 to the Group such as the financial consolidation process.
Specialists will be financial statements.
Although the UK schemes are closed to included in a number of audits such as IT security.
future accrual, they are sensitive to changes in actuarial 68 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2017
