GOVERNANCE LEADERSHIP: ROLES IN THE BOARDROOM SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR CHAIRMAN CEO Ollie Oliveira Jean-Paul Luksic Ivn Arriagada Non-Executive Chairman not a Director Provides a sounding board for the Leads the Board and ensures its Leads the implementation of the Chairman and supports the Chairman effectiveness in all aspects of its duties.
Groups strategy set by the Board.
in the delivery of his objectives as Promotes the highest standards of Leads the Executive Committee and required.
integrity, probity and corporate ensures its effectiveness in all aspects Where necessary, acts as an governance.
intermediary between the Chairman Sets the agenda for Board meetings Provides information to the Board and and the other members of the Board in consultation with the Secretary to participates in Board discussion in or the CEO.
the Board, other Directors and connection with day-to-day activities Acts as an additional point of contact members of senior management.
for shareholders, focusing on the Chairs meetings and ensures that there Groups governance and strategy, and is adequate time for discussions of all gives shareholders a means of raising agenda items, with a focus on strategic, concerns other than with the Chairman rather than routine, issues.
Promotes a culture of openness and EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEMBERS debate within the Board by facilitating See pages 80 and 81 the effective contribution of all Directors.
Oversees Director development, Present proposals, recommendations induction, performance review and and information to the Board within their relations with shareholders.
INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE SECRETARY TO THE BOARD DIRECTORS COMPANY SECRETARY Tim Baker Jorge Bande Sebastin Conde Vivianne Blanlot Provides a conduit for Board and Francisca Castro Committee communications and Ollie Oliveira ROLES provides a link between the Board and management.
These Directors meet the independence criteria set out in the UK Corporate Ensures Board members have access Governance Code and the Board is to the information they need to perform satisfied that they are independent.
No connection with the Group or any Julian Anderson other Director which could be Works closely with the Secretary to perceived to compromise independence.
the Board to provide a conduit between Provide a range of outside perspectives shareholders, the Board and to the Group and encourage robust NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS management in connection with debate with, and challenge of, the UK corporate governance and Juan Claro Groups executive management.
William Hayes Ensure that no individual or small group Ramn Jara of individuals can dominate the Boards Andrnico Luksic C decision-making.
Gonzalo Menndez The Board does not consider these Directors to be independent because they do not meet one or more of the independence criteria set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Provide a range of outside perspectives to the Group and encourage robust debate with, and challenge of, the Groups executive management.
Ensure that no individual or small group of individuals can dominate the Boards decision-making.
Ramn Jara provides advisory services to the Group.
Andrnico Luksic C is the brother of Jean-Paul Luksic, the Chairman of the Company, and is Chairman of Quienco SA and Chairman or a Director of Quiencos other listed subsidiaries.
Jean-Paul Luksic and Gonzalo Menndez are also Non-Executive Directors of Quienco and some of its listed subsidiaries.
Like Antofagasta plc, Quienco is controlled by a foundation in which members of the Luksic family are interested.
Juan Claro and William Hayes have served on the Board for more than nine years from the date of their first election.
co. uk 79 LEADERSHIP: EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE AN EXPERIENCED MANAGEMENT TEAM IVN ARRIAGADA ALFREDO ATUCHA REN AGUILAR PATRICIO ENEI ANDRNICO LUKSIC L. CEO CFO Vice President of Vice President of Legal Vice President Corporate Affairs and of Development P P Sustainability Joined the Group in 2015 Joined the Group in 2013 Joined the Group in 2014 P Commercial engineer Chartered accountant Lawyer with over Joined the Group in 2006 and economist with over witha MBA and over Joined the Group in 2017 20 years experience Business administrator 20 years international 30years financial and Industrial psychologist in mining, including roles with broad mining experience in the mining  with 20 years experience at some of the largest experience in sales, and oil and gas industries.
inthe mining, energy and in mining, including in international copper exploration, development fast-moving consumer sustainability, safety, companies operating and general management.
human resources and in Chile.
Chief Financial Officer Previous roles Previous roles of Codelco Corporate Manager at Previous roles 10 years service at BHP General Counsel Antofagasta Minerals Various positions at Billiton as Vice Group Head of Safety at at Codelco BHP Billiton, including Director, Antofagasta President of Finance for Anglo American plc, President of Pampa Corporate Affairs Minerals Toronto Office Minera Escondida and London Norte Spence and Manager of Minera Various positions at Senior Manager of Base Cerro Colorado, Vice Vice President of Escondida Banco fide Chile Metals Major Projects President Operations Corporate Affairs and Senior lawyer at BHP and Chief Financial Finance and Sustainability at Billiton in Chile Officer of the Base Administration Manager Codelco, Chile Chief Legal Counsel at Metals division at Chilquinta Energa Health and Safety Minera Doa Ins fide part of Sempra Energy Over 15 years of Director at International Collahuasi and PSG Group experience with Shell in Council on Mining and Lawyer at the Instituto Chile, the United CFO at Reckitt Metals ICMM, London fide Normalizacin Kingdom, Argentina and Benckiser in Spain, Previsional and in the United States Brazil and Chile private practice Tax Planning and Treasury Manager at British American Tobacco 80 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2017 GOVERNANCE HERNN MENARES ANA MARA GONZALO SNCHEZ FRANCISCO VELOSO FRANCISCO WALTHER RABAGLIATI Vice President Vice President of Sales Vice President of Investor Vice President of Projects of Operations Relations Vice President of Human Joined the Group in 1996 Joined the Group in 2007 Resources P P Civil engineer with over Mining engineer with over 25 years experience in 25 years experience in Joined the Group in 2008 Joined the Group in 1993 marketing and hedging mining operations and Mining engineer and Lawyer with over Joined the Group in 2013 metals.
engineering for open pit mineral economist, with 25 years experience Human resources and underground mines.
30 years experience with Antofagasta Minerals, specialist with more than Previous roles in mining.
including oversight of 25 years experience in Previous roles Deputy Commercial critical phases of international companies Director, Antofagasta Project Director Previous roles development at Los across a range of Minerals of Reko Diq Pelambres.
Project Development industries, including Copper sales at Codelco Manager for the financial services, Director of Codelcos Previous roles Centinela District industrials and oil and gas.
Chuquicamata Vice President of underground mine Operating and business Previous roles Corporate Affairs and project planning roles at Sustainability at Corporate Human Codelco Head of engineering for Antofagasta Minerals Resources Manager Various positions at Codelcos Mansa Mina at Masisa Vice President of Legal Compaa Minera del now Ministro Hales and Corporate Affairs Country Human Pacfico and Compaa project at Antofagasta Minerals Resources Vice Minera Huasco SA President at Citigroup Vice President of Human Resources at Human Resources Antofagasta Minerals Manager of the Lafarge Group in Chile General Counsel at Los Pelambres Various positions at Shell, including Human Legal Manager at VTR Resources Manager of Chief lawyer at Michilla the Lubricants Business of Shell Oil Latin America Key to Committees Operating Performance Review Committee Business Development Committee Ethics Committee P Disclosure Committee Project Steering Committees antofagasta.
