AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Carefully monitoring reporting and transition Changes to the composition of the Audit Committee are set out inthe Corporate governance report.
Main activities of the Committee During the period, and through to the finalisation of the report and The Committees focus this accounts for the year to 31 December 2017, the main activities and principal issues considered by the Audit Committee were as follows: year hasbeen on ensuring FRC review of the Vecturas Report and Accounts thatthe Groups half year and to31December2016 annual financial statements In October 2017, Vectura received a query from the UK Financial Reporting Council FRC concerning the following matters arising from for2017 are fair, balanced and the FRCs review of the December 2016 Report and Accounts R&A : understandable, the impact 1.
Presentation of the IFRS loss within the Strategic report and ofnew accounting standards compliance surrounding the usage of non-GAAP alternative performance measures APMs with the European Securities as well as the audit tender andMarkets Authority ESMA guidelines.
Accounting for merger-related transaction costs and cash flows, specifically the recognition of stamp duty payable on the share successful and smooth for share exchange within equity and the presentation of transition to KPMG LLP.
acquisition-related costs as investing activities in the cash flow.
Neil Warner The Committee reviewed all correspondence between Vectura and the FRC.
In respect of item 1, Vectura clarified that as a result of the scale andmid-year timing of the Skyepharma merger and shortened nine-month accounting period in 2016, explaining the performance ofthe Group through the usual comparison of reported GAAP numbers did not provide sufficient, meaningful information to a user of the accounts.
This item has been closed with Vectura committed to a providing an explanation of the IFRS loss earlier in the strategic report and b continuing to monitor and improve disclosures on APMs against emerging best practice.
In respect of item 2, the FRC agreed with the undertaking to restate the Consolidated cash flow statement for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016.
The adjustments are explained in note 30 tothe Consolidated Financial Statements.
Regarding the stamp duty recorded in equity, The FRC agreed notto take further action in view of the fact that the amount is notmaterial.
In their communication with the Group, the FRC also highlighted key themes for 2017 2018 reporting and made specific observations where the Group should consider improvements to its future reporting.
The Committee reviewed and agreed with the proposed changes in respect of these themes and observations.
The FRCs enquiries regarding the above matters are now complete.
The FRCs review is limited to the published 2016 Annual Report and Accounts: it does not benefit from a detailed understanding ofunderlying transactions and provides no assurance that the report and accounts are correct in all material respects.
GOVERNANCE Review of critical areas of accounting judgement and estimates Critical estimate actuarial assumptions on Swiss pension The Committee reviewed the following matters of judgement and benefits: the Committee reviewed and agreed with the actuarial estimates considered critical to the reported amounts of assets, assumptions used by management having received advice from liabilities, revenues and expenses.
These included but were not a local pension expert.
limited to: Critical estimate impairment of parent companys investments Critical estimate intangibles impairment: the Committee reviewed in subsidiary undertakings: the assets of the parent company managements assessment of the indicators of impairment for include the investments in Germany from the Activaero acquisition the Groups intangible assets.
Where impairment indicators had in 2014 and Switzerland and the US from the Skyepharma merger been identified, the Committee concurred that the key assumptions in 2016.
As these investments are not amortised, their carrying used to assess their recoverable amounts were appropriate.
values are at risk of impairment.
Although no impairment has Theimpairment of the VR2076 intangible asset resulting from the been identified, the Committee noted that any significant diminution decision by Mundipharma to cease development was noted as in expected value from these recent investments would result in well as the acceleration of amortisation of the VR876 intangible impairment.
In particular, the Committee observed that the carrying to fully write down the asset following receipt of the launch value of the investment in Germany is sensitive to the outcome milestone in April 2017.
The Committee also reviewed the sensitivity of the VR475 FAVOLIR Phase III study and VR647 SCIPE Phase II analyses to the impairment tests and the associated disclosures study scheduled for completion in the second half of 2018. provided in note 16, noting that the carrying value of the flutiform intangible was particularly sensitive to impairment.
Review of goodwill for impairment The key assumptions used to support the carrying value of goodwill Critical judgement revenue recognition: significant judgement for each of the Groups cash generating units CGUs was challenged can be required to determine the appropriate period in which to by the Committee noting that headroom had decreased for all cash recognise milestone revenues.
In the current period, the recognition generating units versus the prior year.
The reason for this reduction of milestone revenues was not considered contentious and the in headroom for the UK CGU was largely the result of the delay in Committee concurred that revenue recognised in the period is approval for VR315 US for the single CGU for the UK and Germany appropriate.
The Committee noted that accrued royalty income and headroom for the Swiss CGU was impacted by the decision at the balance sheet date had been adjusted for material differences byMundipharma to cease development of VR2076 and lower to partner royalty statements received post 31 December.
No aforecast contribution from flutiform.
The Committee agreed matters were brought to the attention of the Committee relating withthe conclusion that no impairment was required.
to the completeness of flutiform product supply sales in 2017.
New accounting standards Critical estimate useful economic lives of intangible assets: the The Committee reviewed managements assessment of the impact Committee considered the useful economic lives of the Groups ofIFRS 9 Financial Instruments and approved the recommendation on-market intangible assets and concurred with the assessment to early adopt the standard for the Groups 2017 financial statements.
of average patent lives in the applicable territories for each intangible.
The Committee also reviewed the useful economic The project to assess the impact of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers on the Groups contractual arrangements with its lives of the smart nebuliser based technology assets following customers has been substantial and complex.
The Committee the recent change in the Group strategy and agreed with the received regular updates on this project and concurred with the assessments made.
Critical estimate measurement of deferred tax liabilities: In light of the improvement areas highlighted in the FRC Summary of key theCommittee noted that the balances are particularly sensitive developments for 2017 2018 annual reports, the Committee considered to any future tax reform noting that as this has not yet been the disclosures concerning the adoption of IFRS 15, IFRS 9 and IFRS16 enacted, the current rates are reasonable and consistent.
andconcluded that sufficient information is provided to users.
Critical judgement uncertain tax position: the Committee considered external professional advice and managements judgement in respect of uncertainty from utilisation of tax losses claimed in an overseas jurisdiction.
The Committee concurred with the position taken in the tax filings to date and the level ofthe provision held in the Consolidated balance sheet.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Vectura Group plc 81 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Fair, balanced and understandable assessment Independence and non-audit services performed The Committee noted the challenge in providing an understandable by the external auditor assessment of performance in 2017 due to the distortions in the For the audit of the twelve-month period, the non-audit services comparative 2016 period comprising the merger, the change in performed by KPMG related to the review of the Groups Interim accounting reference date plus two material royalty streams ceasing Financial Report and the provision of liquidation services fora in 2016.
This was added to by the matter raised by the FRC above number of dormant entities as part of a project to streamline and the need to improve compliance with the ESMA guidelines.
theGroups corporate structure post the Skyepharma merger.
Alongside input from the Groups brokers, the Committee agreed TheCommittee assessed the threats to KPMGs independence with the need to provide proforma information for 2016 as well as fromproviding these services and the safeguards applied to other APMs to assist users in understanding 2017 performance.
In addition to the annual reporting being understandable, the KPMGs fees for non-audit services equated to 20%of the fees Committee considered the annual report to be fair and balanced.
earned in respect of its audit work in 2017.
The Committee has The report acknowledges the challenges from the delay in approval considered the level of non-audit service fees and concurred of VR315 US amongst others as well as the strengths and withKPMG that they did not impact independence.
At both the half year and the full year, KPMG confirmed that itsindependence and objectivity have been maintained.
Going concern and viability The Audit Committee reviewed managements assessment of going Committee evaluation concern and viability provided in the Risk management and internal Following last years evaluation carried out by an external party, control section of this report.
Specifically, the Committee considered Independent Audit Limited IAL, an internal review of the Board and that the three-year viability period and stress tests applied to itsCommittees has been carried out in 2017 using questionnaires.
The results from this exercise demonstrate that the Committee is Audit tender working well.
As highlighted in the Corporate Governance report, an audit tender process was initiated by the Committee at the start of 2017.
The process was mandatory due to the incumbent reaching the ten Neil Warner year limit.
This was a significant undertaking for the Committee, Audit Committee Chairman supported by management, and concluded with the appointment 20 March 2018 of KPMG LLP.
A number of firms were approached to tender for the audit including some firms outside the Big Four.
The criteria for the firms approached was based upon their experience, pharmaceutical expertise, their ability to perform the audit to a high standard and any pre-existing business relationships that might affect their independence.
Six firms were approached and three were shortlisted.
Each was given access to Directors and Management, including meetings with the Executive Directors, relevant members of the Executive Leadership and Finance Teams, before presenting to the Audit Committee, Chief Financial Officer and Group Financial Controller.
Two firms were recommended by the Committee to the Board for consideration with KPMG LLP proposed as the preferred firm based on the results of the tender.
The Board and subsequently shareholders at the May2017 AGM, approved the appointment of KPMG LLP.
Following their appointment, the Committee has monitored the progress of KPMG against their transition plan and reviewed their proposed audit strategy and approach including their identification of significant risks and their determination of materiality.
82 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 GOVERNANCE Establishment and terms of reference review, where practicable, information required for other statements Under its terms of reference, the Audit Committee is constituted where financial information is provided, such as a release of price byat least three independent Non-Executive Directors.
Its role and sensitive information, prior to Board review.
responsibilities are contained in the terms of reference, which are Internal control and risk management systems available on the Vectura website, www.
Whilst overall responsibility for risk management and internal Membership, skills, experience and training controls systems resides with the Board, the Committee reviews Members of the Committee are determined by the Board, on the theGroups principal risks and internal financial controls, including recommendation of the Nomination Committee, in consultation with the systems for identifying, assessing, managing and monitoring the Audit Committee Chairman.
When determining membership, the financial risks.
Management retains responsibility for day-to-day individuals financial skills and experience and knowledge of the sector oversight of the risk management and internal controls and provides are of importance.
The individual must bring independent thought and the Committee with reports on the effectiveness of the systems.
As such, their previous roles and qualifications will Internal audit have a bearing on their appointment to the Committee, together with Considering the Groups scale, diversity, complexity, risk profile and the existing members, so that at least one member has recent and controls within the Finance function, the Committee and Board do relevant financial experience and that, as a whole, the Committee has not believe that a separate internal audit function is required at this sufficient competence in the pharmaceutical sector that the Group time.
This remains under review and the Committee will report on operates in.
Sufficient information to enable the Committee to this again to shareholders in the next Annual Report.
discharge its responsibilities is made available from management and the Committee has access to the Company Secretary and to employees External audit more widely if there are any matters for which the Committee requires The Committee has primary responsibility for the appointment, further information.
Committee members are provided with a tailored reappointment or removal of the external auditor.
This includes induction and receive updates on emerging financial and determining the fee and scope of the audit and leading the tender audit-relatedissues.
The Committee reviews and assesses the auditor annually including its effectiveness when proposing to the Board whether Meetings shareholders should be requested to reappoint it.
Meetings are held around the primary financial reporting periods andduring the course of the year.
Papers are provided typically The terms of engagement and fees of the external auditor oneweek before the meeting to Committee members.
The Chairman determined by the Committee are reviewed and agreed prior to the of the Committee may hold pre-meetings to discuss matters with start of the audit process.
The scope and fee levels are considered, management and the external auditor as appropriate.
Where possible so that an appropriate, effective audit can be carried out at the fee there is sufficient time between the Audit Committee meeting and level proposed.
The Committee reviews the plans in place for the the Board meeting in order for matters to be considered and any annual audit including the work plan and resources including further work carried out.
The Committee has authority from the seniority and expertise of the audit team.
The effectiveness of the Board to seek independent advice if it wishes.
annual audit is assessed by the Committee including the quality of the audit, taking into account, for example, its quality control and Relationship with the Board the contribution of the auditor in relation to key judgements.
The Committee Chairman provides a verbal update to the Board following the Committee meetings.
Any recommendations or further Independence, including non-audit services work required on major issues is reported in order to keep the Board The independence and objectivity of the auditor is reviewed by the apprised of matters within the Committees remit.
If there is a Committee, taking into consideration relevant laws and standards.
disagreement between the Committee and the Board, the Committee Any threats to independence, and appropriateness of safeguards, can report that to shareholders in this Audit Committee report.
The level of non-audit fees compared to audit fees is kept under review.
The Committee agrees with the Annual Reports and periodic reports Board the Groups policy in relation to the provision of non-audit The Committee reviews and reports to the Board on significant services by the auditor, taking into account the relevant standard financial reporting issues and judgements made in connection and legal requirements and keeping such policy under review.
withthe preparation of the financial statements, Interim Reports preliminary announcements and related formal statements.
The Committee is responsible for approving non-audit services TheCommittee considers significant accounting policies and any withthe objective that the provision of such services does not changes to them and whether the Group has adopted appropriate impair the auditors independence or objectivity.
In doing so it accounting policies and, where necessary, the Group has made considers various factors relating to whether it is appropriate for appropriate estimates and judgements.
the auditor to provide such service, including that the auditors skills and experience make it the most suitable supplier.
The Committee reviews the Report and Accounts and the related information presented with the financial statements including the Communication with shareholders Strategic report and Corporate governance statement relating to The Committee is keen to provide shareholders with the information theaudit and risk management.
It advises the Board on whether required for them to understand the process that the Committee itconsiders that the Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, has been through to achieve effective oversight of the financial balanced and understandable and that the non-financial information reporting and internal controls for the Group.
It is intended that provided is consistent with the financial statements.
The Committee theChair of the Committee will attend the AGM in order to meet also reviews and recommends to the Board the disclosures in the with and answer questions from shareholders relating to the Report and Accounts relating to internal control, risk management, Committees activities and matters within the Committees remit.
going concern and viability statements.
The Committee would also Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Vectura Group plc 83
