STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE Antofagasta believes in developing Antofagastas risk management and compliance function is effective, accountable and transparent responsible for the corporate compliance programme that is overseen institutions.
To this end, it has established by the Boards Audit and Risk Committee.
guidelines and internal regulations that set Group suppliers are required to provide specific information including their safety, anti-corruption, antitrust, modern slaveryand out the Groups commitment to conduct its other procedures.
Further information can be found in the Risk Management section on page 18 Antofagasta wants to be known for having honest and transparent business practices that respect human rights and the law.
HUMAN RIGHTS In April 2017, Antofagastas Board approved a new Sustainability Antofagasta respects and supports human rights by: Policy completely updating its previous one from 2008. providing high safety and health standards, fair wages and good BOARD INVOLVEMENT labour relations Antofagastas Board is supported by five committees including a preventing discrimination, harassment and bullying Sustainability and Stakeholder Management Committee that met eight complying with the UK Modern Slavery Act times in 2017.
The Vice President of Corporate Affairs and Sustainability providing good-quality accommodation, services and facilities and oversees the Groups safety, environmental, communications and public opportunities for training and development affairs, and the mining operations and the transport division each have safety and health, and environmental managers.
preventing corruption and malpractice preventing or mitigating adverse environmental and social impacts Sustainability targets, related to safety, organisational capabilities, community relations and environmental compliance account for 25% respecting communities rights, culture and heritage of the Groups annual performance goals and impact the bonuses engaging in dialogue throughout the mining lifecycle from of every employee.
exploration to closure Further information on the Board and its Sustainability and responding to grievances Stakeholder Management Committee can be found on pages 96 to 97. supporting community development.
BUSINESS INTEGRITY In 2017 the Group adopted a Diversity and Inclusion Strategy The Groups Code of Ethics guidelines are mandatory for the to provide female employees with more career opportunities and Directors, executives, employees and contractors.
Its Crime to become a more inclusive employer while fostering diversity.
Prevention Handbook describes conflicts of interest and establishes Only the Zaldvar operation needs to engage with an indigenous an anonymous whistleblowing procedure.
In 2017, an internal community who live in Peine, 100 km away from the mine.
Relations communications campaign encouraged employees to use this to with the community are good and are conducted in accordance with clarify doubts and report inappropriate behaviour.
All employees must the provisions of the ILO 169 Covenant, ICMM Guidelines and complete a declaration to prevent potential conflicts of interest and Antofagastas Sustainability Policy.
Contractor companies are also Corporate due diligence of suppliers legal compliance includes key trained in compliance standards and are expected to report human rights issues such as general working conditions, preventing unethical behaviour.
child labour and preventing discrimination, harassment and other Further information on the Groups Code of Ethics and Crime abuses.
These are regularly audited by each company and also Prevention Handbook can be found on page 18. by the corporate centre.
PAYMENTS TO GOVERNMENTS MODERN SLAVERY ACT Antofagasta makes payments to governments relating to activities In compliance with the UKs Modern Slavery Act 2015 the Group involving the exploration, discovery, development and extraction has published a statement setting out the steps taken to ensure of minerals.
In June 2017, the Group published its second report that slavery and human trafficking are not occurring in its supply detailing its mining divisions payments to governments for the chain or in any part of its business.
This statement is available at year ended 31 December 2016.
These payments were primarily www.
taxes paid to the Chilean government, and mineral licence fees.
In 2016 these payments totalled $74.1 million, of which 99.7% were paid in Chile.
The full report is available on the Companys website The Strategic Report has been approved by the Board at www.
and signed on its behalf by: Chilean law allows political donations subject to certain requirements, Jean-Paul Luksic Ollie Oliveira but Antofagasta made no donations in 2017.
However, it often Chairman Senior Independent contributes financing for projects benefiting local communities 12 March 2017 Director in alliance with the local municipalities and the government.
These contributions are regulated by some specific laws and reviewed by the Chilean Internal Revenue Service.
co. uk 65 COMMITTED TO STRONG AND EFFECTIVE GOVERNANCE The Board of Antofagasta plc is responsible for the long-term success of the Group.
The Board has established strong and effective governance structures which clearly define roles and responsibilities and promote constructive challenge.
GOVERNANCE Governance at a glance 68 Board effectiveness reviews 88 Leadership Professional development 89 Chairmans introduction 70 Audit and Risk Committee report 90 Senior Independent Directors 72 Sustainability and Stakeholder 96 introduction Management Committee report Group governance overview 74 Stakeholder engagement 98 Projects Committee report 100 Directors biographies 76 Remuneration Board balance and skills 78 Remuneration and Talent 102 Roles in the Boardroom 79 Management Committee report Executive Committee 80 Committee Chairmans 103 members biographies introduction Effectiveness Remuneration at a glance 105 Board activities 82 2017 Directors 106 Board and Committee 83 Remuneration Report information flows 2017 Executive 109 Accountability Remuneration Report Introduction to the Committees 84 Summary of 2017 Directors 118 Remuneration Policy Nomination and Governance 86 Relations with shareholders 121 Committee report Directors Report 123 Statement of Directors 125 Responsibilities
