BOARD OF DIRECTORS CONTINUED Appointment to the Board and New Oncology AG.
Beside his business responsibilities he has Thomas Werner Thomas Werner was appointed to the Board of Skyepharma as a previously served for many years on the board of trustees of the Non-Executive Director non-executive director in May 2009 and joined the Board of Vectura PaulEhrlich Foundation and the Robert Koch Foundation and was following the merger in June 2016. a director of the American Chamber of Commerce in Germany R A N representing healthcare companies.
Experience and expertise He holds a degree in chemistry from the University of Gttingen.
Current external appointments Thomas is chairman of Fertin Pharma, a Danish medicated chewing Thomas Werner has over 30 years of experience in the pharmaceutical gum company, and sits on the boards of Basilea Pharmaceutica industry, previously as senior vice president of GlaxoSmithKline, where Ltd.
He is chairman of the investment advisory committee ofthe he was managing director for Germany and also co-ordinated its Seventure France Health for Life capital investment fund.
He stood European oncology business.
Prior to that, he was responsible for down asadirector of BSN Medical following the sale of the company Glaxo Wellcome Germany and Central Europe, Bristol-Myers Squibb inApril2017.
Germany and ConvaTec Germany Central Europe.
He has held variousnon-executive positions including Riemser Pharma GmbH EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP TEAM Appointment Experience and expertise John Murphy John Murphy joined Skyepharma as general counsel in March 2006 John is a lawyer with extensive experience in legal and company secretarial General Counsel and and was appointed as General Counsel and Company Secretary of roles in listed pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies including Company Secretary Vectura in June 2016 following the merger.
Medeva PLC, Celltech Group PLC and Pharmagene PLC.
He is chairman of the BIA Intellectual Property Advisory Committee and a member of the EuropaBio Intellectual Property Working Group.
He holds a BSc in aeronautical engineering from Bristol University and is a qualified solicitor.
Appointment Experience and expertise Geraldine Venthoye Dr Geraldine Venthoye joined Vectura in June 2016 upon completion Geraldine is a UK registered pharmacist and holds a doctorate degree Executive Vice President of the merger with Skyepharma PLC, where she had been executive in pharmaceutics from the University of London.
Pharmaceutical Development vice president pharmaceutical development since 2013, having joined Geraldine held senior CMC leadership and scientific roles in Inhale Nektar Skyepharma as head of inhalation business unit in September 2003.
Therapeutics, San Carlos, California, US, and, prior to this in the UK, held scientific positions in inhalation drug delivery at Vandsons Research and Norton Healthcare.
Appointment At Critical Therapeutics, he was responsible for the build-out of the Roger Heerman Roger Heerman joined Vectura in 2010 and was appointed to the commercial infrastructure and the launch of ZYFLO CR in the US.
Executive Vice President Executive Leadership Team in 2013.
AtMcK Healthcare, Roger supported the launch and repositioning Commercial and Business efforts of numerous US and global brands, including UCBs Neupro for Development Experience and expertise Parkinsons disease and IROKOs Aggrastat for acute coronary syndrome.
Prior to joining Vectura, Roger gained extensive US and international commercialisation experience in a number of senior roles, including Roger began his career in the pharmaceutical industry as a sales vice president sales and marketing of the US publicly held company representative in the respiratory division at GlaxoSmithKline.
Critical Therapeutics, Inc. and vice president, director of client service Hereceived his BS from Babson College and his MBA from the at McK Healthcare.
F. W. OlinSchool of Business at Babson College.
74 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 GOVERNANCE Appointment to the Board Current external appointments Juliet Thompson Juliet Thompson was appointed to the Vectura Board as a NonJuliet sits on the boards of Nexstim plc, a Nasdaq-listed Finnish medical Non-Executive Director Executive Director in December 2017. technology company, Novacyt S. A. a France-based company whose shares are admitted to trade on AIM, and GI Dynamics, Inc. aUS-headquartered, R A Experience and expertise Australian Stock Exchange-listed company.
Shechairs the audit committee Juliet has a BSc in economics and is a chartered accountant.
of each of these three companies.
Julietstepped down as non-executive She has spent over 20 years actively involved in the life sciences sector chairman and director of theBoard of Premier Veterinary Group plc working as an investment banker and strategic advisor to healthcare with effect from 28February 2018. companies in Europe.
She headed up the European healthcare team at Stifel formerly Oriel and prior to this was a founding partner of Code Securities, a healthcare investment banking boutique which wasacquired by Nomura, later forming Nomura Code.
Committee membership: R Remuneration Committee N Nomination Committee A Audit Committee Committee Chairman Appointment Gonzalo trained in internal medicine and rheumatology practising Gonzalo fide Miquel Gonzalo fide Miquel joined Vectura in February 2017. for six years in Barcelona before moving into the pharmaceutical Chief Medical Officer and industry.
Gonzalo has held senior positions including global clinical Executive Vice President Experience and expertise lead for respiratory autoimmunity at Boehringer, working in early Development Gonzalo has highly relevant medical and product development clinical development as well as the late-stage and launch of Spiriva experience ranging from pharmacovigilance and regulatory through in Spain and with Almirall as Global Director of Clinical Development, toearly and late-stage clinical development and medical affairs.
successfully leading its aclidinium franchise development through Priorto joining Vectura, Gonzalo was vice president of clinical toFDA and EMA approvals in 2012 and previously as its Head of development at AstraZeneca with responsibility for the overall GlobalMedical Affairs.
Gonzalo was appointed a non-executive strategy, organisation, resource assignment and project prioritisation Director ofALK-Abello with effect from March 2018. across AstraZenecas respiratory portfolio.
Appointment Experience and expertise David Lescuyer David Lescuyer joined Vectura in June 2016 upon completion David, a French national, holds a BSc in mechanical engineering and Executive Vice President ofthemerger withSkyepharma PLC, where he had been anMBA from HEC Paris.
Oral Business  oralbusiness since April 2016.
David joined Skyepharma from Patheon Pharmaceuticals, where he was executive director and general manager, Patheon France, and more recently global VP, operational excellence.
Prior to Patheon, Davids career included experience with Fareva, Cenexi and Catalent insenior operational and general management roles.
Appointment Experience and expertise Joanne Hombal Joanne Hombal joined Vectura in January 2015.
Joanne has a BSc in psychology from the University of Birmingham Executive Vice President and a postgraduate diploma in human resource management from Human Resources theUniversity of Glamorgan and is a Chartered Member of the Institute of Personnel and Development.
Before joining Vectura, Joanne was vice president HR at Invensys Rail, with responsibility for setting and leading the people strategy for Northern Europe.
She has also held senior HR roles in the financial services and ICT industries and led a number of organisational development and transformation initiatives.
Appointment Anthony joined Vectura from Baxter, where he had worked since 1999, Anthony Fitzpatrick Anthony Fitzpatrick joined Vectura in July 2017. having been responsible for global supply chain and most recently Executive Vice President VP manufacturing and supply chain for EMEA.
This role included Operations Experience and expertise operations with 24 manufacturing sites, production values worth Anthony has a first class BSc in aeronautical engineering from the over $1.5bn, 9,000 employees and capex of over $100m.
His Baxter University of Manchester and an MSc in numerical computation from experience includes operating in both a pharma product environment theUniversity of Manchester Institute of Science and Technology.
and in product device and pure medical device operations.
Prior to working at Baxter he worked in various manufacturing and logistics roles for Ingram Micro IT technology, Exel Logistics, Coopers and Lybrand and Mobil Oil.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Vectura Group plc 75
