CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Introduction from the Chairman Dear Shareholder The Board continues to focus on enhancing the corporate culture of the enlarged Group and is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance, which we believe are integral to the long-term success of Vectura and its purpose of transforming the During the year the Group has lives of airways disease patients.
During the year the Group has continued to develop Vecturas continued to develop Vecturas strategy by strengthening senior management, so that the core values of the Board are communicated strategy by strengthening throughout the Company, and by management being rewarded on senior management, so that the basis of achieving its objectives aligned to this strategy.
Maintaining the development of good governance throughout the Group is a high thecore values of the Board are priority and the Company continues to take advice from leading governance advisors.
Details of our Executives remuneration is communicated throughout the provided in the Directors remuneration report and the following Company, and by management report explains more about how Vecturas corporate governance isembedded in the Company.
being rewarded on the basis of UK Corporate Governance Code achieving its objectives aligned In relation to compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, to this strategy.
the Board considers that it has complied in full with the applicable version 2016.
Further information on areas that the Board Bruno Angelici discussed as part of its determination are set out below.
Chairman Board composition and evaluation The Board acknowledges that some shareholders have raised issues regarding the independence of Frank Condella Vice Chairman and Susan Foden Chair of the Remuneration Committee and SID, based on their respective lengths of service, which in Franks case was on the Boards of Skyepharma and Vectura and in Susans case on the Board of Vectura.
Frank has been a Non-Executive Director since the merger with Skyepharma in 2016 and, prior to that, he was chairman of Skyepharma and including his service at Skyepharma, he has been a Director since 2006.
Sue has been a Non-Executive Director of Vectura since January 2007.
Dr. Thomas Werner also joined the Board as an Independent Non-Executive Director in June 2016 as a result of the merger withSkyepharma and will have completed nine years service in aggregate in May 2018.
Dr. Werner has not served concurrently with any Executive Director for more than six years.
Thomas has over 30 years of Pharmaceutical business experience gained from appointments in a wide range of pharmaceutical companies and investment funds.
The skills and experience, particularly of the European respiratory markets and investment environment, whichThomas brings are of great benefit to the Board.
It continues to be the belief of the other Board members that Frank, Sue and Thomas are fully independent in thought and action in terms of their participation in Board and Committee meetings, and they have the full support of the other Board members in the activities they undertake.
The Company is aware that the proposed revised Corporate Governance Code reflects a more specific view on the maximum nine-year term and this will be taken into account in respect of the Boards composition.
It is, however, difficult with a GOVERNANCE smaller Board to find candidates of suitable expertise to provide Vectura believes in a diverse and gender-balanced workforce foreffective succession planning and the Board feels that more andiscommitted to creating a rewarding and stimulating place to flexibility in this respect is in the best interests of the shareholders.
work and one which embraces diversity throughout all levels of the Following a search in 2017, an additional independent Non-Executive organisation.
At this time the Company is not required to report on Director, Juliet Thompson, was appointed in December to supplement gender pay but a copy of the Groups policy will be available on the the skilland experience of the Board and to work towards ensuring website in future.
successful succession planning for the future.
Internal control and external audit tender We can confirm that Frank stood down from the Audit Committee In relation to the appropriateness of the Companys systems following the 2017 AGM and Dr Thomas Werner was appointed to ofinternal control, the Board, as part of its deliberations, again the Nomination Committee to satisfy the requirement for a majority considered whether there should be a separate internal audit of independent NEDs on that Committee.
In addition, following her function.
The Board considered that, at this time, the financial appointment to the Board, Juliet was appointed as a member of controls and management oversight provided are appropriate both the Audit and Remuneration Committees in December 2017. foracompany of Vecturas size and complexity.
This will continue tobe reviewed annually.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and as advised in last years report, an externally facilitated evaluation was As recommended by the Audit Committee last year it was considered carried out in 2017 by Independent Audit Limited IAL, a company appropriate to tender the provision of the external audit as the which has no other connection with Vectura.
This year a review of existing incumbent had been in the post for ten years.
This process effectiveness was carried out internally using IALs online governance resulted in KPMG LLP being appointed and this appointment was assessment service and questionnaires were completed by all Directors.
approved by shareholders at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
The results were based on self-assessment and, although collated Aresolution to reappoint KPMG as auditor will be put to the 2018 by IAL, were not verified by them.
Annual General Meeting for approval.
Board diversity The Board spent time considering the Groups strategy Juliet Thompsons appointment has taken the Board closer to its goingforward, its development pipeline, projects, markets diversity targets under the Hampton-Alexander Review.
In terms of governance, it her appointment supplements the skills and experience of the alsoreviewed matters reserved to the Board, Market Abuse existing Board.
We are continuing to focus on Board composition Regulation and anti-slavery requirements in order to ensure and succession matters and the Board has retained an external thatthe Company is compliant and also that the governance consultancy, which is actively recruiting a further independent framework is appropriate.
Non-Executive Director to join the Board during the course of the Statement of compliance with the Code 2018.
The parameters of the search include Board diversity and The following sections contain an explanation of how good governance expertise in the US marketplace as two major items.
This individual has been embedded into the larger Vectura Group including the will replace Frank Condella, the only Board member currently with Groups reporting disclosures on corporate governance required this critical in-market US expertise, in due course and following bythe Companies Act 2006, the UK Corporate Governance Code asuitable handover period.
On the assumption that this search available on the FRC website, www.
uk, including how the issuccessful in finding the appropriate candidate, there will then main principles and supporting principles have been applied, and beatotal of ten Board members, three of which will be women.
the UKLAs Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7, including the Even prior to Frank stepping down, this will enable us to meet required statement of compliance.
theHampton-Alexander requirements at Board level.
I am pleased to confirm that the Board considers that it has In terms of the next level of management, our Executive Leadership beenincompliance with the Code throughout the period ended Team, excluding Executive Directors, totalled seven, of which 31December 2017.
It further considers that the Annual Report, therewere two female members and we therefore met the taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides Hampton-Alexander objective.
At the business leadership level, the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys thetotal number was 41, of which 18 were female.
As highlighted position and performance, business model and strategy.
in the Hampton-Alexander Review in November 2017, the Group has already achieved the target female representation at Leadership Team level of 41.9%, resulting in the Group being highlighted in Bruno Angelici thereview as being in the top ten best performers.
Chairman As a Board, our strategy will be to maintain and improve these 20 March 2018 levels so that the objectives of the Hampton-Alexander Review continue to be met and maintained by 2019.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Vectura Group plc 71
