CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Leadership The Board and its processes them to contribute significantly to the work of the Board including Board membership developing strategy and challenging the Executive Management The Board currently comprises two Executive and seven appropriately and constructively.
Juliet Thompson joined the Board The role of the Board asaNon-Executive Director on 1 December 2017.
The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success The Board is supported in its role by the Audit, Nomination and of the Company, its governance and internal controls and is Remuneration Committees, details of which are set out below.
The Board reviews the operational performance of the Group on a regular basis and also exercises The Directors roles and membership of the Committees are set anumber of reserved powers.
The matters reserved for the Board, outin the preceding pages of the Directors biographies.
which were reviewed and updated in the period to ensure that In accordance with the Code, Juliet Thompson will put herself theyare appropriate for the enlarged Company, are available forward for election and all other Directors will put themselves viathe Companys website, www.
forward for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
Board meetings Board balance and independence The Board meets ordinarily between six and eight times a year The Board considers that the balance achieved between Executive andad hoc as required.
In the twelve-months to 31 December 2017, and Non-Executive Directors during the period was appropriate and in addition to seven scheduled formal Board meetings which were effective for the business.
held, there were six ad hoc meetings held by telephone to discuss specific topics.
The Board considers that all of its Non-Executive Directors are independent in character and judgement, and their knowledge, Attendance at formal pre-scheduled Board and Committee diversity of experience and business interests continue to enable meetings is set out in the table below.
Board and Committee meetings Audit Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee meetings meetings meetings meetings Bruno Angelici Non-Executive Chairman 7 7 5 5 5 5 Frank Condella 7 7 5 5 Andrew Derodra 7 7 Trevor Phillips left the Board on 31 May 2017 3 3 James Ward-Lilley 7 7 Per-Olof Andersson 7 7 5 5 5 5 Susan Foden 7 7 5 5 5 5 Neil Warner 7 7 5 5 5 5 Thomas Werner 7 7 5 5 5 5 5 5 Juliet Thompson 1 1 Attendance above is in relation to members of the Board Committees.
Other Directors and Senior Executives may attend by invitation buttheir attendance is not recorded in the table.
At each formal meeting the Board considers reports on the key Executive Leadership Team activities of the Group and reports from the Chairs of the Audit, The Board delegates day-to-day management of the Group to the Nomination and Remuneration Committees as appropriate.
It also Chief Executive and his team.
The Executive Leadership Team ELT received information on important forthcoming events and received supports the Chief Executive and is accountable for delivery of the reports on investor relations, legal affairs and environment and strategy adopted by the Board.
The ELT consisted during the period health and safety matters.
The Board regularly receives papers of the Executive Directors, the General Counsel and Company Secretary, andpresentations from senior management, which gives the Board the Executive Vice President Pharmaceutical Development, the the opportunity to meet Executives below Board level.
In addition, Chief Medical Officer and Executive Vice President Development, there was a two-day Board meeting to focus on strategic the Executive Vice President Oral Business, the Executive Vice development, looking at the Groups longer-term horizon.
President Commercial and Business Development, and Executive Vice President Operations and the Executive Vice President The Non-Executive Directors held meetings without management Human Resources.
Two of the members were women.
In July 2017 present after each Board meeting and, in addition, met in early 2018 for Anthony Fitzpatrick joined the ELT.
aroutine meeting led by the Senior Independent Director to review the performance of the Chairman during the year, including theleadership of Risk the Board and ensuring its effectiveness.
TheChairman, with assistance The Board is responsible for the Groups risk management from the General Counsel andCompany Secretary, is responsible process.
Responsibility for its implementation is delegated to the for the governance arrangements including meeting agendas, timely Chief Executive and ELT members.
The Board outlines the general information flowsand dialogue between Executive and Non-Executive level of risk which is acceptable and has a considered approach Directorsencouraging an open and supportive culture.
76 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 GOVERNANCE toevaluating risk and reward, promoting a risk-aware culture The Chairman and the Board discussed the results of the review throughout the business.
The resulting summary provided suggestions for improving the effectiveness of the Board and these The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks are being reviewed.
These included, for example: providing exposure facing the Group and has also conducted an annual review of the to a wider range of Senior Executives and management outside effectiveness of the systems of internal control during the period.
Board meetings to create enhanced interaction between the Board Risk management and internal control is a continuous process and and management, a better understanding of how technology has been considered by the Board on a regular basis, noting that it drivesstrategy and improvements to response planning.
currently does not consider that a separate internal audit function is required for the business.
The Board as stated will also spend further time on succession planning and diversity of Non-Executive Directors.
The Boards considerations include identifying and evaluating principal risks and the control strategies developed to mitigate these.
The The Board looks forward to developing plans and taking action Board promotes the development of a strong control culture within toimplement and expand on recommendations made by this the business and the Audit Committee regularly reviews the financial review and will further report on developments in the future.
and operational controls, including in relation to the financial Register of conflicts and time commitments reporting process, reporting to the Board as appropriate.
The Board formally considers any potential conflicts between a Further information on the principal risks and the Groups system Director and the Company.
Any situational conflicts must be notified ofrisk management is contained in the Strategic report on pages to the Board for authorisation as and when they arise, notwithstanding 48 to 54. a Directors general duty to avoid such conflicts.
Transactional conflicts must be notified to the Board in person or in writing at Induction and development and information flows thenext meeting, where the Board can decide, in the absence of New Directors receive formal induction training, including site visits the Director concerned, whether or not to authorise such conflict.
and meetings with the Companys advisors, brokers, auditor and Ifsuch conflict is approved, depending on the matter, action would major shareholders, and ongoing training is encouraged and provided be taken: for example, the Director concerned may not receive upon request and as appropriate.
This training is customised for related Board papers, be present in the Board meeting for any each Director and varies depending upon their skills, experience related discussion or participate in any vote on the matters and background.
At no time during the period did any Director hold a Directors also received regular updates on changes and developments material interest in any contract of significance with the Company in the business, legislative and regulatory environments.
During the or any of its subsidiaries, other than service contracts and period, the Board received updates on the Market Abuse Regulation insurance and indemnification arrangements.
and its impact on the Company and requirements for Directors: Prior to finalising an appointment, a new Director is required to the anti-bribery and anti-slavery policies were reviewed by the confirm his existing appointments and discuss the time commitment Board during the period.
Each board pack contains a copy of the required to deal appropriately with the affairs of the Group.
At each Directors statutory duties.
Directors are encouraged to discuss with Board meeting, Directors are requested to inform the Board if there the Chairman any further training requirements which they feel are are any changes in their commitments or other appointments.
This is included in the discussions held during the annual Significant changes in a Directors outside commitments are discussed performance evaluation.
with the Board prior to a Director accepting further appointments.
Good information flows between the Board and management No transactional conflicts arose in the period and no further actions are essential for effective governance together with senior were required following changes in Board members commitments.
management to ensure: that the agendas are appropriate for the business and are forward looking as well as providing historical Policy on other appointments and current results data: that papers are of an appropriate length The Board believes that Directors should be able to accept other and content for the Non-Executive Directors in particular to be appointments where no significant actual or potential conflicts of able to understand and review: and that sufficient time is given interest arise and provided that the Director is able to maintain their for Directors to read and review the papers prior to meetings.
time commitments to the Company.
These other appointments Togive time for such review, papers are typically sent out, usually enable Directors to develop further skills and experience from electronically, one week before the meeting to give an opportunity which the Company benefits, provided that such commitments to clarify any points before the meeting and to prepare questions donot impinge on their duties to the Company.
and observations of the matter at the meeting.
Details of any appointments held by each Director are listed under Board evaluation their biographies on pages 72 to 75.
There are no significant actual In accordance with the Code requirements and following last years or potential conflicts of interest arising from any appointments external evaluation carried out in conjunction with Independent heldby Directors.
Their commitments were reviewed at each AuditLimited IAL, the Board has this year undertaken a review of Boardmeeting.
Although no Executive Director held an external effectiveness with the assistance of IAL, using their online governance non-executive position, this would be considered as part of their assessment service to review the role of the Board and its Committees.
Inaddition, Sue Foden, in her capacity as SID, has conducted a review ofthe Chairmans role by interviewing and discussing his position withthe Non-Executive members of the Board.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Vectura Group plc 77 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Board Committees Relations with shareholders There are three main Committees, all of which operate within Executive Management runs an extensive programme of roadshows written terms of reference.
The terms of reference are available on and ad hoc meetings with both existing and potential new shareholders.
Details of attendance at In 2017, meetings were held in London and France as well as calls Board and Committee meetings in 2017 can be found in the table with potential investors in other countries.
Executive Management on page 76. also presented regularly at investor and industry conferences.
Both the Chairman and Senior Independent Director have held meetings Remuneration Committee with shareholders independently of Executive Directors during the The following were members of the Committee: Susan Foden year and are regularly available for such meetings if requested.
Chair, Bruno Angelici, Neil Warner and Thomas Werner.
The Company holds regular Capital Markets Days with analysts JulietThompson joined the Committee on 20 December 2017. and institutional investors and holds updates post-results.
These The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer may be provide a detailed review of the Groups development pipeline invited to attend Committee meetings, other than when their own as well as an update of the progress of the Groups key growth remuneration is discussed.
No Director is involved in deciding his drivers and strategy.
The Board also receives regular updates from own remuneration.
The General Counsel and Company Secretary its brokers on the views of shareholders about the Company and acted as Secretary of the Committee.
itsmarket to ensure that the Non-Executive Directors in particular The Remuneration Committees full report appears on pages 84 to gain an understanding of the views of major shareholders about 104. the Company.
Audit Committee The Company welcomes dialogue with investors, including retail The following were members of the Audit Committee: Neil Warner investors, for which the AGM is an opportunity to meet with the Chair, Per-Olof Andersson and Thomas Werner.
Juliet Thompson Directors and put questions to the Board.
joined the Committee on 1 December 2017.
Going concern and viability assessment The Committee continued to meet the UK Corporate Governance Vecturas business activities, together with the factors likely to affect Codes requirements that at least one member should have recent and its future development, performance and position, are provided in relevant financial experience and that, as a body, the Committee the Strategic report.
The Strategic report also describes the Groups has sufficient experience relevant to the pharmaceutical business financial position, cash flows and borrowing facilities, with further sector.
Mr Warner is considered as having recent and relevant information provided in the financial statements.
The Directors financial experience being a chartered accountant and a current consider that, having reviewed current performance and forecasts and past chairman of other listed company audit committees and for the Group, they have a reasonable expectation that the Group has previously been finance director of a listed company.
has adequate resources to continue its operations for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly Vectura continues to adopt the going concern In order to facilitate good information flows and provide challenge basis in preparing the financial statements.
where appropriate, the Committee invited the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the General Counsel and Company Secretary, In relation to the Companys viability, the Directors have examined the Group Financial Controller and senior representatives of the the prospects of the Company and the Group and consider that, external auditor to attend.
The Committee held regular discussions in accordance with the Code, a three-year assessment period is with the external auditor independently of Group management.
appropriate being significantly longer than twelve-months but The General Counsel and Company Secretary acted as Secretary providing some certainty.
In considering the appropriate time period, tothe Committee.
the Audit Committee and Board took into account the risks facing theGroup, its forecasting period and business plans.
The Audit Committees report including a review of its activities inthe period is on pages 80 to 83.
Further information and the Companys full Statement of viability andgoing concern is contained on page 55.
Nomination Committee The following were members of the Committee: Bruno Angelici Chair, Per-Olof Andersson, Frank Condella, Susan Foden and Thomas Werner.
The General Counsel and Company Secretary actedas Secretary to the Committee.
Its work and activities are further described in its report on page 79.
78 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
