STRATEGIC REPORT INPUTS KEY RELATIONSHIPS The Groups business model is underpinned by relationships with stakeholders at local, regional, national and international levels.
Successful management of these relationships contributes to the long-term success of the Group.
CUSTOMERS Most copper and molybdenum sales are made under annual contracts or using longer-term framework agreements, with sales volumes agreed for the coming year.
Gold is contained in the copper concentrates and therefore is part of copper concentrates sales.
The majority of sales are to industrial customers who refine or further process the copper smelters, in the case of copper concentrate production, and copper fabricators in the case of cathode production.
The Groups marketing team builds long-term relationships with these core customers while ensuring customer diversification.
The Group also maintains relationships with trading companies that participate in shorter-term sales agreements, or in the spot market.
Over 80% of the Groups mining sales are under contracts of a year or longer and metals sales pricing is generally based on prevailing market prices.
STRUCTURE OF SALES CONTRACTS Typically, the Groups sales contracts set out the annual volumes as further refinement of copper in concentrate is needed to produce to besupplied and the main terms for the sale of each payable metal, copper metal for sale.
Molybdenum sales generally remain open for with the pricing of the contained copper in line with LME prices.
two or three months from shipment.
In the case of concentrate, a deduction is made from LME prices to SUPPLIERS reflect TC RCs the smelting and refining costs necessary to process Suppliers play a critical role in the Groups ability to operate safely the concentrate into copper cathodes.
These TC RCs are typically and efficiently, providing a large range of products and services from determined annually in line with market developments and the parties grinding media to catering at the mine sites.
assesments of the copper concentrate market at the time of the negotiation of the terms.
The Group works with over 3,000 suppliers, focusing on the top suppliers in each category to ensure the most cost-effective and In the case of copper cathodes transactions a premium, or in some efficient solutions across all operations.
A centralised corporate cases a discount, on the LME price is negotiated to reflect differences procurement team defines and consolidates common procurement in quality, logistics and financing compared with the metal exchanges practices and procedures, with separate targets and procurement standard copper contract specifications.
practices for strategic goods and transactional purchases.
Similarly, the Groups molybdenum contracts are made under The teams have increased their expertise in each cost-relevant long-term framework agreements, with pricing usually based product category, reducing the number of suppliers in order to extract on Platts average prices.
greater benefits from selected suppliers over a long period of time.
Across the industry, neither copper producers nor consumers tend One example is the consolidation and integration of all logistics for the to make annual commitments for 100% of their respective production mining operations within two centres in Chile under a single logistics or needs, and producers normally retain a portion to be sold on the operator.
This allows greater control of goods in the supply chain as spot market throughout the year.
the Group moves towards a just in time delivery model.
The Group has also begun managing return trips of goods leaving the operations, The prices realised by the Group during a specific period will differ in order to significantly reduce the number of trucks needed and from the average market price for that period.
This is because, improve cost and environmental efficiency.
in line with industry practice, sales agreements generally provide for provisional pricing at the time of shipment, with final pricing Since 2016 the Group has been operating a Group-wide contract based on the average market price for the month in which settlement administration model that measures performance, costs and takes place.
Currently, the 80 largest service contracts are managed using this model.
In 2017 they accounted for For copper concentrate, sales remain open until settlement occurs, over 70% of the cost of service at the operations and over 6,000 on average four months from the shipment date.
The intention is to reinforce this management the gold and silver content in copper concentrate sales occurs framework further during 2018. approximately one month from shipment.
Copper cathode sales remain open for an average of one month from shipment.
Settlement for copper in concentrate sales is later than for copper cathode sales, antofagasta.
co. uk 31 OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED KEY RELATIONSHIPS CONTINUED The Group encourages suppliers to raise any issues or concerns they may have about their relationship with the Company, their contracts or the workforce.
A separate complaints procedure ensures that all contracts are awarded in a fair and transparent manner.
All suppliers are audited before a contract is awarded and periodically thereafter to ensure compliance with applicable labour and other legislation, as well as the Groups strict safety and health and other policies.
The Group also monitors suppliers financial health and requires bank guarantees when deemed necessary.
See page 18 for more information EMPLOYEES The Group employs approximately 6,200 people, working alongside approximately on average 15,000 contractors at its corporate offices, LOCAL COMMUNITIES operations and projects including 100% at Zaldvar.
Mining It is crucial to have strong relationships with local communities in operations are inherently risky and ensuring the safety and health the areas where the Group operates, because without mutual trust, of every employee is not only an absolute priority, but an ethical co-operation and understanding it is not possible to run a obligation central to the Groups strategic objectives.
The Group has created a variety of initiatives over the past few years Having clear social policies and regular contact with community to secure and develop talent, and to increase diversity within the members helps to identify potential conflicts and maintains the organisation.
In particular, efforts are being made to increase the Groups social licence to operate.
During 2014 the Group pioneered number of women working in the Group and to attract young a new community engagement model called Somos Choapa We Are professionals into the mining industry.
Choapa, after the region in which Los Pelambres and its communities Relationships with unions are based on mutual respect and are located.
In 2015, Los Pelambres signed a framework agreement transparency.
This helps the Group to retain employees and avoid with three municipalities under the initiative, and has begun assessing labour disputes, contributing to greater productivity and business a portfolio of projects for sustainable development in the region.
During 2017, the Group renewed labour agreements with During 2016, the Group resolved long-standing legal issues with the employees and supervisors at Centinela and Zaldvar.
In the Chilean Caimanes community, mainly related to the Mauro tailings dam, by mining industry labour agreements are negotiated with each union for engaging in open dialogue with the community, prioritising their needs a maximum of three years and the Groups next negotiations are and clarifying the Companys commitments.
The dialogue was scheduled for 2020. monitored by the Chilean chapter of Transparency International to ensure the openness and fairness of the process.
See page 58 for more information See page 60 for more information CONTRACTORS The number of contractors working for Antofagasta varies according GOVERNMENT RELATIONS to business needs and the level of construction activity.
Political developments and changes to legislation or regulations At the end of 2017 there were approximately 13,700 contractors in Chile, the UK, or other countries where the Group has operations, working at the Groups operations and projects including 100% development projects or exploration activities, can affect the at Zaldvar.
This was some 6% lower than the same time in 2016, Groups business.
principally due to the completion of the Encuentro Oxides project.
The Group monitors new and proposed legislation in order to Contractors are essential to mining operations and the Group aims anticipate, mitigate or reduce possible effects and ensure it complies to build long-term relationships with contractor companies based with all legal and regulatory obligations.
It works with industry bodies on the highest standards.
Safety and health targets are included to engage with governments on public policy, laws, regulations and in performance agreements and compliance with safety and human procedures that may affect its business, including such issues as rights laws, labour regulations and the Groups own safety and health climate change and energy security.
standards is assessed regularly using internal and external audits.
The Group assesses political risk when evaluating potential projects, Contractors have access to the same mine camp facilities as the including existing foreign investment agreements.
It also utilises Groups own employees and the Group requires that all contractor internal and external legal expertise to ensure its rights are protected.
employees must be paid at least 50% above the minimum wage required by Chilean law.
OTHER LOCAL STAKEHOLDERS Good relationships with other stakeholders situated near the Groups See page 58 for more information operations and projects, such as local authorities, local media and others, are fundamental to the smooth operation and future growth of the business.
Each of the Groups operations has a manager who oversees these relationships.
