54 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2017 AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE REPORT ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE The Committees responsibilities have not changed since last years report.
Scrutinise the integrity of the Group and Company financial statements, preliminary announcements, trading updates and other statements on financial performance and prospects, prior to their publication: 2. Review the content of the annual and interim report and accounts and advise the Board on whether, as a whole, they are fair, balanced and understandable, and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group and Companys financial affairs, business model and strategy: 3.
Monitor the efcacy of the Groups internal financial and operational controls, including compliance with FCA requirements, insurance cover, data protection and cyber security, business continuity and disaster recovery plans: 4.
Monitor and assess the work and matters arising from the Internal Audit function: 5.
Consider and recommend to the Board the appointment, reappointment, resignation or removal of the Groups external auditor, subject to approval of the Companys shareholders at the AGM: 6.
Negotiate and agree on behalf of the Board the external auditors remuneration, including fees for any non-audit services performed: 7.
Assess the external auditors independence and objectivity, the overall effectiveness of the external audit process and the quality of work delivered, including scrutiny and approval of any non-audit services: 8.
Advise the Board on the Groups overall risk appetite and tolerance and monitor the conuence of risks affecting the Groups markets and investments: 9. Review the results of regular stress testing of the Groups major financial exposures: 10.
Advise the Board on any proposed strategic transactions, such as acquisitions and disposals of recourse business entities: and 11.
Advise the Remuneration Committee on any risk weightings applied to the performance objectives of Executive Directors, wider management and staff.
COMPOSITION OF THE COMMITTEE There were no changes to the membership of the Committee during the year.
It continues to comprise the following independent non-executive directors: Toby Hiscock Chair Jeremy Beeton David Rough The Committee Chair is deemed to have up to date relevant financial experience and competence in accounting matters.
The Committee as a whole has extensive experience in the sector in which the Company operates, investing in international infrastructure.
Further details of the qualications and experience of Committee members are given on page 47 of this Annual Report.
COMMITTEE MEETINGS The Committee met six times during the year, including twice on the interim report and accounts prior to their publication, to assess inter-alia a settlement agreement reached with the Greater Manchester Waste Disposal Authority GMWDA in respect of the Groups investment in Manchester Waste VL Co and its impact on the half-year portfolio valuation see page 25.
The Group Finance Director and other management representatives attend Committee meetings together with the Head of Internal Audit and the external auditor.
In addition, both the internal and external auditors met privately with the Committee during the year, without management present.
The Committee Chair attends the Companys AGM and is prepared to answer any questions from shareholders on matters falling within the Committees responsibilities.
John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2017 55 SIGNIFICANT MATTERS CONSIDERED BY THE COMMITTEE IN THE 2017 GROUP AND COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
Investment portfolio valuation The valuation of the Groups investment portfolio is at the core of its financial reporting and the Committee has a particular duty to ensure it is comprehensively reported in a fair, balanced and understandable way.
A full valuation of the Groups investments is prepared every six months, at 30 June and 31 December each year, with a review at 31 March and 30 September each year, using a discounted cash ow methodology.
The valuation assumes that investments and their related cash ows are held until maturity.
Changes in the fair value of investments are recognised in the Group Income Statement in net gains on investments at fair value through profit or loss.
In preparing the valuation, the key assumptions made by management include: i forecast cash ows accruing to each investment: ii macro economic factors affecting forecast cash ows, including estimates of long-term ination, interest, currency and taxation rates, energy yield and future power prices: and iii discount factors applied to each investment to reect market and operational risks.
The valuation of investments is sensitive to changes in these assumptions and, in order to aid shareholders, the key sensitivities are illustrated in the Portfolio Valuation section on pages 24 to 28 of this Annual Report.
During the year the Committee reviewed and challenged the valuations and disclosures prepared by management as well as the work performed by the Groups independent valuer, a professionally qualied third party, and the procedures carried out by the external auditor.
At the half year, there was a particular focus on the Groups investment in Manchester Waste VL Co following a settlement agreement reached with the GMWDA in the period.
Furthermore, the Committee has reviewed the discount rate ranges between primary and secondary assets by inspection of market evidence and cross-examination of subject-matter experts, to ensure trends are properly reected in the Groups portfolio valuation.
It has also observed the downward trend in power price forecasts produced by independent third parties and challenged the valuation of the Groups renewable energy assets accordingly.
We are satisfied that the Groups investment portfolio as a whole is reected in the 2017 accounts at its prevailing fair value.
Retirement benefit obligations The net deficit in the Groups two dened benefit and post-retirement medical schemes has been reected in the Group Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2017 in accordance with IAS 19.
During the year the Group agreed to a request by the scheme trustee to enhance pension commutation factors, thus increasing scheme liabilities.
This was offset by a reduction in longevity expectations, as predicated in latest published actuarial tables.
The deficit is sensitive to movements in future price ination, discount rates and life expectancy and can, therefore, be volatile.
To assist shareholders, the key sensitivities have been included in note 19 of the Group financial statements on page 109 of this Annual Report.
The IAS 19 deficit calculation is prepared by the Company with input from the Groups actuarial adviser.
Following a detailed review and challenge of the underlying assumptions, in addition to assessing the procedures performed by the external auditor, the Committee is satisfied that the net deficit shown as at 31 December 2017 is properly disclosed and fairly reects the Groups retirement benefit obligations at that date as prescribed by IAS 19.
Furthermore, the Committee is satisfied that, based on legal advice, there is no minimum funding requirement and consequently no additional pension liability arising under IFRIC 14.
Principal risks and uncertainties The Committee received various presentations and reports from management during the year on inter alia bidding activities, portfolio management, major financial exposures and related provisions, and taxation risks.
We looked at: markets: business growth: organisational risks: the aggregated exposures to contractors that the Group partners with: and topics raised by subject matter experts, for example on taxation strategy, risk management and cyber security.
During the period a statement of the Groups taxation strategy was recommended by the Committee to the Board for approval and published in accordance with the Finance Act 2016.
In addition we reviewed and approved an anti-evasion policy on taxation as required by the Criminal Finances Act 2017.
A risk assurance map has been created for the Group and will be monitored and updated by the Committee at regular intervals.
Following discussions with management, we are pleased to report the appointment of Mark Westbrook as Chief Risk officer with effect from January 2018.
Mark has been appointed to the Executive Committee in his new role see page 52.
He is a senior and seasoned member of the management team and will attend meetings of the Committee going forward and provide executive support to it in relation to its responsibilities for monitoring risks.
Mark will also take over the chair of the Management Risk Committee from the Group Finance Director.
Whilst we cannot give absolute assurance that the Groups internal control system is operating effectively, we are satisfied that overall the control and compliance culture of the Group is strong and its risk base is well diversied, which helps to provide reasonable assurance that these financial statements are free from material error and or misstatement.
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED 56 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2017 SIGNIFICANT MATTERS CONSIDERED BY THE COMMITTEE IN THE 2017 GROUP AND COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 4.
Financial Reporting Council FRC review of 2016 Annual Report and Accounts and key developments for 2017 18 As part of its normal cycle of work, the Conduct Committee of the FRC conducted a limited review of the Groups 2016 Annual Report and Accounts during the year and commented on the following main areas: i determination of the Groups investment entity status in accordance with IFRS 10: ii details of the Groups taxation charge and reconciliation: and iii the sensitivity of the Groups portfolio valuation to changes in assumptions.
The Group has responded to the FRC on each of its comments and has enhanced disclosures in these and supplementary areas of the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts.
In addition, the FRC wrote to UK public and large private companies, including the Group, during the year to highlight a number of disclosure areas it will focus on in 2017 18 accounts, namely cash ows, dividends, pensions, and other critical judgments and estimates.
The Committee has paid particular attention to these themes and is satisfied with the level of disclosures in these financial statements.
INTERNAL AUDIT The Head of Internal Audit continues to report directly to the Committee and have access to the Company and Committee Chairs at any time.
During the year the Committee again scrutinised the efcacy of the Internal Audit function including its: i terms of reference, budget and resourcing both internal and co-sourced arrangements: ii risk-based programme of work: and iii reports and the adequacy of responses from management to them.
As in previous years, Internal Audit achieved its coverage plan for 2017 and the majority of audits completed were rated as good or satisfactory.
There were no new emerging trends or themes.
Following a review of resources during the period, the Committee is pleased to report an increase in Internal Audit headcount, from two to three full-time heads, to match the Groups expansion into international markets and growth in funds under management.
This should enable the functions continued satisfactory performance and contribution to the business.
EXTERNAL AUDIT Further to the Group conducting a competitive tender of its audit during 2016 and the re-appointment of Deloitte with a change of partners, the Committee is satisfied with the effectiveness of the external auditors audit and independence in respect of 2017, after scrutiny of: 1.
Deloittes planned approach to the interim and annual accounts, including the fresh perspective brought as a result of the tender process: 2.
Deloittes execution of the above approach, such as inter alia its physical inspection and valuation of the Groups investment portfolio, together with any adjustments or qualications to the accounts of which there were none : 3.
Deloittes arrangements to ensure there were no conicts of interest arising from its work: 4.
Deloittes safeguards over its audit independence and objectivity: 5.
The extent and quality of any non-audit services provided by Deloitte during the year: and 6.
The day to day management of the audit relationship by the Group Finance Director and his team.
The Company has published on its website a Charter of Statutory Auditor Independence which summarises the arrangements that ensure the external auditor remains independent throughout its term.
In particular the external auditor is required to rotate its engagement partner at least every five years Claire Faulkner was appointed as engagement partner in 2016 and the audit is subject to an open market tender no more than every ten years last tendered in 2016.
In addition no work by the external auditor is permitted in a range of areas including: secondments to management: bookkeeping services: systems design and implementation work: valuation and actuarial services: human resources and Internal Audit support: and any other activities that could create an actual or perceived conict of interest.
The Group has complied with the provisions of the Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014.
John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2017 57 EXTERNAL AUDIT CONTINUED The Committee reviewed and approved on behalf of the Board the external auditors terms of engagement and remuneration.
Fees for audit services to the Company and recourse subsidiaries during the year amounted to 224,257 2016 185,806.
Fees for audit services to non-recourse subsidiaries during the year amounted to 59,403 2016 62,129.
The increase in fees for audit services to the Company and recourse subsidiaries was due to additional work on the Groups investments in certain project companies which Deloitte does not audit.
Any potential non-audit work by the external auditor is considered case by case by the Committee and is generally awarded on a competitive basis.
The only non-audit work performed by Deloitte in 2017 was, as in the prior year, in relation to its review of the Group and Company interim financial statements and the annual review of the Groups FCA regulated subsidiary.
The increase in 2017 fees was due to a additional work by the external auditor on the interim results following the settlement agreement on Manchester Waste VL Co and its impact on the portfolio valuation and b an increase in scope of the FCA review in response to additional industry-wide obligations imposed by the regulator.
With regards to the rights issue launched with announcement of these results, the Committee approved the appointment of Deloitte as reporting accountant because: it is represented by an independent partner: its work is limited to a small number of reporting workstreams with no management role: it is familiar with the Groups cash forecasting methodology, having carried out a working capital review for the IPO in 2015: it can draw on the knowledge of the external audit team: and its fee proposal was considered competitive relative to market benchmarks.
Although material in the context of the Groups average statutory audit fee over the last three years, the fee is not in breach of the cap on non-audit services recently set out in EU Audit Legislation which does not come into effect until the Groups financial year end in 2020.
The principal area of work for the reporting accountant is a working capital review for the benefit of the rights issues sponsors, Barclays and HSBC.
This is to provide comfort to them on the working capital statement made by the Directors in the prospectus.
The other main areas of work are: A review of a proforma net asset statement: A review of any material changes since 31 December 2017: Confirmation of financial numbers extracted from the audited accounts: and Comments on drafting of the prospectus and responding to the UK Listing Authoritys review thereof.
The recommendation to reappoint Deloitte was supported unanimously by the Board and will be subject to shareholder approval at the Companys forthcoming AGM.
OTHER MATTERS As part of the Boards review of its effectiveness in 2017 the work of its committees, including the Committee, was assessed by Directors.
The comments were positive although we will look to enhance structured training of members, for example through further presentations on topics by subject experts, during the course of 2018.
Other matters considered by the Committee during 2017 included: i the lookout period and forecast assumptions for the Groups viability statement and the adoption of the going concern basis in these financial statements: ii the Groups compliance with market abuse regulation, including anti-bribery, anti-money laundering and whistle blowing arrangements: and iii the Groups policies and procedures for preventing and detecting fraud.
After detailed consideration and enquiry, including testing of evidence provided by management, each of these matters was deemed satisfactory by the Committee.
Toby Hiscock AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN 7 March 2018 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview
