ACCOUNTABILITY: INTRODUCTION TO THE COMMITTEES BOARD COMMITTEES The Board relies on its NOMINATION AND Committees to ensure GOVERNANCE that deliberations by COMMITTEE the Board are focused on the key issues and that proposals are p86 subject to detailed specialist debate and AUDIT AND RISK rigorous challenge.
COMMITTEE Each Committee also provides an essential forum to allow the views and perspectives p90 of stakeholders to be discussed, so that they too can be represented SUSTAINABILITY in the Boards AND STAKEHOLDER deliberations.
MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE p96 PROJECTS COMMITTEE p100 REMUNERATION AND TALENT MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE p102 84 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2017 GOVERNANCE CHAIRMAN KEY RESPONSIBILITIES Jean-Paul Luksic Corporate governance Board effectiveness reviews Succession planning for MEMBERS the CEO and the Board Tim Baker Board and Committee Ollie Oliveira composition CHAIRMAN KEY RESPONSIBILITIES Ollie Oliveira Financial reporting Risk and internal control External audit Compliance MEMBERS Internal audit Jorge Bande Vivianne Blanlot Francisca Castro CHAIRMAN KEY RESPONSIBILITIES Vivianne Blanlot Policies and commitments Safety and health MEMBERS Community relations Jorge Bande Juan Claro Environment William Hayes CHAIRMAN KEY RESPONSIBILITIES Ollie Oliveira Policies and commitments Reviews all major projects MEMBERS Reviews lessons learned Tim Baker from completed projects Jorge Bande Ramn Jara CHAIRMAN KEY RESPONSIBILITIES Tim Baker Directors remuneration Talent management and succession planning Executive remuneration MEMBERS for the Executive Group pay structures Vivianne Blanlot Committee Francisca Castro antofagasta.
co. uk 85 ACCOUNTABILITY: NOMINATION AND GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE REPORT The Committee is focused on ensuring that the Board and its Committees operate effectively at all times.
Jean-Paul Luksic, Chairman 2017 MEMBERSHIP AND MEETING ATTENDANCE Number Other regular attendees include the CEO, attended Company Secretary and Secretary to the Board.
Jean-Paul Luksic Chairman 4 4 Effective 1 January 2017, William Hayes rotated off the Committee Tim Baker 4 4 and Ollie Oliveira joined the Committee.
Ollie Oliveira 4 4 The Committee meets as necessary and at least twice per year.
Except for the Chairman, all Committee members are independent.
KEY RESPONSIBILITIES The Nomination and Governance Committee supports the Board overseeing and facilitating annual reviews of the Chairman, in ensuring that the Group has effective governance structures in Directors and the Board, including externally facilitated reviews place and that the Board and its Committees operate effectively.
evaluating and overseeing the balance of skills, knowledge and The Committee identifies qualified individuals to join the Board, experience on the Board and its Committees, and reviewing the recommends any changes to Board and Committee composition independence of Directors and monitors an annual process to assess Board effectiveness.
overseeing Board succession plans and leading the process of This involves: identifying suitable candidates to fill vacancies, nominating such candidates for approval by the Board and ensuring that the monitoring trends, initiatives and proposals in relation appointments are made on merit and against objective criteria.
to corporate governance KEY ACTIVITIES IN 2017 Corporate Succession Board and committee Board effectiveness governance planning composition reviews Reviewed the Governance Reviewed updated written Reviewed the impact of Reviewed the Board section of the 2016 Annual succession plans for the changes to the composition effectiveness report prepared Report and recommended it Board and its Committees.
of all Committees which took by Independent Audit Limited to the Board for approval.
Reviewed succession plans Oversaw the implementation Reviewed the governance for the CEO.
Reviewed the independence of the recommendations structures in place at the of all Directors, making arising from the review.
Provided input to the Groups operating companies.
recommendations to the Remuneration and Talent Board.
Reviewed Directors potential Management Committee in conflicts of interest.
relation to succession plans for the Executive Committee Reviewed feedback provided excluding the CEO and the by shareholders and proxy Groups diversity and advisers in advance of the inclusion programme.
Reviewed the details of proposals for UK corporate governance reform.
86 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2017 GOVERNANCE BOARD COMPOSITION AND SUCCESSION PLANNING Succession planning at Board level includes setting policies that encourage a strong and diverse pipeline of candidates well into the future.
What steps does the Committee take in order to identify appointments continue to be made on merit.
To assist with this, the Board will ensure that searches for new Directors access the widest and appoint new Directors?
possible talent pool and that one half of the candidates on longlists The Committee reviews the composition of the Board and its comprise women.
Committees on an ongoing basis and, formally, at least once per year.
There is a written succession plan in place for all Board and Q.
What policies are in place to promote a diverse pipeline Committee positions, including contingency plans in the event of talent for the future?
To further promote diversity at the Executive Committee level and below, a new Group Diversity and Inclusion strategy was approved The Committee regularly discusses relevant profiles for future by the Board during the year.
This strategy was prepared following appointments and potential candidates, taking into account the results an exercise to assess the maturity of the Groups existing diversity of Board effectiveness reviews, as shown on page 88, having regard and inclusion model which included interviews with stakeholders, to the Groups vision and strategy, as shown on pages 12 and 13, the bench marking and a comprehensive review of the Groups policies Boards diversity policy below and the core competencies and areas and processes.
The review assessed whether structural impediments of expertise on the Board, as shown on page 78. existed that needed to be addressed in order to achieve a sustained When actively searching for a new Director, the Committee usually improvement in the maturity of the Groups diversity and appoints an independent external search consultancy to assist with inclusion model.
The external search consultancy will receive a briefing The Group carefully considered the elements of diversity that would on the skills and experience of the existing Directors and will be asked contribute most towards achievement of the Groups vision and to identify potential candidates who would best meet a number strategy and has committed to materially increasing the percentage of criteria, including relevant experience, skills, personality type, of women, persons with disabilities and persons with international contribution to Board diversity and whether they have sufficient time backgrounds and or experience in the workforce by 2022, and for to devote to the role.
The Committee will then identify a shortlist of these improvements to be embedded, sustained and improved upon candidates to be interviewed by members of the Committee who then from then.
The current levels of gender diversity within the mining collectively decide whether the candidate should be recommended divisions workforce and further rationale behind the choice of these to the Board for appointment.
elements are set out within the Strategic Report on page 59.
What is the Boards position in relation to diversity?
As shown on page 113, metrics associated with the development The Board believes in the benefits of diversity and that more diverse of the Diversity and Inclusion strategy accounted for 2.5% of the companies are able to attract the best talent and achieve stronger and Groups Annual Bonus Plan in 2017 and will also account for 2.5% more reliable overall performance.
However, diversity is a general in the Groups Annual Bonus Plan in 2018, with performance to be term that is made up of a number of different aspects including assessed by the Remuneration and Talent Management Committee gender, disability, educational and professional experience, nationality, at the end of the year.
personality type, culture and perspective.
Our vision is to be an The Remuneration and Talent Management Committee is also international mining company based in Chile, and we consider all responsible for succession planning for the Executive Committee of these aspects when making appointments and setting policies excluding the CEO which allows for ongoing monitoring of the in support of our vision and strategy.
impact of the Diversity and Inclusion strategy on appointments and progress within the Company, and further details are set out Q.
What policy is currently in place to ensure that there is on page 104. diversity at Board level?
The Committee has worked hard to ensure that the Board is suitably Q.
What support does the Company provide to facilitate diverse across the individual aspects of diversity set out above and induction and assist with professional development?
the Board reviews its effectiveness in meeting diversity goals each The Company provides a thorough induction to new Directors, year as part of the annual Board evaluation process.
and insurance, access to resources and continuing professional As noted on page 68, the Groups current activities are focused in development for incumbent Directors.
Further details are set out Chile.
Nevertheless, for many years the Board has included a number on page 89. of Directors from outside Chile in support of our vision and strategy and we actively look for opportunities to increase gender diversity beyond the levels in the wider mining workforce in Chile, while Jean-Paul Luksic ensuring that appointments continue to be made on merit.
Two of our Chairman of the Nomination and Governance Committee three most recent appointments have been women.
The Board plans to continue to actively look for opportunities to increase female representation beyond the current level while ensuring that antofagasta.
