50 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Board has resolved that the disclosures to be made in the Annual Report regarding the operation of the Board and its sub-committees should comply with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and best practice generally.
The Company complied with the requirements of the Code throughout 2017.
The Code is published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC and the full text is available on its website at www.
The following section describes how the Board applies the main principles of the Code.
DIRECTORS The Board believes it has an appropriate balance of skills and experience.
On 7 December 2017 it was announced that Phil Nolan would be stepping down from the Board following the 2018 AGM and that his replacement would be Will Samuel who was appointed as non-executive Chairman Designate.
Will is also Chairman of Tilney Group Limited.
He joins John Laing having held a number of other non-executive roles and senior positions throughout his career.
The Board met on a regular basis throughout the year and as needed to deal with special business.
The Board has appointed an Audit & Risk Committee, a Nomination Committee and a Remuneration Committee which consider issues relevant to their specic terms of reference.
The ofces of the Chairman and the Chief Executive officer are held separately.
Board meetings follow a formal agenda of matters reserved for decision and approval by the Board and also address any special business.
Matters reserved for the Board include the review of strategy and organisational change, the review and monitoring of internal controls and risk management processes, the approval of significant investments and disposals, the approval of budgets and the regular review of current trading and the financial position of the Group.
A schedule of matters reserved for the Board is published on the Companys website at www.
The Board receives regular reports on current trading and the financial position and forecasts of the Group prior to its meetings.
In addition, the Board receives relevant information on business, corporate and strategic issues.
Formal procedures exist to ensure that the Board is made aware of any significant health and safety issues and non-compliance with statutory regulations.
Olivier Brousse is the Board member responsible for health and safety issues.
Further details of the Companys approach to health and safety are set out in the Corporate Responsibility section of the Strategic Report on page 43 of this Annual Report.
The Company maintains a register of Directors conicts.
At the end of each year, all Directors make a declaration concerning any conicts they or their connected persons may have.
In addition, at the start of each Board meeting, as a routine item, Directors are asked to declare any interests that might conict with the agenda items under discussion.
Directors may also notify the Company, via the Company Secretary, at any time, of any potential or future conicts that may arise.
Any such notications are reviewed at the next Board meeting and, if considered appropriate, authorised.
Directors do not participate in the discussion or vote regarding their own conicts.
If authorised, any conicts are entered in the register of Directors conicts.
All Directors may take independent professional advice at the Groups expense in the furtherance of their duties and have full access to the Company Secretary.
Upon appointment, non-executive directors undertake an induction process to familiarise themselves with the Groups activities, policies and key issues.
Since joining the Board in December 2017, the Chairman Designate has met all the senior managers in the Group as well as the Groups brokers, legal adviser and external auditor.
During their appointment, non-executive directors are expected to dedicate adequate time to carry out their role effectively and to challenge management in a constructive way.
The Chairman meets regularly with the other non-executive directors to discuss the performance of the Board and the Board sub-committees.
The performance of Executive Directors is measured against predetermined objectives that are agreed with each Executive Director at the start of the financial year.
The Chairman has no executive responsibilities but leads and sets the agenda for the Board.
The Chairman also acts as an interface between the Executive Directors and non-executive directors.
EFFECTIVENESS Following the external Board evaluation carried out in 2016, an internal review was conducted in 2017.
A questionnaire covering the Boards role and composition, strategy, accountability, stakeholder management, behaviours and effectiveness was sent to the Directors and the Chairman then met with each individually to elaborate on answers and raise issues not covered in the questionnaire.
Overall the Board felt that it operated effectively and there were open and frank conversations with a strong focus on delivery and strategy, matters the 2016 evaluation had highlighted.
There was agreement on the strategy and direction of the Company and where it needs to get to.
Management had built a strong platform, a growing investment pipeline and the Board had committed itself to continued growth.
The review had established that the sub-committees of the Board were operating effectively and no major control or governance issues were observed within the Group.
Overall, there was strong agreement that the Board understood its role with clear Terms of Reference and a good mix of skill and experience.
The 2016 evaluation had suggested that the Boards governance might need to become more international as the business grew into different geographies.
Consideration would be given to this when identifying the background and experience which would be desirable in future non-executive appointments.
Succession planning was another matter identied by the 2016 evaluation and the Board had received a paper and presentation on this topic from the Chief Executive officer at a strategy day held in October.
John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2017 51 BOARD AND COMMITTEE ATTENDANCE Nomination Audit & Risk Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Total number of regular meetings in 2017 8266 Total number of meetings attended in 2017 Nomination Audit & Risk Remuneration Independent Board Committee Committee Committee Executive Directors Olivier Brousse No 82 n a n a Patrick OD Bourke No 8 n a n a n a Non-Executive Directors Phil Nolan On appointment 82 n a n a Jeremy Beeton Yes 8266 Toby Hiscock Yes 8266 David Rough Yes 8266 Anne Wade Yes 82 n a 6 BOARD SUB-COMMITTEES Sub-committees of the Board have been constituted to consider and make recommendations to the Board regarding matters relating to external and internal audit, internal control and risk management processes, the selection of appropriate accounting policies, the presentation of the half year and full year accounts, investment performance, acquisitions and disposals and the appointment of Directors and Directors remuneration.
Membership is determined by the Board and the duties of the Board sub-committees are set out in the following sections of this report.
All the sub-committees of the Board operate within clearly dened terms of reference which are reviewed and updated to reect best practice and the Code as far as is commercially practicable.
The terms of reference of the sub-committees are available on request from the Company Secretary and are published on the Companys website at www.
AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE The Audit & Risk Committee is chaired by Toby Hiscock, a non-executive director, who has up to date relevant financial experience.
The other members are David Rough and Jeremy Beeton.
During the year, the Committee met six times.
It considers risk management processes in addition to reviewing internal control procedures, including internal audit plans, and the interim and full year results, including external audit plans.
Regular reviews of significant risks are undertaken at meetings of the Committee and its observations are reported to the Board.
The Groups system of internal control is designed to manage and mitigate rather than eliminate altogether the risk of failure to meet business objectives and can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material financial misstatement or loss.
The Internal Audit function provides independent assurance to the Board, through the Audit & Risk Committee, that internal control processes, including those related to risk management, are relevant, effective and have operated across the business throughout the year.
The Group Finance Director is normally invited to attend meetings, along with other members of management as appropriate.
The external auditor and Head of Internal Audit are also invited to attend meetings and meet with the Audit & Risk Committee privately, without management present, at least once a year.
Representatives from the Groups independent valuer attend meetings when the Committee consider the portfolio valuation.
The Committee considers and approves the external audit approach with the external auditor.
The Committee reviews the independence of the external auditor and the procedures in place to ensure that its independence is not compromised.
The Committees specic approval is required for non-audit services performed by the external auditor where the fee is expected to exceed 20,000 in accordance with the Companys Charter of Statutory Auditor Independence a copy of which can be found on the Companys website at www.
Audit & Risk Committee meetings are minuted and copies of the minutes are provided to the Directors and the external auditor.
The Committee reports to the Board, through the Chairman of the Committee.
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview 52 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED NOMINATION COMMITTEE The Committee met formally twice during the year.
Phil Nolan is the current Chairman of the Committee and Will Samuel will become Chairman of the Committee when he takes over from Phil Nolan as Chairman of the Company.
The other members of the Committee are the four non-executive directors Anne Wade, David Rough, Jeremy Beeton and Toby Hiscock and the Chief Executive officer.
The purpose of the Nomination Committee is to consider and make recommendations to the Board concerning all new Board appointments and the retirement of Directors and to make recommendations to the Board relating to the policy for the ongoing education and development of Directors.
The Committee uses external search consultants or open advertising for recruitment purposes as deemed most appropriate.
When nominating candidates for non-executive directorships, the Committee takes account of the need for diversity and independence.
David Rough, as Senior Independent Director, led the search for the new Chairman and there were a number of meetings involving Nomination Committee members which resulted in the recommendation to the Board of Will Samuel as Chairman Designate.
As referred to above, at the Groups strategy day in October 2017, the Board received a paper and presentation from the Chief Executive officer on succession planning.
The Committee keeps under review and evaluates the composition of the Board and its Committees to maintain the most appropriate balance of skills, knowledge, experience and independence and to ensure their continued effectiveness.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Remuneration Committee has four regular scheduled meetings each year and meets additionally as circumstances require.
The Committee met six times during the year.
Anne Wade is the Chairman of the Committee.
The other members are Jeremy Beeton, Toby Hiscock and David Rough.
The Remuneration Committee sets and monitors the overall remuneration policy for the Executive Directors and other senior executives.
The Company has adopted the FCAs Remuneration Code which is applied to those staff involved in regulated activities.
The Committee reviews, but does not limit itself to, the following key areas and makes recommendations to the Board accordingly: total remuneration including base pay, bonus and incentive arrangements : method of remuneration: service contracts: terms and conditions and any material changes to the standard terms of employment: and approval of financial arrangements proposed by the Chief Executive Officer relating to the termination of Executive Directors service contracts.
The activities, recommendations and approvals of the Committee are reported to the next routinely scheduled Board meeting.
MANAGEMENT COMMITTEES EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE The Executive Committee comprises the Executive Directors, the Group Managing Director International Projects, the Chief Risk officer, the three Regional Managing Directors, the Group HR Director and the Company Secretary.
The Executive Committee deals with the day-to-day business of the Group and also considers Group-wide initiatives and priorities.
It reviews the implementation of strategy, discusses the development of new investments and progress on existing investments.
It also reviews the disposal of investments and proposals before they are presented to the Board and monitors progress against the budget.
John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2017 53 INVESTMENT COMMITTEE The purpose of the Investment Committee is to make recommendations to the Board, or to approve proposals within its delegated authority, in relation to the Groups investments in infrastructure projects.
The Committee also reviews the Groups portfolio valuation and monitors the balance of risk across the portfolio.
The activities, recommendations and approvals of the Committee are reported to the Board.
The Committees delegated authorities are reviewed annually by the Board.
Members of the Committee are appointed by the Board and comprise the Executive Directors, the Group Managing Director International Projects, the Company Secretary or the Group Head of Legal as alternate, the Chief Risk officer and up to five other persons as the Chief Executive officer shall nominate from time to time.
The Committee is currently chaired by the Chief Executive officer and usually meets at least fortnightly.
The role of the Investment Committee was reviewed in 2016 with the help of external consultants.
A number of changes were implemented including the appointment of a dedicated resource in order to improve the quality of risk analysis.
DIVESTMENT COMMITTEE During 2017 the Company established a Divestment Committee.
Its purpose is to provide oversight and recommendations on all proposed disposals.
The Committee generally meets once per month, with other meetings scheduled as necessary.
The Committee comprises the Executive Directors, the Group Managing Director International Projects, the Company Secretary, the Chief Risk officer and up to three other senior managers.
The Committee is currently chaired by the Group Finance Director.
MANAGEMENT RISK COMMITTEE The Management Risk Committees role is to assist the Audit & Risk Committee and Board in monitoring financial, legal and regulatory risks, by reviewing the internal control and risk management systems of the Group.
The Committee normally meets six times a year.
Members of the Committee are appointed by the senior management and comprise at least three members of the senior management team, including the Group Finance Director.
During 2017 the Committee was chaired by the Group Finance Director.
With effect from the beginning of 2018, the Committee has been chaired by the Chief Risk officer.
The other members of the committee are currently the Group Finance Director, the Company Secretary, the Group Managing Director International Projects and three other senior managers.
ENGAGEMENT WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Board is committed to providing shareholders with timely announcements of significant events or transactions affecting the Company, including its financial performance and any changes to strategy as well as material investment commitments and realisations.
As part of this, the Companys brokers provide regular market feedback to the Board and senior management.
In addition, the Chairman and Senior Independent Director are available to shareholders to discuss governance, strategy or any concern they may have.
It is proposed that Will Samuel will offer to meet the Companys top 10-20 shareholders once he takes over as Chairman in May.
The Chief Executive officer and the Group Finance Director are responsible for the Companys interaction with existing shareholders, potential new shareholders and analysts.
To ensure its financial and operational performance and strategic objectives are properly communicated, the Company operates a dedicated investor relations programme.
This includes formal events along with other meetings outside the financial reporting calendar.
In November 2017, the Chief Executive officer, together with other members of the senior management team, hosted the Companys second investor day since its IPO: this focused on the North American market and its potential: the background to how John Laing makes renewable energy investments: potential new markets: John Laing's financial resources and the impact of macroeconomic factors on the Company's balance sheet.
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview
