GOVERNANCE NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Focused on the positive evaluation ofour Board The Nomination Committee during the period consisted of BrunoAngelici Chair, Per-Olof Andersson, Frank Condella, SusanFoden and Thomas Werner.
A copy of the Committees termsof reference are available on the Companys website.
The Nomination Committee Review of the period The Nomination Committee has continued to work throughout has continued to work theyearon the search for new Non-Executive Directors to supplement throughout the year on the theskill and experience of the Board and to ensure that the appropriate succession planning in respect of the longest serving Non-Executive search for new Non-Executive Board Directors was in place.
The search, which included consideration Directors to supplement the of diversity, Board composition and succession planning, was carried out with the assistance of external search consultancy Odgers Berndtson, skill and experience of the acompany which has no other connection with the Group and Board and to ensure that resultedin the appointment of Juliet Thompson in December 2017, which took the Board closer to the diversity targets under theappropriate succession theHampton-Alexander Review.
planning in respect of the A further search is being undertaken in 2018 with external assistance and, if an appropriate candidate can be identified, longest serving Non-Executive afurther additional female appointment will be made.
Atthat Board Directors was in place.
point, the Board representation percentage of at least 33% femalemembership will have been achieved.
It is anticipated Bruno Angelici that, subject to a suitable handover period, Frank Condella willstepdown from the Board in due course.
As highlighted in the Hampton-Alexander Review in November 2017, the Group has already achieved the target female representation at the Leadership Team level of 41.9% and the Company was highlighted in the review report to be in the top ten best performers for this measure.
The Committee recommends the election of Juliet Thompson and the re-election of all Directors standing for re-election at the 2018 AGM.
Bruno Angelici Nomination Committee Chairman 20 March 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Vectura Group plc 79
