ACCOUNTABILITY: AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT TT TBC The Audit and Risk Committee supports the Board in its responsibilities relating to financial reporting and risk management.
Ollie Oliveira, Chairman 2017 MEMBERSHIP AND MEETING ATTENDANCE Number Other regular attendees include the CEO, CFO, Group Financial attended Controller, Head of Internal Audit, Strategic Planning Manager, Ollie Oliveira Chairman 4 4 Head of Risk and Secretary to the Board.
Jorge Bande 4 4 Effective 1 January 2017, William Hayes rotated off the Committee 1 and Vivianne Blanlot and Francisca Castro joined the Committee.
Vivianne Blanlot 3 4 The Committee meets as necessary and at least twice per year.
Francisca Castro 4 4 All Committee members are independent.
Vivianne Blanlot was unable to attend one Committee meeting during the year.
Nevertheless, she reviewed Committee papers, provided comments to the Ollie Oliveira, Jorge Bande and Francisca Castro are all Chairman ahead of the meeting and validated meeting minutes.
considered to have recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee as a whole has significant experience relevant to the mining sector.
KEY RESPONSIBILITIES The Audit and Risk Committee assists the Board in meeting its overseeing the external audit process and managing the responsibilities relating to financial reporting and control and risk relationship with PwC, the Groups external auditor management.
The Committees main responsibilities cover: internal audit, including monitoring of the Groups Internal Audit function, processes and findings financial reporting, which includes responsibility for reviewing the year-end and half-year financial reports, and monitoring the assisting the Board with its responsibilities in respect of risk overall financial reporting process management and related controls and compliance.
KEY ACTIVITIES IN 2017 Financial External Risk and internal control Compliance reporting audit Reviewed the 2016 Reviewed and Conducted detailed Reviewed developments Reviewed the Groups year-end and 2017 approved the 2017 reviews with the General in the Groups standard whistleblowing half-year financial audit plan, including Managers of each of the risk management arrangements, reporting, with a focus fees.
Groups operations, processes during including details of on the significant covering the operations the year.
the most significant Assessed the accounting issues key risks.
reports and the effectiveness of the Assisted the Board with relating to the Groups resulting actions external audit process.
Monitored the work its assessment of the results.
which commenced Groups key risks and its Assisted the Board during 2017 to provide review of the Reviewed updates to in ensuring that the an updated assessment effectiveness of the risk the conflict of interest Internal 2016 Annual Report of the maturity of the management and declarations by the audit is fair, balanced and Groups risk internal control Groups employees understandable, management process, processes.
and suppliers, and and reviewed the Reviewed the key and also an updated details of the Groups long-term viability findings from the review of the Groups limited relationships statement contained in internal audit reviews risk appetite and risk with politically the 2016 Annual conducted during tolerance.
Monitored the Agreed the scope functioning of the and areas of focus Groups crime for the 2018 internal prevention model, audit plan.
in accordance with Chilean and UK anti-corruption legislation.
90 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2017 GOVERNANCE FOCUSING ON RISK An increased focus on risk has enhanced the Committees oversight and consideration of the inputs and sensitivities that apply to the Groups periodically reported financial position.
What were the key developments and activities for the FINANCIAL REPORTING Committee in 2017?
What are the Committees main activities in respect of the We are in a more positive market environment than has been the Groups financial reporting?
case for several years, but this does not mean that we can in any The Committee reviews the year-end financial statements and way be complacent in terms of managing the risks facing the Group.
half-yearly financial report, and we ensure that the key accounting Ours is a long-term business, and many of our most significant risks policies, estimates and judgements applied in those financial are present throughout the cycle: in fact, a more robust market statements are reasonable.
environment can bring its own heightened risks.
The operation of the Committee during 2017 has reflected this need for our focus on risk We also monitor the overall financial reporting process to ensure it to continue to develop and evolve.
This includes ensuring that the Groups accounting and finance function is adequately resourced with The size of the Committee increased from three to four members appropriate segregation of duties, that there are appropriate internal from the start of 2017, which has been very useful in dealing with the review processes, that the Groups accounting policies are significant responsibilities of the Committee.
This also means that we appropriate and clearly communicated, and that the Groups now have members of the Committee participating on the Projects accounting and consolidation systems are also appropriate.
Committee and the Sustainability and Stakeholder Management Committee.
This allows close linkage between the overall review of The Committee assists the Board in undertaking its assessment the Groups risks and risk management processes by the Audit and that the Annual Report is, taken as a whole, fair, balanced and Risk Committee, and the more specific risks relating to project understandable, and provides the necessary information to allow execution, safety, environmental and community issues considered in shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, detail by the other Committees.
To illustrate the benefit of this linkage, business model and strategy.
As part of this assessment, we use our internal audit conducted a review during 2017 relating to sustainability detailed knowledge of the financial results and the key accounting issues across the Group, and having Vivianne Blanlot and Jorge judgements applied in the financial statements to ensure that the tone Bande on both the Audit and Risk Committee and the Sustainability and content of the narrative reporting fairly reflects the financial and Stakeholder Management Committee was very helpful in ensuring results for the year.
efficient Board-level monitoring of this work.
We also review the going concern basis adopted in the financial In June 2017, for the first time, we held a meeting devoted solely to statements, as well as the detailed long-term viability statement risk management.
At this meeting we reviewed the main materialised contained within the Annual Report.
risks at each of the Groups operations over the past 12 months, and the current assessment of the key risks for each of the operations, their related mitigation activities and the expected evolution of those risks over the coming 12 months.
The Committee has also been monitoring work which commenced during 2017 to provide an updated assessment of the maturity of the Groups risk management process, as well as an updated review of the Groups risk appetite and risk tolerance.
co. uk 91 ACCOUNTABILITY: AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED EXTERNAL AUDIT Q.
What were the significant accounting issues in relation to the financial statements considered by the Committee Q.
What are the Committees activities in respect of the during 2017?
The main accounting issues considered in detail by the Committee The Committee is responsible for overseeing Antofagastas in respect of the 2017 financial statements were: relationship with PwC, the Groups external auditor.
I have a key Asset valuations: we have considered whether there were any direct relationship with Jason Burkitt, the lead PwC audit partner.
indicators of impairment or reversal of previous impairments We review and approve the scope of the external audit, the terms at the Groups operations, and concluded that there were not.
The Committee monitors the effectiveness Accordingly, we have not performed any impairment reviews of the audit process and we are responsible for ensuring the in respect of the Groups assets at the 2017 year end.
As part of independence of the external auditor.
We also make recommendations this consideration we have taken into account the general copper to the Board in respect of the appointment, reappointment or removal market environment, which has shown some improvement of the external auditor.
The Committee formally meets with PwC in the near-term outlook, as reflected in the copper price without management present at least once a year.
as at 31 December 2017 of around $3.25 lb, compared with Q.
How long has PwC been the Groups auditor?
approximately $2.50 lb as at 31 December 2016.
We also considered the specific operating performance of the Groups PwC has been our external auditor for three years.
We carried out a businesses, which have generally performed in line with tender process during 2014, which resulted in PwC being appointed expectations during 2017. with effect from 2015 onwards.
In line with the relevant regulatory guidance, we would expect to undertake a tender process in respect Further details in respect of the valuation and sensitivity of the Groups assets is set out in Note 4 to the financial statements of the external audit at least every ten years.
Twin Metals: we have reviewed the developments in respect Q.
How do you assess the effectiveness of the external of the renewal of two of the projects mining leases, and the audit process?
potential impact of this on the carrying value of the projects The Committee considered the following factors as part of its review assets.
In December 2017 the US Department of the Interior of the effectiveness of the external audit process during the year: DOI confirmed Twin Metals right to renew the leases.
This replaced the DOIs previous legal opinion from March 2016, the appropriateness of the proposed audit plan, the significant which had served as the basis for the December 2016 action by risk areas and areas of focus, and the effective performance the Bureau of Land Management and the US Forest Service to of the audit deny the renewal of the two leases.
This positive legal development, the technical skills and industry experience of the audit engagement along with consideration of the current forecasts of the potential partner and the wider audit team value to be generated by the project, supported the conclusion the quality of the external auditors reporting to the Committee that no adjustment to the carrying value of the projects assets the effectiveness of the co-ordination between the UK and Chilean was necessary.
audit teams Inventories: we keep the Groups inventory balances under close the effectiveness of the interaction and relationship between the review.
This reflects a combination of the value of the inventories, Groups management and the external auditor the long-term nature of some of the balances, and also the fact that the monitoring of mining work-in-progress inventories, particularly feedback from management in respect of the effectiveness of the in respect of leaching processes, can be relatively complex.
We audit processes for the individual operations and the Group overall monitor the specific accounting policies applied to the inventory the review of reports from the external auditor detailing its own balances, the level of headroom indicated by net realisable value internal quality control procedures, as well as its annual tests, the forecast future movements in the value of the balances transparency report and any other specific issues which may arise.
These reviews have the results of the review of PwCs 2016 audit by the Audit Quality not indicated any concerns with the carrying value of the Groups Review team of the UKs Financial Reporting Council, including the inventory balances as at 31 December 2017. main findings and any impact on the 2017 year-end audit.
In light of this assessment, the Committee considers it appropriate that PwC be reappointed as external auditor.
The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 statement of compliance: The Company confirms that it complied with the provisions of the Competition and Markets Authoritys Order for the financial year under review.
92 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2017 GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENCE AND OBJECTIVITY OF THE EXTERNAL AUDITOR INTERNAL AUDIT The Committee monitors the external auditors independence and Q.
What are the Committees main activities in relation objectivity.
The Company has a policy in place that aims to safeguard to internal audit?
the independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
This includes The Committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the Groups measures in respect of the potential employment of former auditors, Internal Audit function.
The Head of Internal Audit reports directly the types of non-audit services that the external auditor may and may to the Committee and meets with us without management present not provide to the Group, and the approval process in respect of at least once a year.
The Committee reviews and approves internal audits plan of work An updated policy has been applied from 1 January 2017, reflecting for the coming year, including the departments budget, headcount the implementation of the EU Audit Regulation and Directive.
We make sure there are sufficient resources policy specifies services which the external auditor may not provide in the plan to allow for special reviews which may be required to any Group entity.
This includes any services which involve playing during the year.
any part in the management or decision-making of the entity, preparing accounting records and financial statements and designing We also monitor the resources available to the internal audit team to or implementing internal control procedures relating to the make sure it has the right mix of skills and experience.
internal audit preparation of financial information.
In addition, a number of more utilises a mix of permanent team members, temporary secondees specific services are prohibited, including internal audit services, from elsewhere in the Group and third parties, particularly for areas valuation services which would have a material effect on the financial such as IT-related reviews.
The permanent team includes members statements and the preparation of material tax calculations.
The policy with specific expertise in some of the most relevant areas for the also includes blacklisted services which may not be provided to Group, including mining technical experience, IT and sustainability.
Antofagasta plc or its subsidiaries within the European Union EU Internal audit presents summaries of the key findings from the for instance, virtually all services in respect of taxation are prohibited.
reviews conducted during the year to the Committee.
All Internal The policy also requires prior approval by the Committee for all Audit reports are distributed to the Committee members once they non-audit services, other than services which are considered to be have been finalised.
clearly trivial, which the Committee has defined as being services with The Committee monitors the interaction between internal audit and fees of not more than $25,000.
In addition to this pre-approval PwC, to ensure an efficient relationship between the internal and process for specific non-audit services, the Audit and Risk Committee external audit processes, avoiding duplication of work, and ensuring also monitors the total level of non-audit services provided by the the effective and timely sharing of findings.
external auditor to ensure that neither the auditors objectivity nor its independence is put at risk.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL A breakdown of the audit and non-audit fees is disclosed in Note 7 Q.
What are the Committees main activities in relation to risk to the financial statements.
The Companys external auditor, PwC, has management and internal control?
provided non-audit services excluding audit-related services which amounted to $274,000, or 17% of the fees for audit and audit-related The Committee plays an important role in assisting the Board with its services.
This mainly related to the following services: responsibilities in respect of risk management and related controls.
The Board has ultimate responsibility for overseeing the Groups assisting with the assessment of the maturity of the Groups risk principal risks, as well as for maintaining control systems.
Our internal management process and the updated review of the Groups risk control systems are designed to identify and manage, rather than appetite and risk tolerance eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve our business objectives, and due diligence services provided to an associate of the Group can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against assurance services in respect of the Groups sustainability material misstatement or loss.
The Committee assists the Board with reporting its assessment of the Groups principal risks and its review of the effectiveness of the risk management process.
tax advisory services provided to Group companies outside the EU.
In general, where the external auditor is selected to provide non-audit services it is because it is considered to have specific expertise or experience in the relevant area which means they it is most suitable provider of those services.
The Committee has reviewed the level of these services in the course of the year and is confident that the objectivity and independence of the auditor is not impaired by reason of such non-audit work.
The external auditor provides a report to the Committee at least once a year, setting out its firms policies and procedures for maintaining its independence.
The Committee considers that PwC remained independent and objective throughout 2017. antofagasta.
co. uk 93 ACCOUNTABILITY: AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Q.
What were the Committees main activities in 2017 Q.
How does the Committee interact with the Board relating to risk?
The Risk Management function presents to the Committee several I report to the Board following each Committee meeting, summarising times during the year, covering developments in the Groups risk the main matters reviewed by the Committee.
These regular reports management processes and Group-level strategic risks.
The General allow Directors to understand the main issues under consideration, Managers of the Groups operations present to the Committee at least and, when relevant, to discuss these matters in more detail with once a year, covering their assessments of their respective the Board.
operations key potential risks and any significant materialised risks.
The Risk Management function also presents directly to the Board, The analysis of key risks includes an assessment of the significance providing updates of the analysis of the Groups key risks and relevant of the risks based on the probability of the risk materialising and the developments in the risk management and compliance processes.
potential economic impact of the risk, as well as an evaluation of the We try to ensure that the review of risk by the Board is not quality of the controls in place in respect of those specific risks.
We compartmentalised into isolated sessions, but permeates everything also look at whether those risks have been increasing or decreasing that the Board considers.
To this end, operating update which the in significance.
The General Managers present their forecast of any CEO provides to the Board at each meeting covers any significant expected change in key risks over the coming 12 months.
If there is materialised risks, and all proposals which are presented to the Board a specific issue at one of the operations that requires more detailed incorporate an analysis of the principal risks relevant to the proposal.
understanding, we will ask the General Manager to attend the next These processes have assisted the Board in carrying out a robust meeting to discuss that issue.
I find this direct interaction between assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those the Committee and the General Managers extremely valuable not that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency only in terms of the direct insight into each operation it affords the or liquidity, and to assess the acceptability of the level of risks that Committee, but also in allowing us to convey the importance we arise from the Groups operations and development activities.
During attach to strong risk management processes.
2017 we commenced work on an updated review of the Groups risk The Committee also reviewed the principal cyber security risks appetite and risk tolerance.
This is a Board-led process, with the facing the Group, and the main control activities undertaken to Committee assisting in monitoring the progress of this work.
Each year the Board, with the support of the Committee, reviews the During 2017 the Group commenced work on an updated assessment effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control of the maturity of the Groups risk management process, and we have systems.
The review covers all material controls, including financial, been monitoring the progress of this activity.
No significant failures or Further information relating to the Groups key risks and risk management weaknesses were identified as a result of this review during 2017. processes is given in the Risk Management section of the Strategic Report As I explained earlier, from the start of 2017 we now have on pages to 16 and 17 members of the Audit and Risk Committee participating on the Projects Committee and the Sustainability and Stakeholder Management Committee, which allows close co-ordination between these Committees.
AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE, BOARD AND RISK MANAGEMENT FUNCTION INTERACTION BOARD The Risk Management function provides regular presentations The Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee reports to the covering changes in the Groups key Board following each Committee meeting, allowing a wider risks, major materialised risks, and discussion of the risk and compliance issues reviewed in updates on the risk management and detail by the Committee compliance processes AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE RISK MANAGEMENT FUNCTION The Committee supports the Board in its review of the There are detailed presentations at effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal each Committee meeting covering control systems the risk management process, details of significant whistleblowing reports, and updates in respect of compliance GENERAL MANAGERS OF THE OPERATIONS processes and activities The General Managers give detailed presentations to the Committee at least once a year, including on each operations key risks and materialised risks 94 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2017 GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE Q.
What are the Committees main responsibilities relating to compliance?
The Committee ensures that appropriate compliance policies and procedures are observed throughout the Group.
The Groups Risk Management function makes regular presentations to the Committee covering developments in the Groups compliance processes and significant compliance issues.
Chilean law requires the Group to appoint a Crime Prevention Officer.
The Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board in respect of the appointment of the Crime Prevention Officer, and monitors and oversees the performance of the role.
The Crime Prevention Officer is currently Alfredo Atucha, the CFO.
The Committee receives reports from the Risk Management function in respect of the Groups crime prevention model, in accordance with Chilean and UK anti-corruption legislation.
What were the Committees main activities in 2017 relating to compliance?
The Committee reviewed the Groups whistleblowing arrangements, which enable employees and contractors to raise concerns about possible improprieties or non-compliance with the Groups Code of Ethics in confidence.
This is important to allow any potential issues to be raised.
We received regular reports on any reported whistleblowing incidents, which detail the number and type of incidents, along with details of the most significant ones and the actions resulting from their investigation.
We reviewed updates in respect of the conflict of interest declarations by the Groups employees and suppliers, as well as details of the Groups limited relationships with politically exposed persons ie individuals who hold prominent public positions.
We also reviewed details of the compliance training undertaken by the Groups employees during the year.
Ollie Oliveira Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee antofagasta.
co. uk 95 ACCOUNTABILITY: SUSTAINABILITY AND STAKEHOLDER MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE REPORT Commitments must be fulfilled.
That is, and must be, the mind-set of the Sustainability and Stakeholder Management Committee, the Board and the whole Group.
Vivianne Blanlot, Chairman 2017 MEMBERSHIP AND MEETING ATTENDANCE Number Other regular attendees include the CEO, the Vice President attended of Corporate Affairs and Sustainability and the Secretary Vivianne Blanlot Chairman 8 8 to the Board.
Jorge Bande 8 8 Effective 1 January 2017, Ramn Jara and Tim Baker rotated 1 off the Committee, Vivianne Blanlot assumed the Committee Juan Claro 7 8 Chairmanship, and William Hayes and Jorge Bande joined William Hayes 8 8 the Committee.
Juan Claro was unable to attend one Committee meeting during the The Committee meets as necessary and at least twice per year.
Nevertheless, he reviewed Committee papers, provided comments to the Chairman ahead of the meeting and validated meeting minutes.
KEY RESPONSIBILITIES The Sustainability and Stakeholder Management Committee assists The Committee provides guidance to the Board in relation the Board in the stewardship of the Groups social responsibility to sustainability matters, reviewing and updating the Groups programmes and makes recommendations to the Board to ensure framework of strategies and policies including safety and health, that ethical, safety and health, environmental, social and community environmental, climate change, human rights, community and other considerations are taken into account in the Boards deliberations.
stakeholder issues, while monitoring and reviewing the Groups performance in respect of sustainability matters, indicators and targets.
KEY ACTIVITIES IN 2017 Policies and Safety and Community Environment commitments health relations Reviewed the 2017 Monitored the continued Evaluated the Groups Reviewed the new Antofagasta Minerals deployment of the Groups community and stakeholder environmental management Sustainability Report.
safety and occupational health relations model, Somos system and monitored its strategy.
Choapa, and monitored its deployment.
new Group-wide sustainability Monitored the work Reviewed the Groups policy.
conducted by the Independent Reviewed a new environmental compliance Technical Review Board Communications and Public programme.
Reviewed sustainability appointed to advise Los Affairs strategy.
aspects of the Groups Pelambres in the operation development projects at Los Reviewed plans to set up of the Mauro tailings deposit.
a technical training centre Reviewed a risk and safety at Los Vilos in partnership analysis of the transport with a technical education division which included the specialist.
launch of a fatigue and Reviewed an externallysomnolence programme for facilitated evaluation of the train and truck operators and Somos Choapa community a review of all 356 railway relations programme, whose crossings.
recommendations are being incorporated in the Groups processes and procedures.
96 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2017 GOVERNANCE COMMITMENT TO STAKEHOLDERS The Committee discusses topics and issues that are raised by the Groups stakeholders and ensures that they are considered as part of the Boards deliberations.
How does the Committee ensure that the Board takes into Q.
Significant progress has been made in relation to account the views and interests of stakeholders?
community relations at Los Pelambres.
What about stakeholders elsewhere in the Group?
The Committee met on eight occasions in 2017 and these sessions were regularly attended by Directors who are not Committee The future of our operating companies depends on committed members, including the Chairman of the Board.
and sustained collaboration with neighbouring communities and local, regional and national governments.
During 2017, the Committee Committee meetings provide a forum for more detailed discussion oversaw an evaluation of the Somos Choapa model as implemented of the key issues that matter for our workforce such as safety at Los Pelambres and the lessons learned from this programme and health, local communities and other stakeholders.
As Chairman are being used to assist with the deployment of similar models at of the Committee, I report on the Committees deliberations at the the other mining operations and at the transport division.
The model beginning of each Board meeting and, along with fellow Committee has attracted the attention of other organisations as a possible members, ensure that these are incorporated into the Boards best practice in stakeholder relations and the addressing of wider deliberations.
Further details on how the Board listens to and engages with stakeholders are set out on pages 98 and 99 Q.
What are the Committees priorities in 2018?
Our number one priority continues to be the safety and health of our workforce.
Meeting the Groups target of zero fatalities Q.
What were the key achievements overseen by the requires relentless application of the Groups safety standards Committee during the year?
and verification, monitoring and reporting by the Groups operating We are extremely pleased that there were no fatal accidents during companies.
We will continue to closely monitor safety performance the year.
We believe that the systematic and thorough application and the work being done across the Group to take occupational of safety standards and high levels of near-miss reporting by our health processes to the same level of maturity as the Groups operating companies has significantly contributed towards this safety standards and processes.
outcome and we will continue to focus on these standards and The Committee will continue to monitor the implementation reporting in our pursuit of a fatality-free working environment.
of the Groups environmental management system by the operating Work on the Environmental Impact Assessment EIA for the Los Group companies responsible.
The fulfilment of commitments by Pelambres Incremental Expansion project progressed during the year our operating companies is the foundation of our licence to operate.
and the EIA was approved in February 2018.
Preparatory work is also Work is under way to update climate change mitigation actions underway towards the submission of an EIA that would extend and associated carbon footprint metrics and measurable targets for Zaldvars mine life until 2029. reduced CO emissions were recently adopted as explained 2 The number of environmental commitments across the Group on page 63. continues to grow and currently stands at 6,745.
The Committee A good long-term relationship with our neighbours is built day by has focused on instilling recognition of the importance of fulfilling day.
The Committee will continue to monitor the implementation these commitments and seeking new approvals when new conditions of the Groups social programmes and the work that is being done or new technology require a practical adjustment to commitments with the communities near our operations.
During the year the Committee reviewed an  gap analysis of the Groups environmental commitments and an internally-driven gap closure plan which Vivianne Blanlot was presented to, and approved by, the Chilean Chairman of the Sustainability and Stakeholder Management Environmental Superintendency.
