ACCOUNTABILITY: BOARD EFFECTIVENESS REVIEWS REVIEWING THE BOARDS EFFECTIVENESS The Boards commitment to continuous improvement is reflected in its candid and thorough effectiveness reviews.
EXTERNAL REVIEW The most recent  Board effectiveness review considerable progress has been made across many aspects commenced in 2016 and concluded in 2017.
It was carried out by of the Boards activities, including a strong focus on cost and Independent Audit Limited Independent Audit which had competitiveness as well as considerable attention given to other previously conducted an  review of the crucial areas, including relations with local communities, and to effectiveness of the Board and its Committees in 2013 and was safety and health therefore well placed to assess progress on the committed action looking ahead, management will need to focus on the further plans carried out in the years since.
development of the information provided to Directors to help support discussion of the main challenges and risks.
In turn, Following the 2016  review and based the Board will need to assess how the Group will on interviews and reviews of Board and Committee respond to industry trends, macroeconomic papers, Independent Audit stated in its February developments and innovation 2017 report that: a very thorough approach to follow-through of the agreed Year 1 2016 actions had been adopted External effectiveness review, including benchmarking Annual review of the Chairman by the Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director In turn, the Chairman INTERNAL assessed each of REVIEW the Non-Executive Year 3 2018 Year 2 2017 Directors individual Following the Internal review, gap Progress assessment effectiveness,  closure and and gap closure from performance and review, the Chairman development of plan for external effectiveness potential to assume new and the Senior external assessment review Board or Committee Independent Director roles, as input to update Annual review of the Annual review of the met to agree an action the Board and Committee Chairman by the Chairman by the plan for closing the succession plans.
Non-Executive Non-Executive gaps identified by Directors, led by the Directors, led by the Independent Audit.
Significant improvements Senior Independent Senior Independent have been made to Board During the year, the Senior Director Director effectiveness over the past Independent Director also asked four years.
Non-Executive Directors to complete a survey on the The Board will continue to use Chairmans effectiveness.
At a the findings of the February 2017 meeting without the Chairman present, progress report to make additional, the Senior Independent Director presented focused improvements to Board and consolidated results to Non-Executive Directors Committee effectiveness.
and agreed on both positive aspects and The Board will conduct an internal effectiveness improvement opportunities, which were summarised in a assessment in 2018 in preparation for the next external feedback letter shared by the Senior Independent Director with the evaluation in 2019 or 2020.
The Chairman used these comments to improve further the effective operation of the Board.
We applaud the seriousness with which the Company takes its reviews of effectiveness and the follow-through.
Independent Audit Limited Independent Audit Limited is an external independent adviser with no other connection to the Company.
