102 103 Committee composition The membership of the Committees continues to be appropriate Our Committee consists of three independent non-executive and in accordance with best practice and the UK Corporate Nominations Directors.
At the request of the Committee, members of the Governance Code.
Consideration has been given to the Executive Committee, senior management team and external Committee s which Helen Gordon would join following her advisers may be invited to attend all or part of any meeting, appointment.
The Committee considered Helens skills and Committee report as and when appropriate.
experience and recommended that she become a member of the Remuneration Committee.
Meetings of the Committee During the year under review, the Committee held four meetings Recruitment of a new NED Dear Shareholder, in May, August, November and December which occurred either The Committee led the process to recruit a non-executive Director I am pleased to present to you the report before or after a scheduled Board meeting 2016: two meetings.
with support from the entire Board.
Spencer Stuart were chosen as of the work of the Nominations Committee our executive search providers due to their specialist knowledge of for 2017.
Board composition recruiting at Board level.
Spencer Stuart has no other connection As part of the Boards annual effectiveness review, described on with the Group and is a signatory to the Voluntary Code of 2017 has been a busy year for the page 101, the Committee considers the composition of the Board Conduct of Executive Search Firms.
Committee with particular focus on the and its Committees in terms of its balance of skills, experience, recruitment of a new independent nonlength of service, knowledge of the Group and wider diversity Spencer Stuart provided a long list of potential candidates executive Director NED following Stuart considerations.
This review held particular importance in 2017 as and first stage interviews were conducted by the Chair of the it formed the basis for the development of our NED specification Corbyns decision to step down from the Committee.
A final shortlist of three candidates was selected Board in May.
which we shared with recruitment specialists, Spencer Stuart, to for final stage interviews with the Committee members, CEO assist us in sourcing NED candidates.
and Chairman of the Board.
Helen Gordon was our preferred candidate following a rigorous recruitment process The skills and experience that we felt would add particular benefit The Committee was unanimous in their final recommendation to and we are delighted that she has joined to the Board was an independent non-executive candidate with the Board of Helen Gordon for the role of non-executive Director, us.
Helen has undergone a comprehensive extensive real estate sector knowledge and executive experience.
and were delighted to welcome Helen to our Boardroom in induction programme which we describe January 2018.
Helen is an excellent match for our requirements.
in full on page 103. p. 90 p. 133 Helens full biography Our policy on NED fees In addition to our recruitment activities, we continued to consider succession planning at Board and executive level: further information can be found on page 104 of this report.
The Board will monitor the actions arising from the Companys second Group-wide employee survey which was conducted in Simon Fraser the latter part of 2017 and is described in Chair of the Nominations Committee more detail on pages 82 to 84.
We were Helen Gordon pleased to note that the overall job Non-executive Director Key Induction events satisfaction score was high at 96%.
5 January 2018 Site tours around our properties within Focus areas for 2018 Induction aims the Tech Belt with insights provided by During 2018, the Committee will continue Gain an insight into the Derwent London portfolio and how Continue to focus on succession planning our senior management team to focus on succession planning and will we aim to generate long-term value for our stakeholders Monitor the induction programme for Helen Gordon 9 January 2018 Individual meetings with members of the review the reappointment of three of our Review the reappointment of three of our NEDs as they approach the Meet with the Executive Committee and senior management Executive Committee non-executive Directors as they approach to understand the day-to-day operations of the business end of their current three-year appointments 19 January 2018 Site tours of our Fitzrovia, Angel and the end of their current three-year and the culture of the Group Paddington properties with insights appointments.
Have discussions with the CEO on our KPIs, strategic provided by our senior management team Committee membership and attendance objectives, business model and our plans for the future 2 February 2018 Meeting with our corporate lawyers, If you wish to discuss any aspect of the Number Slaughter & May LLP Committees activities, I will be attending We aim to limit the amount of information provided as Independent of meetings Attendance 14 February 2018 Meeting with the CEO and Finance Director the upcoming AGM on 18 May 2018 and reading material during an induction process.
Helen was Simon Fraser, Chair Yes 4 100% to discuss the implementation of strategy would welcome your questions.
I am also provided with access to our electronic Board paper system Richard Dakin Yes 4 100% and our plans for the future available via our Company Secretary, David and Group intranet which provided easy and immediate Cilla Snowball Yes 4 100% Presentations on our key developments Lawler telephone: 44 0 20 7659 3000 access to the following key documents: in construction: 80 Charlotte Street, The Committees role and responsibilities are set out in the terms or email: company.
secretary@ Brunel Building and Soho Place W1 of reference which are available on the Companys website at: derwentlondon.
The Groups risk register: Individual meetings with members of www.
com investors governance board-committees Our 2018 budget and five-year plan: the Executive Committee Simon Fraser Recent broker reports and feedback from our shareholder Chair of the Nominations Committee engagement programme: To be arranged Meeting with Claudia Arney, Chair of the in advance of the Remuneration Committee, to gain an 27 February 2018 Information on our sustainability initiatives: next Remuneration overview of how our Remuneration Policy Recent reports from the external Auditor, PwC: and Committee meeting ensures a clear link between performance Matters reserved for the Board and Committee Terms and pay for executives of Reference.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 104 105 Nominations Committeereport continued Induction Succession planning Board The Company provides new Directors with a comprehensive and As Directors we have a duty to ensure the long-term success Our Board is a diverse and effective team who are focused on promoting the long-term success of the Group.
tailored induction process which includes visiting a number of of the Company which includes ensuring that we have a steady the Groups properties with senior management, meetings with supply of talent for executive positions and established succession the Groups audit partner and corporate lawyer together with plans for Board changes.
Non-executive industry experience Non-executive tenure excl.
Chairman meetings with members of the senior management team.
Years Number If considered appropriate, new Directors are provided with The Committee considers the Groups succession planning on external training that addresses their role and duties as a Director a regular basis to ensure that changes to the Board are proactively Communications 2 0-3 3 of a quoted public company.
Helens induction programme is planned and co-ordinated.
The length of tenure of our non- 3-6 2 Banking and finance 3 described in greater detail on page 103 and was developed executive Directors is contained on page 105.
6-9 1 Property 2 by the Groups Company Secretarial department and approved 9 0 Environmental and social 2 by the Chair of the Committee.
The Committee also monitors the development of the executive team below the Board to ensure that there is a diverse supply Diversity of senior executives and potential future Board members with At Derwent London, we ensure that appointments to our Board appropriate skills and experience.
The Executive Committee are made solely on merit with the overriding objective of ensuring considers the adequacy of the Groups succession plans below that the Board maintains the correct balance of skills, length of the Board as part of the five-year strategy review and provides service and knowledge of the Group to successfully determine updates to the Committee.
Appointment review A diversified Board brings constructive challenge and fresh During 2018, three of our non-executive Directors will reach the perspectives to discussions.
Our gender diversity policy end of their current three-year term of appointment.
All employees ensures that, where possible, each time a member of senior We have an experienced, diverse and dedicated workforce.
management or a Director is recruited, at least one of the long For Cilla Snowball and Claudia Arney this will be the end of their list of candidates is female.
We consider diversity, in its widest first three-year term on the Derwent London Board.
Simon Fraser sense and not limited to gender, during our Board composition has served on the Board for five years and will be approaching the Length of service Gender diversity reviews and during the development of recruitment specifications.
end of his second three-year term.
The non-executive Directors Years Number While we have identified areas where we could further improve will not be present when their appointment is reviewed.
our diversity balance, we do not positively discriminate during 67 All Under 3 36 employees 51 the recruitment process and are conscious that altering the When a non-executive Director reaches the end of their current 3-5 14 diversity of the Board can only be in conjunction with the three-year term, the Committee reviews their appointment and 5-10 35 10 Board of Directors underlying Board refreshment programme.
considers whether they should be recommended for a further incl.
the Chairman 10-15 14 3 three-year term subject to AGM reappointment on an annual 15-20 10 10 Senior Following the appointment of Helen Gordon on 1 January 2018 basis, by taking into account their: 20 9 management 4 our gender balance at Board level has further improved to be Men 23% women 2016: 15%.
contribution to Boardroom discussion: Women independence with particular attention being paid to their independence as they begin to approach nine years on the Board : length of tenure on the Board: Promoting diversity outcome of their individual annual effectiveness reviews: Employees by age Ethnic origin Board composition: and Derwent London fully support and are signatories to the Years Number time commitment to the appointment including other Property Week Diversity Charter and the RICS Inclusive external appointments.
We are founding supporters of Real 20-29 11 Asian 11 Estate Balance and we are also members of the City Women 30-39 37 Black 10 Network CWN which provides membership to all our senior We will report back on our review and recommendations 40-49 33 White British 76 female employees.
During the coming year, we will be hosting within the 2018 annual report.
50-59 27 White other 15 a CWN event at one of the buildings in our portfolio.
CWN is 60 10 Other 6 one of the longest established independent organisations for senior professional and business women in the UK.
Established in 1978, CWN is committed to furthering the professional and personal development of female talent in business.
Diversity is a fundamental principle of our business.
Signing this charter demonstrates our commitment to diversity and to helping establish a best-practice framework across the sector.
Damian Wisniewski, Finance Director, Note: these figures include Helen Gordon who was appointed as a non-executive Director from 1 January 2018. on signing the Property Week Diversity Charter.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017
