Nomination Committee Report The Committees principal activities in the year have been the arrangement of interim leadership, and the recruitment and appointment of our new Chief Executive Officer.
Dear Shareholder, The Committees thanks go to Simon Gordon, who, as interim Chief Executive The Nomination Committee the Officer, was able to provide excellent Committee plays a key role in appointing leadership during the transition period.
the right individuals to the Companys Board and senior leadership team, Since his appointment as Chief Executive and in their ongoing evaluation Officer, the Committee has engaged and development.
positively with Justin Ash and we are now supporting him in his plans In the first part of the year under review, to further strengthen the Companys the Committee was chaired by John senior leadership team.
Gildersleeve, in his role as Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Performance evaluation Director.
In anticipation of his retirement, In November, the Committee completed in March the Committee reviewed a list its annual performance evaluation.
of candidates to succeed him in the role, In discussing the findings, it was agreed prepared by Heidrick & Struggles, an that the Committee would become more Peter Bamford, independent worldwide executive actively involved in the development of Committee Chair search firm.
This review resulted in my skills and capabilities within the Executive appointment and I was pleased to join Committee and other members of the the Board as Deputy Chairman and senior leadership team, and in succession Senior Independent Director at the end planning.
To this end, post year end, of May 2017.
I look forward to chairing at our February 2018 Board meeting, the Nomination Committee.
the Committees Terms of Reference were modified to reflect this change Director and Senior Management changes in emphasis, and are available on Following my appointment, the the Companys website.
Committees immediate focus was on the arrangements required to ensure Diversity and inclusion continuity of leadership in the face of In the Committees report last year we Andrew Whites tragic illness and to noted the publication of the Hamptonenable Garry Watts to revert to NonAlexander review of gender leadership Executive Chairman of the Company.
in FTSE companies and in this years We again used Heidrick & Struggles in Annual Report we publish details of the our executive search, and in August the Companys staff diversity and gender pay Committee was able to review a strong gap, in line with reporting requirements list of candidates for the role of Chief see the Our people section on pages 44 Executive Officer.
I am pleased to report and 47. that we were able to secure the services of Justin Ash as permanent Chief Executive Officer.
76 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information Nomination Committee at a glance While Spire Healthcare employs a Committee membership and meeting attendance large majority of female staff and the The Nomination Committee members at the end of 2017 and the number of meetings Companys gender pay gap is lower than they each attended during the year were as follows the maximum number of meetings that the member could have attended is shown in brackets : average, we recognise that there is further progress to be made towards better Committee Committee meetings gender representation at Board and senior Member member since Position in Company attended in 2017 leadership levels.
Our aim is to move to Peter Bamford May 2017 Deputy Chairman and 5 5 33% female representation on the Board Committee Chair Senior Independent Director and Executive Committee as soon as Dame Janet Husband July 2014 Independent Non-Executive 7 7 practicable, commensurate with selection Director being on qualification and merit.
Garry Watts July 2016 Non-Executive Chairman 7 7 Re-election of Directors Committee members biographies are shown on pages 56 and 57.
John Gildersleeve also The Committee met in early 2018 to served as a member of the Nomination Committee until 26 May 2017 when he resigned review the continuation in office, and as a Director of the Company.
potential re-appointment, of all members The majority of Committee members were independent Non-Executive Directors at all of the Board.
Following this review, the times during the year, in line with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Committee recommended to the Board The Board appoints the Chair of the Committee, who must be either the Chairman of the that all Directors except for Simon Gordon, Board or an independent Non-Executive Director.
who resigned as an Executive Director on The Group Company Secretary, or their appointed nominee, acts as secretary to 1 March 2018, and Danie Meintjes, who the Committee.
has announced that he will not stand for re-election, be re-appointed, and hence all Role and responsibilities Directors will seek election or re-election The Committees foremost priorities are to ensure that the Group has the best possible leadership and to plan for both Executive and Non-Executive Director succession.
at the annual general meeting.
Its prime focus is, therefore, on composition of the Board, for which appointments will be made on merit against objective criteria.
The Nomination Committee advises Peter Bamford the Board on these appointments, oversees the recruitment processes, and also considers Chair, Nomination Committee retirements and resignations from the Board, and its other Committees.
The Committee 1 March 2018 will regularly examine succession planning based on the Boards balance of experience, overall diversity and the leadership skills required to deliver the Companys strategy.
Process for Board appointments When considering a Board appointment, the Committee will draw up a specification for the Director, taking into consideration the specific role together with the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of its existing Board members, the diversity of the Board, the independence of continuing Board members, together with the ongoing requirements and strategic development of the Group.
Care is taken to ensure that proposed appointees will have sufficient time to devote to the role and do not have any conflicts of interest The Committee will utilise the services of an executive search firm to identify appropriate candidates, ensuring that the search firm appointed does not have any other conflicts with the Group.
In addition, the Committee will only use those firms that have adopted the Voluntary Code of Conduct addressing gender diversity and best practice in search assignments.
A long list of potential appointees will be reviewed, followed by the shortlisting of candidates for interview, based upon the objective criteria identified in the specification.
Committee members will interview the shortlisted candidates, together with other Directors as appropriate, and identify a preferred candidate.
Following these meetings, subject to satisfactory references, the Committee will make a formal recommendation to the Board on the appointment.
The Committees terms of reference can be found at www.
com 77 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017
