Corporate Governance Report Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code in 2017 The UK Corporate Governance Code provides the standard for corporate governance in the UK.
The Financial Conduct Authority requires listed companies to disclose whether they have complied with the provisions of the UK Code throughout the financial year under review.
The Company has complied with the principles and code provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code issued in April 2016 the UK Code, throughout the year except as shown in the following table.
UK Code provision How has the Company not complied with the provisions of the UK Code?
2.1 From 14 March 2016 to 12 June 2017, the roles of Chairman Simon Gordon was appointed interim Chief Executive and Chief Executive Officer were exercised by Garry Watts.
Officer on 13 June 2017 and the roles were split.
Garry Watts resumed the position of Non-Executive Chairman on 1 July 2017.
3.1 Garry Watts was not independent on appointment to the The Non-Executive Directors have determined that Board having previously served as Executive Chairman of Garry Watts continues to lead the Board effectively.
Director independence Danie Meintjes has been nominated Conflicts of interest Independence is determined by ensuring to act as a Non-Executive Director Save as set out in the table below, that, apart from receiving their fees for by Mediclinic International PLC, the there are no actual or potential conflicts acting as directors or owning shares, principal shareholder, whose subsidiary, of interest between any duties owed by Non-Executive Directors do not have any Mediclinic Jersey Limited formerly the Directors or senior management to other material relationship or additional Remgro Jersey Limited, entered into the Company and their private interests remuneration from, or transactions with, a relationship agreement with the or other duties.
The Board will continue the Group, its promoters, its management Company in June 2015 the Relationship to monitor and review potential conflicts or its subsidiaries, which in the judgement Agreement.
Under the terms of of interest on a regular basis.
of the Board may affect, or could the Relationship Agreement, when Director Conflict appear to affect, their independence Mediclinic International PLC controls Danie Meintjes Chief executive officer of of judgement.
15% or more of the votes, it will be Mediclinic International PLC, entitled to appoint one Non-Executive The Chairman did not satisfy the which controls 29.9% of the Director to the Board.
It controls independence criteria on his appointment voting rights in the Company 29.9% of votes as at 1 March 2018. to the Board.
In addition, the Company as at 1 March 2018 The Directors believe that the terms does not consider the following two of the Relationship Agreement will Non-Executive Directors to be independent enable the Group to carry on its for the reasons given: business independently of Mediclinic Simon Rowlands previously held a senior International PLC.
position with the Companys former The Board considers that, excluding principal shareholder, Cinven: and the Chairman, half of the Board is independent of management and free from any business or other relationship that could affect the exercise of their independent judgement.
62 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information Key roles and responsibilities Peter Bamford Daniel Toner Garry Watts Justin Ash Deputy Chairman and Senior General Counsel and Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Independent Director Group Company Secretary The Chairman leads the Board The Chief Executive Officer The Board nominates one of The Group Company Secretary and is responsible for: manages the Group and is the independent Non-Executive supports the Chairman on Board responsible for: Directors to act as Senior corporate governance matters.
the leadership and overall Independent Director.
He is responsible for: effectiveness of the Board: developing the Groups He is responsible for: a clear structure for the strategic direction for planning the annual cycle operation of the Board and consideration and approval being an alternative contact of Board and committee its committees: by the Board: for shareholders at Board level meetings and setting the setting the Board agenda in day-to-day management other than the Chairman: meeting agendas: conjunction with the Group of the Groups operations: acting as a sounding board making appropriate Company Secretary and the application of the for the Chairman: information available to the Chief Executive Officer: and Groups policies: if required, being an Board in a timely manner: ensuring that the Board the implementation of intermediary for Non-Executive ensuring an appropriate level receives accurate, relevant the agreed strategy: and Directors concerns: of communication between and timely information about being accountable to, and undertaking the annual the Board and its committees: the Groups affairs.
reporting to, the Board on the Chairmans performance ensuring an appropriate level performance of the business.
evaluation: and of communication between when required, leading senior management and the the recruitment process for Non-Executive Directors: a new Chairman.
keeping the Board apprised of developments in relevant legislative, regulatory and governance matters: and facilitating a new directors induction and assisting with professional development, as required.
63 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Corporate Governance Report Continued Board and Committee structure The independent Non-Executive The Board received regular briefings on Ultimate responsibility for the Directors oversee the adequacy of the risk the trial of Ian Paterson and agreed the management of the Group rests with management and internal control systems basis for a settlement fund for the benefit the Board of Directors.
from their membership of the Audit and of his victims.
Risk Committee and Clinical Governance The Board focuses primarily upon The Board has a formal schedule of and Safety Committee CGSC, as well strategic and policy issues and is matters reserved to it and delegates as the remuneration for the Executive responsible for: certain matters to committees.
Directors from their membership of the Specific matters reserved for the Board leadership of the Group: Remuneration Committee.
considered during the year to 31 December implementing and monitoring effective As members of the Nomination 2017 included reviewing the Groups controls to assess and manage risk: Committee, the Non-Executive Directors performance monthly and year to date, supporting the senior leadership also play a pivotal role in Board succession approving capital expenditure, setting team to formulate and execute planning and the appointment of new and approving the Groups strategy the Groups strategy: Executive Directors.
monitoring the performance of the Group: and Your Board in 2017 The Boards plan for 2018 setting the Groups values During the year, the Board met for seven It is planned that the Board will convene and standards.
scheduled meetings but also convened on on seven formal scheduled occasions There is a specific schedule of matters other occasions, normally by telephone, during 2018, as well as holding any reserved for the Board.
to discuss certain specific matters of necessary ad hoc Board and committee business.
Director attendance at scheduled meetings to consider non-routine business.
The Executive Chairman and the meetings is shown on page 65.
The Chairman and the other NonChief Executive Officer The agenda at scheduled meetings in Executive Directors will meet on their own Between 14 March 2016 and 12 June 2017 covered standing agenda items, without the Executive Directors present.
2017, Garry Watts served as both including: a review of the Groups In addition, the Senior Independent Executive Chairman and Chief Executive performance by the Chief Executive Director and other Non-Executive Officer.
Simon Gordon was appointed as Officer or Chief Operating Officer, the Directors will meet without the Chairman interim Chief Executive Officer on 13 June current months and year to date financial present to discuss matters such as the 2017.
Garry Watts resumed the role of statistics by the Chief Financial Officer Chairmans performance.
Non-Executive Chairman on 1 July 2017. and a review of clinical performance.
The Board will maintain its focus on the The Company has set out in writing a In addition, the Board received a verbal Groups pursuit of its 2018 targets and division of responsibilities between the report from committee chairs, where their also review succession planning during Chairman, Senior Independent Director committee met immediately in advance the year.
Its activities will include: and the Chief Executive Officer.
of the scheduled Board meeting, and the review and approve the 2017 Board regularly received reports on legal The Non-Executive Directors Annual Report: and statutory matters.
The Non-Executive Directors bring a review the proposed final dividend During October and November, the Board wide range of skills and experience to the for 2017: devoted considerable attention to the Board.
The independent Non-Executive review the revised five-year strategic potential offer for the Company received Directors represent a strong, independent plan and approve the 2018 Annual from Mediclinic International PLC.
Before element on the Board and are well placed Operating Plan: reaching its decision to reject the potential to constructively challenge and support consider specific major themes: offer the Board gave consideration to the management.
They help to shape embed the risk management views of all stakeholders.
Danie Meintjes the Groups strategy, scrutinise the framework: did not attend Board meetings when performance of management in review the make up of the Board: and the potential offer was discussed.
meeting the Groups objectives and follow a rolling agenda, ensuring monitor the reporting of performance.
Also in 2017, the Board focused on major proper time for strategic debate.
elements of the Groups operations by: Their role is also to satisfy themselves Furthermore, the Board will remain with regard to the integrity of the Groups reviewing the opening of the two focused on continuous improvement financial information and to ensure that new hospitals at Manchester and of clinical quality and maintain the Groups internal controls and risk Nottingham, and progress made overall responsibility for the Groups management systems are robust at Spire St Anthonys Hospital: and system of internal control and risk and defensible.
receiving, reviewing and approving management processes via the relevant other major capital expenditure Board committees.
64 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information Board evaluation 2017 Action plan update The 2016 Board evaluation identified three principal areas of focus and associated actions to address them during 2017.
Area of focus Actions Progress 1 Ri sk management Continue to develop risk reporting, especially Regular reporting of Audit and Risk Committee and CGSC clinical, and the risk register to ensure the Board matters at each others meeting is now a standing item.
has adequate oversight of risk management Adle Anderson, chair of the Audit and Risk Committee, and risk appetite.
has been appointed a member of the CGSC to further Develop the relationship and interaction between strengthen the link.
the Audit and Risk Committee and CGSC.
Discuss and understand the Boards risk appetite.
2 Board Appoint a strong Senior Independent Director to The Board was pleased to appoint Peter Bamford composition replace John Gildersleeve when he leaves the Board.
as Senior Independent Director in May 2017.
His Review the roles of the Chairman, Senior Executive appointment ensures a strong independent presence Director and the Executive Directors.
3 Strategy Provide a mid-year strategy session update to the Following his appointment Justin Ash has taken the Board on progress made.
opportunity to review the Groups strategy and to present the results thereof to the Board in January 2018.
2018 Action plan The 2017 Board evaluation identified three principal areas of focus and associated actions to address them during 2018.
Area of focus Actions 1 Leadership Review future composition of the Board and succession plan having regard for the likely revisions and succession to the UK Corporate Governance Code in 2018. planning Support Justin Ash in building capability and succession in the executive team.
2 Risk management Maintain oversight and evaluation of risk management.
Continue to develop internal risk management capabilities and processes.
Oversee General Data Protection Regulation implementation project.
Ensure IT security remains robust.
3 B oard information Review information flows to from Board.
Disclosure Committee Executive Committee Board meeting attendance With the implementation of the EUs The Executive Committee meets twice a Non-Executive Chairman Market Abuse Regulations in 2016, the month, splitting its time between project 1,6 Garry Watts 5 7 Board established a Disclosure Committee work and strategic matters.
The Executive Deputy Chairman and Senior to ensure, under delegated authority from Committee delegates certain matters to Independent Director the Board, that the Company complies the Safety, Quality and Risk Committee 2 John Gildersleeve 0 3 with its disclosure obligations, specifically who have specific focus on safety, quality 3 under the Market Abuse Regulation and and risk matters respectively see the Peter Bamford 4 4 related legislation.
The Disclosure Governance framework on page 66.
Executive Directors Committee also manages the Companys 4 Catherine Mason served as Chief Justin Ash 1 1 share dealing code, ensuring colleague Operating Officer until October 2017, Simon Gordon 7 7 compliance and provides training where when she left the organisation.
The members of the Disclosure Andrew White 2 4 is currently in the process of recruiting Committee are disclosed below.
Adle Anderson 7 7 Share Schemes Committee Board meetings Tony Bourne 7 7 In addition, the Board delegates The attendance of the Directors who certain responsibilities in relation to the Dame Janet Husband 7 7 served during the year ended 31 December administration of the Companys share 7 Danie Meintjes 5 7 2017, at meetings of the Board, is shown schemes on an ad hoc basis to the Share in the following table.
The number of Simon Rowlands 7 7 Schemes Committee.
This committee meetings a Director could attend in the operates in accordance with the delegation year is shown in brackets.
of authority agreed by the Board.
1 G arry Watts resumed the role of Non-Executive 3 P eter Bamford was appointed Deputy Chairman 6 D uring the year both Garry Watts and Andrew White Chairman on 1 July 2017. and Senior Independent Director on 26 May 2017. were unfortunately unable to attend some meetings 2 J ohn Gildersleeve stepped down as Deputy Chairman 4 J ustin Ash was appointed Chief Executive Officer due to their medical treatment.
and Senior Independent Director on 26 May 2017. on 30 October 2017.
7 D anie Meintjes excused himself from Board meetings 5 A ndrew White sadly passed away on 22 July 2017. which discussed Mediclinic International PLCs potential bid for the Company.
65 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Corporate Governance Report Continued Governance framework in 2017 Garry Watts Chairman Key objectives: ensure effectiveness of the Board: promote high standards of corporate governance: ensure clear structure for the operation of the Board and its committees: and encourage open communication between all Directors.
The Board of Spire Healthcare Group plc The Board comprises nine Directors the Non-Executive Chairman, two Executive Directors and six Non-Executive Directors, four of whom are deemed to be independent for the purposes of the UK Code.
Daniel Toner serves the Board as General Counsel and Group Company Secretary.
Key objectives: leads the Group: oversees the Groups system of risk management and internal controls: supports the Executive Committee to formulate and execute the Groups strategy: monitors the performance of the Group: and sets the Groups values and standards.
Audit and Risk Clinical Governance Disclosure Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Garry Watts chair, Justin Peter Bamford chair, Committee and Safety Committee Committee Ash, Simon Gordon, Daniel Dame Janet Husband, Adle Anderson chair, Dame Janet Husband Tony Bourne chair, Toner, Antony Mannion Garry Watts Tony Bourne, chair, Adle Anderson, Adle Anderson, Dame Janet Husband Justin Ash, Tony Bourne, Peter Bamford Garry Watts Key objectives: Key objectives: Key objectives: Key objectives: Key objectives: monitors the integrity of promotes, on behalf of ensures that the advises the Board determines the financial reporting: and the Board, a culture of Company complies with on appointments, appropriate assists the Board in high-quality and safe its disclosure obligations, retirements and remuneration packages its review of the patient care: specifically under the resignations from for the Chairman, effectiveness of the monitors specific Market Abuse Regulation the Board and its Executive Directors Groups internal control non-financial risks and related legislation: committees: and and Group Company and risk management and their associated and reviews succession Secretary: and systems.
processes, policies and oversees the Companys planning for the Board.
recommends and controls: Share Dealing Code monitors the level i clinical and including employee and structure for other regulatory risks: training.
senior management ii health and safety: and remuneration.
Executive Committee Safety, Quality and Risk Committee The Group also operates an Executive Committee convened and chaired by A committee of the Executive Committee that focuses on safety, the Chief Executive Officer.
The team generally meets twice a month and quality and risk matters across the Groups operations.
its members are shown on pages 58 to 59.
Key objectives: Key objectives: assists the Chief Executive Officer in discharging his responsibilities: review the Groups clinical performance: ensures a direct line of authority from any member of staff to the review evidence of compliance with statutory notification requirements: Chief Executive Officer: and and assists in making executive decisions affecting the Company.
scrutinise all unexpected deaths occurring at hospitals.
66 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information To the extent that Directors are unable to Non-Executive Directors are required The Group Company Secretary ensures attend scheduled meetings, or additional to set aside sufficient time to prepare that any additional request for information meetings called on short notice, they will for meetings, and to regularly refresh is promptly supplied.
The Chairman, receive the papers in advance and relay and update their skills and knowledge.
through the Group Company Secretary, their comments to the Chairman for In signing their letters of appointment, all ensures that there is an ongoing process communication at the meeting.
The Directors have agreed to commit sufficient to review any internal or external training Chairman will follow up after the meeting time for the proper performance of their and development needs.
in relation to both the discussions held responsibilities, acknowledging that this As already noted, in the event of a general and decisions taken.
will vary from year to year, depending training need, in-house training will be on the Groups activities.
provided to the entire Board.
Necessary Effectiveness Directors are expected to attend all and relevant regulatory updates are Board composition Board and committee meetings, and any provided as a standing item at each The Board seeks to ensure that both it additional meetings, as required.
Each Board meeting in the Group Company and its committees have the appropriate Directors other significant commitments Secretarys report and Board briefing by range of skills, experience, independence were disclosed to the Board at the time of external advisers, where appropriate.
and knowledge of the Group to enable their appointment and they are required Information and support them to discharge their respective duties to notify the Board of any subsequent The Board ensures that it receives, and responsibilities effectively: for changes.
The Group has reviewed the in a timely manner, information of example, the 2018 Board calendar availability of the Non-Executive Directors an appropriate quality to enable it to includes both sessions on clinical and and considers that each of them is able to, adequately discharge its responsibilities.
statutory regulations, and hospital visits.
and in practice does, devote the necessary This is aided by the use of an online portal.
The Board considers its size and amount of time to the Groups business.
Papers are provided to the Directors composition to be appropriate for the During the Chairmans illness in 2017, in advance of the relevant Board or current requirements of the business but the other Directors ensured that adequate committee meeting to enable them to will continue to keep this under review.
governance standards were maintained make further enquiries about any matters Committee composition is set out in the at Board and committee meetings that prior to the meeting, should they so wish.
This also allows Directors who are unable than committee chairs and members of to attend to submit views in advance of Induction and training the committees are entitled to participate the meeting.
Generally, reference materials are in meetings of the Audit and Risk, CGSC, provided, including information about Outside the Board papers process, Disclosure, Nomination and Remuneration the Board, its committees, directors the Executive Directors provide written committees, unless by invitation of the duties, procedures for dealing in the updates to the Non-Executive Directors respective committee chair.
Groups shares and other regulatory and on important business issues, including Peter Bamford is the Deputy Chairman governance matters, and Directors are financial and commercial information.
In and Senior Independent Director.
advised of their legal and other duties, addition, relevant updates on shareholder Biographical details of the Directors and obligations as directors of a matters including analysts reports are are set out on pages 56 and 57. listed company.
also provided to the Board.
Appointments to the Board On appointment, Peter Bamford All Directors have access to the advice and Recommendations for appointments to completed a detailed induction services of the Group Company Secretary.
the Board are made by the Nomination programme that included meeting with There is also an agreed procedure in place Committee.
The Nomination Committee other members of the Board and the for Directors, in the furtherance of their follows a formal, rigorous and transparent senior leadership team.
He undertook a duties, to take independent legal advice, procedure for the appointment of thorough familiarisation of the business if necessary, at the Groups expense.
new Directors to the Board.
Further which included a visit to Spire Bristol information is set out in the Nomination Hospital.
The Companys brokers and legal Committee Report on pages 76 and 77. adviser also met with Peter to provide insight into the healthcare industry and Time commitment of the provide training on directors statutory Non-Executive Directors duties respectively.
The Non-Executive Directors each have a letter of appointment, which sets out the Justin Ash, on appointment as Chief terms and conditions of their directorship.
Executive Officer, spent considerable An indication of the anticipated time time learning about the business through commitment is provided in any a number of hospital visits and meeting recruitment role specification, and each colleagues.
He also received training on Directors letter of appointment provides his statutory duties.
details of the meetings that they are expected to attend.
67 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Corporate Governance Report Continued Election of Directors In considering a Situational Conflict, these Executive compensation and risk All the Directors, except John Gildersleeve, Directors act in the way they consider Only independent Non-Executive offered themselves for election or would be most likely to promote the Directors are allowed to serve on re-election at the third annual general success of the Group, and may impose the Audit and Risk Committee and meeting in May 2017 and, in future, will limits, or conditions, when giving Remuneration Committee.
The Nonbe re-elected in accordance with the authorisation or, subsequently, if they Executive Directors are therefore able to requirements of the UK Code.
bring their experience and knowledge of the activities of each committee to bear All Directors, except for Simon Gordon The Group Company Secretary records when considering the critical judgements who leaves the Company on 31 March the consideration of any conflict and of the other.
2018 and Danie Meintjes who will not any authorisations granted.
The Board seek re-election, will stand for election or believes that the system it has in place for This means that the Directors are in a re-election at the annual general meeting reporting Situational Conflicts continues position to consider carefully the impact in 2018.
The biographical details of each to operate effectively.
of incentive arrangements on the Groups Director standing for election or rerisk profile and to ensure the Groups election is included in the 2018 Notice Accountability Remuneration Policy and programme of Meeting.
The Board believes that each The Audit and Risk Committee are structured, so as to accord with the of the Directors standing for election is The Audit and Risk Committee Report long-term objectives and risk appetite effective and demonstrates commitment is set out on pages 70 to 73 and identifies of the Group.
Accordingly, its members, whose details are set out Financial and non-financial risk the Board recommends that shareholders on page 57.
The Clinical Governance and Safety approve the resolutions to be proposed The report describes the Audit and Risk Committee, with the Audit and Risk at the 2018 annual general meeting Committees work in discharging its Committee, collectively ensure that the relating to the election of the Directors.
responsibilities during the year ended control and monitoring of both financial The biographical details of all current 31 December 2017, and its terms of and non-financial risks is satisfactory.
Directors are set out on pages 56 and 57. reference can be found on the Groups In addition, both committees seek to website at www.
Directors indemnities ensure, as far as practicable, there are The Directors of the Company have Risk management and internal control no elements omitted or unnecessarily the benefit of a third-party indemnity The Board has overall responsibility duplicated and that all critical judgements provision, as defined by section 236 of for establishing and maintaining a receive the correct level of challenge.
the Companies Act 2006, in the Groups sound system of risk management and Relations with shareholders Articles of Association.
In addition, internal control, and for reviewing its The Board is committed to Directors and officers of the Group effectiveness.
This system is designed to communicating with shareholders are covered by directors and officers manage, rather than eliminate, the risks and stakeholders in a clear and open liability insurance.
facing the Group and safeguard its assets.
manner, and seeks to ensure effective No system of internal control can provide Directors conflicts of interest engagement through the Groups absolute assurance against material The Companies Act 2006 provides that regular communications, the annual misstatement or loss.
The Groups system directors must avoid a situation where general meeting and other investor is designed to provide the Directors with they have, or can have, a direct or indirect relations activities.
reasonable assurance that issues are interest that conflicts, or possibly may The Group undertakes an ongoing identified on a timely basis and are dealt conflict, with the Companys interests.
programme of meetings with investors, with appropriately.
Directors of public companies may which during 2017 was led by the Chief authorise conflicts and potential conflicts, The Audit and Risk Committee and Financial Officer and the Director, Strategy where appropriate, if a companys articles the Clinical Governance and Safety and Investor Relations and they attend a of association permit.
Committee, whose reports are set out majority of the meetings.
During the year, on pages 70 to 73 and pages 74 and 75, The Board has established formal there were in excess of 230 individual respectively, assist the Board in reviewing procedures to authorise situations where meetings, conference presentations, the effectiveness of the Groups risk a Director has an interest that conflicts, group lunches and telephone briefings management system and internal or may possibly conflict, with the interests with investors.
controls, including financial, clinical, of the Company Situational Conflicts.
Directors declare Situational Conflicts, so that they can be considered for authorisation by the non-conflicted directors.
68 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information The chair of the Remuneration Committee Modern slavery Annual general meeting led a consultation on executive During the year, the Board approved its Shareholders are encouraged to remuneration in February 2017 with both first Modern Slavery Act statement which participate at the Companys annual major shareholders and voting agencies.
confirmed that Spire Healthcare is general meeting, ensuring that there committed to acting ethically and with is a high level of accountability and The Chairman, Senior Independent integrity in all its business dealings, and to identification with the Groups strategy Director and committee chairs remain implementing and enforcing systems and and goals.
A summary of the proxy voting available for discussion with shareholders controls to prevent modern slavery in our for the 2017 annual general meeting on matters under their areas of own business and our supply chains.
We was made available via the London Stock responsibility, either through contacting are also committed to ensuring there is Exchange and on the Companys website the Group Company Secretary or transparency in our approach to tackling as soon as reasonably practicable on directly at the annual general meeting.
modern slavery in our own business and the same day as the meeting.
The Company reports its financial results supply chains.
Spire Healthcare expects to shareholders twice a year, with the the same high standards from all of its publication of its annual and half yearly contractors, suppliers and other business financial reports.
All suppliers are required to these announcements, presentations comply with the law as well as our policies or teleconference calls are held with and codes to combat the use of forced, institutional investors and analysts, compulsory or trafficked labour, or anyone and copies of any presentation materials held in slavery or servitude, whether issued are made available through adults or children.
We expect our suppliers the Companys website at in turn to hold their own suppliers to the www.
All supplier-facing staff receive training to raise awareness All Directors are expected to attend on the requirements of the Modern the Companys annual general meeting, Slavery Act and are required to support providing shareholders with the the continued risk assessment and roll-out opportunity to question them about of our due diligence processes.
issues relating to the Group, either during the meeting, or informally afterwards.
A copy of our Modern Slavery Act statement can be found on our website.
Results of our third annual general meeting held on 26 May 2017 were: Summary of resolution Total votes for % Total votes against % Votes withheld 1 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 99.96 0.04 12,059 2 2016 Directors Remuneration Report 99.58 0.42 1,088,678 3 Final Dividend 100.00 0.00 0 4 to 11 Election or re-election of Directors Between Between Maximum 91.91 and 99.85 0.15 and 8.09 11,830,224 12 Reappointment of Auditors 99.98 0.02 1,160,559 13 Auditors remuneration 100.00 0.00 0 14 Political expenditure 98.39 1.61 1,000 15 Authority to allot shares 95.61 4.39 0 16 Disapplication of statutory pre-emption rights 94.31 5.69 1,484,171 17 General meetings to be held on 14 clear days notice 98.18 1.82 0 Special resolution.
The Corporate Governance Report has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Daniel Toner General Counsel and Group Company Secretary 1 March 2018 69 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017
