Clinical Governance and Safety Committee Report Robust and effective clinical governance is central to Spire Healthcares focus on consistently delivering the highest quality healthcare for all our patients.
Dear Shareholder, we extend the visit in order to engage with Hospital Directors, their senior On behalf of the Clinical Governance management teams and front line staff.
and Safety Committee the Committee or CGSC, I am pleased to present our We also have a tour of the hospital fourth annual report on the Committees facilities and discuss issues with members oversight of the Companys clinical services, of the Medical Advisory Committee and promotion of best practice and clinical other consultants in different specialties.
These extended Clinical Governance visits give Committee members better Robust and effective clinical governance is insight into the particular strengths fully recognised throughout the Company of an individual hospital as well as an as the keystone to delivering excellence appreciation of the local healthcare in every aspect of patient care.
Firstly, I would like to acknowledge the Hospitals visited this year were to Spire support the Committee has received Gatwick Park, Spire Manchester and from the Board as a whole as well as Spire Leicester.
Professor Dame Janet Husband, that of individual non-executive members Committee Chair Our clinical governance framework who have attended our meetings held continues to underpin our approach in different Spire Healthcare hospitals to clinical assurance.
The Committee around the country.
regularly reviews a comprehensive set I am extremely grateful to the central of data from our Clinical Reviews, our leadership team who have provided the Quality Reports and a number of key Committee with a comprehensive review performance indicators, including patient of clinical quality across our business.
in the year we welcomed Alison Dickinson Our clinical assurance methodology in her new role as Chief Nursing Officer.
follows that of the Care Quality She has been working closely with our Commission CQC domains Safe, Group Medical Director, Dr Jean-Jacques Effective, Responsive, Caring, and Well-led.
fide Gorter, driving forward a programme of continuous development and ever This approach allows us to align our own improving clinical quality.
assessments with CQC inspections and to develop our services accordingly in a The appointment of our new Chief continuous bid to deliver outstanding care Executive Officer, Justin Ash, has brought across our network.
new energy and focus to our drive for clinical excellence.
While much has been This framework is augmented by a accomplished during 2017, our Group continued programme of Themed Medical Director recently launched Reviews, which this year focused on: Project Outstanding which will introduce cancer, an area the Company continues a programme of clinical and non-clinical to develop and where the drive for high workstreams to ensure that outstanding standards involves co-ordinating our quality is delivered in everything we do approach to bring our cancer teams within every hospital and clinic across together and working to strict protocols: our network.
complaints management, where the Company redesigned its approach to 2017 activities improve the patient experience: During 2017, the CGSC met on seven pharmacy, where the Company has occasions, three of which were at one of reorganised its service under a single the Companys hospitals.
When holding management and governance our Committee meetings at hospitals, programme: 74 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information pathology, where the service has been Clinical Governance and Safety Committee at a glance redesigned with a new framework reporting directly to the clinical team: Committee membership and The Clinical Governance and Safety Committee must have at least two members, Resident Medical Officers RMOs, one of whom must be an independent Non-Executive Director.
The Board appoints where we gained solid assurance from the Chair of the Committee who must be an independent Non-Executive Director.
fines, our preferred supplier, on the appropriate selection, training and Committee Committee meetings management of this key clinical cadre Member member since Position in Company attended in 2017 of trained medical practitioners.
Dame Janet Husband July 2014 Deputy Chairman and 7 7 Committee Chair Senior Independent Director In addition to regular governance reports Tony Bourne July 2014 Independent Non-Executive 7 7 the Committee receives Responsible Director Officer Reports reviewing consultant Garry Watts July 2014 Executive Chairman 2 7 appraisal and revalidation data as well as a recently introduced new metric of Justin Ash October 2017 Chief Executive Officer 1 1 monitoring surgical intervention ratios across different specialties.
This allows The maximum number of meetings that the member could have attended during 2017 is shown in brackets.
Committee members biographies are shown on pages 56 and 57. benchmarking of surgical procedures Andrew White was also a member of the Committee until he sadly passed away on and is already proving to be a useful 22 July 2017.
Garry Watts was unable to attend a number of meetings due to his medical tool in assessing specialist practice treatment.
The Group Company Secretary, or their appointed nominee, acts as secretary and understanding practice trends.
A culture of empowerment, team Role and responsibilities working and transparency is fostered to These include: the benefit of all our staff and patients.
promoting a culture of high quality and safe patient care and experience: In this light, whistleblowing is seen as a reviewing the Group Medical Directors Clinical Assurance Report and the quarterly valuable tool for raising and understanding review of serious adverse events: issues and oversight of its inquiry is an monitoring patient health and safety matters: important role for the Committee both reviewing patient information governance matters: reviewing the clinical matters on the Whistleblowing Register: and in identifying and rectifying any patient promoting continuous clinical improvements.
As discussed in my report last year, during The Committees terms of reference can be found at www.
com 2017 the Committee worked closely with the Audit and Risk Committee ARC in jointly reviewing our approach to risk.
The been immensely valuable in bringing Developing our work two committees have clarified and revised teams together and in sharing information While our Committee is functioning well, their terms of reference, with the ARC and best practice.
our approach and areas of focus will being responsible for overall risk, while the continue to be enhanced, linked to our CGSC concentrates on patient safety.
The Hospital visits annual evaluation of performance and CGSC also has oversight of patient related At a personal level, I have now begun the Companys needs.
aspects of Health and Safety Governance a second round of informal visits to all During 2018, the Committee looks and Information Governance.
I do this primarily to listen forward to overseeing new approaches to staff and patients: their engagement to quality governance, in particular to Regulatory inspections is extremely valuable in furthering my working with Justin Ash and his leadership Of the Spire Healthcare hospitals in understanding of our services and of team in their drive to deliver outstanding England inspected by the CQC last year, individual hospital culture.
They also help care across every hospital and every three were rated Outstanding and to provide a strong link between the Board service in the Company.
There were also many of Directors and our patients as I visit examples of hospitals rated Outstanding individual patients on the wards to ask Professor Dame Janet Husband and Good for individual domains across about their experience.
I am delighted to DBE FMedSci, FRCP, FRCR our group.
In addition, our two hospitals report that all the patients I have spoken Chair, Clinical Governance and in Scotland were rated Very Good by to this year have been unanimous in their Safety Committee Healthcare Improvement Scotland and praise of our staff and their care.
1 March 2018 Spire Cardiff Hospital received a Health care, in all its guises, and however favourable inspection report Healthcare technically advanced it may become, will Inspectorate Wales does not give ratings.
always be an intensely personal activity.
The process of preparing for and I thank all our staff for their dedication to undergoing regulatory inspection has delivering the highest quality treatment and care.
75 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017
