106 107 Audit Committee report Dear Shareholder, Committee effectiveness Committee composition I am pleased to present our Audit As part of the wider Board evaluation The Committee is composed of four independent non-executive Committee Report for 2017 which process, we considered the Committees Directors with a good diversity of experience including real describes our activities and areas of focus.
own procedures to identify areas for estate and finance.
The Chair, Stephen Young, is a qualified further improvement and to ensure we accountant and has an appropriate level of recent and relevant Financial reporting continue to operate efficiently and within financial experience to discharge his duties as Chair of the We were pleased to advise the Board that our terms of reference.
the 2017 annual report and accounts are all aspects of the review were positive fair, balanced and understandable and and that the Committee continues to Meetings of the Committee operate effectively.
During the year under review, the Audit Committee met four provide the necessary information for our shareholders to assess the Companys times, in February, May, August and November 2016: four position, prospects, business model and Further engagement meetings.
In addition to the Committee members, meetings strategy.
Our review process is described I welcome questions from shareholders are attended by the external Auditor and members of the in greater detail on page 111. on the Committees activities.
If you wish Groups senior management team, at the request of the to discuss any aspect of this report, please Committee Chair.
Two additional meetings are held each Our review of the significant financial contact me via our Company Secretary, year with the Groups independent property valuers CBRE judgements made during the year and key David Lawler telephone: 44 0 20 to consider the valuation of our property portfolio.
financial reporting issues are described on 7659 3000 or email: company.
secretary@ page 108 of this report.
I will be attending Financial reporting the 2018 AGM, alongside my fellow Board One of the Committees principal responsibilities is to review New audit partner members and look forward to meeting and report to the Board on the clarity and accuracy of the Groups financial statements, including the annual report Following the 2018 year-end audit and you there.
When conducting their reviews, publication of the 2018 annual report, it is intended that Craig Hughes will step down Stephen Young the Committee considers: as our audit partner, after overseeing our Chair of the Audit Committee audit process for five years.
After discussing 27 February 2018 the accounting policies and practices applied see page the handover process in detail with Craig 110 of this report for further details on the financial controls Hughes and our Finance Director, Damian and procedures in place for our financial reporting : Stephen Young Wisniewski, we are assured that the material accounting judgements and assumptions made by Chair of the Audit Committee transition and handover period will be management or significant issues or audit risks identified efficiently managed.
by the external Auditor see pages 108 and 143 : and compliance with relevant accounting standards and other Focus areas for 2018 Internal control regulatory financial reporting requirements including the On behalf of the Board we monitor the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Support the transition period as Craig Hughes prepares to step down Groups internal controls to ensure they as our audit partner remain robust and are effectively Consider the effectiveness of our whistleblowing procedures and The Committee received reports from management on the implemented.
Details of this years review, potential impact of the new accounting standards which will whether they can be widened to include other key stakeholders Review our internal control procedures in respect to money laundering alongside an overview of the internal become effective on 1 January 2018 IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 and and the prevention of tax evasion controls in place at Derwent London, 1 January 2019 IFRS 16.
The reports included the outcome of are discussed on pages 109 to 110.
In an external review, conducted by BDO, which verified our internal conjunction with this review, we considered assessment of the impact and implementation at Derwent London.
Committee membership and attendance whether Derwent London could benefit Further details on the new accounting standards are contained from the establishment of an internal audit on page 154.
Following our discussions with management, the Number function.
We concluded that there remains Committee is satisfied that management are fully prepared to Independent of meetings Attendance no need to establish an internal audit comply in full with the new standards.
Stephen Young, Chair Yes 4 100% function.
However, it was agreed that we Simon Fraser Yes 4 100% would engage with external providers of Richard Dakin Yes 4 100% internal audit services from time to time if Claudia Arney Yes 4 100% matters were identified by the Committee The Committees role and responsibilities are set out in the terms which required such review further of reference which are available on the Companys website at: information can be found on page 110. www.
com investors governance board-committees Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 108 109 Audit Committee report continued Significant financial judgements Any key accounting issues or judgements made by management are monitored and discussed with the Committee throughout the Working with the Auditor Non-audit services year.
The table below provides information on the key issues discussed with the Committee in 2017 and the judgements adopted.
The external Auditor the lead audit partner and their team The objective of maintaining the Non-Audit Services Policy is attends the Committees meetings to provide insight and to ensure that the provision of such services do not impair the challenge and to present their reports on the review of the external Auditors independence or objectivity.
During 2017, Key issues Judgement half-year results and audit of the year end financial statements.
PwC provided non-audit services which totalled 43,715 which Valuation of the The Committee considers this to be the major area of judgement in determining the accuracy of the financial To further facilitate open dialogue and assurance, the Committee includes the review of our half-year results 2016: 38,500.
Groups property statements as it is the principal component in determining the Groups net asset value.
The procedures detailed holds private sessions with the Auditor without members of portfolio below enabled the Committee to be satisfied with the assumptions and judgements used in the valuation of the Groups property portfolio.
Overview of our Non-Audit Services Policy Under the policy, all services provided by the external Auditor Taxation and REIT The Committee was aware that, should the Group not comply with the REIT regulations, it could incur tax The Committee received a training update from PwC in November other than the audit itself are regarded as non-audit services.
compliance penalties or ultimately be expelled from the REIT regime which would have a significant effect on the financial 2017 which was tailored to the Committees requests and covered Our policy draws a distinction between permissible services statements.
The Committee noted the frequency with which compliance with the regulations was reported to areas such as corporate reporting best practice, non-financial which could be provided subject to conditions set by the the Board and considered the margin by which the Group complied.
Based on this and the level of headroom reporting, risk reporting and viability.
The Committee agreed Committee and prohibited services which may not be provided shown in the latest Group forecasts the Committee agreed that, once again, no further action was required for the current year.
that the session provided a valuable overview of key issues and by the external Auditor except in exceptional circumstances requested that a further training session be organised in 2018. when the Auditor has been provided approval by the Financial Borrowings and Calculation of the fair values of the Groups financial instruments, such as the 2019 convertible bonds and Conduct Authority.
The type of non-audit services deemed to derivatives interest rate swaps, was seen as an area of elevated risk.
The Committee noted that the valuations were carried Annual review of the external Auditor be permissible include: assurance work on non-financial data, out by an independent third party which had valued the instruments in previous years and that the Auditor used its own treasury specialists to reperform the valuation and to assess the reasonableness thereof.
The Auditor Following the year end audit, the Committee assessed the tax services including tax advisory, and reporting best practice.
subsequently confirmed that no issues had arisen relating to the valuation.
The Committee was satisfied with effectiveness of the external Auditor.
The assessment took into the level of assurance gained from these procedures.
account the views of senior management and was supported by The Committee has provided pre-approval which allows a questionnaire which covered the Auditors resources, objectivity, management to appoint the external Auditor to conduct character, knowledge, organisation, judgements and quality permissible non-audit services if they fall below a set fee level.
Valuation External Auditor of reporting.
The Committee review the pre-approval limit on an annual basis The value of our property portfolio is reviewed for our interim and The Committee has primary responsibility for overseeing the and it is currently set at 25,000.
Permissible services which are year end results and, as at 31 December 2017, was independently relationship with the external Auditor including annually assessing As part of their review, the Committee reviewed the audit plan, above the pre-approval limit require approval from at least two valued at 4.9 billion and principally consists of 87 properties in their performance, effectiveness and independence and which was focused on risk and materiality, and considered the members of the Audit Committee including the Committee 13 villages across London.
recommending to the Board their reappointment or removal.
quality of the planning, whether the agreed plan had been met, Chair.
When considering if the services should be approved, the extent to which it was tailored to our business and its ability the Committee will ensure that the Auditors objectivity and Valuing our portfolio is a significant part of how we assess our Following a comprehensive tender in 2014, to respond to any changes in the business.
Any non-audit service provided success as it underlies our net asset value and subsequently our  LLP PwC were appointed as the by the external Auditor is reported to the Board.
In the unlikely total return a KPI see page 31 and a performance measure Groups Auditor.
Prior to this appointment, BDO had been the An important aspect of managing the external Auditor relationship event that the provision of non-audit services would exceed for our executive Directors variable remuneration.
Due to Groups Auditor since 1985.
The Committee anticipates that the is ensuring there are adequate safeguards to protect Auditor 100,000, the Committee would request Board approval.
its significance, the Committee monitors the objectivity and next competitive tender will be conducted no later than 2024 in objectivity and independence.
In assessing this matter the accordance with current regulation that requires a tender every independence of CBRE our independent property valuers and Committee considered the following: Internal control host the valuation meetings, without management being present.
There are no contractual obligations which restrict the On an ongoing basis, the Committee reviews the adequacy and Committees choice of Auditor or a minimum appointment period.
The Auditors independence letter which annually confirms their effectiveness of the Groups system of internal financial controls The valuation meetings typically occur in February and July prior independence and compliance with the Financial Reporting which are described briefly in the table on page 110. to the main Audit Committee meetings and, due to his position Craig Hughes will reach the end of his term as audit partner Councils FRC Ethical Standard.
as Managing Director of Capital Advisors Limited, a wholly-owned following the 2018 year end audit.
The Committee will meet with The operation, and compliance with, the Groups policy on While Derwent London is a large business in terms of the size of subsidiary of CBRE Limited, Richard Dakin does not take part in the new audit partner during the year and will work alongside non-audit work being performed by the Auditor.
its balance sheet and market capitalisation, we are relatively small discussions regarding the valuation of the Groups property Craig and our Finance Director to ensure a smooth handover and The tenure of the external Auditor and the lead audit partner.
when considering the number of people working directly in the portfolio further information is provided on page 96. induction process.
The first audit under the supervision of our new How the Auditor identified risks to audit quality and how these business.
Almost all of our staff work in the same building and are audit partner will be the 2019 year end audit.
were addressed, including the network level controls the in close proximity to our Executive Committee members, making Key matters discussed during the meetings include the Auditor relied upon.
close supervision and monitoring easy to apply.
Our Group assumptions underlying the valuation, any valuation which The Company has complied with the provisions of the Competition The outcome of the FRCs inspection of PwCs audit quality.
structure is organised to be simple and transparent and our internal required a greater level of judgement than normal, for example and Markets Authoritys Order for the financial year under review in control procedures and policies are well established, reviewed development properties, and any valuation movements that were respect to audit tendering and the provision of non-audit services.
After taking all of these matters into account, the Committee annually and subject to external verification from our advisers.
not broadly in line with that of the Investment Property Databank concluded that PwC had performed their audit effectively, IPD benchmark.
The assumptions are discussed with the external efficiently and to a high quality.
Accordingly, the Committee The Committee received detailed reports on the operation and 000 2017 2016 Auditor and an update on the matters discussed at the meetings has recommended to the Board that PwC be reappointed as effectiveness of the internal controls from members of the senior Audit of Derwent London plc and are provided to the Board.
Auditor to the Group for the year ending 31 December 2018. management team.
The outcome of the external audits at half subsidiaries 340 330 Any feedback arising from the annual assessment will be year and year end are reviewed in respect to our internal Review of interim results 40 39 discussed with the external Auditor for implementation into controls.
The Committee also receives updates on the policies Other non-audit services 4 0 the audit plan for the next year end audit.
and procedures in place and how these are being communicated Total fees 384 369 to and complied with by our staff.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 110 111 Review of the 2017 annual report Specific consideration for the 2017 annual report Audit At the request of the Board, the Committee was asked to review The strategic report was restructured to provide clearer the Groups annual report and accounts and to consider whether, explanation and linkage between our strategy, business model Committee report taken as a whole, they were fair, balanced and understandable.
and KPIs In carrying out this review, and subsequently reporting its opinion The presentation of our business model has been revised to to the Board, the Committee had regard to the following: provide greater clarity on how we generate value see page 18 continued A new Responsibility section has been created which combines Fairness and balance our sustainability and corporate responsibility reporting and Is the report open and honest, are we reporting on our includes additional information on our corporate culture and The Committee remains satisfied that the review of internal controls did not reveal any significant weaknesses and they continue to weaknesses, difficulties and challenges alongside our successes stakeholder engagement, how we conduct our business and operate effectively.
During 2018, the Committee will review the controls on money laundering and the prevention of tax evasion and and opportunities?
our focus on health and safety see pages 72 to 85. policies on non-audit services and whistleblowing.
Do we provide clear explanations of our KPIs and is there strong linkage between our KPIs and our strategy?
The Committee paid particular attention to these changes to Overview of internal controls Do we show our progress over time and is there consistency in ensure they did not impact on the balance and clarity of the Governance Our governance framework shown on page 95 supports effective internal control through an approved schedule our metrics and measurements?
Following its review, the Committee confirmed framework of matters reserved for decision by the Board and the Executive Committee, supported by defined responsibilities, to the Board that the 2017 annual report is fair, balanced and levels of authority and supporting committees.
Understandable provides sufficient clarity for shareholders to understand our Financial reviews We have comprehensive systems of financial reporting and forecasting which are conducted frequently during the Do we explain our business model, strategy and accounting business model, strategy and performance.
and internal year and include both sensitivity and variance analysis.
An annual budgeting exercise is carried out with three rolling policies simply using precise and clear language?
procedures forecasts prepared during the year.
A five-year strategic review is prepared annually.
Break-even and sensitivity Do we break up lengthy narrative with quotes, tables, case analyses are included in both the five-year strategic review and the rolling forecasts.
Risk identification The Risk Committee regularly reviews the Groups risk register, the schedule of key controls and key risk indicators, Do we have a consistent tone across the annual report?
and monitoring for financial and non-financial risks, throughout the year.
The schedule of key controls provides evidence of how Are we clearly signposting to where additional information the controls are being operated and their effectiveness.
Our risk management procedures are robust and include can be found?
initiatives such as a tenant at risk register and a back-up IT facility.
The Risk Committee report is on pages 112 to 115.
Training and staff Staff compliance with internal policies are routinely confirmed to the Committee.
Staff are aware of the delegated Viability statement awareness authority limits set by the Board and confirm their understanding of our internal policies which are contained We have reviewed the process and assessment of the Companys prospects and viability made by management for the next five on our Group intranet and in our staff handbook.
Staff have six-monthly performance reviews with any training years which formed the basis for the viability statement contained on page 35 of the Risk report.
Detailed below is an overview requirements identified and fulfilled within six months.
The Group operates a whistleblowing policy which includes of the process.
access to an external helpline.
Approach Details External During the year, no matters had been raised by PwC as a result of their controls testing undertaken as part of Time period The Committee challenged management as to whether the five-year time period adopted remains appropriate.
The Groups VAT procedures are subject to ongoing periodic review by external advisers.
Comprehensive reviews of the Groups financial controls have also been undertaken with assistance from external Strategic review and A detailed five-year strategic review was conducted which considers the Groups cash flows, dividend cover, advisers.
Regular annual credit ratings, including risk assessments, are conducted by Standard & Poors.
Each year, sensitivity analysis REIT compliance and other key financial ratios over the period.
These metrics are subjected to sensitivity at renewal, a comprehensive review of the Groups insurance cover is prepared by its independent insurance adviser.
analysis to assess the impact of the principal risks to the Groups ability to deliver its strategic objectives, which are set out on pages 36 to 43, both individually and in unison.
Stress testing our risk The model was stress tested to consider its resilience specifically to those risks that, if they occurred, were likely resilience to have a significant impact on the Groups solvency and liquidity over the five-year review period.
These risks Internal audit Our whistleblowing procedures are included within our staff were identified as those that would affect property values, the availability of finance or the Groups cash flow and On an annual basis the Committee considers whether Derwent handbook which is provided to all new members of staff and a scenario was modelled that assumed a severe decrease in property values combined with significant letting London would benefit from the establishment of an internal published on our Group intranet and on staff noticeboards.
delays at the Groups developments and a decrease in rental income.
The starting point for the scenario testing audit function.
At their November 2017 meeting, the Committee Following our last internal review of the procedures, it was agreed has been substantially helped by the actions taken in 2017 to increase recurring earnings and further reduce held discussions on this issue and requested external clarification that our Senior Independent Director would act as an independent our loan-to-value LTV ratio to only 13.2%, its lowest level for many years.
The assumptions were considered of which FTSE 250 companies in our sector did have internal point of contact for whistleblowing concerns.
The Committee felt extreme but none of the key metrics were breached with our LTV ratio remaining below 50% and net interest audit functions.
that having the Senior Independent Director as a point of contact cover staying above 280%.
for serious concerns added brevity and independent oversight to Stress testing our Our business model was also stress tested for a fall in property values.
As a result of the substantial 473m In February 2018, the Committee reviewed the Groups working the procedures and reassures our employees that their concerns business model of property disposals in 2017 and our actions to grow recurring earnings, NAV gearing was down to 15.7% at practices and, due to the relatively small scale and level of would be handled with sufficient seniority.
December 2017 and interest cover was increased to 4.54 times.
In addition, our cash and available undrawn complexity of the organisation, the focused nature of the Groups facilities grew to 523m meaning that our committed development pipeline was fully funded.
The stress testing business and the close involvement of Directors in day-to-day Our whistleblowing policy ensures that any significant issues established that, all other assumptions remaining unchanged, it would take a fall in values in excess of 65% to operations, concluded there remains no need to establish an relating to potential fraud, are escalated to the Chair of the cause the Group to breach its financing covenants.
For areas where a high degree of specialist Committee immediately.
The Committee receives updates from Brexit As a predominantly London-based Group we are particularly susceptible to changes which can adversely impact knowledge is required or where there are higher risks, the the Company Secretary on the operation of the whistleblowing on Londons future prosperity.
We considered a range of Brexit negotiation outcomes and their potential impact Committee agreed that external assurance will be sought.
During the year under review, we did not receive any on our business model, strategy and viability.
Although an adverse Brexit settlement for London would negatively whistleblowing messages 2016: no messages.
impact on our business, it would be unlikely to affect the long-term viability of the Group.
Whistleblowing Review of financing A comprehensive review of the financing requirements of the Group over the five-year period was carried out, As a business we seek to conduct ourselves with honesty and The Committee will consider the effectiveness of our requirements having regard to the level of unutilised facilities at the year end and the assumptions in the five-year review whistleblowing procedures during the coming year and will integrity and believe that it is our duty to take appropriate concerning capital recycling.
measures to identify and remedy any malpractice within or consider whether other key stakeholders could be included affecting the Company.
All of our employees embrace our high in their scope.
standards of conduct and are encouraged to speak out if they witness any wrongdoing which falls short of those standards.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017
