94 95 Corporate governancestatement Effective leadership Culture Governance framework We believe that our culture is a key strength of our business Our Board and we see the benefits of our strong culture on our employees We pride ourselves on conducting our business in an open and transparent manner.
Our governance framework Led by our Chairman, Robert Rayne, the Board is committed to engagement, retention and productivity.
remains flexible due to our culture and allows for fast decision making and effective oversight.
promoting the long-term success of the Group for the benefit of our shareholders and other stakeholders.
Our Directors We monitor the culture of the Group, by meeting regularly with The Board are highly skilled professionals, who bring a range of skills, members of the management team and reviewing the outcomes perspectives and corporate experience to our Boardroom.
Within the Responsibility section, on The Board is primarily responsible for setting the Groups strategy for delivering long-term value to our shareholders and other pages 82 to 84, there are further details on the outcome of the stakeholders, providing effective challenge to management concerning the execution of the strategy and ensuring the Group The Board is responsible for decisions relating to the Groups latest employee survey and how our employees describe maintains an effective risk management and internal control system.
strategy, capital structure and financing, any major property acquisition or disposal, the risk appetite of the Group and the authorisation of capital expenditure above the delegated Annual review of strategy p. 89 p. 90 p. 97 Board activities in 2017 Biographies Roles and responsibilities authority limits currently set at 10m.
Although the Board The Board, Executive Committee and members of the senior is formally required to authorise capital expenditure above management team meet annually at an off-site location to review, this limit, the open nature of our organisation means that discuss and challenge our strategy.
Our annual strategy review the Board is aware of all active projects within our portfolio.
was held on 23 June 2017 in London and included: The Board delegates certain matters to its four principal committees When making their decisions, the Board consider: Presentations from the Executive Committee on the five-year plan and the key assumptions underlying the projections.
Nominations Committee Audit Committee Risk Committee Remuneration Committee our desire to always act with integrity in an open and Presentations from senior management on: Responsible for ensuring our Responsible for reviewing, Responsible for reviewing Responsible for establishing Board and its Committees and reporting to the Board and monitoring the the Groups Remuneration honest manner: The importance of maintaining our balanced portfolio: have the correct balance on the Groups financial Groups key risks and the Policy and ensuring there the interests and well-being of our employees: Updates on the investment market: of skills, knowledge and reporting, maintaining an effectiveness of the risk is a clear link between our our impact on local communities and the environment: Our asset management activities: experience and ensuring appropriate relationship management systems.
performance and the the wants and needs of our current and future tenants: and Derwent Londons Fit for the Future initiative: adequate succession plans with the Groups Auditor remuneration we pay.
developing relationships with our key contractors and suppliers.
Co-working: and are in place.
and monitoring the internal p. 112 Read the report Managing relationships with our contractors.
p. 116 Read the report Our Board has established the governance framework illustrated Presentations from external guest speakers on occupier trends p. 102 Read the report p. 106 Read the report in the chart on page 95 to support the development of good and cyber security.
governance practices throughout the Group.
The Executive Potential risks and scenarios which could impact on the Group Committee has been delegated responsibility for ensuring over the next five, 10 and 15 years.
The terms of reference of each Board Committee are available on the Groups website at: www.
com that policies and behaviours set at Board level are effectively Debates on the adequacy and depth of our planning for the communicated and implemented across the Groups business.
Our intranet is also used as a platform for employees to access The lessons we have learnt over the past five years and how our policies and be kept fully informed of the latest Group news.
this can be implemented into our five-year plan for the future.
Executive Committee Key responsibilities Our annual strategy review is a valuable tool to keep strategy at Set strategy and deliver value to shareholders and stakeholders: the forefront of discussions and to ensure it remains flexible and The Board delegates the execution of the Companys strategy and the day-to-day management of the business to the Monitor management activity and performance against targets: relevant in our changing environment.
We have organised our Executive Committee.
Provide constructive challenge to ensure management remains next strategy review for 13 June 2018. focused on our strategic objectives: and Promote the long-term success of the Group for the benefit p. 20 p. 92 Our strategy Members of stakeholders.
Supporting committees The Group operates a number of supporting committees which provide oversight on key business activities and risks such as: the Sustainability, Health and Safety, IT Steering, Credit and Cost Committees.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 96 97 Corporate governance statement continued Independence An example of this policy in effect, is in relation to Richard Role and responsibilities The independence of our non-executive Directors is considered Dakin, who is the Managing Director of Capital Advisors Limited Our Board is composed of the Chairman, six executive Directors, six independent non-executive Directors and is supported by our on a regular basis to ensure that they remain capable of providing a wholly owned subsidiary of CBRE who are the Groups external Company Secretary.
Their key responsibilities are set out below: unbiased and objective contribution to Boardroom discussions.
To mitigate against a potential conflict of Chairman Chief Executive CEO Any Director who has concerns about the running of the Group interest, Richard does not take part in any considerations of the Responsible for the effective running of the Board and Executing the Groups strategy and commercial objectives or a proposed course of action is encouraged to express those valuation of the Groups property portfolio at either Board or ensuring it is appropriately balanced to deliver the Groups together with implementing the decisions of the Board and concerns which are then minuted.
No such concerns were Committee level.
In addition, he has no involvement in any strategic objectives its Committees raised during 2017. discussions or decisions regarding the appointment of CBRE or the fees paid to them.
During the annual performance evaluation Promoting a Boardroom culture that is rooted in the To keep the Chairman and Board appraised of important and principles of good governance and enables challenge, strategic issues facing the Group The Chairman held a number of meetings with the non-executive of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors, the impact Directors without executive management being present.
debate and transparency of this role on Richards independence has been considered.
To ensure that the Groups business is conducted with the These meetings are useful to safeguard the independence The Board continue to conclude that Richard remains Ensuring that the Board as a whole plays a full and highest standards of integrity, in keeping with our culture of our non-executive Directors by providing them with time independent both in character and judgement.
constructive part in the development of strategy and to discuss their views in a more private environment.
Managing the Groups risk profile, including the maintenance that there is sufficient time for Boardroom discussion Directors are required to notify the Company as soon as they of appropriate health, safety and environmental policies Effective engagement between the Board and its The Board considers that our non-executive Directors remain become aware of a situation that could give rise to a conflict or shareholders independent from executive management and free from any potential conflict of interest.
The register of potential conflicts business or other relationship which could materially interfere of interest is regularly reviewed by the Board to ensure it remains Senior Independent Director SID Non-executive Directors NEDs with the exercise of their judgement.
The Board are satisfied that potential conflicts have Provide a sounding board for the Chairman in matters of Provide constructive challenge to our executives, help to been effectively managed throughout the period.
governance or the performance of the Board develop proposals on strategy and monitor performance All Directors have confirmed as they are required to do against our KPIs Available to shareholders if they have concerns which annually that they have been able to allocate sufficient time Information sharing have not been resolved through the normal channels of Ensuring that no individual or group dominates the Boards to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
Our Directors are The Board and its Committees are provided with comprehensive communication with the Company decision making required to notify the Chairman of any alterations to their external papers in a timely manner to ensure that the members are fully commitments that arise during the year with an indication of the briefed on the matters to be discussed at their meetings.
To at least annually lead a meeting of the non-executive Promoting the highest standards of integrity and corporate time commitment involved.
The Chairman of the Board and the Chairs of the Committees Directors without the Chairman present to appraise the governance throughout the Company and particularly at set the agendas for upcoming meetings with support from the performance of the Chairman Board level On 1 January 2018, Stephen Young became a non-executive Company Secretary.
To act as an intermediary for non-executive Directors Determining appropriate levels of remuneration for the senior Director of The Weir Group PLC.
Stephen notified our Chairman when necessary executives in advance of his appointment and the Board has confirmed that There is a schedule of upcoming matters which is routinely it does not believe that this change in directorship will effect discussed by the Board and its Committees throughout the To act as an independent point of contact in the Groups Review the integrity of financial reporting and that financial Stephens commitment to, or involvement with, the Derwent year.
At each meeting, the agenda for the upcoming meeting is whistleblowing procedure controls and systems of risk management are robust London Board nor will it give rise to a potential conflict of interest.
discussed, to allow our non-executive Directors to see the areas we intend to tackle, and provides an opportunity for their input The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separately held and their responsibilities are clearly established, set out in writing and We have established an agreed procedure by which Directors and requests.
regularly reviewed by the Board.
can, for the purposes of discharging their duties, obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
The Directors utilise an electronic Board paper system which No Director had reason to use this facility during 2017. provides immediate and secure access to papers.
We aim to ensure that the information shared with our Board is of sufficient Conflict of interests depth to facilitate debate and to fully understand the content As a non-executive Directors independence could be impinged without becoming unwieldy and unproductive.
Papers to the Board where a Director has a conflict of interest, the Board operates a are required to be clear and concise with any background material policy that restricts a Director from voting on any matter in which included as an appendix to the papers.
they might have a personal interest unless the Board unanimously decides otherwise.
Prior to all major Board decisions, the Chairman requires the Directors to confirm that they do not have a potential personal conflict with the matter being discussed.
If a conflict does arise, the Director is excluded from discussions.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 98 99 Corporate governance statement continued Risk management Risk management framework How we identify risk Our Board have ultimate responsibility for ensuring the Group have At Derwent London, our risk management activities span Risks are identified through workshop debates between the Executive Committee and members of senior management, analytical robust risk identification and management procedures in place.
three focus areas: techniques, independent reviews and use of historical data and lessons learnt.
The diagram on page 113 illustrates the Groups risk management structure and how certain risk management activities are Corporate governance: Protecting our shareholders and At the Boards strategy review on 23 June 2017, scenarios for the future were considered which assisted with the identification of delegated to the level that is most capable of overseeing and stakeholders interests and to discharge our legal potential risks and how they could impact on our strategy see page 94.
The continuous review of strategy and our environment, managing the risks.
responsibilities: ensures that we do not become complacent and that we respond in a timely manner to any changes.
Operations: Ensure service delivery is maintained and the The Groups risk tolerance is set by the Board and is the level long-term viability of the Group: and of risk we are willing to accept to achieve our strategic objectives.
Projects: Ensure that projects are delivered to the required How we assess risk Our overall risk tolerance is low and is contained in our Risk standard, on time, on budget and in accordance with our Following the identification of a potential risk, the Executive Committee undertake a detailed assessment process to: Appetite Statement see the table below for an overview of this high standards.
This tolerance, alongside our culture, informs how our gain sufficient understanding of the risk to allow an effective and efficient mitigation strategy to be determined: staff respond to risk.
Due to our openness and collaborative work allow the root cause of risks to be identified: p. 34 style, any potential problem, risk or issue is identified quickly so An overview of the Groups risk profile estimate the probability of the risk occurring and the potential quantitative and qualitative impacts: and appropriate action can be taken.
understand the Groups current exposure to the risk and the target risk profile which will be achieved following the completion of mitigation plans.
p. 36 Principal risks facing the Group Our approach to risk management is based on the International Risk Management Standard ISO31000 and consists of a Risk p. 112 Risk Committees report How we monitor risk Management Policy, Risk Appetite Statement and Risk Management Process Document.
Once a risk has been identified and assessed, a risk owner is assigned who is considered to be in the best position to influence and monitor the outcome of the risk.
As part of our risk management procedures, the Executive Committee and Risk Committee routinely conduct monitoring exercises Overview of risk appetite: to ensure that risk management activities are being consistently applied across the Group, that they remain sufficiently robust and to identify any weaknesses or enhancements which could be made to the procedures.
Category Risk tolerance Operational Operational risks include health and safety risks, continuity of the IT systems Health and safety Low Monitoring activities include: risks and retention of the senior management team.
IT continuity Low Staff retention Medium the regular review and updating of risks and the risk registers: Financial risk Other than market-driven movements that are beyond the Groups immediate REIT status Low independent third-party reviews of the risk management process to provide further assurance of its effectiveness: control, the Group will not generally accept risks where it is probable that: Credit rating Low alerting the Board to new risks and changes to existing risks: Decrease in asset value Medium monitoring how the risk profile is changing for the Group: and Asset values decline by more than 100m from the Groups annual budget: Profits Medium providing assurance that risks are being managed effectively and where any assurance gaps are in existence, identifiable EPRA profit before tax deviates by more than 5m from the Groups annual budget: Cost overruns Medium action plans are being implemented.
Cost overruns occur on capital projects of more than 5% of the approved capex Interest cover Medium budget: and The Groups interest cover ratio will fall to within 20% of the level set in the How we respond to risk Groups borrowing covenants.
We implement controls and procedures in response to identified risks with the aim of reducing our risk exposure, so that it is aligned It is recognised that inherent market risk may result in these financial tolerances, or below our risk appetite.
The mitigation plans in place for our principal risks are described in greater detail on pages 36 to 43. in particular the assets limit, being exceeded.
The Board accepts this market risk but seeks to manage and mitigate its impact where possible.
Reputational The Group has a low tolerance for risk in connection with reputational risk.
Brand value Low risk In particular, this level of risk tolerance relates to any action that could Defibrillators adversely affect the Derwent London brand.
As part of our proactive approach to risk management, we Regulatory risk The Groups tolerance for regulatory risk arising from statute or the UK Corporate Statutory Low decided to install equipment in our managed properties to Governance Code and from adherence to best practice guides.
Governance Low provide an immediate response to cardiac arrest.
With 30,000 people sustaining cardiac arrest each year, a persons chance of survival falls by approximately 10% for each minute that passes without defibrillation.
We installed defibrillator units in the 20 locations where we have a trained on-site resource, which provides our tenants with assurance that we are taking steps to counter such a common medical occurrence.
Weekly inspections of the defibrillators are carried out and our staff received training on their use.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 100 101 Corporate governance statement continued Engaging with our shareholders Property conferences Our performance, training and development Training and development In 2017 we attended 13 property conferences in London, With the ever-changing dynamic environment in which Derwent We recognise the importance of clear communication and Amsterdam, New York, Cape Town and Dublin.
Evaluation London operates, it is important for our executive and nonproactive engagement with our shareholders.
A summary of our On an annual basis, an evaluation process is undertaken which executive Directors to remain aware of recent, and upcoming, shareholder engagement programme has been provided below.
Remuneration consultation considers the effectiveness of the Board, its Committees and developments.
We require all Directors to keep their knowledge During 2016, as part of our comprehensive review of our individual Directors.
This review identifies areas for improvement, and skills up-to-date and include training discussions with the Investor meetings remuneration structure, we consulted a number of our major informs training plans for our Directors and identifies areas of Chairman in our annual performance reviews.
During 2017, the Group held over 250 investor meetings with 170 shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee was grateful for knowledge, expertise or diversity which should be considered existing and potential investors.
Of these, 73 were shareholders the feedback received which was incorporated into our final in our succession plans.
As required, we invite professional advisers to provide in-depth at the year end and their ownership represented over 60% of the Remuneration Policy which received 98.40% votes in favour updates.
Updates and training is not solely reserved for legislative at our 2017 AGM.
The Committee continues to encourage developments but aims to cover a range of issues including, but shares in issue.
The evaluation for the year ended 31 December 2016, was an open and constructive dialogue with shareholders and conducted in Q1 2017 and externally facilitated by Lintstock, not limited to, market developments and trends, economic, Investor meetings are predominantly attended by our CEO, their representative bodies.
an independent third party which carries out no other work for the environmental and social considerations.
Our Company Secretary Finance Director and at least one other senior executive.
As part of this process, Lintstock conducted confidential provides regular updates to the Board and its Committees on The meetings focused on the Groups portfolio, strategy and the Annual General Meeting AGM interviews with each member of the Board.
The Board felt that the regulatory and corporate governance matters.
Where significant views were expressed, Our 2017 AGM was held on 19 May 2017 and we were interview process allowed matters to be discussed in greater detail either during or following the meetings, these were recorded and delighted to receive in excess of 89% votes in favour for all and for areas of potential improvement to surface through debate.
During 2018 we have organised presentations for the Board and circulated to all Directors.
In 2017, we held our first sustainability of our resolutions.
The 2018 AGM is to be held on 18 May at We anticipate that our next externally facilitated review will be its Committees on the following topic areas: roadshow in the Netherlands.
The Westbury hotel, Bond Street, London W1S 2YF and we conducted in Q1 2020. encourage our shareholders to attend.
The AGM provides an cyber risk management: opportunity for private shareholders in particular to question In Q1 2018, the evaluation was completed using a questionnaire regular Audit Committee training sessions which will include A calendar of our main shareholder events in 2017 the Directors and the Chair of each of the Board Committees.
which focused on the key themes which arose from the 2017 an update on accounting standards : and January Property conference in London externally facilitated review.
The responses were collated and executive remuneration trends and best practice.
February 2016 results presentation Annual report provided on an anonymous basis to the Chairman of the Board and March Roadshows Netherlands and UK Our annual report and accounts is available to all shareholders.
the Chairs of the Committees.
As a result of this evaluation, the All Directors have access to the services of the Company Property conferences London and New York Through our electronic communication initiatives, we aim to make Board is satisfied that its structure, balance of skills and operation Secretary and any Director may instigate an agreed procedure Salesforce presentations our annual report as accessible as possible for our shareholders, continues to be satisfactory and appropriate for the Group.
whereby independent professional advice may be sought at the April Salesforce presentation who can opt to receive a hard copy in the post or PDF copies via Companys expense.
email or from our website.
The Board has identified a number of areas which it wishes May Annual General Meeting AGM to focus upon during 2018, including people and talent 2017 Q1 Business update Corporate website management, our gender pay gap, succession planning at Salesforce presentations The Groups website, www.
com, has a dedicated Board level, our investment programme and compliance Sustainability roadshow Netherlands investor section which includes our annual reports, results matters including General Data Protection Regulation GDPR.
June Property conferences Amsterdam, Dublin and London presentations which are made to analysts and investors at the July time of the interim and full year results and our financial and August 2017 H1 Results presentation dividend calendar for the upcoming year.
Roadshow UK We create websites for specific developments which are used to September Roadshow Netherlands explain the Groups current activities in greater detail.
For example, Property conferences London and New York you can find further information on the Brunel Building and October 80 Charlotte Street here: November 2017 Q3 Business update Equity conferences London www.
com December Property conference Cape Town Debtholder engagement If shareholders have any concerns, which the normal channels of Our Finance Director, Damian Wisniewski, hosts the annual communication to the CEO, Finance Director or Chairman have failed meeting of the holders of the London Merchant Securities Limited to resolve, or for which contact is inappropriate, then our Senior 175m 6.50% secured bonds 2026 in May or June each year.
Independent Director, Simon Fraser, is available to address them.
Key contacts for our shareholders Institutional shareholders and fund managers We have included contact details for our Investor Relations Our senior executives maintain regular contact with institutional Team, Company Secretary and our Registrars on page 210. shareholders and fund managers, through presentations and visits to our Groups property assets.
In 2017, we hosted 60 property tours.
The Board receives regular reports on these meetings which includes a summary of any significant issues raised by the shareholders.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017
