112 113 Risk Committee report Dear Shareholder, Committee composition Risk management I am pleased to present our Risk Committee The Committee is composed of three independent non-executive During the year under review, the Committee reviewed the report for 2017 which describes our Directors.
In addition to the Committee members, the Chairman Groups risk management procedures including the criteria matrix activities and areas of focus during the year.
of the Board, other Directors, senior management or the external which forms the basis for how risks are classified and assessed.
Auditor may be invited to attend all or part of any meeting as and The Committee agreed that the criteria matrix should assess risks At Derwent London, the management when appropriate and necessary.
on a gross and net risk basis previously, risk was only assessed of risk is treated as a critical and core on a gross basis and that the impact rating for financial risks aspect of our business activities.
Our risk Meetings of the Committee should be adjusted to better reflect the risk tolerance levels set management framework is described in During the year under review, the Risk Committee met four times, for the Group.
Our risk management procedures are described in greater detail on pages 98 to 99. greater detail on pages 98 to 99. in February, May, August and November 2016: four meetings.
With the continuing economic and political Key activities of the Committee during 2017 A robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group is uncertainty sparked by the referendum In addition to routinely reviewing the Groups risk register, regularly performed, which takes into account the risks that could decision to leave the EU, our responsibility is the Committees main areas of focus during 2017 were: threaten our business model, future performance, solvency or to ensure that management are proactively liquidity, as well as the Groups strategic objectives.
In order to planning for the risks and challenges which Met with the Groups health and safety consultants, ORSA, and gain a more comprehensive understanding of the risks facing the could arise from the consequences of the received a presentation on how we manage and mitigate health business and the management thereof, the Committee periodically Brexit negotiations and the eventual and safety risks at our construction sites further information on receives presentations from senior managers and external advisers.
Of particular concern is the page 114 : impact unfavourable negotiations could As part of our anti-bribery and corruption controls, the Following these reviews, the Committee has confirmed to the Board have on the UK economy and specifically Committee reviewed the Groups gifts and hospitality register that it is satisfied that the Groups risk management and internal London which will feed through into our see page 114 for more details and the Groups conflict of control systems operated effectively throughout the period.
leasing activities and ultimately the interest register, on a quarterly basis: valuation of our portfolio.
Received regular updates on our cyber security initiatives and received a presentation from Capgemini on the outcome of Risk management structure During the review of the five-year plan, their cyber security audit more on page 114 : Board we worked with management to identify Received an update on recent legal developments which are the various scenarios that could arise from of particular relevance to the Risk Committee from the Groups Richard Dakin Overall responsibility for risk management and internal control the Brexit negotiations and the mitigation legal advisers, Slaughter & May LLP: Chair of the Risk Committee Sets strategic objectives and risk appetite plans being put into place.
Sensitivity Discussed with management the project plan in place for the Sets delegation of authority limits for senior management analyses were conducted which tested the implementation of GDPR requirements: resilience of our strategic plan and included Reviewed an assessment of the Groups procedures for Focus areas for 2018 a number of worst-case scenarios.
Due to preventing the facilitation of tax evasion: Risk Committee Audit Committee our strong financial structure, Derwent Provided with regular updates on a fire safety audit conducted The ongoing review of the Groups key risks London remains flexible and able to on our entire portfolio following the Grenfell Tower fire tragedy Monitor health and safety across the Group Monitors and reviews the Monitors assurance and internal weather the uncertainty of these possible Ensure compliance with the General Data Protection Regulations GDPR further information on page 81 : and Groups risk register control arrangements events.
More information on our principal Met with the Groups insurance brokers, JLT, to discuss the Monitor the testing of the Groups cyber attack risk, information security Identifies and evaluates key risks Manages the external audit and business continuity plans risks are contained on pages 36 to 43. risks and insurance being put into place in respect to the Soho and tolerance levels and ensures process and reviews the Place development.
they are appropriately managed Auditors reports 2017 was another important year for the Committee membership and attendance Committee and I have set out our key Executive Committee activities on page 113.
Number Independent of meetings Attendance Maintains the Groups risk register The upcoming AGM is on 18 May 2018 Richard Dakin, Chair Yes 4 100% Manages the Groups risk management procedures and I will be in attendance to answer any Reviews the operation and effectiveness of key controls Cilla Snowball Yes 4 100% questions on the Committees activities Provides guidance and advice to staff on risk identification Stephen Young Yes 4 100% that you may have.
If you wish to contact and mitigation plans The Committees role and responsibilities are set out in the terms me, I am available via our Company Secretary, David Lawler telephone: of reference which are available on the Companys website at: Senior management www.
com investors governance board-committees 44 0 20 7659 3000 or email: company.
Engages with the Executive Committee to identify risks Allocated risk managers oversee and manage risks Richard Dakin Chair of the Risk Committee 27 February 2018 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 114 115 Risk Committee report continued Health and safety construction Anti-bribery and corruption Legal updates During 2017, we revised our know your client procedures to Health and safety is a vital element in our business activities.
We are committed to the highest standards of ethical conduct General Data Protection Regulations GDPR further tighten our processes in this area.
In 2018, management The Group is positively committed to providing a safe and integrity in our business practices and adopt a zero tolerance The GDPR, which come into force on 25 May 2018, will require will arrange training sessions for our staff, and in particular the environment at all our properties for the benefit of tenants, approach to bribery and corruption.
An overview of our policies a revised and tougher approach to the handling and using of four groups detailed above, to raise awareness of the issues.
and procedures in this area is contained in the table below.
Derwent London holds relatively limited personal of our ongoing governance process, we will be reviewing our antidata, relating mainly to human resources, CCTV and private Business continuity and disaster recovery In May 2017, the Committee met with ORSA who have been bribery and corruption procedures for areas of further residential data.
Derwent London has formal procedures for use in the event appointed as our corporate health and safety advisers for all improvement during 2018. of an emergency that disrupts our normal business operations construction projects from January 2017.
ORSA outlined to the We have appointed legal advisers, TLT, to assist us with our data which consist of: Business gifts and Any gift or hospitality received must Committee the main elements of their role and the key health and mapping and compliance project in respect to GDPR.
A steering corporate hospitality: be reasonable in value, appropriate to safety risks at the major constructions sites, including 80 Charlotte group has been established to manage the project and ensure A Crisis Management Team CMT composed of key personnel the occasion and provided openly and Street, the Brunel Building and The Copyright Building.
that all key tasks are completed on time.
In addition, each deemed necessary to assist with the recovery of the business.
It must not compromise, department has appointed a Data Champion to ensure the The Business Continuity Plan empowers the CMT to make nor appear to compromise, the Group ORSA also provided an overview of our health and safety successful implementation of the projects outcomes and strategic and effective decisions to support the recovery of nor the business judgement of our staff.
performance and the Committee were pleased that there has All staff are required to complete ongoing governance.
the business until we are able to return to normal working.
quarterly returns, which are submitted been a significant improvement in our Reporting of Injuries, A Business Continuity Plan BCP which serves as the centralised to the Company Secretary, for gifts or Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations RIDDOR Comprehensive training programmes have been arranged for all repository for the information, tasks and procedures that would hospitality received in excess of a preperformance for the period 2016 to 2017. of our staff, including our Data Champions, and are scheduled to be necessary to facilitate Derwent Londons decision-making agreed limit set by the Committee.
This be completed during the first few months of 2018. process and its timely response to any disruption or prolonged includes cases where the limit is reached Information and cyber security interruption to our normal activities.
The aim of the BCP is to from one supplier or contact over a To safeguard the security and privacy of information entrusted The Committee and Board will be routinely updated on the enable the recovery of prioritised business operations as soon 12-month period.
The Committee review to us, we have robust procedures in place.
The procedures projects progress and to date, are satisfied that management are as practicable.
all instances where the limit is exceeded.
ensure that we: undertaking all necessary steps to ensure the Groups compliance An off-site disaster recovery suite is available in the event of an Facilitation payments: Facilitation payments are bribes and are with GDPR.
emergency to provide IT and data facilities to our staff who either strictly prohibited.
Facilitation payments are safeguard the security and privacy of our customers and work on site at the suite or via our agile working capabilities.
made to facilitate or speed up bureaucratic employees, to ensure that the business retains their trust Failure to prevent tax evasion transactions, often with public bodies.
and confidence: In response to the new corporate offence for failing to prevent The strength of our business continuity and disaster recovery Expenses: All expenses are required to be approved by protect the Groups intellectual property rights, financial the criminal facilitation of tax evasion, the Committee received plans are regularly tested to ensure they are continually refined an executive Director or direct line manager.
interests and competitive edge: the results of a detailed risk assessment which was undertaken, and to reduce the potential for failure: detailed below are the maintain our reputation and brand value: and Conflicts of interest: All conflicts of interest or potential with assistance from external advisers, to identify the risk of scheduled tests for 2018. conflicts of interest must be notified to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
facilitation of tax evasion by Derwent London and individuals the Company Secretary and a register associated with us.
The review identified four groups of associated of such notifications will be maintained.
Our cyber security procedures have been strengthened persons where the risk could potentially arise, being purchases of The Corporate governance statement considerably in recent years in response to the increasing property, contractors, tenants and small suppliers, however the on page 96, explains our process for threat this poses to businesses, and it remains an area that risk was not considered to be material.
we keep under continuous review.
Donations: We do not make political donations.
Charitable donations are handled by the During 2017, we requested that Capgemini who perform no Testing our business continuity procedures Sponsorships and Donations Committee.
other function for the Company challenge our procedures and Test Purpose Date our IT management team on the effectiveness of our controls Training: We provide our employees with guidance Business Continuity Plan review The CMT meet to review and update the business continuity plan, review March 2018 notes and training on our anti-bribery, and provide practical suggestions for how we can address any current threat levels, and agree on any action points.
corruption and ethical standards on a potential vulnerability.
At its meeting in November, the Committee regular basis.
Desktop review A desktop exercise which uses a series of scenarios to rehearse decision Summer 2018 reviewed the outcome of the audit and agreed the response and making and familiarise the CMT members with their roles.
timeframes for implementing the recommendations.
Management Suppliers: All suppliers with whom we spend more than 20,000 pa are required to comply will be required to provide the Committee with a status update on IT component test A technical test of the individual components required to carry out a failover January 2018 with, and provide evidence of how, they of IT services to our disaster recovery suite.
the implementation of the recommendations at the Committees are implementing our Supply Chain August 2018 meeting.
IT disaster recovery test A technical test to carry out a full IT systems failover from our offices to the March 2018 Sustainability Standard which includes disaster recovery suite.
a minimum requirement that any form All staff are required to attend a mandatory information security of corruption, bribery or anti-competitive Full business continuity test A full plan invocation exercise covering one disaster scenario and testing all September 2018 workshop each year which focuses on our policies and procedures, behaviour or actions are not tolerated contingency functions at the disaster recovery suite.
Representatives from cyber and personal security.
This years workshops took place over within our supply chain further information each department will confirm all business critical functions are still available.
four days in November 2017 and included a presentation from an on page 85. external security expert.
Our Group intranet also includes a tips and tricks section for our staff with guidance on issues such as cyber security, social media and general security awareness.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017
