Audit and Risk Committee Report Our priority is to deliver an effective governance and risk management framework that allows us to ensure the appropriateness of the Groups financial reporting.
Dear Shareholder, An Internal Audit Plan will continue to be approved by the Committee on an As Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee annual basis.
the Committee, I am pleased to present our report for the year ended Risk management 31 December 2017.
This year, a new risk management framework was implemented, following Risk management and internal controls the review of risk management by Internal audit and risk management the Board noted in last years update.
remained areas of particular focus for Each hospital has a risk register and the Committee during the year and we supporting governance structure, with allocated a significant proportion of each processes for managing and reporting meeting to ensure a robust discussion risks.
In 2018, further work will be on both matters.
done to embed the risk management Internal Audit function framework and integrate it with clinical As highlighted in our last annual report, governance and patient experience Adle Anderson, we planned to set-up an in-house Internal indicators to drive risk management Committee Chair Audit function and at the end of Q2 we as a cornerstone of outstanding quality.
appointed our new Director of Internal Significant risks facing the Group are Audit and Risk.
A small team of Internal managed through risk registers and Audit professionals were hired during the are assessed in terms of consequence remainder of the year and the function and likelihood.
Each risk has an identified should be fully resourced by the end of lead who works to monitor and mitigate Q1 2018. that risk.
2017 and 2018 Internal Audit Plans An overview of the risk management and The 2017 Internal Audit Plan was focused internal controls processes are contained on areas of higher risk and covered: on pages 50 to 55.
The Committee, with a revenue audit completed on behalf the assistance of the Clinical Governance of Spire Healthcare by KPMG LLP : and Safety Committee CGSC which a review of physical asset assessments focuses on key non-financial risks, and maintenance through the buildings including patient and clinical risks, maintenance system: and carried out the following during the year: an audit of business continuity planning.
monitored the work carried out by Summary reports are sent to me as chair the CGSC in relation to the risks within of the Committee when published and its remit: also included in the quarterly activity monitored the Groups system of report to the Audit and Risk Committee.
internal control: monitored the risks and associated Our Internal Audit Plan for 2018 continues controls over the financial reporting to focus on areas identified as higher processes, including the process by risk.
Additionally, a regular, risk-based which the Groups financial statements rotational Internal Audit of each of are prepared for publication: and the 39 principal hospital sites initially reviewed reports from the external covering Finance including Revenue, auditor on any issues identified during Billing and Stock Management, HR, IT, the course of its work, including on Payroll, Health and Safety, and Hospital control weaknesses.
Governance will commence in Q2 2018, such that each hospital is intended to be audited at least once every three years.
70 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information Significant issues and material judgements The Audit and Risk Committee assesses whether suitable accounting policies have been adopted and whether management has made appropriate estimates and judgements.
The table below summarises the matters where the most material judgements have been made in relation to reporting in 2017: Matters Judgement and estimation required How the Committee gained comfort on the matter Improper Pressure to achieve results and secure bonus Management carry out a detailed review of monthly hospital revenue payments could lead management to manipulate the performance compared to forecast, in particular focusing recognition: financial reporting of revenue.
This could include the: on the cut-off of revenue reported at the balance sheet date.
The Group maintains effective segregation of duties to Management manipulation of prices charged, in particular safeguard the integrity of pricing masterfile data on which manipulation in relation to PMI and NHS revenue: billing is dependent.
intentional mis-coding of procedures by hospitals impacting revenue recorded: Management routinely reconcile revenues and cash collections misreporting of other income in the year: and as part of monthly cash flow management procedures.
overstatement of deferred revenue at the year end.
Billing to PMIs is subject to selective independent audit by representatives of the relevant PMI and issues arising are Complexity The complexity of the pricing structures and the subject to timely review by management as appropriate.
of PMI and high volume of procedures undertaken present a Internal audit work commissioned from a third party NHS contracts risk in relation to the accuracy of revenue recognition, was carried out to test the adequacy of clinical coders, in particular the use of incorrect codes or prices.
which did not raise any issues of concern.
The Committee noted the testing of revenue recognition in the year by the external auditors.
This testing included the use of software-based assurance tools to check the accuracy of invoicing for services delivered to the NHS and to match pricing information to third-party reference information.
This audit work covered over 90% of the NHS revenues recognised in the year.
In addition the external auditors undertook sample-based substantive testing on private revenues, checking invoices back to procedure and price list information across a number of contracts.
While considering the totality of revenues recognised in the year, external auditors also compared the total of revenues recorded in the year to cash collected to verify the recovery of revenue billed after consideration of the movement in the year end debtors position.
No significant differences were noted by the external auditors during the course of this work.
During 2017 an internal audit, supported by an external partner, was completed on Revenue and Billing function in a sample of hospitals which did not identify any significant errors or omissions.
This area will remain a focus of the risk focused internal audit plan of hospitals during 2018.
Inappropriate Expenditure on capital projects has been significant The Committee considered the controls over capital capitalisation in both 2016 and 2017.
This expenditure covers expenditure incorporated within the Groups project of development a number of schemes across the network, most management procedures, as implemented by the business costs notably the development of two new hospitals development team.
in Manchester and Nottingham and the expansion The Committee noted that the work carried out by Ernst & of Spire St Anthonys Hospital.
There is a risk of Young LLP supported its own independent findings in this area.
inappropriate capitalisation of costs to these projects to enhance reported earnings Property Freehold property is held at depreciated cost and its The Committee reviewed the impairment tests performed carrying values carrying value is required to be assessed for indicators by management and the appropriateness of the of impairment by management on an annual basis.
For those properties with an indicator, an impairment For properties where headroom on the impairment test test is performed by calculating a value in use, was limited the Committee reviewed the further evidence by means of a discounted cash flow model.
As this to support the specific site cash flow profile which supported process involves some degree of estimation there the carrying value of the property.
is a risk that properties are held in the financial statements at inappropriate carrying values.
71 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Audit and Risk Committee Report Continued The overall risk management framework, to rotate their external auditor every openness of interactions with management, including the Boards appetite for risk and 10 years.
Although noting that the confirmation that there has been no the underlying process for capturing and 10-year period technically began with the restriction in scope placed on them by reporting risk and control data, will Companys Admission in 2014, rather than management, the independence of continue to be reviewed and developed an earlier point, the Committee agreed their audit and how they have exercised by the Board and its committees during that a full external auditor tender should professional scepticism.
I also meet with 2018 to ensure that changes to reflect the be linked to the end of Debbie OHanlons the external lead audit partner ahead of new regulatory environment and best term as lead audit partner.
the Director of Internal Audit and Risk liaises The Committee reviewed the with, and meets, the external auditors on a independence and effectiveness of Other activities in 2017 regular basis, and the external auditors also the external auditor.
We did this by: In addition to providing oversight of receive a copy of each internal audit report.
reviewing its proposed plan for the the Groups financial reporting, internal 2017 audit: controls and risk framework, the Committee External financial reporting discussing the results of its audit, has had the opportunity to complete a The Committee is responsible for including its views about material number of deep dive sessions during the monitoring, reviewing and challenging the accounting issues and key judgements year.
This included sessions on taxation, integrity of the financial statements, and and estimates, and its audit report: cyber security and health and safety.
ensuring compliance with legal, regulatory reviewing the quality of the people and and statutory requirements, giving due The Committee reviewed the nature of service provided by Ernst & Young LLP: and consideration to the provisions of the all items classified as exceptional and evaluating all of the relationships UK Corporate Governance Code.
other items in the year and managements between the external auditor and the justification thereof against relevant The external auditor provided reports Group, to determine whether these accounting guidance.
Where costs for the half year and year end reporting, impair, or appear to impair, the auditors spanned a reporting period, the including all significant issues, with independence.
Committee considered the significance an assessment of their view of the The Committee recommended, and of the total expected costs to be incurred appropriateness of managements the Board subsequently agreed, that, across reporting periods based on judgements.
for the year ending 31 December 2017, managements estimates when At the request of the Board, the Committee Ernst & Young LLP are reappointed under determining the appropriateness of considered whether the Annual Report the current external audit contract the accounting treatment.
and Accounts for the year ended 2017 and the Directors will be proposing the was fair, balanced and understandable, and reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP at External audit whether it provided the necessary the annual general meeting in May 2018.
The Committee has primary responsibility information for the shareholders to assess for the relationship with, and performance UK Competition and Markets Authority the Groups performance, business model of, our external auditor.
This includes CMA Order and strategy.
The Committee took into making the recommendation on the During the year, the Company has complied account its own knowledge of the Group, appointment, reappointment and removal with the CMA Order in relation to Statutory its strategy and performance in the year, of the external auditor, assessing their Audit Services for Large Companies.
internal verification of the factual content, independence on an ongoing basis and for comprehensive review undertaken at Audit risk negotiating the audit fee in conjunction different levels in the Group to ensure The Committee received from Ernst & with the Chief Financial Officer.
consistency and overall balance, and Young LLP a detailed plan identifying the Auditor appointment detailed review by senior management and scope of their audit for the year, planning Ernst & Young LLP was appointed as the the external auditor.
The Committee was materiality and their assessment of key Companys external auditor in July 2014 satisfied that, taken as a whole, the Annual risks.
The audit risk identification process on our Admission to the London Stock Report and Accounts for the year ended is considered a key factor in the overall Exchange, although they have served the 2017 is fair, balanced and understandable, effectiveness of the external audit process.
Our current audit and has affirmed that view to the Board.
These risks were reviewed by the partner appointed by Ernst & Young LLP Recent accounting developments Committee during the reporting of the half is Debbie OHanlon who took on the role The Committee gave particular focus year results to ensure the external auditors in 2015.
The Committee ensures that the to IFRS 16 Leases, which will be adopted areas of audit focus remain appropriate.
external auditor adheres to The Auditing in the year ending 31 December 2019, Practices Boards Ethical Standard 3, which Working relationship with the focusing on the implication for reported requires the rotation of the audit partner external auditor results, the methodology in which the for listed companies every five years.
During the year, the Committee met with standard would be adopted, and the As a result, Debbie OHanlon is anticipated the external auditor without management implication for systems and process.
to serve until the fiscal year commencing present to provide additional opportunity The Chief Financial Officer also updated on 1 January 2020. for open dialogue and feedback between the Committee on the Groups adoption both parties.
Matters typically discussed In May, the Committee discussed the of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and IFRS 15 include the external auditors assessment mandatory requirement for companies Revenue from Contracts with Customers of business risks, the transparency and 72 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information in 2018.
Please see note 2 of the financial Audit and Risk Committee at a glance statements on page 120 for further information.
Committee membership and meeting attendance The Audit and Risk Committee members at the end of 2017 and the number of meetings Our priorities for 2018 they each attended during the year were as follows the maximum number of meetings We will continue to enhance and improve that the member could have attended is shown in brackets : our Risk Management structure within Committee Committee meetings the organisation and better evaluate our Member member since Position in Company attended in 2017 principal risks using an enhanced Board Adle Anderson July 2016 Independent Non-Executive 5 5 Assurance Framework.
Our Internal Committee Chair Director Audit team will be fully resourced during Dame Janet Husband July 2014 Independent Non-Executive 5 5 Q1 and will start undertaking regular Director audits in each of our hospitals on a risk Tony Bourne July 2014 Independent Non-Executive 5 5 rotational basis and following up on Director agreed improvements to ensure they are effectively implemented as well as Committee members biographies are shown on pages 56 and 57. completing a number of key corporate The Audit and Risk Committee must have at least three members, all of whom must audits around governance.
We will be independent Non-Executive Directors.
If members are unable to attend a meeting, evaluate our Clinical Assurance programme they have the opportunity beforehand to discuss any agenda items with the Chair of to ensure its independence and focus the Committee.
remain appropriate and works closely The Committee invites the external auditor, the Chief Financial Officer and the Director with the internal audit function.
of Internal Audit and Risk to attend each meeting with other members of the management team attending as and when invited.
Representatives of the Groups external auditor Non-audit services and independence have a private session with the Committee or Chair of the Committee whenever required.
There are certain services termed excluded The Group Company Secretary, or their appointed nominee, acts as secretary to services that are not permitted to be the Committee.
provided by the external auditor, including where the auditor may be required to audit Recent and relevant financial experience its own work, would participate in activities At least one member of the Committee must have been determined to have recent and relevant financial experience and Adle Anderson has been identified by the Board as that would normally be undertaken by meeting this requirement.
Her extensive current and previous experience which included management or is remunerated through being a partner in KPMG until July 2011 and holding roles including chief financial officer a success fee structure.
of KPMG UK, chief executive officer of KPMGs captive insurer and chief financial officer Ernst & Young LLP provided no non-audit of KPMG Europe.
Adle Anderson also currently chairs the audit committees of both services to the Group during the year easyJet plc and intu properties plc.
Role and responsibilities All non-audit fees are approved by The Committee has responsibility for overseeing the financial reporting and internal the Committee.
financial controls of the Group, for reviewing the Groups internal control and risk management systems, and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the external Viability auditor of the Group and for reporting its findings and recommendations to the Board.
The Committee reviewed the process These include: undertaken by management to support receiving and reviewing the Annual Report and Accounts of the Group and half yearly and allow the Directors to make the financial statements and any public financial announcements, and advising the Board Groups viability statement.
The Committee on whether the Annual Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable: considered and provided input into the receiving and reviewing reports from the external auditor, monitoring its effectiveness determination of which of the Groups and independence, and approving its appointment and terms of engagement: principal risks and combinations thereof agreeing the annual internal audit programme, including the use of external might have an impact on the Groups consultants to support the internal resource, and reviewing the results: liquidity and solvency.
The Committee monitoring the effectiveness of the risk management system: reviewed the results of managements reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls and assessing and scenario modelling and the stress testing advising the Board on the internal financial, operational and compliance controls: and overseeing the Groups procedures for detecting fraud and relating to whistleblowing.
The viability statement can be found on page 51.
The Committees terms of reference can be found at www.
com Whistleblowing The Committee also continued Annual evaluation of the Adle Anderson its monitoring and oversight of the Committees performance Chair, Audit and Risk Committee procedures for the receipt, retention The evaluation of the Committees 1 March 2018 and treatment of qualifying disclosures performance was carried out in November by staff.
Further details can be found 2017 which confirmed that it continued in Our people on page 46. to perform effectively.
73 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017
