Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 INTRODUCTION FROM THE CHAIR OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE As a result of its work undertaken during DEAR SHAREHOLDER the year and taking into account the I am pleased to present the Report of result of the performance evaluation the Audit Committee the Committee further details are set out on pages for 2017.
46 and 47, the Committee considers The Committee is appointed by the that it has acted in accordance with its Board from its Non-Executive Directors.
Terms of Reference and has ensured The Committee has continued to focus the independence, objectivity and on the integrity of the Groups financial effectiveness of the external and internal reporting, risk management and internal auditors.
controls, and the quality of the internal I am pleased to welcome Paul James to and external audit processes.
We will the Board following his appointment continue to keep our activities under on 5 March 2018.
I would also like to review to ensure that we comply with any thank Martin Payne for his hard work and changes in the regulatory environment.
continued support in 2017, in particular The Board has asked the Committee in continuing to carry out the CFO to oversee the process for determining function following his change in role to whether the Annual Report and CEO while the recruitment process for Accounts, when taken as a whole, is the new CFO was completed.
fair, balanced and understandable and I will be available at the AGM to answer provides the information necessary any questions about the work of the for shareholders to assess the Groups Committee.
financial position and performance, business model and strategy.
Paul Dean Chair of the Audit Committee 20 March 2018 50 50 polypipe.
com Stock Code: PLP OUR GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP GOVERNANCE The full responsibilities of the Committee AND MEETINGS In accordance with best practice, are set out in its Terms of Reference the effectiveness of the Committee The Committee is appointed by the which are available on the Companys was evaluated internally this year by Board and comprises three Nonwebsite at http: ir.
The means of a questionnaire completed Executive Directors, being Paul Dean, Terms of Reference have been reviewed by all Directors, following the external Mark Hammond and Moni Mannings.
and updated during the year to reflect evaluation performed in 2016.
At All Committee members are considered the ICSA: The Governance Institutes its meeting in November 2017, the independent.
guidance and the Financial Reporting Committee considered the results of In accordance with the requirements of Councils FRCs Guidance on Audit the internal evaluation and concluded Provision C. 3.1 of the UK Code, Paul Committees.
that it had found the Committee to Dean is designated as the Committee be operating effectively, particularly The key responsibilities of the Committee member with recent and relevant in relation to the open and robust are to: financial experience.
All other members discussion of audit matters, thus of the Committee are deemed to have { assist the Board with the discharge providing the Board with a high the necessary ability and experience to of its responsibilities in relation to level of assurance that they are dealt understand the financial statements.
The internal and external audits: with appropriately.
Areas which the Committee as a whole has competence Committee believed could potentially be { monitor and review the Groups relevant to the sector in which the Group improved were discussed and included in internal control and risk management operates.
its action plan for next year.
systems: The Committee discharges its { monitor and review the effectiveness MAIN ACTIVITIES OF THE responsibilities through a series of of the Groups internal audit function: COMMITTEE DURING THE YEAR scheduled formal meetings during { monitor the integrity of the financial As part of the process of working with the year.
Each meeting has a formal statements of the Group including the Board to carry out its responsibilities agenda which is linked to the events its annual and half-yearly reports, and to maximise its effectiveness, in the financial calendar of the Group.
trading updates, preliminary results meetings of the Committee normally Attendees at each of the meetings are announcements and any other take place prior to the Board meetings, the Committee members as well as, formal announcements relating to its at which the Chair of the Committee by invitation, the Chairman, the Chief financial performance, and reviewing provides an update to the Board.
Executive Officer, the Chief Financial significant financial reporting issues Officer, the Chief Operating Officer, At these meetings the Committee and judgements: the Group Financial Controller, and the focused on the following areas: { where requested by the Board, review external auditor, Ernst & Young LLP.
The the content of the Annual Report and Financial reporting Company Secretary is also Secretary to Accounts and advise the Board on During the year, Committee meetings the Committee.
whether, taken as a whole, it is fair, were held prior to the Board meetings to The Committee held three formal balanced and understandable and approve the Groups interim and annual meetings during the year.
In accordance provides the information necessary financial statement announcements with best practice, the Committee met for shareholders to assess the Groups and to consider the financial reporting with the Ernst & Young LLP lead audit financial position and performance, judgements made by management.
These partner without executive management business model and strategy: considerations are made through review being present.
of the accounting papers and financial { oversee the relationship with the reports prepared by management and external auditor including their reports prepared by the Groups external appointment, reappointment and or auditor.
removal: approval of the scope of the annual audit, their remuneration and The Committee also reported to the the terms of engagement: monitor Board that it considered that, taken as a and review their independence and whole, the Annual Report and Accounts objectivity, the effectiveness of the is fair, balanced and understandable audit process and the extent of nonand provides the information necessary audit services performed: and for shareholders to assess the Groups { report to the Board on how it has financial position and performance, discharged its responsibilities.
51 51 Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE { Restructuring provisions The Significant financial reporting risk, Other activities Committee considered various Other activities undertaken by the judgement and estimates reports prepared by management Committee during the year included the The significant risk reviewed by the setting out the events and changes following: Committee in respect of the year under in circumstances which resulted in review was as follows: { considered the external audit plan the closure of the Dubai, United Arab and approved the audit fee: { Revenue recognition and Emirates manufacturing facility, and customer rebates The { considered the viability statement and the resulting recognition of cash and Committee considered the going concern assumption: non-cash restructuring costs.
operating effectiveness of controls { instigated, monitored and reviewed { Inventory provisioning The surrounding revenue recognition and the Groups response to an Committee reviewed the carrying managements subjective assessment external review of cyber security amount of the Groups finished and recognition of customer rebate performed during the year by goods inventory and managements liabilities at the interim and year end.
 LLP: assessment and recognition of the The significant judgement reviewed by { considered the impact of new appropriate level of provisioning the Committee in respect of the year financial reporting standards and against slow-moving and obsolete under review was as follows: legislative requirements on the Group: items.
{ Discontinued operations On { reviewed the Committees Internal control, internal audit and 31 January 2018, the Group performance, effectiveness and risk management announced it had entered into constitution: and Internal audit performs an integral role exclusive negotiations to sell Polypipe { recommended the Report of the in the Groups governance structure France.
It was determined that Audit Committee for approval by and provides regular reports to the the sale was highly probable at the Board.
The Committee has reviewed 31 December 2017.
The Committee and approved the scope of the rolling considered the financial accounting EXTERNAL AUDIT internal audit work programme in and reporting disclosure impacts Appointment relation to the Groups internal controls in relation to this determination The Committee carefully considers and procedures at each of the three outlined by management including the reappointment of the external meetings held during the year.
the French operations being classified auditor each year prior to making its as discontinued, the associated net The Committee reviews and challenges recommendation to the shareholders.
assets being classified as held-forthe results and reports from the internal As part of this process, the Committee sale, and a loss on remeasurement audit work programme and the adequacy considers the independence of the to fair value less costs to sell being of managements responses and external auditor, the effectiveness of the recognised.
external audit process, its remuneration, and the terms of engagement.
Having The significant estimates reviewed by the The Groups risk assessment process, reviewed the performance of Ernst & Committee in respect of the year under including how significant financial risks Young LLP in 2017, the Committee has review were as follows: are managed and mitigated, is a key decided to recommend to the Board that { Impairment of non-financial area of focus for the Committee.
During Ernst & Young LLP should be reappointed assets The Committee considered the year, the Committee monitored and for the 2018 audit and a resolution to this a detailed report prepared by reviewed the Groups risk management effect will be proposed at the 2018 AGM.
management setting out the framework and the results of testing assumptions used in determining performed by the Groups internal audit In accordance with current professional whether goodwill, other intangible function on specific elements of that standards, the external auditor is required assets or property, plant and framework.
There were no significant to change the lead audit partner every equipment required impairment internal control failings or weaknesses five years in order to protect auditor for any of the business units.
Ernst & included a review of the discount rate Young LLP were awarded the external and growth factors used to calculate audit in 2012 following a competitive the discounted projected future cash tendering process.
The lead audit partner flows, the sensitivity analysis applied, was rotated in 2017.
In accordance and the discounted projected future with the UK Code, the Competition and cash flows used to support the Markets Authority CMA Order and carrying amount of the goodwill.
the EU Audit Directive, it is the Groups intention to put the audit out to tender at least every ten years.
Accordingly, the Company plans to run a competitive tender process in or before 2022.
com Stock Code: PLP OUR GOVERNANCE Independence Effectiveness of the external audit FRAUD, WHISTLE-BLOWING The independence of the external auditor process AND THE UK BRIBERY ACT was confirmed by Ernst & Young LLP in The Committee operated a formal The Committee monitors any reported November 2017 and March 2018 at the process for reviewing the effectiveness incidents under its whistle-blowing policy, Committee meetings.
The Committee of Ernst & Young LLP during the year which has been reviewed during the year.
considered Ernst & Young LLPs under review.
This process included the This policy is included in the Employee presentation on auditor independence following: Handbook and sets out the procedure for and confirmed that it considered the employees to raise legitimate concerns { an assessment of the lead audit auditor to be independent.
about any wrongdoing in financial partner and the audit team: reporting or other matters such as: Non-audit services { a review of the audit approach, The Groups non-audit services policy scope, determination of significant { something that could be unlawful: restricts the external auditor from risk areas and materiality: { a miscarriage of justice: performing certain non-audit services { the execution of the audit: { a danger to the health and safety of in accordance with the Revised Ethical { interaction with management and any individual: Standard 2016 issued by the FRC.
All communication with, and support to, { damage to the environment: or non-audit services proposed to be the Committee: performed by the external auditor must { improper conduct.
{ the quality of any recommendation be pre-approved and sponsored by a There were no concerns which required points: and senior executive with a detailed written the attention of the Committee during recommendation including: the nature { a review of independence, objectivity the year.
and scope of the proposed service, the and scepticism.
supplier selection process and criteria, the The Committee also reviews the Groups Ernst & Young LLPs external audit of the chosen supplier and selection rationale, procedure for detecting fraud and the Groups financial statements for the year the relationship of the individual within systems and controls in place to prevent ended 31 December 2016 was reviewed the external auditor to perform the a breach of anti-bribery legislation.
The by the FRCs Audit Quality Review AQR proposed service with those undertaking Group Finance Manual sets out the team.
We have considered the findings of the audit work, a fee estimate and procedures to which employees must the AQR team as part of the Committees the category of non-audit service, if adhere and is aimed at reducing the assessment of the effectiveness of Ernst relevant.
In addition, the external auditor risk of fraud occurring.
The Group is & Young LLPs external audit.
As well must provide a written statement of committed to a zero-tolerance position as receiving and discussing the AQRs independence approved by the lead audit with regard to bribery.
Those employees final letter which summarised their partner.
All non-audit services proposed which the Group considers are more conclusions, the Committee had open to be performed by the external auditor likely to be exposed to potential breaches and transparent conversations with Ernst with a fee estimate in excess of 10,000 of the Groups Anti-Bribery policy and & Young LLPs lead audit partner on the must also be pre-approved by the statutory obligations under the UK areas of the external audit that were Committee.
This policy and approach Bribery Act have been provided with reviewed by the AQR team.
This included further enhances auditor objectivity and relevant guidance on compliance with understanding the substance of the independence.
There were no exceptions their obligations.
The Group maintains discussions between Ernst & Young LLP to this policy during 2017. a record of all employees who have and the AQR team during the review and received this guidance and requests the actions that will be taken by Ernst & annual confirmations from each relevant Young LLP in response to the AQR teams individual stating that they have complied findings.
After considering the above matters, the By order of the Board.
Committee considered that the audit had been effective and recommended Paul Dean to the Board that Ernst & Young LLP be Chair of the Audit Committee reappointed as external auditor to the 20 March 2018 Group.
53 53 Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 ANNUAL STATEMENT FROM THE CHAIR OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE risk.
This is achieved by an annual bonus DEAR SHAREHOLDER arrangement which is linked to achieving I am pleased to present the Directors profit targets, working capital targets Remuneration Report for the year ended and personal objectives and a long-term 31 December 2017.
The report is split incentive plan which only rewards for into two sections in line with legislative shareholder value creation and delivery of reporting regulations: long-term earnings growth.
{ Remuneration Policy contains details of the various components of The most substantial issues considered the Remuneration Policy, which will by the Remuneration Committee the be subject to a binding shareholder Committee during the past year are set vote at our 2018 Annual General out below.
Meeting AGM and will have PERFORMANCE IN 2017 effect from the date on which it is The financial and operating performance approved.
The Remuneration Policy of the Group in 2017 is set out on pages is broadly unchanged from the Policy 86 to 125.
The Company has continued approved by shareholders at the 2015 to deliver sustainable returns and AGM, apart from a reduction in the growth for its shareholders during 2017, maximum level of pension provision achieving profit before tax of 55.6m, for Executive Directors from 20% up 3.9% from 2016, and increasing to 15% of salary and an increase in underlying basic earnings per share from the required minimum shareholding settled in cash.
His outstanding awards continuing operations by 10.1% to 27.2p guideline for Executive Directors from under the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP per share.
Further are subject to the rules of the LTIP, and details are set out on pages 56 to 63. will therefore vest on the normal vesting Based on the Companys strong financial date, subject to achievement of the { The Annual Report on performance during the year and relevant performance target and prorated Remuneration contains details of fulfilment of their individual objectives, to reflect the period of time between the remuneration received by Directors the Committee determined that date of grant and date of retirement.
in 2017 and also contains full details Martin Payne, Chief Executive Officer of how we intend to implement CEO, earned 66.8% of his maximum APPOINTMENT OF the updated Remuneration Policy potential annual bonus in respect of MARTIN PAYNE during 2018.
The Annual Report 2017 performance and that Glen Sabin, The Committee approved the pay on Remuneration will be subject to Chief Operating Officer COO, earned arrangements for Martin Payne, the an advisory vote at the 2018 AGM.
65.8% of his maximum potential annual former CFO, who took over as CEO of Further details are set out on pages bonus in respect of 2017 performance, the Company on 2 October 2017, when 64 to 73. prorated to reflect the amount of time David Hall retired.
It is the Committees served in their respective roles during This Directors Remuneration Report intention, subject to satisfactory the year.
In accordance with the current is compliant with Schedule 8 of The performance, to increase Martin Paynes Remuneration Policy, 25% of this bonus Large and Medium-sized Companies salary over time to the equivalent salary will be deferred into shares.
and Groups Accounts and Reports as was paid to David Hall when he held Regulations 2013, the UK Listing RETIREMENT OF DAVID HALL the CEO role.
This may therefore result Authority Listing Rules and the As a Committee, we recognise our in an annual increase over and above Companies Act 2006 and is consistent responsibility to ensure that pay decisions the average increase awarded to the with the UK Corporate Governance Code relating to departing Directors are workforce in any given year.
determined fairly both for shareholders Martin Paynes remuneration are set out and for the departing individuals.
ALIGNING REMUNERATION 2017, our former CEO, David Hall, WITH COMPANY STRATEGY APPOINTMENT OF GLEN SABIN retired after 12 years service as CEO The Remuneration Policy is designed The Committee approved the pay of the Company.
Mr Hall received no to encourage achievement of our arrangements for Glen Sabin, who was termination payment although he will strategic goals and priorities, details promoted to the position of COO and receive a time prorated annual bonus of which are set out on pages 12 joined the Board on 2 October 2017.
Full for 2017 payable at the end of March and 13, by rewarding in line with details of those arrangements are set out 2018.
His outstanding Deferred Share underlying Company performance on pages 64 to 73.
Bonus Plan DSBP awards vested upon while encouraging leadership behaviour cessation of employment in accordance which carries an appropriate level of with the rules of the DSBP, and were 54 54 polypipe.
com Stock Code: PLP OUR GOVERNANCE ensure that the Executive Directors APPOINTMENT OF PAUL JAMES interests are fully aligned with the The Committee approved the pay interests of other shareholders.
arrangements for Paul James, who joined the Company as CFO on 5 March 2018.
{ No changes to the performance Full details of those arrangements are set measures to be used to assess out on pages 65 and 66.
The Group Underlying Operating Profit and Working Capital financial LTIP AWARDS measures which determine 90% In May 2017, the Committee approved of the bonus and the Underlying the grant of LTIP awards to the Executive diluted EPS and relative TSR measures Directors and other senior management.
which determine 100% of the LTIP Award levels were 125% of salary for provide alignment with the priorities David Hall, 100% of annual salary for outlined in the Strategic Report and Martin Payne CFO at the date of grant alignment with our shareholders and the relevant percentage of annual interests.
The Committee believes salary for Glen Sabin in his role as that this combination provides a fair Managing Director of the Plumbing & and rounded assessment of shortDrainage Division at the date of grant.
term and longer-term Company These award levels are significantly performance.
below the maximum of 200% of annual salary permitted under the current SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Remuneration Policy.
We take a keen interest in shareholder views on executive remuneration and, The Committee considered a number in this context, the Committee carried of possible performance measures out a consultation process with its top and concluded that a combination of 20 shareholders and the shareholder stretching Earnings per Share EPS advisory bodies in 2017 on the proposed growth targets and a relative Total draft Remuneration Policy to be Shareholder Return TSR measure presented for approval by shareholders at provided an appropriate basis for the 2018 AGM.
Overall, feedback from rewarding the successful delivery of those shareholders that responded was longer-term strategic priorities, Company supportive.
I will be available to answer questions KEY REMUNERATION on the Remuneration Policy and the DECISIONS FOR 2018 Annual Report on Remuneration at the The proposed implementation of the AGM on 23 May 2018.
I hope you will Remuneration Policy for our Executive find this report to be clear and helpful Directors for 2018 is outlined on pages in understanding our remuneration 64 to 67.
Key decisions made by the practices and that you will be Committee in relation to 2018 include: supportive of the resolutions relating to { The award of a 2.0% salary increase remuneration at the AGM.
This is Moni Mannings consistent with the average increase Chair of the Remuneration Committee awarded to the Groups UK workforce 20 March 2018 for 2018.
{ Maximum bonus potential and LTIP award levels for Martin Payne in 2018 will be the same as applied to his predecessor as CEO in 2017 125% of salary for each element.
Maximum bonus potential and LTIP award levels for the other Executive Directors will be 100% of salary for each element.
The Committee believes that these levels of award are appropriate to 55 55 Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 REMUNERATION POLICY This part of the report sets out Consistent with these aims, the POLICY TABLE the Directors Remuneration Policy Committee has agreed a remuneration The following table sets out details of Remuneration Policy.
This Remuneration policy for Executive Directors, whereby: each component of the Executive Director Policy will be subject to a binding remuneration package.
Our aim is to { Salaries will be set at competitive, shareholder vote at the 2018 AGM provide pay packages that will: but not excessive, levels compared and will apply to payments made from to peers and other companies of an { Promote the long-term success of the the date of approval.
The information equivalent size and complexity.
provided in this section of the Directors { Performance-related pay, based { Encourage and support a high Remuneration Report is not subject on stretching targets, will form a performance culture.
significant part of remuneration { Reward delivery of the Companys The only changes of substance in packages.
business plan and our key strategic this Remuneration Policy from the { There will be an appropriate balance and operational goals.
Remuneration Policy approved by between rewards for delivery of short- { Motivate and retain our industry shareholders at the 2015 AGM are term and longer-term performance leading employees.
a reduction in the maximum level of targets taking into account, where pension provision for Executive Directors { Attract high quality individuals to join relevant, existing shareholdings.
from 20% to 15% of salary and an the Company.
increase in the required minimum { Align our employees interests with shareholding guideline for Executive the interests of shareholders and Directors from 100% to 200% of salary.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Performance conditions and Purpose and link to provisions for recovery of 1 strategy Operation Maximum opportunity sums paid Fixed pay Base salary Generally reviewed annually with No absolute maximum has been set for No performance conditions.
To appropriately recognise any increase normally taking effect Executive Director base salaries.
Current Malus and clawback provisions do not skills, experience and from 1 January although the Committee Executive Director salaries are set out apply.
responsibilities and attract may award increases at other times of in the Annual Report on Remuneration and retain talent by the year if it considers it appropriate.
section of this Remuneration Report.
ensuring salaries are market The review takes into consideration a Any annual increase in salaries is at the competitive.
number of factors, including but not discretion of the Committee taking into limited to : account the factors stated in this table and the following principles: { The individual Directors role, experience and performance.
{ Salaries would typically be increased at a rate consistent with the average { Business performance.
salary increase for UK employees.
{ Market data for comparable roles in { Larger increases may be considered appropriate pay comparators.
appropriate in certain circumstances { Pay and conditions elsewhere in the including, but not limited to, Group.
a change in an individuals responsibilities or in the scale of their role or in the size and complexity of the Group.
{ Larger increases may also be considered appropriate if a Director has been initially appointed to their position on the Board at a lower than typical salary.
com Stock Code: PLP OUR GOVERNANCE Performance conditions and Purpose and link to provisions for recovery of 1 strategy Operation Maximum opportunity sums paid Benefits Benefits currently include company car There is no overall maximum as the No performance conditions.
To provide market or car allowance, income protection level of benefits depends on the annual Malus and clawback provisions do not competitive benefits.
insurance, private family medical cost of providing individual items in the apply.
insurance, permanent health insurance relevant local market and the individuals and life assurance of four times annual specific role.
The Committee has discretion to add to or remove benefits provided to Executive Directors.
Executive Directors are entitled to reimbursement of reasonable expenses.
Executive Directors also have the benefit of a qualifying third party indemnity from the Company as well as Directors and Officers liability insurance.
Pension Current policy is for the Company to Executive Directors receive a pensionNo performance conditions.
To provide market contribute to the Group Pension Plan, a related contribution of up to 15% of Malus and clawback provisions do not competitive retirement personal pension scheme and or provide salary, reduced from 20% under the apply.
a cash allowance in lieu of pension.
Variable pay 2, 3 Annual bonus The Executive Directors are participants in The maximum award that can be made The bonus is based on performance To link reward to key the annual bonus plan which is reviewed to an Executive Director under the annual assessed over one year using appropriate financial and operational annually to ensure bonus opportunity, bonus plan is 125% of salary.
financial, operational and individual targets for the forthcoming performance measures and targets performance measures.
are appropriate and supportive of the The majority of the bonus will be business plan.
Additional alignment with determined by measures of Group shareholders interests No more than 75% of an Executive financial performance.
through the operation of Directors annual bonus is delivered in cash A sliding scale of targets is set for each bonus deferral.
following the release of audited results Group financial measure with payout at and the remaining amount is deferred into no more than 25% for threshold financial an award over Company shares under the performance increasing to 100% for Deferred Share Bonus Plan.
{ Deferred awards are usually granted The remainder of the bonus will be based in the form of conditional share on financial, strategic or operational awards or nil-cost options and may measures appropriate to the individual also be settled in cash.
{ Deferred awards usually vest in two equal tranches two and three Details of the bonus measures operating years after award although may each year will be included in the relevant vest early on leaving employment Annual Report on Remuneration.
or on a change of control see later Any bonus payout is ultimately at the sections.
{ An additional payment in the form The cash bonus will be subject to recovery of cash or shares may be made in and or deferred shares will be subject to respect of shares which vest under withholding at the Committees discretion deferred awards to reflect the value in exceptional circumstances where within of dividends which would have been three years of the bonus determination paid on those shares during the or before the vesting of each tranche of vesting period this payment may deferred shares a material misstatement assume that dividends had been or miscalculation comes to light which reinvested in Company shares on a resulted in an overpayment under the cumulative basis.
annual bonus plan or if evidence comes to light of material misconduct by an individual or if evidence emerges of a material health and safety breach.
57 57 Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 REMUNERATION POLICY Performance conditions and Purpose and link to provisions for recovery of 1 strategy Operation Maximum opportunity sums paid Long-Term Incentive Plan Awards are usually granted annually The maximum annual award permitted All LTIP awards granted to Executive 3, 4 LTIP under the LTIP to selected senior under the LTIP is shares with a market Directors must be subject to a To link reward to key executives.
value as determined by the Committee performance condition.
strategic and business of 200% of salary.
Individual award levels and performance Vesting of Executive Directors LTIP targets for the longer term conditions on which vesting will be Each year the Committee determines the awards would be dependent on and to align Executive dependent are reviewed annually by the actual award level for individual senior measures which could include Group Directors interests with Committee.
earnings, return on capital employed and shareholders interests.
total shareholder return with the precise Awards may be granted as conditional measures and weighting of the measures awards of shares, nil-cost options or, if determined by the Committee ahead of appropriate, as cash-settled equivalents.
Awards normally vest or become Performance will usually be measured exercisable at the end of a period of at over a performance period of at least least three years following grant although three years.
For achieving a threshold may vest early on leaving employment level of performance against a or on a change of control see later performance measure, no more than sections.
The Committee has flexibility at 25% of the portion of the LTIP award its discretion to add an additional holding determined by that measure will vest.
period after a performance period before Vesting then increases on a sliding scale awards vest.
to 100% for achieving a maximum performance target.
An additional payment in the form of cash or shares may be made in respect LTIP awards will be subject to withholding of shares which vest under LTIP awards or recovery at the Committees discretion to reflect the value of dividends which in exceptional circumstances where would have been paid on those shares before the later of the vesting of an during the vesting period this payment award and the second anniversary of the may assume that dividends had been end of the performance period a material reinvested in Company shares on a misstatement or miscalculation comes cumulative basis.
to light or if evidence comes to light of material misconduct by an individual or if evidence emerges of a material health and safety breach.
3 Sharesave Plan UK tax-approved monthly savings Monthly savings limit of 500 or such The Sharesave Plan is structured in To create staff alignment scheme facilitating the purchase of other limit as may be approved from accordance with HMRC requirements with the Group and shares through share options at a time to time by HMRC under all savings so has no performance conditions but promote a sense of discounted exercise price by all eligible contracts held by an individual.
requires participants to make regular ownership.
Executive Directors are eligible to Malus and clawback provisions do not participate on the same basis as other UK apply.
Share Ownership Executive Directors have been required to Since Admission, Executive Directors have Not applicable.
Guidelines build and maintain a shareholding as a been required to build a shareholding To create alignment percentage of salary in the form of shares equal to 100% of salary.
Following a between the long-term in the Company since Admission.
review by the Committee in 2017, this interests of Executive will be increased to 200% of salary with Executive Directors are expected to Directors and shareholders.
effect from 2018. achieve the shareholding requirement within five years of an individual becoming subject to the requirement.
com Stock Code: PLP OUR GOVERNANCE Notes to table: 1.
The Committee may amend or substitute any performance condition s if one or more events occur which cause it to determine that an amended or substituted performance condition would be more appropriate, provided that any such amended or substituted performance condition would not be materially less difficult to satisfy than the original condition in its opinion.
The Committee may also adjust the calculation of performance targets and vesting outcomes for instance for material acquisitions, disposals or investments and events not foreseen at the time the targets were set to ensure they remain a fair reflection of performance over the relevant period.
In the event that the Committee was to make an adjustment of this sort, a full explanation would be provided in the next Directors Remuneration Report.
The annual bonus measures are reviewed annually and chosen to focus executive rewards on delivery of key financial targets for the forthcoming year as well as key strategic or operational goals relevant to an individual.
Specific targets for bonus measures are set at the start of each year by the Committee based on a range of relevant reference points, including, for Group financial targets, the Groups business plan and are designed to be appropriately stretching.
The Committee may: a in the event of a variation of the Companys share capital, demerger, special dividend or dividend in specie or any other corporate event which it reasonably determines justifies such an adjustment, adjust: and b amend the terms of awards granted under the share schemes referred to above in accordance with the rules of the relevant plans.
Share awards may be settled by the issue of new shares or by the transfer of existing shares.
In line with prevailing best practice at the time this Remuneration Policy is approved, any issuance of new shares is limited to 5% of share capital over a rolling ten-year period in relation to discretionary employee share schemes and 10% of share capital over a rolling ten-year period in relation to all employee share schemes.
The LTIP performance measures will be chosen to provide alignment with our longer-term strategy of growing the business in a sustainable manner that will be in the best interests of shareholders and other key stakeholders in the Company.
Use of earnings and return on capital employed measures would reward management for delivery of key financial measures of Company success that should result in sustainable value creation.
Use of a total shareholder return measure would align managements interests with the interests of our shareholders.
Targets are considered ahead of each grant of LTIP awards by the Committee, taking into account relevant external and internal reference points and are designed to be appropriately stretching.
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and or payments for loss of office including exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out above where the terms of the payment were agreed i before the 2015 AGM the date the Companys first shareholder-approved Directors Remuneration Policy came into effect : ii before the policy set out above came into effect, provided that the terms of the payment were consistent with the shareholder approved Remuneration Policy in force at the time they were agreed: or iii at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
For these purposes payments includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
The Committee may make minor amendments to the Remuneration Policy for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation, without obtaining shareholder approval for that amendment.
59 59 Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 REMUNERATION POLICY NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Non-Executive Director NED fees comprise payment of an annual basic fee and Fees are set at an appropriate level that is market competitive NED fees additional fees for further Board responsibilities such as: and reflective of the responsibilities and time commitment associated with specific roles.
To appropriately recognise { Senior Independent Director responsibilities, skills and { Chair of Audit Committee No absolute maximum has been set for individual NED experience by ensuring fees are fees.
Current fee levels are set out in the Annual Report on { Chair of Remuneration Committee market competitive.
Remuneration section of this Remuneration Report.
The Chairman of the Board receives an all-inclusive fee.
The Companys Articles of Association provide that the total No NED participates in the Groups incentive arrangements or aggregate fees paid to the Chairman and NEDs will not pension plan or receives any other benefits other than where exceed 600,000 per annum.
travel to the Companys registered office is recognised as a taxable benefit in which case a NED may receive the grossedup costs of travel as a benefit.
Non-Executive Directors are entitled to reimbursement of reasonable expenses.
NEDs also have the benefit of a qualifying third party indemnity from the Company and Directors and Officers liability insurance.
The charts below illustrate, in three The charts are for illustrative purposes ILLUSTRATIONS OF assumed performance scenarios, the only and actual outcomes may differ APPLICATION OF total value of the remuneration package from that shown.
LTIP awards have been REMUNERATION POLICY potentially receivable by Martin Payne, shown at face value, with no share price The Implementation of Remuneration Glen Sabin and Paul James in relation growth or discount rate assumptions.
Policy in 2018 section of the Annual to 2018.
This comprises salary and All-employee share plans have been Report on Remuneration details how the benefits plus an annual bonus of up to a excluded.
The totals shown in the charts Committee intends to implement the maximum of 125% of salary for Martin relate to the potential value receivable by Remuneration Policy during 2018.
Payne and 100% of salary for Glen Sabin the current Executive Directors in relation and Paul James and an LTIP award of to 2018.
125% of salary for Martin Payne and 100% of salary for Glen Sabin and Paul James.
com Stock Code: PLP OUR GOVERNANCE Assumed performance Assumptions used All performance scenarios { Base salary salary effective as at 1 January 2018 Fixed pay { Benefits the value of benefits received in 2017 have been included.
For Paul James, this has been calculated as an average of the Executive Consists of total fixed pay, including base salary, Directors benefits received in 2017. benefits and pension { Pension 15% of salary Minimum performance { No pay-out under the annual bonus Variable pay { No vesting under the LTIP Performance in line with expectations { 50% of the maximum pay-out under the annual bonus Variable pay { 50% vesting under the LTIP Maximum performance { 100% of the maximum pay-out under the annual bonus Variable pay { 100% vesting under the LTIP { Where an Executive Director is an should be of comparable commercial APPROACH TO RECRUITMENT internal promotion, the normal policy value to the compensation which has REMUNERATION of the Company is that any legacy been forfeited.
However, such buyout Principles arrangements would be honoured awards would only be considered where In determining remuneration in line with the original terms and there is a strong commercial rationale to arrangements for new appointments to conditions.
Similarly, if an Executive do so.
the Board including internal promotions, Director is appointed following the the Committee will apply the following Components and approach Companys acquisition of or merger principles: The remuneration package offered to with another company, legacy terms new appointments may include any { The Committee will take into and conditions would be honoured.
element within the Remuneration consideration all relevant factors, Maximum level of variable pay Policy, or any other element which the including the experience of the The maximum level of variable Committee considers is appropriate individual, market data and existing remuneration which may be granted given the particular circumstances, arrangements for other Executive to new Executive Directors in respect with due regard to the best interests of Directors, with a view that any of recruitment shall be limited to shareholders, subject to the limits on arrangements should be in the best the maximum permitted under the variable pay set out above.
interests of both the Company and Remuneration Policy, namely 325% of our shareholders, without paying In considering which elements to include, their annual salary.
This limit excludes any more than is necessary.
and in determining the approach for all payments or awards that may be made to { Typically, the new appointment will relevant elements, the Committee will buy out the Executive Director for terms, have or be transitioned onto the take into account a number of different awards or other compensation forfeited same remuneration structure as the factors, including but not limited to from their previous employer discussed other Executive Directors, in line with market practice, existing arrangements below.
for other Executive Directors and internal relativities.
If appropriate, different { Upon appointment, the Committee Buyouts measures and targets may be applied to may consider it appropriate to To facilitate recruitment, the Committee a new appointees annual bonus in their offer additional remuneration may make a one-off award to buy out year of joining.
arrangements in order to secure compensation arrangements forfeited the appointment.
In particular, on leaving a previous employer.
In doing The Committee would seek to structure the Committee may consider it so, the Committee will take account buyout and variable pay awards on appropriate to buy out terms or of all relevant factors, including any recruitment to be in line with the remuneration arrangements forfeited performance conditions attached to Companys remuneration framework on leaving a previous employer incentive awards, the likelihood of those so far as practical but, if necessary, the discussed below.
conditions being met, the proportion Committee may also grant such awards of the vesting performance period { The Committee may provide costs outside of that framework as permitted remaining and the form of the award and support if the recruitment under Listing Rule 9.4.
2 subject to the e. g. cash or shares.
The overriding requires relocation of the individual.
limits on variable pay set out above.
principle will be that any buyout award 61 61 Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 REMUNERATION POLICY The exact terms of any such awards Committee or the Board as appropriate SERVICE CONTRACTS e. g. the form of the award, time frame, may include any element within the Key terms of the current Executive performance conditions, and leaver Remuneration Policy, or any other Directors service agreements and provisions would vary depending upon element which the Committee considers Non-Executive Directors letters of the specific commercial circumstances.
is appropriate given the particular appointment are summarised in the table circumstances, with due regard to the below.
It is envisaged that any future Recruitment of Non-Executive best interests of shareholders.
appointments would have equivalent Directors In particular, if the Chairman or a contractual arrangements unless In the event of the appointment of a new Non-Executive Director takes on an otherwise stated in this Report.
Non-Executive Director, remuneration executive function on a short-term arrangements will normally be in line basis, they would be able to receive with the Remuneration Policy for any of the standard elements of Non-Executive Directors.
However, the Executive Director pay.
Provision Policy Notice period Executive Directors 12 months notice by either the Company or the Executive Director.
Non-Executive Directors at the Companys discretion, Non-Executive Directors may have a notice period of up to three months.
The Non-Executive Directors do not have a notice period in their letters of appointment.
Termination payment Following the serving of notice by either party, the Company may terminate employment of an Executive Director with immediate effect by paying a sum equal to salary.
Executive Directors are not contractually entitled to any bonus for the period of service in the year in which their employment ends.
Non-Executive Directors are only entitled to receive any fee accruing in respect of the period up to termination.
Expiry date Executive Directors have rolling 12 month notice periods so have no fixed expiry date.
Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment have no fixed expiry date.
In accordance with the Code, each Director will retire annually and put themselves forward for re-election at each AGM of the Company.
All Executive Directors service agreements and Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office at Broomhouse Lane, Edlington, Doncaster, South Yorkshire, DN12 1ES.
performance up to the date of POLICY ON PAYMENT FOR Deferred Share Bonus Plan cessation or over the financial year { On cessation of employment, LOSS OF OFFICE as a whole based on appropriate unvested shares will vest in full unless In relation to payments under nonperformance measures as determined the Committee determines otherwise.
contractual incentive schemes, the by the Committee.
Committee would take the following { On a change of control, unvested { The treatment of outstanding share factors into account: shares will vest in full.
awards is governed by the relevant { If other corporate events occur such { The Committee may determine that share plan rules as summarised below.
as a demerger, delisting, special the Executive Director is eligible to dividend, voluntary winding-up or receive a bonus in respect of the other event which in the opinion financial year in which they cease of the Committee may affect the employment.
This bonus would current or future value of shares, the usually be time apportioned and Committee will determine whether may be settled wholly in cash.
In unvested shares should vest.
determining the level of bonus to be paid, the Committee may, at its discretion, take into account 62 62 polypipe.
com Stock Code: PLP OUR GOVERNANCE LTIP Sharesave Plan DIFFERENCES IN POLICY { On cessation of employment, { Options become exercisable FROM BROADER EMPLOYEE unvested awards will lapse unless immediately on death, ceasing POPULATION cessation is as a result of death, ill employment due to injury, disability, A greater proportion of Executive health, injury, disability, transfer of retirement, redundancy, sale of the Directors potential wealth is at risk, employing company or business to employing company or business to either through their existing shareholding which an individuals employment which an individuals employment or through LTIP awards than for our relates out of the Group or any other relates out of the Group or on a employees generally and a greater scenario in which the Committee change of control voluntary windingproportion determined by performance determines at its discretion that up of the Company.
than for our employees generally.
good leaver treatment is appropriate However, common principles underlie The Committee reserves the right to other than circumstances justifying the pay policy throughout the Company make any other payments in connection summary dismissal.
In these including for the Executive Directors.
with a Directors cessation of office scenarios, unvested awards will In particular, we place great emphasis or employment where the payments usually continue until the normal throughout the Company on reward are made in good faith in discharge vesting date unless the Committee being linked to performance either of an existing legal obligation or by determines that the award should Group performance or performance way of damages for breach of such an vest earlier and will vest to an of an individuals business unit and on obligation or by way of a compromise extent that takes into account the encouraging share ownership through or settlement of any claim arising in performance condition assessed at participation in the LTIP or an allconnection with the cessation of a the date of vesting and, unless the employee share scheme.
Any such Committee determines otherwise, to payments may include but are not limited an extent that takes into account the CONSIDERATION OF to paying any fees for outplacement period of time between grant of the SHAREHOLDERS VIEWS assistance and or the Directors legal and award and cessation of employment.
The Company carried out a consultation or professional advice fees in connection process with its top 20 shareholders { On a change of control, unvested with his her cessation of office or and the shareholder advisory bodies in LTIP awards will vest immediately to employment.
2017, setting out the key elements of an extent that takes into account CONSIDERATION OF the draft Remuneration Policy and the the performance condition assessed rationale for the changes to the Policy at the change of control and, EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS approved by shareholders at the 2015 unless the Committee determines ELSEWHERE IN THE GROUP AGM.
The Committee Chair offered to otherwise, to an extent that takes The Committee does not formally consult meet with any shareholders who wished into account the period of time with employees when determining to discuss the proposals in more detail.
between grant of the award and the Executive Director pay.
However, the The feedback received from those that change of control.
If other corporate Committee is kept informed of general responded was generally supportive.
events occur such as a demerger, management decisions made in relation delisting, special dividend, voluntary to employee pay and is conscious of winding-up or other event which in the importance of ensuring that its the opinion of the Committee may pay decisions for Executive Directors affect the current or future value of are regarded as fair and reasonable shares, the Committee will determine within the business.
As outlined in the whether unvested LTIP awards Remuneration Policy table, pay and should vest.
If they do vest, they will conditions in the Group are one of the vest immediately to an extent that specific considerations taken into account takes into account the performance when the Committee is considering condition assessed at the date of the changes in salaries for the Executive event and, unless the Committee Directors.
determines otherwise, to an extent that takes into account the period of time between grant of the award and the date of the event.
63 63 Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION UNAUDITED INFORMATION Implementation of Remuneration Policy in 2018 This section provides an overview of how the Committee is proposing to implement the Remuneration Policy in 2018 for the Executive Directors.
Base annual salary As described in the Annual Statement from the Chair of the Remuneration Committee, an annual salary review has been carried out by the Committee.
The Committee approved a 2.0% increase in Executive Director salaries effective from 1 January 2018.
This increase is consistent with the average annual salary increase awarded to the Companys UK workforce for 2018.
Salary Salary 1 January 2 October % 2018 2017 increase Martin Payne CEO 438,600 430,000 2.0 Glen Sabin COO 280,500 275,000 2.0 Paul James CFO 285,000 n a n a Date of appointment to current role.
Appointed to the Board on 5 March 2018.
Pension In 2018, the Executive Directors will receive a Company contribution worth 15% of annual salary to the Group Pension Plan, a personal pension scheme, or as a cash allowance.
This has been reduced from 20%, the level of contribution under the previous Remuneration Policy.
Other benefits In 2018, the Executive Directors will receive a standard package of other benefits consistent with those received in 2017, other than as disclosed below in relation to the relocation allowance for Paul James.
Annual bonus The annual bonus plan for 2018 will be broadly consistent with the bonus plan operated in 2017.
Key features of the plan for 2018 are: { There will be a maximum bonus opportunity of 125% of annual salary for Martin Payne and 100% of annual salary for Glen Sabin and Paul James prorated from date of joining.
{ 25% of any bonus earned will be deferred into shares under the Deferred Share Bonus Plan DSBP.
Half of these shares will vest two years post grant and the remaining half three years post grant.
{ In the event that a material misstatement or miscalculation subsequently comes to light which resulted in an overpayment under the annual bonus plan or if evidence comes to light of material misconduct by an individual or if evidence emerges of a material health and safety breach, then the Committee has the flexibility to withhold the value of shares granted under the DSBP and or to require repayment of an appropriate portion of the annual bonus cash award in respect of the relevant bonus year.
The annual bonus for 2018 for Executive Directors will be determined as detailed below: Percentage of maximum bonus opportunity Performance measure CEO CFO COO Group Underlying Operating Profit 70% 70% 70% Working Capital 20% 20% 20% Individual objectives 10% 10% 10% The targets for these performance measures in relation to the 2018 financial year are deemed to be commercially sensitive.
However, retrospective disclosure of the targets and performance against them will be provided in next years Directors Remuneration Report to the extent that they do not remain commercially sensitive at that time.
com Stock Code: PLP OUR GOVERNANCE LTIP The Executive Directors will receive an award under the LTIP during 2018.
Key terms of this award will be: { Martin Payne will receive an award over shares worth 125% of annual salary at grant and Glen Sabin and Paul James will receive an award over shares worth 100% of annual salary at grant.
{ Awards will become exercisable three years after grant.
{ In the event that a material misstatement or miscalculation subsequently comes to light which results in too high a level of vesting under the LTIP or if evidence comes to light of material misconduct by an individual or if evidence emerges of a material health and safety breach, then the Committee has the flexibility to withhold or recover the value of shares granted under the LTIP.
{ Awards will be subject to a combination of underlying diluted EPS and relative TSR performance measures assessed over a three-year period as detailed below: Underlying diluted EPS performance condition 75% of award TSR performance condition 25% of award Three-year cumulative % of overall Ranking in TSR comparator % of overall underlying diluted EPS award vesting group award vesting Below threshold 89.0 pence per share 0% Below median 0% Threshold 89.0 pence per share 18.75% Median 6.25% Maximum 101.7 pence per share 75% Upper quartile 25% Threshold three-year cumulative underlying diluted EPS will be Comparator group comprises companies in the calculated using a 5% per annum growth on 2017 underlying diluted FTSE 250 Index that are classified as Industrials by EPS.
Maximum three-year cumulative underlying diluted EPS will be the Industry Classification Benchmark.
Vesting for calculated using a 12% per annum growth on 2017 underlying diluted performance between Median and Upper quartile EPS.
Vesting for performance between Threshold and Maximum will be will be calculated pro rata on a straight-line basis.
calculated pro rata on a straight-line basis.
Sharesave Plan Invitations to UK employees including Executive Directors to participate in the Sharesave Plan were issued in 2014, 2016 and 2017.
The Board is proposing to issue invitations to join the Plan on an annual basis, and all eligible UK employees will therefore be invited to join the Plan in 2018.
New CFOs pay arrangements Paul James commenced employment with the Company on 5 March 2018 and was appointed to the Board on the same date.
His pay arrangements upon appointment were in line with the updated Remuneration Policy and comprise: { Annual salary of 285,000.
{ Pension contribution worth 15% of annual salary plus a standard benefits package.
{ Eligibility to participate in the annual bonus plan with a maximum annual bonus opportunity of 100% of annual salary, time prorated from date of appointment.
The current policy is that Executive Directors other than the CEO will receive an annual LTIP award of shares worth 100% of annual salary.
The LTIP award to be granted in 2018 will be time prorated to reflect the fact that he will be employed for only part of the three-year period to which the award will relate.
{ Relocation package, comprising reimbursement of costs of up to 75,000 for relocation expenses, recoverable on a sliding scale if employment lasts less than three years.
Costs will cover temporary accommodation costs for a maximum of nine months from 5 March 2018, removal costs and fees associated with the purchase of a local residence, including stamp duty.
In addition, certain buy-out arrangements set out on page 66 have been agreed to partially compensate Paul James for bonus and long-term incentive awards that were forfeited when he left his previous employer, Dixons Carphone plc.
The buy-out arrangements have been structured in accordance with the principles set out in the approved Remuneration Policy, in particular that they should be of comparable commercial value to the incentives that have been forfeited.
These awards will be granted after the announcement of the Groups preliminary results on 20 March 2018.
65 65 Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION Maximum potential value of buy-out award Form of buy-out award Compensation Relates to the 216,545 To provide alignment with shareholders, the buy-out award will be granted for forfeited annual bonus Paul wholly in the form of Company shares.
These shares will vest on the dates 5 March 2021 annual bonus James would have set out below subject to continued employment but no further performance received from his conditions as the number of shares has been calculated based on an previous employer in assessment of the anticipated performance out-turn at Dixons Carphone plc.
relation to the year The maximum number of shares comprised in the award will be announced of his departure year via a Regulatory Information Service when the award is granted and will be ending 30 April 2018 reduced to reflect 1 the extent to which the bonus is payable and 2 any if he had not joined amount received by Paul James from Dixons Carphone plc.
Proportion of award Date of Vesting 50% 5 March 2020 50% 5 March 2021 Compensation Relates to a long-term 121,331 The buy-out award will vest on the same date that the original award would for forfeited share award due to have vested, subject to continued employment but no further performance long-term vest in June 2020 that conditions.
The number of shares comprised in the award will be announced incentive was forfeited by Paul via a Regulatory Information Service when the award is granted.
James on joining the Proportion of award Date of Vesting Company.
100% 30 June 2020 All of these non-pensionable share awards were granted under a deed in accordance with Listing Rule 9.4.
2R 2 of the Listing Rules in order to facilitate the recruitment of Paul James as permitted under the approved Remuneration Policy and set out in the Approach to Recruitment Remuneration section on page 61.
Other significant terms of these awards are as follows: { Awards will be granted as nil cost options exercisable from their respective vesting dates until the tenth anniversary of grant.
At its discretion, the Committee may permit settlement in cash.
{ The number of shares will be calculated using the average closing share price for the three dealing days prior to grant.
{ The number of shares under the forfeited bonus award will be increased to reflect dividends with a record date between the date Paul James commenced employment with the Company and the vesting date.
The value of the dividends will be determined as if they had been reinvested into Company shares on such terms as the Committee will determine.
{ In such circumstances as the Committee determines appropriate, including if a material misstatement of Dixons Carphone plcs audited financial results in relation to which a buy-out award is being granted subsequently comes to light or if evidence comes to light of material misconduct by the individual, then the Committee has the flexibility to withhold the buy-out awards.
{ Awards will be satisfied by existing shares other than treasury shares.
{ Ordinarily unvested buy-out awards would lapse on cessation of employment.
However, if Paul James ceases to hold office or employment in good leaver circumstances including death, ill health, injury or disability or any other reason at the Committees discretion except in circumstances justifying summary dismissal, unvested awards would become exercisable on a time prorated basis unless the Committee determines otherwise either at the original vesting date or the date of cessation of employment at the Committees discretion.
{ In the event of a change of control other than an internal reorganisation of the Polypipe Group, unvested awards would become exercisable on a time prorated basis unless the Committee determines otherwise.
{ The Committee may allow some or all of the award to vest or adjust the number of shares subject to the award in the event of demerger, delisting, special dividend or other event which, in their opinion, would affect the current or future value of the award.
The number of shares subject to the award may also be adjusted in the event of any variation of share capital.
{ No further awards will be made under this arrangement and no amendments will be made to the advantage of Paul James in relation to i the basis for determining his entitlement to, and the terms of, shares to be provided under the award: and ii any adjustment that may be made for any variation of share capital or special dividend without prior shareholder approval in general meeting except for minor amendments to benefit the administration of the award, to take account of a change in legislation or to obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment.
{ The award is personal to Paul James and cannot be transferred, assigned or otherwise disposed of by him other than to his personal representative following his death.
com Stock Code: PLP OUR GOVERNANCE Non-Executive Director remuneration During the year, Non-Executive Director fees were reviewed, following which it was agreed to increase the Non-Executive Directors base fee by 2.0% and the Chairmans fee by 2.0%.
The table below shows the fee structure for Non-Executive Directors for 2018.
Non-Executive Director fees are determined by the full Board except for the fee for the Chairman of the Board, which is determined by the Committee.
2018 fees Chairman of the Board all-inclusive fee 142,800 Basic Non-Executive Director fee 45,900 Senior Independent Director additional fee 10,000 Chair of Audit Committee additional fee 8,000 Chair of Remuneration Committee additional fee 8,000 AUDITED INFORMATION The information provided in this section of the Remuneration Report up until the Unaudited information heading on page 71 is subject to audit.
SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION The following table sets out the total remuneration for Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors for 2017 with comparative figures for 2016.
2017 2016 Salary Salary All figures and Annual and Annual 1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4 5 shown in 000 fees Benefits bonus Pension Total fees Benefits bonus Pension Other Total Executive Directors 6 David Hall 343 18 287 69 717 447 24 388 89 948 6 Martin Payne 327 14 236 60 637 179 8 134 36 312 669 7 Glen Sabin 69 5 45 10 129 Non-Executive Directors Ron Marsh 140 140 130 130 Paul Dean 63 63 60 60 Moni Mannings 53 53 50 50 Mark Hammond 45 45 42 42 Notes to the table methodology 1 Salary and fees Executive Director salaries were increased by 2.5% effective 1 January 2017 consistent with the average increases awarded to the Companys UK workforce.
Martin Paynes salary subsequently increased to 430,000 upon appointment as Chief Executive Officer in October 2017.
Glen Sabins annual salary was set at 275,000 per annum upon appointment to the Board as Chief Operating Officer in October 2017.
In 2017, the Non-Executive Director base fee was increased by 3,000 and the Chairmans fee increased by 10,000.
2 Benefits this represents the taxable value of all benefits.
Executive Directors receive benefits including car allowance, private family medical insurance and life assurance of four times annual salary.
3 Annual bonus the bonus is paid 75% in cash and 25% deferred into shares under the DSBP.
Further details on the 2017 annual bonus are set out on page 68.
4 Pension pension provision during 2016 and 2017 was 20% of annual salary for David Hall and Martin Payne.
On appointment as CEO, the pension provision for Martin Payne was reduced to 15%.
On appointment as COO, the pension provision for Glen Sabin was set at 15%.
5 Other for 2016, this column comprises the value of shares awarded to Martin Payne in partial compensation for bonus and long-term incentive awards forfeited when he left his previous employer Norcros plc, as well as the value of the grant of options to Martin Payne under the Sharesave Plan during 2016.
Further details are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2016.
6 David Hall retired from the Company on 2 October 2017 and Martin Payne, formerly CFO, was appointed CEO on 2 October 2017.
7 Glen Sabin was appointed to the Board as COO on 2 October 2017.
8 Total remuneration paid to Directors in respect of 2017 is 1,784,000 2016: 2,151,000 inclusive of 252,000 paid to Peter Shepherd who retired during the year.
67 67 Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION Annual bonus The maximum annual bonus opportunity for the Executive Directors in 2017 was as follows: { 125% of annual salary for David Hall, prorated to his retirement date of 2 October 2017.
{ 100% of annual salary for Martin Payne for the period 1 January to 1 October 2017, and 125% of annual salary for the period from 2 October 2017, when he was appointed CEO, to 31 December 2017.
{ 100% of annual salary for Glen Sabin for the period from 2 October 2017, when he was appointed to the Board, to 31 December 2017.
For Martin Payne and Glen Sabin, 75% of the bonus earned will be paid in cash and 25% will be deferred into shares under the DSBP.
Half of these shares will vest two years post grant and half after three years post grant.
For David Hall, the bonus will be paid wholly in cash.
Malus and clawback provisions apply to the bonuses of all of the aforementioned Directors.
Performance measures and targets applying to the 2017 annual bonus are set out below: Proportion % of of bonus maximum Performance determined Threshold Target Maximum Actual bonus measure by measure performance performance performance performance payable Group 70% 69.3m 72.9m 83.8m 74.0m 38.5% Underlying 17.5% of 35% of 70% of Operating total bonus total bonus total bonus Profit payable payable payable including discontinued operations Working 20% Net working capital position assessed at the end of each month relative Target 18.3% Capital to target.
Maximum performance requires the monthly target to be met achieved at the end of all 12 months.
in 11 of 12 months Individual 10% David Hall: objectives linked to operational performance and succession Fully 10.0% objectives planning.
achieved Martin Payne: objectives linked to satisfactory handover from previous Fully 10.0% CEO and continuing effective leadership of the Company.
Objectives as achieved CFO related to the establishment of an in-house Company Secretarial function and a major upgrade to the IT systems.
Glen Sabin: objectives linked to the health and safety performance Partially 9.0% of the Group.
achieved Total bonus payable Total bonus payable % of maximum 000 and % of annual salary David Hall 66.8% 287 83.5% of 2017 salary earned in period 1 January 2 October 2017 236 72.3% of salary earned as CFO from 1 January to 2 October 2017 and CEO Martin Payne 66.8% from 2 October 2017 to 31 December 2017 Glen Sabin 65.8% 45 65.8% of salary earned in period 2 October 31 December 2017 68 68 polypipe.
com Stock Code: PLP OUR GOVERNANCE SCHEME INTERESTS AWARDED DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR LTIP awards An award was granted under the LTIP to selected senior executives, including the Executive Directors, in May 2017.
This award is subject to the performance conditions described below and will become exercisable in May 2020.
Maximum Threshold End of number Face value vesting performance Type of award Date of grant of shares % of award period David Hall 2 May 2017 143,383 572,098 EPS element December 2019 Martin Payne Nil cost option 2 May 2017 73,214 292,124 25% of award Glen Sabin 2 May 2017 30,056 119,923 TSR element December 2019 The maximum number of shar es that could be awarded has been calculated using the share price of 3.99 average closing share price for 2628 April 2017 and is stated before the impact of reinvestment of the dividends paid since grant.
A wards granted to David Hall, who retired on 2 October 2017, will be treated in accordance with the LTIP rules and will therefore vest, subject to the achievement of the relevant performance condition, on the vesting date, and will be time prorated.
The award granted to Glen Sabin was made prior to his appointment to the Board and was therefore at a lower face value of salary as this was commensurate with the role he held at the date of grant.
Vesting of the awards is subject to satisfaction of the following performance conditions measured over a three-year performance period.
Vesting is calculated on a straight-line basis.
Underlying diluted EPS performance condition 75% of award TSR performance condition 25% of award Three-year cumulative % of overall award Ranking in TSR comparator % of overall underlying diluted EPS vesting group award vesting Below threshold 82.8 pence per share 0% Below median 0% Threshold 82.8 pence per share 18.75% Median 6.25% Maximum 94.5 pence per share 75% Upper quartile 25% Threshold three-year cumulative underlying diluted EPS is calculated Comparator group comprises companies in the FTSE using a 5% per annum growth on 2016 underlying diluted EPS.
250 Index that are classified as Industrials by the Maximum three-year cumulative underlying diluted EPS is calculated Industry Classification Benchmark.
TSR performance using a 12% per annum growth on 2016 underlying diluted EPS.
will be measured over the three-year period to Vesting for performance between Threshold and Maximum will be 31 December 2019.
Vesting for performance calculated pro rata on a straight-line basis.
between Median and Upper quartile will be calculated pro rata on a straight-line basis.
Deferred Share Bonus Plan awards On 25 April 2017, the Executive Directors received an award of shares under the Deferred Share Bonus Plan relating to the 2016 annual bonus.
The value of these shares was included in the annual bonus figure in the 2016 single total figure of remuneration.
No further performance conditions apply to these shares.
Maximum number Face value Type of award of shares Vesting date David Hall Deferred shares 23,924 96,901 50% vests in each of April 2019 and April 2020 Martin Payne Deferred shares 8,241 33,380 The maximum number of shares awarded was calculated using the average closing share price for the three dealing days prior to grant of 4.05 per share.
A wards granted to David Hall, who retired on 2 October 2017, vested in full on retirement and were paid in cash.
69 69 Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION Sharesave Plan Glen Sabin was granted options on 7 September 2017 under the Sharesave Plan on the same terms as other UK employees.
On 1 November 2017, the options granted under the Sharesave Plan in 2014 matured and Glen Sabin exercised his options on 1 November 2017.
Details of the Executive Directors SAYE options are set out below.
No performance conditions apply to these options.
Number of shares under Number of Market price on Notional gain option year of shares Option price Options exercisable date of exercise on exercise Type of award grant exercised from Martin Payne Share Option 8,144 2016 2.21 November 2019 Glen Sabin Share Option 9,045 2014 9,045 1.99 November 2017 4.20 20,003 Glen Sabin Share Option 2,322 2017 3.10 November 2020 The option price represents a 20% discount to the average closing price of a share on the three dealing days prior to the relevant invitation date.
The notional gain is the difference between the option price and the market price of the shares on the date of exercise.
PAYMENTS TO PAST DIRECTORS There were no payments to past Directors during 2017 that have not already been fully disclosed in previous Directors Remuneration Reports.
PAYMENTS FOR LOSS OF OFFICE David Hall, the former CEO, retired from the Company on 2 October 2017.
He received salary, pension and benefits up until his retirement date as outlined in the single total figure of remuneration table on page 67 and received no subsequent loss of office payments.
The Committee determined that David Hall should be entitled to receive a time prorated bonus for 2017 based on the Companys full-year performance again as outlined in the single total figure of remuneration table on page 67.
David Halls outstanding share incentives were treated in accordance with the rules of the applicable plans: { DSBP David Hall was granted 42,801 ordinary shares in April 2015, 31,174 ordinary shares in April 2016 and 23,924 ordinary shares in April 2017 representing the 25% retained value of his 2014, 2015 and 2016 annual bonus awards.
The Committee determined that he should be treated as a good leaver in respect of these awards which therefore vested on 2 October 2017.
Under the rules of the DSBP he took up the option to receive a cash amount in substitution for the right to receive these shares.
{ LTIP David Hall was granted 194,340 ordinary shares in May 2016 and 143,383 ordinary shares in May 2017.
Under the rules of the LTIP, he will be deemed to be a good leaver and will therefore be entitled to exercise the awards on their normal vesting dates, subject to achievement of the relevant performance targets and time prorated to reflect the period of time that has elapsed between the date of grant of the relevant award and the date of his retirement.
{ Sharesave Plan David Halls outstanding options held under the all-employee Sharesave Plan were subject to the rules of the Sharesave Plan and therefore exercisable within six months of his retirement date.
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS SHAREHOLDING AND SHARE INTERESTS Upon Admission, the Committee introduced a shareholding requirement of 100% of annual salary for the Executive Directors.
Following a review of this requirement in 2017, the Committee agreed that this should be increased to 200% of salary, in line with current market practice.
Executive Directors are expected to achieve the shareholding requirement within five years of an individual becoming subject to the requirement.
The Committee reviews ongoing individual performance against the shareholding requirement at the end of each financial year.
Martin Payne commenced employment with the Company during 2016, and his salary was increased in October 2017, when he became CEO, and he is continuing to build up his shareholding on this basis in line with the aforementioned fiveyear timescale.
Glen Sabin met this requirement as at 31 December 2017.
com Stock Code: PLP OUR GOVERNANCE The number of shares currently held by Directors is set out in the table below: Number of shares at 31 December 2017 Interests in share incentive schemes, subject Interests in share incentive schemes, awarded Director Shares owned outright to performance conditions without performance conditions Recruitment Sharesave 1 2 3 4 LTIP DSBP awards Plan 5 Martin Payne 69,726 63% of salary 150,957 8,241 20,898 8,144 5 Glen Sabin 892,932 1,276% of salary 70,794 2,322 Ron Marsh 175,000 Paul Dean 5,000 Moni Mannings Mark Hammond 15,000 6 David Hall 5,873,740 337,723 Notes to the table 1 This relates to shares awarded under the LTIP in May 2016 and May 2017.
2 This relates to shares awarded under the DSBP in April 2017 in relation to the 2016 annual bonus.
3 This relates to shares awarded to Martin Payne in partial compensation for bonus and long-term incentive awards forfeited when he left his previous employer.
Full details are set out on pages 55 to 57 of the 2016 Annual Report on Remuneration.
A further 24,352 shares including 668 dividend shares vested during 2017 and are included, net of shares sold to satisfy the related personal tax liability, in the Shares owned outright column.
4 This relates to shares awarded under the Sharesave Plan in September 2016 Martin Payne and September 2017 Glen Sabin 5 For the purposes of determining the value of Executive Director shareholdings, the individuals current annual salary and the share price as at 31 December 2017 has been used 3.932 per share.
6 Shareholding as at date of cessation of employment on 2 October 2017.
Between 31 December 2017 and the date of this report, there were no changes in the shareholdings of current Directors outlined in the above table.
UNAUDITED INFORMATION The information provided in this section of the Directors Remuneration Report is not subject to audit.
PERFORMANCE GRAPH AND CEO REMUNERATION TABLE The chart below compares the Total Shareholder Return performance of the Company over the period from Admission to 31 December 2017 to the performance of the FTSE 250 Index.
This index has been chosen because it is a recognised equity market index of which the Company is a member.
The base point in the chart for the Company equates to the Offer Price of 2.45 per share.
200 180 160 140 120 100 80 60 Polypipe Group 40 FTSE 250 Index 20 0 Admission 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 16 April 2014 2014 2015 2016 2017 71 71 Value of 100 invested at the Offer Price on the date of Admission FTSE 250 Index Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION The table below summarises the CEO single figure for total remuneration, annual bonus pay-outs and long-term incentive vesting levels as a percentage of maximum opportunity over this period.
1 2 2014 2016 2017 2017 2015 CEO single figure of remuneration 000 955 919 948 717 218 Annual bonus pay-out as a % of maximum opportunity 88.7% 68.2% 69.4% 66.8% 66.8% LTIP vesting out-turn as a % of n a no award n a no award n a no award n a no award n a no award maximum opportunity vested in 2014 vested in 2015 vested in 2016 vested in 2017 vested in 2017 1 This reflects the remuneration received by David Hall, CEO for the period from 1 January 2017 to 1 October 2017.
2 This reflects the remuneration received by Martin Payne who was appointed as CEO on 2 October 2017 following the retirement of David Hall.
PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN REMUNERATION OF THE CEO The table below illustrates the percentage change in annual salary, benefits and bonus between 2016 and 2017 for the CEO and the average for all Company UK employees.
The CEO is a UK-based employee so the Committee feels that a comparator based on all UK employees is appropriate for the purposes of this analysis.
Salary change Benefits change Annual bonus change 2016 to 2017 2016 to 2017 2016 to 2017 1 CEO 0.8% -7.1% -2.9% Average for all UK employees 2.0% -14.9% 1 This table reflects the fact that David Hall was CEO until 2 October 2017 and Martin Payne was appointed as CEO on 2 October 2017.
Martin Paynes salary on appointment was lower than David Halls CEO salary, and as set out in the Annual Statement by the Chair of Remuneration Committee on page 54, it is the Committees intention to increase Mr Paynes salary over time to the same level as was received by David Hall.
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF THE SPEND ON PAY The chart below illustrates the total expenditure on pay for all of the Companys employees compared to dividends payable to shareholders.
com Stock Code: PLP OUR GOVERNANCE CONSIDERATION BY THE DIRECTORS OF MATTERS RELATING TO DIRECTORS REMUNERATION The Committee is chaired by Moni Mannings.
During the year, the Committee also comprised Ron Marsh, Paul Dean and Mark Hammond.
The Committee met six times during 2017.
The CEO, David Hall, was also present at those meetings by invitation until his retirement on 2 October 2017 following which Martin Payne, CEO from 2 October 2017, was present by invitation.
The Committee is responsible for determining all aspects of Executive Director pay.
It also monitors pay arrangements for other senior executives and oversees the operation of all share plans.
Full terms of reference of the Committee are available on our website at www.
Deloitte LLP was appointed in 2014 to provide advice on executive remuneration matters.
During the year, the Committee received independent and objective advice from Deloitte LLP principally on market practice, incentive design and remuneration policy for which Deloitte LLP was paid 8,920 2016: 47,300 in fees charged on a time plus expenses basis.
Deloitte LLP is a founding member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and as such, voluntarily operates under the code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
In addition, during 2017, other departments within Deloitte LLP provided advice to the Company in relation to tax.
The Committee has reviewed the nature of this additional advice and is satisfied that it does not compromise the independence of the advice that it has received.
SHAREHOLDER VOTING ON REMUNERATION REPORT RESOLUTIONS A high level of shareholder support has been received for our Remuneration Report resolutions since the Remuneration Policy was first approved by shareholders in 2015, as summarised below: Votes for Votes against Votes withheld Approval of the Remuneration Policy 2015 AGM 146,494,935 99.99% 1,457 0.01% 3,197,875 Approval of the Annual Report on Remuneration: 2016 AGM 139,544,564 95.97% 5,860,276 4.03% 1,732,822 2017 AGM 140,730,698 98.23% 2,530,161 1.77% 1,212 EXTERNAL BOARD APPOINTMENTS Executive Directors are not normally entitled to accept a Non-Executive Director appointment outside the Company without the prior approval of the Board.
None of the current Executive Directors currently holds any such appointment.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING This Annual Report on Remuneration will be subject to an advisory shareholder vote at our AGM to be held on 23 May 2018.
Moni Mannings Chair of the Remuneration Committee 20 March 2018 73 73
