CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT This corporate governance statement forms part of the The Directors believe that the Company does not require an Directors report.
internal audit function, principally because the Company delegates its day-to-day operations to third parties, which are monitored by Statement of compliance the Audit Committee, and which provide control reports on their The Company is committed to maintaining high standards of operations at least annually.
The Board has considered the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance The Board of Directors the AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance The Board consists of six Directors, all of whom are independent Guide for Investment Companies the AIC Guide published in July non-executive directors.
Biographies of the Directors are shown 2016.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the on pages 40 to 42 and demonstrate the wide range of skills and principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code the UK experience they bring to the Board.
The Directors possess Code published in April 2016, as well as setting out additional business and financial expertise relevant to the direction of the principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific Company and consider themselves to be committing sufficient relevance to the Company.
time to the Companys affairs.
The Board considers that reporting against the principles and None of the Directors has a service contract with the Company, recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC nor are any such contracts proposed.
Each Director has been Guide which incorporates the UK Code, will provide better appointed pursuant to a letter of appointment entered into with information to shareholders.
The Directors appointment can be terminated in accordance with the Articles of Association and without The FRC, the UKs independent regulator for corporate reporting compensation.
Copies of the letters of appointment are available and governance responsible for the UK Code, has endorsed the AIC on request from the Company Secretary and will be available at Code and the AIC Guide.
The terms of the FRCs endorsement mean the AGM.
that AIC members who report against the AIC Code and the AIC Guide meet fully their obligations under the UK Code and the The Chairman related disclosure requirements contained in the Listing Rules.
The Chairman, Susan Searle, is independent and considers herself to have sufficient time to commit to the Companys affairs.
The Both the AIC Code and AIC Guide are available from the AIC website Chairmans other commitments are detailed in her biography on at www.
A copy of the UK Code can be obtained at page 40. www.
The operation of the Board The Board of Directors meets at least four times a year and more The Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code often if required.
In addition to the four Board meetings, the and the relevant provisions of the UK Code, except as set out below.
Directors meet annually for a formal session devoted entirely to the role of the Chief Executive: and reviewing strategic matters, as well as meeting at least once a Executive Directors Remuneration.
year without the Portfolio Manager being present to reflect on the Company's progress.
For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained in the UK Code, the Board considers these provisions are not relevant to the Company, being an externally managed investment company.
In particular, all of the Companys day-to-day management and administrative functions are outsourced to third parties.
As a result, the Company has no executive directors, employees or internal operations.
The Company has therefore not reported further in respect of these provisions.
The Directors have determined that the size of the Companys Board does not warrant the appointment of a senior independent director at this time.
All of the Directors are available to address shareholder queries or engage in consultation as required.
54 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc The table below sets out the Directors attendance at Board and Committee meetings held from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017, against the number of meetings each Board or Committee member was eligible to attend.
Board Audit Management Committee Engagement Committee Susan Searle 5 5 2 2 1 1 Scott Brown 5 5 2 2 1 1 Carolan Dobson 5 5 2 2 1 1 Steven Harris 5 5 2 2 1 1 Louise Makin 5 5 2 2 1 1 The Board met once during the year for a whole day to review and focus on the Companys strategy.
In addition, the Board took part in a valuation workshop with the AIFM and Duff & Phelps to discuss the Companys valuation process.
A number of additional meetings were held to discuss various other strategic matters.
No individuals other than the Board or Committee members are the approval of terms of reference and membership of the entitled to attend the relevant meetings unless they have been Board Committees: invited to attend by the Board or relevant Committee.
approving the Directors and officers liability insurance: and agreeing the terms of the appointment of the third-party service providers.
Directors are provided with a comprehensive set of papers for each Board or Committee meeting, which equips them with There is a procedure in place for the Directors to take sufficient information to prepare for the meetings.
In addition, the independent professional advice at the expense of the Company Secretary aims to circulate meeting papers at least Company.
seven days prior to each meeting to allow the Board or Committee members sufficient time to review the meeting packs.
The Company has maintained Directors and officers liability insurance, such cover to be maintained for the full term of each The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved Directors appointment.
to it for decision to ensure effective control of strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues, which includes: Save for such indemnity provisions in the Companys Articles of Association, there are no qualifying third-party indemnity The Company structure, including share issues and setting a provisions in force.
discount premium management programme: risk management: Independence of Directors reviewing the performance of the Portfolio Manager and Each of the Directors was considered to be independent on other service providers and setting their fees: appointment and remained so throughout the period.
In particular, setting the overall objectives and investment restrictions: the Board remained independent of the Portfolio Manager and the approving Board changes: AIFM and free from any business or other relationship that could authorising Board conflicts of interest: materially interfere with the exercise of his or her independent approving the Companys annual accounts and half-yearly judgement.
There are no relationships or circumstances relating to accounts, including accounting policies: the Company that are likely to affect their judgement.
the approval of dividend payments and distributions to the Companys shareholders: approving the Company's level of gearing: Care will be taken at all times to ensure that the Board is composed of members who, as a whole, have the required knowledge, abilities and experience to properly fulfil their role and are independent.
Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 55 Board evaluation The Board members are encouraged to keep up to date and attend As a FTSE 250 Company, the Board is required to be externally training courses on matters that are directly relevant to their evaluated at least every third year.
An external board evaluation involvement with the Company.
The Company has joined the AIC and company, Lintstock Limited, undertook the first Board evaluation the Board has taken advantage of various webinars, meetings and in 2016.
The Directors are aware that they need continually to conferences organised by the AIC in the furtherance of their training.
monitor and improve performance and recognise this can be The Directors also receive regular briefings from, among others, the achieved through regular Board evaluation, which provides a auditor and the Company Secretary regarding any proposed valuable feedback mechanism for improving Board effectiveness.
developments or changes in laws or regulations that could affect them or the Company.
The Directors opted to undertake an internal performance evaluation for the year ended 31 December 2017, this was Board appointment, election and tenure undertaken by the Company Secretary, by way of questionnaires The rules concerning the appointment and replacement of Directors specifically designed to assess the strengths and independence are contained in the Companys Articles of Association and the of the Board and the Chairman, individual Directors and the Companies Act 2006. performance of its Committees.
The evaluation of the Chairman is carried out by the other Directors of the Company, led by the None of the Directors consider length of service as an impediment to Chair of the Audit Committee.
independence or good judgement but, if they felt this had become the case, the relevant Director would stand down.
The questionnaires are also intended to analyse the focus of Board meetings and assess whether they are appropriate, or if The Directors of the Company and their biographies are set out on any additional information may be required to facilitate Board pages 40 to 42.
As the Company is within the FTSE250, each of the discussions.
The results of the Board evaluation process were Directors will put themselves forward for re-election on an annual reviewed and discussed by the Board as a whole.
As a result of the evaluation, the Board considers that it is working The Board has considered each Board member's independence of well and all Directors continue to make positive contributions.
the AIFM and Portfolio Manager and believes that it is in the best There is the appropriate blend of knowledge, skills, and interests of shareholders that each of the Directors be re-elected at experience relevant to the leadership and direction of the the forthcoming AGM.
A strategy in relation to succession planning would be set in the future, although it was acknowledged that there was no Board responsibilities and relationship with the Portfolio immediate need for this due to the age of the Company.
The Manager annual Strategy Day had provided all Directors with the The Board is responsible for the determination of the Companys opportunity to set clearer goals in relation to the Companys investment policy and strategy and has overall responsibility for the objectives.
Companys activities, including the review of investment activity and performance and the control and supervision of all suppliers of In accordance with the AIC Code, the Board has reviewed the services to the Company, including the Portfolio Manager.
The Board independent status of each individual Director and the Board as a is also responsible for the Companys systems of internal and whole.
In the Boards opinion, all Directors are considered to be financial controls and for ensuring that commercial risks and independent of the Portfolio Manager in both character and financing needs are properly considered and that the obligations of a judgement.
public limited company are adhered to.
The Directors intend to engage an external provider to conduct Arrangements have been put in place to delegate certain operations the Board evaluation process for the year ending 31 December of the Company to the AIFM, Portfolio Manager and other third-party 2019. service providers.
The AIFM has delegated the management of the Companys portfolio to the Portfolio Manager to manage the Board training and induction Companys investment portfolio within the guidelines set by the The Company Secretary or the Portfolio Manager upon request of Board.
the Board, will offer induction training to new Directors about the Company, its key service providers, the Directors duties and The Portfolio Manager is in frequent contact with the Board and obligations and other matters as may be relevant from time to time.
supplies the Directors with monthly updates on the Companys activities and detailed reports are provided for review at each Board meeting.
The Chairman encourages open and constructive debate to foster a supportive and co-operative approach at all meetings.
56 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Conflicts of interest Company Secretary The Articles of Association provide that the Directors may authorise The Board has direct access to the advice and services of the any actual or potential conflict of interest that a Director may have, Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that Board and with or without imposing any conditions that they consider Committee procedures are followed and that applicable rules and appropriate on the Director.
Directors are not able to vote in respect regulations are complied with.
of any contract, arrangement or transaction in which they have a material interest and, in such circumstances, they are not counted in Review of shareholder profile the quorum.
A process has been developed to identify any of the The Board reviews reports provided by qualified independent Directors potential or actual conflicts of interest.
This includes industry consultants and the Companys broker on the Companys declaring any potential new conflicts before the start of each Board shareholder base and its underlying beneficial owners.
A schedule is maintained of each Board members potential Manager and brokers disclose any concerns raised by shareholders conflicts of interest.
Board committees Stewardship responsibilities and the use of voting rights Given the size of the Board, it is not considered appropriate for the The FRC introduced a Stewardship Code that sets out the Company to establish separate remuneration and nomination responsibilities of institutional shareholders in respect of committees.
It is, therefore, the practice for the Board as a whole to investee companies.
consider and approve Directors remuneration and new appointments.
The need for separate remuneration and nomination Under this, managers should: committees is considered on an annual basis.
publicly disclose their policy on how they will discharge their stewardship responsibilities to their clients: Audit Committee disclose their policy on managing conflicts of interest: The Audit Committee is comprised of all Directors and is chaired monitor their investee companies: by Steven Harris, who is a Chartered Accountant.
Given the size establish clear guidelines on how they escalate engagement: and nature of the Board it is felt appropriate that all Directors are be willing to act collectively with other investors where members of the Audit Committee.
Susan Searle, the Companys appropriate: Chairman, is therefore a member of the Audit Committee.
The have a clear policy on proxy voting and disclose their voting Directors believe it is appropriate for the Chairman of the Board to record: and be a member of the Audit Committee, given her financial report to clients.
The Audit Committee is also of the view that her membership would not compromise her independence as The Portfolio Manager recognises that one of the important Chairman of the Board.
The Board has delegated certain obligations that it has, as the steward of the Companys underlying responsibilities to its Audit Committee, details of which can be shares and securities, is the right to vote on issues submitted to found on pages 59 to 61. shareholders.
These issues may include the election of directors and other important matters that affect the structure of the investee Management Engagement Committee company.
Woodford recognises its fiduciary responsibility to its The Management Engagement Committee is comprised of all clients and the Woodford investment team will consider proxy voting the Directors and is chaired by Susan Searle.
The Management papers, supported by independent providers, ahead of making an Engagement Committee meets at least once a year or more election.
Its principal duties are to consider the terms of appointment and ongoing performance of the AIFM, The Woodford investment team considers its position on all major Portfolio Manager and the Companys other service providers, proxy voting issues, is responsible for all elections and a record of the including the level of fees payable and the length of notice election is maintained electronically.
period, to ensure that they remain competitive and in the best interests of shareholders, as well as reviewing service Woodford has retained the services of Institutional Voting providers anti-bribery and corruption policies to address the Information Service IVIS, a leading provider of corporate governance provisions of the Bribery Act 2010. research.
IVIS outlines a number of best practice guidelines that cover corporate governance and share capital management.
During the year, the Management Engagement Committee has undertaken a review of the performance of the AIFM, Portfolio Manager and its other third-party service providers.
Following review, the Management Engagement Committee has recommended that the appointments of all of the Company's third-party service providers continue.
The terms of reference of the Committees are available on the Companys website: www.
com funds wpct Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 57 Woodford considers the advice and recommendations made by IVIS The Directors have reviewed and considered the guidance supplied in reaching a proxy voting decision.
However, it is the responsibility of by the FRC on Risk Management, Internal Control, and Related the Woodford investment team to decide how to vote and it may Finance and Business Reporting and the FRC's Guidance on Audit choose not to follow the advice provided by a third party.
Woodfords Committees published in April 2016.
An ongoing process has been default position is to vote with management.
established for identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by the Company.
This process, together with key Woodford manages the proxy voting process via ProxyEdge, a procedures established with a view to providing effective financial platform provided by Broadridge Financial Solutions.
The system control, was in place during the year under review and at the date of manages the process of notifications, voting, tracking, mailing, the signing of this report.
The internal control systems are designed reporting and record maintenance.
ProxyEdge provides proxy to ensure that proper accounting records are maintained, that the information through an automated electronic interface based on financial information on which business decisions are made and share positions provided directly to Broadridge by Woodford back which are issued for publication is reliable and that the assets of the office or directly from the clients custodian, bank or broker-dealer.
The risk management process and systems of internal control are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Companys objectives.
It Relations with shareholders should be recognised that such systems can only provide All shareholders have the opportunity to attend and vote, in person reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or by proxy, at the AGM.
The notice of the AGM, which is sent out at or loss.
least 20 working days in advance of the AGM, sets out the business of the meeting and any item not of an entirely routine nature is The Directors have carried out a review of the effectiveness of the explained in the Directors report.
Separate resolutions are proposed Company's risk management and internal control systems as they in respect of each substantive issue.
have operated over the period and up to the date of approval of the report and financial statements.
There were no matters arising from Shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM and to participate this review that required further investigation and no significant in proceedings.
The Chairman of the Board and the Directors, failings or weaknesses were identified.
together with representatives of the Portfolio Manager, will be available to answer shareholders questions at the AGM.
Proxy voting figures are available to shareholders at the AGM.
The Company has established a risk matrix consisting of the key risks and controls in place to mitigate those risks.
Details of the Companys The Portfolio Manager holds regular discussions with major risks can be found on pages 35 and 36 of the Directors report, shareholders, the feedback from which is provided to and greatly together with an explanation of the robust controls that have been valued by the Board.
The Directors are available to enter into dialogue established to manage each risk.
Financial risks are explained in note and correspondence with shareholders regarding the progress and 22 on pages 87 to 92.
The risk matrix provides a basis for the Audit performance of the Company.
During the year, the Chairman met Committee and the Board to regularly monitor the effective with a number of major shareholders.
Further information about the operation of the controls and to update the matrix when new risks Company can be found on the Companys section of the Portfolio are identified.
During the year, the Company has assessed the risk Managers website: www.
posed by Brexit and updated the matrix accordingly.
Most functions for the day-to-day management of the Company are Internal control review sub-contracted, and the Directors therefore obtain regular The Directors are responsible for the systems of internal control assurances and information from key third-party suppliers regarding relating to the Company and the reliability of the financial reporting the internal systems and controls operated in their organisations.
In process and for reviewing their effectiveness.
addition, each of the third parties is requested to provide a copy of its report on internal controls each year, which is reviewed by the Audit Committee.
During the period under review, the Board has not identified any significant failings or weaknesses in the internal control systems of its service providers.
58 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc
