REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE As Chairman of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to present its Matters considered during the year report for the year ended 31 December 2017.
The Audit Committee met twice during the year and once post the year end.
At those meetings, the Audit Committee has The membership of, and attendance at, the Audit Committee reviewed the following: meetings is set out on page 55.
Following the performance the Companys financial statements for the half year and year evaluation of the Audit Committee as set out on page 56, the end and made formal recommendations to the Board.
In Audit Committee considers itself to have the required breadth of doing so, the Audit Committee has reviewed the skills and experience to discharge its role.
appropriateness of the Companys accounting policies and whether appropriate estimates and judgements were made: the internal controls and risk management systems of the The role of the Audit Committee Companys third-party service providers to which it has The role of the Audit Committee is defined in its terms of delegated its operations: reference, which can be found on the Companys section of the the Companys risk matrix, including consideration of the risk Portfolio Managers website at www.
In posed by the United Kingdoms decision to leave the EU: summary, the role includes the following: the whistleblowing policy of the AIFM and the Portfolio to monitor the financial reporting process: Manager: to review and monitor the integrity of the half-year and annual the policy on non-audit services: financial statements and review and challenge where necessary the audit plan and fees with the auditor, including the key the accounting policies and judgements of the AIFM, Portfolio areas of focus: and Manager and administrator: the dividend policy.
to review the adequacy and effectiveness of the Companys internal financial and internal control and risk management UK non-audit services systems: The Audit Committee has reviewed and implemented a policy to review the effectiveness of the external audit process: on the engagement of the auditor to supply non-audit services.
to make recommendations to the Board on the re-appointment During the year ended 31 December 2017, the auditor has or removal of the external auditor and to approve its provided the following non-audit service: review of the remuneration and terms of engagement: Companys half-year accounts for the period ended 30 June to review and monitor the external auditors independence and 2017.
Prior to undertaking this non-audit service, the Audit objectivity: Committee reviewed the auditors controls in place to ensure to consider the provision of non-audit services: that the auditors objectivity and independence were to consider the provision of services by the Companys safeguarded.
The fee for this non-audit service was 10,000. appointed tax advisers: The fee to be paid with respect to the audit of the annual report to consider any dividend payments and distributions to and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 is 45,000. shareholders: Therefore, the ratio of non-audit to audit fees is 1:5.5. to consider and review the valuation and existence of the Company's assets: It was agreed that all requests or applications for other services to consider the need for an internal audit function: and to be provided by the auditor should be submitted to the Audit to review the whistleblowing policies of the third-party service Committee and will include a description of the services to be providers and receive assurances that the appropriate bribery rendered and an anticipated cost.
Following the annual review risk and anti-corruption policies are in place to ensure of this policy, the Audit Committee has concluded that it still compliance with the Bribery Act 2010. remained appropriate.
Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 59 Significant accounting matters The Audit Committee met to review the report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017.
The Audit Committee considered the following significant issues, including principal risks and uncertainties in light of the Companys activities and issues communicated by the Auditors during their review, all of which were satisfactorily addressed: Issue considered How the issue was addressed Valuation of the investment portfolio, including the unquoted The Companys assets are principally invested in listed and unlisted holdings equities.
The Audit Committee reviewed internal control reports from the AIFM in the year, reporting on the systems and controls around the pricing and valuation of securities.
The Audit Committee notes that listed investments are valued using stock exchange prices provided by third-party financial data vendors.
In respect of the unquoted holdings, at each meeting the Audit Committee reviews a report on the revaluations undertaken on the unquoted holdings during the period and challenges the considerations and key assumptions made where appropriate, to ensure that the valuations are accurate.
During the period under review, the Audit Committee has also reviewed the process in place to ensure the accurate valuation of unquoted holdings on an ongoing basis.
The Audit Committee has also considered the work of the AIFMs Fair Value Pricing Committee, which takes inputs from the Portfolio Manager and Duff & Phelps who act as an independent valuation adviser, which considers the pricing of the unquoted holdings.
Please see note 2 b on pages 76 and 77 for further details of how unlisted equities are valued.
Compliance with Section 1158 of the CTA The Audit Committee receives assurance from the Company's administrator that the Company has been in compliance with Section 1158 of the CTA.
This is other than monitoring of close company status, which is monitored by way of an alert that has been set up by the Companys registrar to notify the Company Secretary should more than 0.5 per cent of shares change hands.
Risk of misappropriation of assets and unsecured ownership of The Audit Committee reviews reports from its service providers investments and Management override of controls on key controls over the assets of the Company.
Any significant issues are raised by the Depositary and reported by the AIFM to the Board.
The AIFM has put in place procedures to ensure that investments can only be made to the extent that the appropriate contractual and legal arrangements are in place to protect the Companys assets.
The risk that income is overstated, incomplete or inaccurate The audit for the year ended 31 December 2017 includes checks on through failure to recognise proper income entitlements or to apply the completeness and accuracy of income and also checks that this the appropriate accounting treatment for recognition of income.
has been recognised in accordance with stated accounting policies.
Following the consideration of the above matters and its detailed review, the Audit Committee was of the opinion that the annual report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
60 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc External auditor The Audit Committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the The Companys external auditor, Grant Thornton, was appointed external audit process on an annual basis and makes prior to the listing of the Company in 2015 and is therefore in its recommendations to the Board on its re-appointment, third year of tenure.
Under the FRCs new ethical standards remuneration and terms of engagement.
The Audit Committee has applicable to public interest entities, the Company is required to reviewed the Letter of Engagement from Grant Thornton and agreed re-tender, at the latest, by 2025.
The Audit Committee intends to that it reflected the services outlined in the annual audit plan for the re-tender within the timeframe set by the FRC.
The Audit Committee has met with the audit team and assessed period of time since the auditor was appointed, it is not Grant Thorntons performance to date.
The review has involved an considered appropriate to consider the auditors succession at examination of the auditors remuneration, the quality of its work, this point in time.
including the quality of the audit report, the quality of the audit partner and audit team, the qualifications and expertise of the audit During the period under review, the Companys appointed audit firm and the resources available to it, the identification of audit risk, partner is Mr Marcus Swales.
Mr Swales has significant the planning and execution of the audit and the terms of experience in the audit of investment trusts.
The Audit Committee has also reviewed feedback from UK legislation, the audit partner must rotate at least every five service providers in respect of the conduct of the audit for the year years.
Mr Swales will be due to rotate out of this role during 2021 ended 31 December 2017.
Following this review of the effectiveness at the latest.
Mr Swales has led the audit of the year-end of the audit, the Audit Committee was satisfied that Grant Thornton accounts.
had carried out its duties effectively.
Accordingly, the Audit Committee has recommended to the Board that it proposes to shareholders via an ordinary resolution that Grant Thornton be The audit fees for the period under review can be found in note re-appointed as auditor at the AGM.
Grant Thornton has confirmed 5 to the accounts on page 79. its willingness to continue in office.
The Audit Committee monitors the auditors objectivity and The Audit Committee has direct access to the Companys auditor independence on an ongoing basis.
In determining the auditors and provides a forum through which the auditor reports to the independence, the Audit Committee has assessed all Board.
Representatives of the auditor attend the Audit Committee relationships with the auditor and received confirmation from meetings regularly.
the auditor that it remained independent and that it had implemented policies and procedures to meet the requirements of the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards.
The Audit Tax adviser Committee has also received confirmation that no issues of The Audit Committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness of conflict had arisen during the period.
The Audit Committee is the Companys tax adviser, Duff & Phelps Limited, on an annual therefore satisfied that Grant Thornton is independent.
basis and makes recommendations to the Board as to its appointment and remuneration.
CMA Order The Company has complied throughout the year ended 31 December 2017 with the provisions of the Statutory Audit Services Order 2014, issued by the Competition and Markets Authority CMA Order.
Approved 23 April 2018 Steven Harris Chairman of the Audit Committee Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 61 62 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc
