Governance report Explanations under the UK Corporate Continuity of success: Said Darwazah has been a driving force behind the operational success of the business since 2007 and Governance Code the Board believes that it is important to the continued success of the Group that he remains in the lead executive role.
Governance principles The Board is committed to the standards of corporate governance set Control enhancements out in the UK Corporate Governance Code the UK Code adopted The Board continues to operate the following enhanced controls: in April 2016 and the Markets Law of the Dubai Financial Services Authority.
The report on pages 66 to 111 describes how the Board Governance structure review: The Independent Directors meet has applied the Main Principles of the UK Code and Markets Law at least bi-annually in a private session chaired by the Senior throughout the year ended 31 December 2017.
The UK Code is available Independent Director.
This meeting includes consideration of at www.
uk the appropriateness of the governance structure and safeguards for shareholders.
The Board considers that this Annual Report provides the information Committee Chair roles: The Chairs of the Board Committees, shareholders need to evaluate how we have complied with our current all of whom are Independent Non-Executive Directors, undertake obligations under the UK Code and Markets Law.
a significant amount of work in the oversight of the functions that report to their Committees and have in-depth relationships with The Board acknowledges that Said Darwazah holding the position the relevant executives.
of Chairman and Chief Executive during 2017 and from February 2018 Transparency and engagement: Hikma has always had the highest Executive Chairman, and the continuation of Independent Nonregard for external shareholders.
Many of the original investors from Executive Directors who have served more than nine years require before listing still invest and support Hikma today.
Over 13 years explanation under the UK Code.
Hikma is committed to an open since flotation the Company has maintained the highest standards dialogue regarding these matters.
Questions may be directed to, and of shareholder engagement, which is reflective of the importance further information may be requested from the Company Secretary.
placed in maintaining strong investor relations and governance.
Otherwise, throughout the year and up until the date of this report, Hikma has won and been shortlisted for several transparency and Hikma was in full compliance with the UK Code.
Senior Independent role: The Senior Independent Director has joint Executive Chairman position responsibility, with the Executive Chairman, for setting the Board agenda, agreeing action points and the minutes of the meetings.
The Board acknowledges that Said Darwazahs position as Executive Chairman is a departure from the UK Code.
The role was created in Independence February 2018, following the appointment of Siggi Olafsson as Chief Executive Officer.
Previously, Said Darwazah was the Chairman and The Board considers Robert Pickering, Dr Ronald Goode, Pat Butler, Chief Executive Officer.
DrPamela Kirby, John Castellani and Nina Henderson to be independent.
These individuals provide extensive experience of The change of roles and appointment of a Chief Executive Officer international pharmaceutical, financial, corporate governance and has caused a significant reduction in Said Darwazahs executive regulatory matters and were not associated with Hikma prior to its responsibilities.
However the Board considers that, as the Company listing in 2005. moves into a new era, it is essential to retain Said Darwazahs services in an executive capacity for a time period sufficient to ensure a controlled The Board reviewed and considered the independence of the and orderly transfer of responsibilities.
Non-Executive Directors during the year as part of the annual corporate governance review.
It recognises that Dr Ronald Goode has served in The Board consulted shareholders prior to his appointment in May 2014 excess of nine years and therefore this constitutes a departure from the and following the change of role in February 2018.
However, in accordance with the previously communicated Non-Executive Directors met twice during the year to review the Board succession plan, Dr Ronald Goode will retire from the Board in May structure including consideration of whether the combined role should 2018.
A full explanation describing the reasons for retaining his services continue.
As a result of these meetings and discussions with the and how the Board considers him to be independent are available on Chairman and Chief Executive, a new CEO was appointed and the role the Hikma website at www.
com investors corporateof Executive Chairman was created.
governance  and on page 77 of the 2016 Annual Report.
The Board is focused on the commercial success of Hikma and believes that continuing the position of Executive Chairman for a period of time The Board does not view Ali Al-Husry as an Independent Director due is the best way to achieve success for Hikma because: to the length of his association with the Company, because he was an executive with Hikma prior to listing and because of his involvement Chairmans role: The Chairman position is highly visible inside with Darhold Limited, Hikmas largest shareholder.
However, he and outside Hikma, acting as an ambassador with business partners continues to bring to the Board broad corporate financial experience and adviser to the divisions.
It is essential the Chairman intimately and a detailed knowledge of the MENA region, which is an important understands MENA culture and has strong relationships in the region, and specialist part of the Groups business.
can speak Arabic and has extensive pharmaceutical knowledge.
Business partners: A significant number of the Companys key The Board does not view Jochen Gann as an Independent Director political and commercial relationships across the MENA region as his appointment was part of the shareholder agreement with are built on the long-term trust and respect for the Darwazah family Boehringer Ingelheim, a major shareholder and his primary employer.
where the role of the Chairman remains key.
However, Jochen brings significant M&A and corporate finance experience with a particular focus on the pharmaceutical sector.
74 Corporate governance | Governance report Evaluation and performance Progress on prior year Observations Action taken The Board re-assessed its approach to its external evaluation during Strategic oversight A dedicated annual strategy session was once the first quarter of the year.
The conclusion from this exercise was again held providing an opportunity for the that a full, externally moderated, interview-based evaluation should Board to discuss important strategic issues be conducted every three years.
The first such evaluation took place with management.
during the second and third quarter of 2017. Review of past Further time was dedicated to reviewing past Process decisions decisions after meetings giving greater insight The process was co-ordinated by the Senior Independent Director into areas for improvement.
at the request of the Chairman.
Lintstock, an external moderator which has no other connection with the Company, led the process with a Length of reports Board materials were refined to further thematic questionnaire and interview process.
Lintstock reported and presentations enhance the quality of discussion, use of time, independently to the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director.
and ability for Directors to focus on key issues.
The results were discussed at the Board and action points agreed.
Risk management Processes supporting the risk management The results of the evaluation process formed part of the Chairmans framework were enhanced.
A new risk director appraisal of the overall effectiveness of the Board and its members.
was appointed to ensure a greater focus on risk The Directors suggest and promote improvements that they consider identification and mitigation.
should be progressed outside the evaluation timetable.
Executive and A series of new internal and external Conclusions and action management assessments and training programmes were The Board considered that it continued to operate effectively with succession put in place across the Group to develop particular strengths in the following areas: executive and management capability.
Board composition Understanding of the key markets in North America and the Chairmans appraisal MENA region The Independent Non-Executive Directors regularly met in private Interaction and atmosphere providing for good, healthy discussions during the course of the year.
The performance of the Chairman and and challenges the Board was discussed during these meetings.
Additionally, the Non-Executive Directors provide support and constructive challenge Senior Independent Director met with the Independent Non-Executive to management Directors to undertake a formal appraisal of the performance of the Oversight of risk management Chairman and subsequently fed back comments to him.
The conclusion of this process was that the Chairman gave clear leadership and New action points direction to the Board, and that the Board is run in an appropriate Observations Action being undertaken and effective manner.
Operational focus In order to enhance the executives focus on Director appraisal operations, the Board separated the combined The Chairman reviewed the performance of each of the Directors role of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
during the year and concluded that each Director contributes The Executive Chairman role enables the effectively to the Board and devotes sufficient time to their role.
entrepreneurial talents of the Chairman to be retained.
The Nomination and Governance Committee considered the evaluation Stretched The executive team has been enhanced by the and concluded that each Director, with the exception of Dr Ronald management appointment of dedicated personnel in the Goode who is due to retire, be recommended to shareholders for scientific and information areas.
The new Chief re-election at the 2018 AGM.
Executive Officer will be reviewing and further enhancing the team over the medium-term.
Communication To enhance the communication of and lines discussion around more challenging matters, the Board has allocated more time for meetings without executives present.
The Board is considering specific meetings between the Chairman and the Independent Directors.
West-Ward The Board has requested that management Columbus undertake a review of the status of the WWC integration integration and the successes and challenges of the acquisition project.
75 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Governance report continued Board and Committees Board Board Roles For additional information on the Board: Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Officer CEO As part of the succession process, the Board created new role profiles for the positions of Executive Chairman Board responsibility and CEO.
The Groups executives report to the CEO, who reports to the Executive Chairman.
com investors are reviewed annually and detailed on the Hikma website at www.
com investors corporate-governance corporate-governance  :  Senior Independent Director Board regular items and The Senior Independent Director responsibilities include: responsibilities Involvement in setting the Board agenda, actions points and the minutes www.
com investors Leading the Board in matters of board composition, effectiveness and evaluation, particularly in relation corporate-governance boardto the performance of the Chairman  Providing a communication channel between the Executive Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors Full schedule of matters reserved Leading the NEDs on their assessment of the appropriateness of the governance structure and safeguards www.
com investors for shareholders corporate-governance boardActing as an alternate point of contact for shareholders and maintaining contact with principal investors  and representative bodies Internal and external advisers Executive Vice Chairman www.
com investors When required, the Executive Vice Chairman acts as alternate to the Executive Chairman and is another point corporate-governance boardof contact and sounding board for management and Directors.
 Company Secretary The Company Secretary reports to the Chairman and supports him and the Senior Independent Director in the delivery of their roles, particularly in relation to information flow and setting the Board agenda.
Board Committees The Board has an extensive workload and, therefore, has Audit: Nomination and CREC Remuneration: delegated the detailed oversight Financial reporting Governance: Anti-money Remuneration policy of certain items to four Board and performance Appointments laundering, bribery Executive Committees: Audit: Nomination Internal controls Training and induction and corruption remuneration and Governance: Compliance, Risk management Board composition Compliance Performance plans Responsibility and Ethics Committee Internal audit Succession planning Speak-Up Management CREC : and Remuneration.
Each External audit Board evaluation Code of Conduct incentivisation Committee has terms of reference Corporate governance which were reviewed during the year.
Copies are published on the Hikma website at www.
com investors corporate-governance key-committees and are available for inspection at the registered office at 1 New Burlington Place, London, See page 78 See page 82 See page 84 See page 86 W1S 2HR or by contacting cosec@hikma.
Executive Committee The CEO chairs the Group Executive Committee, which develops strategic proposals to the Board, makes operational decisions and oversees risk control.
76 Corporate governance | Governance report Governance 2017 key events Shareholder engagement Further to the announced appointment of a Chief Executive Officer and changes to the Chairmans role, the Board undertook a series of meetings with major investors and relevant bodies in order to discuss the governance and remuneration aspects of the change.
The Board is taking these comments into consideration in its plans for further January development over the course of 2018 and beyond.
Healthcare conference in Hikma is committed to clear and open communication with San Francisco.
If there are matters on which additional explanation is required, Hikma is always happy to discuss March them.
Please contact the Company Secretary in the first instance by Roadshows in London, writing to cosec@hikma.
The Board maintains regular dialogue with shareholders through its investor relations programme, directed towards ensuring a mutual understanding of objectives.
The principal ongoing communications April with shareholders are through the publication of Hikmas Annual 2016 Annual report Report and Accounts, interim results and trading statements.
The Chairman meets major shareholders periodically to discuss Roadshow in New York governance and strategy issues in order to understand their views and Boston.
on the Company and to ensure their views are communicated to the May Board as a whole.
Shareholders are encouraged to attend the Annual Annual General Meeting.
General Meeting AGM and if unable to do so are encouraged to vote by proxy.
Copies of presentations made at the AGM are available on the website after the event, together with the results of the voting.
All Directors are expected to attend the AGM and full attendance has June been achieved other than when exceptional personal circumstances Healthcare conference have intervened.
in California and New York.
Electronic communications Two healthcare Hikma recently wrote to shareholders to provide them with an conferences in London.
opportunity to confirm how they wish to receive communications from the Company to help reduce its environmental impact.
Hikmas August preference is to use the Company website for communications, Trading update.
rather than in paper form.
Shareholders are encouraged to visit the Roadshow in London.
website to access the Companys Annual Reports and half-year and final results presentations.
September For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Hikma Roadshow in New York Pharmaceuticals PLC and Boston.
Healthcare conferences in New York and London.
Healthcare conference Peter Speirs in London.
Company Secretary 13 March 2018 77 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC
