com Stock Code: PLP OUR GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT { the risk management system and COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK HOW THE BOARD WORKS internal controls: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board and its Committees { contracts with third parties not in the The Board is responsible for the CODE ordinary course of business: leadership and direction of the Group This report, which is also available on the and is ultimately responsible to the { legal, administration and pension Companys website, explains key features Companys shareholders for the Groups arrangements: of the Companys governance structure long-term success.
The Board takes the and is designed to provide a greater { the Groups corporate governance lead in areas such as strategy, financial understanding of how the principles of arrangements: policy and making sure we maintain the UK Code published in April 2016 by { the operation of the Companys share a sound system of internal control.
By the Financial Reporting Council FRC, option schemes as recommended by delegating authority to its Committees, have been applied and the areas of the Remuneration Committee: the Board directs and reviews the Groups focus during the year.
The UK Code can operations within an agreed framework { Directors and Officers insurance be found on the FRCs website at of controls, allowing risk to be assessed coverage and the commencement or www.
and managed within agreed parameters.
settlement of any litigation: In accordance with the Listing Rules { communications with shareholders The Board has established a formal of the UK Listing Authority, the Board and the issue of shareholder circulars: schedule of matters reserved for its confirms that throughout the year ended approval and has delegated other { Board and senior management 31 December 2017 and as at the date of specific responsibilities to its principal appointments and arrangements: and this report, the Company has complied committees: the Audit, Nomination with the principles of the UK Code.
{ conflicts of interest where permitted and Remuneration Committees.
These by the Companys Articles of The report also includes items required are clearly defined within the terms of Association.
by the FCAs Disclosure Guidance and reference of the respective Committees.
The Board has The Board has also delegated to the The schedule of matters reserved for the ultimate responsibility for the approval of Chief Executive Officer the responsibility Board includes the consideration and the Annual Report and Accounts.
It has for implementing the Groups business approval of: considered the content of the Annual model and for the day-to-day operational { strategy and overall management and Report and Accounts and confirms that, management of the Group.
The Chief leadership of the Group: taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced Executive Officer is supported in carrying { financial items including the Groups and understandable and provides the out his responsibilities by the Chief annual budget, dividend policy, annual necessary information for shareholders Financial Officer, the Chief Operating and half-yearly accounts, accounting to assess the Companys position and Officer and the senior management team.
policies, and monetary limits: performance, business model and strategy.
Polypipes Governance Structure BOARD NOMINATION AUDIT REMUNERATION COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE See page 48 See page 50 See page 54 43 43 Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT The Board has direct access to the challenge and debate at Board meetings.
Appointment and Tenure Company Secretary, who is responsible The Chairman is also responsible for The Non-Executive Directors serve on to the Board for ensuring that Board ensuring that the Directors have an the basis of letters of appointment procedures are complied with.
The Board understanding of the views of major which are available for inspection at the may take independent professional shareholders.
The letters advice in the furtherance of its duties if of appointment set out the expected The Chief Executive Officer is responsible necessary, at the Companys expense.
time commitment of the Non-Executive for executive management of the Groups Directors who, on appointment, business, consistent with the strategy Board Composition, Qualification undertake that they have sufficient time and commercial objectives agreed by the and Experience to carry out their duties.
He leads the senior management At the year end, the Board comprised the expiry date and no notice period in their team in effecting decisions of the Board independent Non-Executive Chairman, letters of appointment.
and its Committees and is responsible two Executive Directors and three Nonfor the maintenance and protection of Executive Directors.
Biographical details The Executive Directors service contracts the reputation of the Group.
The Chief of the individual Directors, as well as are also available for inspection at the Executive Officer is also responsible for Paul James, who joined the Board on Companys registered office.
The notice ensuring that the affairs of the Group are 5 March 2018, can be found on pages period for the Executive Directors is 12 conducted with the highest standards 40 and 41.
of integrity, probity and corporate were appointed for the diversity of their Directors Induction and Training governance.
backgrounds as well as their personal Professional Development attributes and experience.
The current Interaction between the Chairman The Chairman, with the support of the Board members bring a wide range of and the Chief Executive Officer Company Secretary, is responsible for skills and experience to the Board and all As noted above, the roles of Ron Marsh the induction of new Directors and the actively contribute in discussion.
as the Chairman and Martin Payne as ongoing development of all Directors.
In accordance with UK Code Provision the Chief Executive Officer are separate, Glen Sabin joined the Board during the B.
1.1 the Nomination Committee and the with a distinct division of responsibilities.
year and received training on directors Board have considered the independence The partnership between both is based duties and obligations.
Paul James is of each of the Non-Executive Directors.
on mutual trust and facilitated by regular currently in the process of receiving The Board considered the Chairman and contact between them.
The separation a comprehensive induction, having all the Non-Executive Directors to be of authority enhances the independent joined the Company on 5 March 2018, independent throughout the period.
oversight of the executive management and further information on this will be by the Board and helps to ensure that provided in the 2018 Annual Report and In accordance with UK Code Provision no one individual on the Board has Accounts.
7.1, at the 2018 AGM and all future unfettered authority.
AGMs, the Board is proposing that all As the internal and external business of the Directors will be subject to reRole of the Senior Independent environment changes, it is important election.
Paul James and Glen Sabin will Director to ensure the Directors skills and both offer themselves for election at the Paul Dean is the Senior Independent knowledge are refreshed and updated 2018 AGM and for re-election annually Director SID of the Company and is regularly.
The Board was therefore given thereafter.
available to shareholders if they have presentations during the year by the concerns that cannot be addressed Companys financial advisers and brokers, Role of the Chairman and Chief through normal channels.
The role of the as well as several presentations by senior Executive Officer SID is to act as a sounding board management, in addition to the annual The roles and responsibilities of the for the Chairman and an intermediary for strategy day.
During Board meetings held Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer the other Directors when necessary.
The during the year the Company Secretary are separate and clearly defined.
SID is also available to chair the Board updated the Board on new legislation in the absence of the Chairman and has and regulations as well as changes to the It is the Chairmans duty to provide authority to add items to the agenda current legislative and regulatory regimes overall leadership and governance of any regular or special meeting of the to which the Company is subject.
In performing this role, Board.
The role of the SID is considered the Chairman sets the Board agenda, to be an important check and balance in ensures that adequate time is available the Groups governance structure.
for discussion of all agenda items and promotes a culture of openness, 44 44 polypipe.
com Stock Code: PLP OUR GOVERNANCE The effectiveness of these systems is also This process includes: Directors Conflicts of Interest reviewed through the work of the Audit Each Director has a duty under the { the involvement of qualified, Committee described on pages 51 to 53.
Companies Act 2006 to avoid a situation professional employees with an where he or she may have a direct or appropriate level of experience both The key risks which the Board has indirect interest that conflicts with the in Group Finance and throughout the focused on this year together with their interests of the Company.
The Company Groups businesses : potential impact and mitigating actions has robust procedures in place to identify, are set out on pages 30 to 34.
{ formal sign-off from appropriate authorise and manage such conflicts business segment senior executives: of interest, and these procedures have The Company has a risk management { comprehensive review and, where operated effectively during the year.
framework which adopts a top down appropriate, challenge from and a bottom up view of the key risks All potential conflicts approved by the appropriate Group senior executives which involves both the downward Board are recorded in a Conflicts of and Executive Directors: cascade and upward escalation of risks Interest Register which is maintained by between Group and the business units.
{ a transparent process to ensure full the Company Secretary and reviewed by It comprises a risk register template, a disclosure of information to the the Board on a regular basis.
Directors risk profile template and assessment external auditor: have a continuing duty to update the guidelines to be used by both the Group { oversight by the Audit Committee, Board with any changes to their conflicts and business units when considering involving amongst other duties : of interest.
It also includes a detailed approach a detailed review of key financial to formally recording and independently Directors Indemnity and Insurance reporting judgements which have assessing Group level risks.
Details of the Directors indemnity been discussed by management: arrangements can be found on pages The Board has conducted a review of the review and, where appropriate, 74 and 75 of the Directors Report.
effectiveness of the system of internal challenge on matters including: controls and risk management and is Internal Controls and Risk the consistency of, and satisfied that it complies with Provision Management any changes to, significant C. 2.3 of the UK Code.
The Board is responsible for determining accounting policies and the nature and extent of the significant practices during the year: FINANCIAL AND BUSINESS risks it is willing to take in achieving its REPORTING PROCESS significant adjustments strategic objectives.
It is also responsible resulting from an external The Board recognises its duty to ensure for maintaining sound risk and internal audit: that the Annual Report and Accounts, control systems in accordance with taken as a whole, is fair, balanced the viability statement section C. 2.3 of the UK Code and and understandable and provides the assumptions: and confirms that: information necessary for shareholders the going concern { there is an ongoing process for to assess the position and performance, assumption.
identifying, evaluating, and managing strategy and business model of the the principal risks faced by the Group: The above process provides comfort Company.
In addition to the Annual { the systems have been in place for to the Board that the Annual Report Report and Accounts, the Company also the year under review and up to the and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, ensures that other price-sensitive reports date of approval of the Annual Report balanced and understandable.
and other information are published and Accounts: externally.
{ the systems are regularly reviewed by The Group has a thorough assurance the Board: and process in place in respect of the { the systems accord with the FRC preparation, verification and approval of guidance on risk management, periodic financial reports which is set out internal control and related financial in the Report of the Audit Committee on and business reporting.
45 45 Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT BOARD MEETINGS The Board met regularly during the year, holding nine Board meetings and a number of other meetings and teleconferences to discuss and review progress on issues affecting the Group.
A number of Committee meetings were also held during the year.
Details of attendance at Board and Committee meetings are shown in the table below.
Audit Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Attendance Attendance Attendance Attendance Current Directors Ron Marsh 9 of 9 4 of 4 6 of 6 Martin Payne 9 of 9 1 of 1 Glen Sabin 2 of 2 Moni Mannings 9 of 9 3 of 3 4 of 4 6 of 6 Paul Dean 9 of 9 3 of 3 4 of 4 6 of 6 Mark Hammond 9 of 9 3 of 3 4 of 4 6 of 6 Past Director David Hall 7 of 7 3 of 3 Martin Payne served as Chief Financial Of ficer from the beginning of the period until 2 October 2017 and as Chief Executive Officer from 2 October 2017 to the end of the period.
Glen Sabin served as Chief Operating Officer from 2 October 2017 to the end of the period.
David Hall served as Chief Executive Officer from the beginning of the period until 2 October 2017.
As the above table demonstrates, every In November 2017 the Board held its BOARD COMMITTEES effort is made to ensure that all Directors, annual strategy day, where it spent a The Board has appointed three Board where possible, attend scheduled Board full day with senior management to Committees: the Audit Committee, meetings.
However, in the event that a discuss current performance of the the Nomination Committee and the Director is unable to attend a meeting, Group and the strategic plan.
The role and they are nevertheless provided with the of senior management from across the responsibilities of each Committee are set meeting papers and information relating Group presented the operational and out in formal Terms of Reference.
These to the meeting and are able to discuss financial performance of their respective Terms of Reference have been reviewed the issues arising with the Chairman and businesses in detail to the Board and during the year and adjusted as necessary other Directors.
explained the growth prospects of each to improve the Committees efficiency market segment in the UK and abroad.
and to reflect legislative changes and best Senior management from across the practice.
The updated Terms of Reference Group, and advisers, attend some of the Board dinners are typically held ahead are available on the Companys website meetings for discussion of specific items of scheduled Board meetings to provide at www.
a more relaxed forum than the formal meetings in which the Board members The Committees make recommendations In order to provide the Board with greater are able to have additional discussions to the Board as they see fit.
Each visibility of the Groups operations and amongst themselves and with the senior Committee Chair provides an update to provide further opportunities to meet management team at that location, to the Board on the key discussions senior management, the Board visits at which improves the focus of the formal and decisions made at the preceding least one of the Groups business unit Board meetings.
Such visits allow the Board to gain a deeper understanding During the year the Chairman held one BOARD EVALUATION AND of local market dynamics and to assess meeting with the Non-Executive Directors EFFECTIVENESS management performance and potential.
without the Executive Directors present, Following the externally facilitated During the year, the Board visited the and the Non-Executive Directors met Board evaluation carried out in 2016 Groups operations in Castres France, on one occasion without the Chairman in accordance with UK Code Provision Ulster, Doncaster, Loughborough and being present to appraise the Chairmans B.
6.2, the Board and its Committees Caerphilly.
During these visits the performance as discussed below.
undertook an internal evaluation in Board members attended management 2017, which was facilitated by the presentations and or toured the factories Company Secretary and the Chairman.
com Stock Code: PLP OUR GOVERNANCE The evaluation consisted of a highIndependent Director led the assessment of the views of major shareholders level questionnaire for the Directors of the Chairmans leadership.
through analysts and brokers briefings completion which was structured to and any direct contact initiated by As a result of these individual reviews, provide Directors with an opportunity to shareholders.
The Board believes that it is considered that the performance express their views about: there were appropriate mechanisms in of each of the Directors continues to place during the year for the Board to { Board structure, composition and be effective and that each Director understand the views of shareholders and functionality: demonstrates sufficient commitment to to communicate with them on matters { Board meetings and contents: his or her role.
It was acknowledged including governance, remuneration, that the objective of the Board in { Board administration and governance: strategy and performance.
supporting the senior management { interaction with management: team to improve the performance of ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING { committee structure, functionality the Group and promote the interests of The Companys AGM is to be held on and meetings: and the shareholders and stakeholders had 23 May 2018 at the Holiday Inn, { personal effectiveness and overall been achieved and it would continue High Road, Doncaster, DN4 9UX.
to constructively challenge the senior shareholders have the opportunity to management team.
Consequently, I can attend and vote, in person or by proxy, at The results of the performance confirm that each Director is suitable for the AGM.
A copy of the notice of AGM evaluation were reviewed by the Board re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
can be found on the Companys website at its meeting in November 2017.
results of the evaluation indicated that SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT the Directors consider the Board to be Responsibility for shareholder relations The AGM is the Companys principal effective, collaborative and focused, with rests with the Chief Financial Officer.
The forum for communication with private positive working relationships amongst Chief Financial Officer, in conjunction shareholders.
The Chairman of the Board all of its members.
Notwithstanding the with the corporate broker, ensures and the Chair of each of the Committees above, the Directors recognised the need that there is effective communication will be available to answer shareholders to continuously improve and develop with shareholders on matters such questions at the AGM.
their contributions, and the following as governance and strategy and that The notice of AGM will be sent out actions were agreed as a result of the an active dialogue is maintained with to shareholders at least 20 working exercise and will be progressed over the investors through a planned programme days before the meeting.
Results will coming year: of investor relations activities.
As part of be announced to the London Stock the investor relations programme, formal { an action plan and progress log in Exchange via a Regulatory Information meetings with investors are scheduled relation to the evaluation itself would Service announcement and published on to discuss the Groups interim and final be developed and maintained by the the Companys website.
In the intervening periods, the Company Secretary: Company continues its dialogue with RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS { a review would be undertaken for the investor community by meeting key At the AGM, all Directors will retire 2019 to ensure the frequency and investor representatives and holding and submit themselves for election or timing of the Board and Committee investor roadshows.
As a result of the Board meetings remained appropriate: evaluation exercise, as Chairman I am During the reporting period, the top 20 { longer-term Non-Executive Director satisfied that each Director continues to shareholders of the Group were invited to succession planning would need to show the necessary level of commitment meet with the Chair of the Remuneration be considered in light of the fact that to the Group and has sufficient time Committee and, if appropriate, the all NEDs would reach the end of their available to fulfil his or her duties, to Senior Independent Director to discuss terms of appointment during 2020: justify their re-election.
Paul James and the Companys updated remuneration { a legal training and refresher session Glen Sabin will both offer themselves policy which will be subject to by the Companys appointed lawyers for election at the 2018 AGM and for shareholder approval at the 2018 AGM.
would be held annually: and re-election annually thereafter.
No shareholders requested a meeting but { a formal review of the Companys written feedback from some shareholders Approved by the Board and signed on strategic objectives would be was provided to the Remuneration its behalf.
undertaken annually at the half year Committee Chair.
following the strategy day held in the Ron Marsh The Chairman, the Senior Independent preceding November.
Chairman Director and the other Directors are 20 March 2018 In addition, the Chairman discussed available to engage in dialogue with with each Director their performance major shareholders as appropriate.
Board and their training needs and the Senior members develop an understanding 47 47
