Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 INTRODUCTION FROM THE CHAIR OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE Terms of Reference were reviewed and DEAR SHAREHOLDER updated in March 2018 and explain the I am delighted to present the Report Committees role and responsibilities.
of the Nomination Committee the The Terms of Reference can be found Committee for 2017.
During the on the Companys website at http: year, the Committee has overseen a investors.
com corporatenumber of Board changes, and a more governance board-committees.
The comprehensive description of the Company Secretary acts as Secretary to activities of the Committee during the the Committee.
year is provided in the following report.
I will be available at the AGM to answer In accordance with its terms of reference, any questions about the work of the the Committee is required to: Committee.
{ Review the structure, size and composition of the Board and make Ron Marsh recommendations to the Board, as Chair of the Nomination Committee appropriate.
20 March 2018 { Consider succession planning for COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP Directors and other senior executives, AND MEETINGS taking into account the challenges The Committee comprises Ron Marsh and opportunities facing the Group the Chairman, all of the Non-Executive and the future skills and expertise MAIN ACTIVITIES DURING Directors, being Moni Mannings, Paul needed on the Board.
THE YEAR Dean and Mark Hammond, and Martin { Review the leadership needs of During the year under review, the Payne the Chief Executive Officer.
the organisation, both Executive Committee carried out a process to Accordingly, there are five members.
and Non-Executive, with a view to recruit a new Chief Executive Officer to The Committee is chaired by the Board ensuring the continued ability of the replace David Hall, who had indicated Chairman except when considering his organisation to compete effectively in his intention to retire from the Company own re-election.
The Committee also In accordance with UK Code Provision { Identify the balance of skills, considered the appointment of Glen B.
2.1, the majority of the members knowledge, diversity and experience Sabin to the Board as Chief Operating were independent.
During the year, on the Board and nominate Officer and carried out a process to Martin Payne became CEO following the candidates to fill Board vacancies.
recruit a new Chief Financial Officer to retirement of David Hall, and as a result replace Martin Payne.
Further information { Identify and nominate for the approval took over Davids membership of the on these processes is set out below.
The of the Board, candidates to fill Board Committee.
Committee also carried out its duties vacancies as and when they arise.
as listed above and has given particular The members of the Committee { Review the time commitment focus to succession planning for both and details of their attendance at required from Non-Executive the Board members as well as senior Committee meetings are set out on Directors.
Biographies of each member { Review the results of the Board in the Corporate Governance Report, all are shown on pages 40 and 41.
Under performance evaluation process of the Companys Directors will retire and the Committees Terms of Reference, that relates to the composition of each will offer themselves for election or the Committee will normally meet not the Board.
re-election at the forthcoming less than twice a year and at such other AGM in accordance with UK Code { Review and approve the Groups times as the Chairman shall require.
The Chairman confirms diversity policy and evaluate its Committee held three scheduled formal that the Committee has considered effectiveness on a regular basis.
meetings during the year under review.
the formal performance evaluation After each Committee meeting, the GOVERNANCE and the contribution and commitment Chairman reports to the Board on the of the Directors that are required to offer The effectiveness of the Committee was main items discussed.
The Chairman considered as part of the Board and has confirmed to the Board that their Committee evaluation detailed on pages ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE performance and commitment is such 46 and 47.
At its meeting in January The Committees main responsibilities that the Company should support their 2018, the Committee considered the are to evaluate the structure, size re-election.
contents of the review and concluded and composition including the skills, that the evaluation had found the knowledge, experience and diversity No Director was able to vote in respect Committee to be operating effectively required of the Board and the of their own re-election when and providing robust challenge to the Committees: to give full consideration consideration was given to Director business.
to succession planning of Directors re-election at the AGM.
and other senior executives and to Information on the Directors service assist with the selection process of new agreements, shareholdings and share Executive and Non-Executive Directors options is set out in the Directors including the Chairman.
The Committees Remuneration Report on pages 64 to 73.
com Stock Code: PLP OUR GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE and operational responsibilities.
The Details of diversity within our workforce, SUCCESSION PLANNING Committee members identified Glen Sabin including at Board and senior A key activity of the Committee is to as the preferred candidate, having the management level can be found in our keep under review the Companys necessary attributes and skills required of Corporate Responsibility Statement on succession plans for members of the a Chief Operating Officer, and considered pages 35 and 36.
Board and senior managers over the that his appointment would provide short, medium and long term to ensure TENURE OF NON-EXECUTIVE continuity and provide further support to that the composition of the Board and DIRECTORS Martin Payne in his new role as CEO and senior management team remains Appointments to the Board are typically recommended the appointments of both appropriately balanced between new made for an initial term of three years and Martin Payne as CEO and Glen Sabin as and innovative thinking and longer-term are ordinarily limited to three consecutive COO to the Board.
Management training is provided terms in office, subject to annual to senior and middle management where CFO SUCCESSION re-election by shareholders at the AGM.
appropriate in order to continue to In relation to the recruitment of a new develop the pipeline of internal talent for NOMINATION COMMITTEE CFO, discussions with three potential the future.
PRIORITIES FOR 2018 recruitment firms were held and During the forthcoming year, the In addition, the Committee considers consideration given to the merits of Committee will be focusing on the emergency succession planning and is using each of them.
On the basis that composition of the Board in light of comfortable that a framework is in place the appointment was time critical, the the new executive leadership team to should key management roles need to be Committee agreed to again engage Zygos ensure the balance of skills, experience covered on an interim basis.
to identify potential candidates for the and responsibility remains appropriate, role of CFO on the basis of their prior Board appointment criteria are which will include a process to recruit detailed knowledge of the business and considered automatically as part of an additional Non-Executive Director.
Martin Payne interviewed six the Committees review of succession The Committee will also consider talent potential candidates identified by Zygos, planning.
The Committee believes that management on a Group-wide basis and second interviews by Martin Payne limited tenure of the Chairman and Nonand Paul Dean with a shortlist of two and succession planning for the senior Executive Directors and their subsequent candidates followed shortly afterwards.
executives, taking into account the enforced retirement as Directors is not The remaining Committee members, as challenges and opportunities facing the always appropriate, and matters of well as Glen Sabin, met with the preferred Group as it implements its strategy and Director tenure are viewed on a case by candidate, following which all Committee the future skills and expertise needed by case basis.
Currently all the Non-Executive members agreed that Paul James had the business as a result.
The Committee Directors and the Chairman have been in the necessary attributes and skills that will also consider the succession planning post for less than six years, as set out in were being sought for the role of Chief of Non-Executive Directors so that Provision B.
Financial Officer and recommended his replacements, which will be required in appointment to the Board.
the longer term, can be phased in over CEO SUCCESSION a suitable period.
The Committee will The Committee engaged the Zygos DIVERSITY continue to consider diversity in 2018, Partnership Zygos, an executive The Committee supports diversity, bearing in mind the recommendations recruitment firm, to identify potential acknowledging the advantages that from the Hampton-Alexander Review candidates to succeed David Hall on come from having diverse viewpoints and on FTSE Women Leaders and the Parker his retirement.
Zygos reviewed CVs the influence this can have in decision review on Diversity of Boards, and will and interviewed various candidates making.
It is the aim of the Committee report on this in due course.
before providing the Chairman and the to always consider the benefits that arise Committee members with a shortlist of By order of the Board.
from a diverse Board when making Board candidates, who were interviewed by appointments.
The Committee does Ron Marsh the members of the Board, excluding not judge it appropriate to introduce a Chair of the Nomination Committee Martin Payne.
Following these interviews, quota system to enhance diversity in all 20 March 2018 all Committee members independently of its forms to the Board.
The Companys identified Martin Payne as the preferred recruitment and appointment strategy candidate, having the necessary attributes is based on the merits of the individual and skills required of a Chief Executive candidates, without bias towards age, Officer.
The interviewing panel also gender, marital or family status, race, discussed and agreed that the creation of sexual orientation, religion or belief a new Board position of Chief Operating or any disability.
Currently one of the Officer, reporting to the Chief Executive seven Directors is female, as well as the Officer, would enable the Chief Executive Company Secretary.
Officer to better balance his strategic 49 49
