Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Governance AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Dear Shareholder I am pleased to present our Audit Committee Report for 2017 which describes our activities and areas offocus during the year ended 31 December 2017.
Composition The Audit Committee is made up ofthree members: Jane Lodge Committee Chair, Keith Clarke andNoel Harwerth, who are all independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Board is satisfied that the members of the Audit Committee bring a wide range of skills, expertise, experience and competence relevant to the sector in which the Company operates.
The Board is also satisfied that Jane Lodge possesses the necessary recent and relevant The Committee provides financial experience, as set out in the Code, to effectively chair the crucial oversight of the Committee.
CHAIR The main role of the Audit Committee includes: monitoring the integrity of the Companys financial statements, including reviewing its annual and half-year financial statements and accounting policies: reviewing the effectiveness of the external audit, internal controls, risk management, whistleblowing and fraud systems in place across the Group: and overseeing the relationship with the Companys auditor,  LLP.
66 v Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 The Terms of Reference for the Committee attendance in 2017 Committee are set out in detail COMMITTEE MEMBERS on theCompanys website, siriusminerals.
These terms were Jane Lodge 4 4 100% updated in March 2017 to reflect Noel Harwerth 4 4 100% current best practice for a Premium Listed company ahead of the Keith Clarke 4 4 100% Companys move from AIM to the Main Market and are reviewed on at least an annual basis.
Committee activity in 2017 Meetings The Committee has regular During the year the Committee: scheduled meetings and holds additional meetings as and when reviewed the proposed considered the schedule of required.
Members are expected, accounting treatment of the non-audit services provided where possible, to attend all Groups US$400 million by the external auditor: Committee meetings.
The Committee convertible loans and Royalty had four meetings in 2017 and considered and approved the Financing Agreement: individual attendance is set out in the audit approach and scope of table opposite.
received an update on the audit work to be accounting treatment for undertaken by the external The Committee meets with the agronomic studies: auditor and associated fees: external auditor at least once a year oversaw the rotation of approved the process for the without management present.
thelead audit partner Committees 2017 annual andre-appointed performance evaluation: Meetings are normally attended by  LLP: reviewed the annual schedule the Board Chairman, Executive reviewed the Groups risk of agenda items for the Directors, Deputy Chief Financial register: Committee: Officer, Financial Controller and the reviewed and recommended considered and approved External Auditor.
Other senior to the Board the approval of managements members of the management team the 2016 Annual Report: the recommendation for an will attend at the invitation of the 2017 half-year results internal audit function: Committee, and as appropriate to announcement and the the matters under discussion.
reviewed the Groups significant financial reporting whistleblowing arrangements judgements: Agendas, briefing notes and reports and oversaw the for each Committee meeting are considered and implementation of an distributed via a secure electronic recommended to the Board externally managed phone Board portal in advance of each the approval of letters of and web reporting Speak Up meeting and in sufficient time to representation issued to the service: allowproper consideration of their external auditor: assessed the effectiveness of contents.
received updates from the Groups internal control management on the environment: The core activities of the Committee Directors commitments set reviewed the planning of the are documented and planned on an out in the Groups Financial 2017 Annual Report including annual basis and a list of matters Position and Prospects consideration of the skeleton arising from each meeting is Procedures FPPP report financial statements and draft maintained and followed up at performed by going concern and viability subsequent meetings.
Full minutes  LLP statements: and ofeach meeting are kept by the in April 2017 to support the Company Secretary detailing the conducted and reviewed Groups move from AIM to the matters considered and decisions theresults of the 2017 Main Market of the LSE : taken by the Committee.
performance evaluation of reviewed and approved the the Committee and agreed process for the review of the The Audit Committee has access to actions for 2018. effectiveness of internal the Company Secretary and external controls: auditor for assistance as required and can obtain outside legal or other professional advice at the Companys expense, if required.
67 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Governance AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Committee evaluation Significant issues in 2017 Risk management and internal During the year the Committee The Committee considered a number control undertook an internal evaluation of its of matters during the year as Details of the Groups internal controls performance in accordance with the described above, the most significant and risk management framework are provisions of the Code and its Terms of which was in relation to the more fully set out on page 48 of the of Reference.
The Company valuation of the royalty financing Strategic Report.
Secretary, on behalf of the Chairman, agreement and the Groups US$400 circulated a comprehensive million convertible loans.
As a result of The Committee, on behalf of the questionnaire to members and the stage 1 financing undertaken in Board, carried out a review of the attendees of the Committee using 2016, a number of complex financial effectiveness of the systems of risk the electronic Board portal covering instruments US$250 million royalty management and internal controls all issues related to the functioning of agreement with Hancock British during the year.
The responses were Holdings Limited Hancock, a US$50 review considered the design of consolidated and anonymised and million equity arrangement with controls associated with key risks and common themes identified in order Hancock and US$400 million the evidence as to their proper for the Committee to determine key convertible loans were entered into operation throughout the year.
The actions and next steps for improving by the Group with a number of third review did not identify any significant Committee effectiveness and parties.
Due to the complexity of the failing or weaknesses in the system of performance.
accounting for each of these internal control and risk financial instruments, the Committee management.
The results of the 2017 internal received and considered evaluation show that overall the comprehensive reports from Internal audit Committee is operating effectively.
management throughout the year to Due to the Groups current size and Areas identified for action for 2018 explain the proposed accounting complexity, the Audit Committee did include the incorporation of a treatment for the US$50 million equity not deem it necessary to operate an programme of training and arrangement and initial drawdown of internal audit function during the presentations into the Committee the US$250 million royalty agreement year.
The Audit Committee was able meeting schedule at appropriate together with detailed summaries of to satisfy itself as to the proper times, including updates on the subsequent accounting implementation and operation of corporate governance and considerations for the royalty host controls during the year through the accounting developments by instrument and the royalty embedded review of the Groups FPPP report as  LLP and derivative.
The Committee also took well as regular reporting from senior subject matter deep dives: into account the views of the external management as to the operation of  LLP to carry auditor.
The Committee concluded the Groups controls in the year.
As out a benchmarking exercise of the that the proposed accounting the level of construction activity Companys 2017 Annual Report: the treatment of the financial instruments increases on the Project in the length of Committee meetings to be in the Companys 2017 financial coming year, it is the Audit increased to allow sufficient time for statement was appropriate.
Committees view that an internal the agenda and papers to be audit function will become necessary.
considered: and more Committee Therefore, the Committee has begun meetings held in person rather than to plan for the implementation of this conference call.
in 2018 in order to support its ongoing monitoring of the Groups system of controls.
68 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Auditor required to periodically assess The Committee assesses the quality The Committee is responsible for whether, in its professional opinion, it of the external audit annually and managing the relationship with the is independent and to share those considered the performance of companys auditor, views with the Committee.
into account the Committees own In order to ensure the independence assessment, feedback from senior  LLP have and objectivity of the External Auditor, finance personnel and views from been the Companys auditor since the Committee has a policy  LLP on October 2012.
The Committee regarding the provision of non-audit their performance as detailed in a confirms its compliance for the services by its External Auditor to report of their audit findings at the financial year ending 31 December ensure that such services do not year end, which they took the 2017 with the provisions of the impair the independence or Committee through at the meeting Statutory Audit Services for Large objectivity of the External Auditor.
Based on this Companies Market Investigation non-audit services provided must be review, the Committee was satisfied Mandatory Use of Competitive pre-approved by the Committee with the effectiveness of the audit Tender Processes and Audit unless the activity will have a total for the year ended 31 December Committee Responsibilities Order value of less than 5,000.
The Company last put its total non-audit fees is monitored on a external audit contract out to tender regular basis by the Committee with Speak Up policy in 2012, following which the intention to remain below an Due to the Companys move from  LLP was audit fee to non-audit fee ratio of 1:1 AIM to the Main Market, the Groups appointed as the Companys auditor.
and within the FRC guidance of the whistleblowing arrangements were Under current regulations, the 70% cap that will be required from reviewed for best practice and as a Company will be required to retender 2019.
However, the Committee result the Group implemented an the audit no later than in respect of recognises that there may be times externally managed independent the year ending 31 December 2022. where it is appropriate to engage the phone and web reporting Speak Up The Committee recognises that audit external auditor for additional service and a new Speak Up policy tenders and transitions to new services which may result in the 1:1 during the year to allow employees auditors require significant resource.
2017 was an to raise concerns in confidence.
Given that the Company is new to the exceptional year for the Company Prior to this, the Group had a Main Market, the Committee with its move from AIM to the Main whistleblowing policy in place considers that it is in the best interests Market and this resulted in the whereby an employee could raise of the Company to retain non-audit fees being higher than the any concerns direct with  LLP until audit fees due to management.
Updates on any 2022 to provide stability and  LLPs work in matters raised are provided to the continuity.
It is therefore the connection with the prospectus for Committee at each meeting.
Companys intention to tender the the Premium Listing.
This was the one audit no later than for the year non-audit service that Jane Lodge ending 31 December 2022.
 LLP Chair provided to the Company during the In accordance with best practice and year and no other non-audit fees professional standards, the Company were incurred in 2017.
An analysis of requires its External Auditor to adhere fees paid in respect of audit and to a rotation policy whereby the audit non-audit services provided by engagement partner is rotated after  LLP for 2017 five years.
During the year the is set out in note 22 on page 134.
Committee oversaw the rotation of Having reviewed such non-audit the Senior Statutory Auditor with services the Committee is satisfied Randal Casson replacing Ian that they did not prejudice Morrison as the audit engagement  LLPs partner.
The External Auditor is also independence or objectivity.
69 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
