Governance Corporate governance Role of the Board and Committees Board The Board focuses its time and energy on strategy, significant acquisitions, the annual budget and performance against it, monitoring the performance of the management team and risk management, specifically focusing on principal risks and the overall system of internal control.
The Board has delegated some of its responsibilities to the Executive Leadership Team ELT and the Board Committees the Safety, Assurance & Business Ethics Committee, the Nomination Committee, the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
Safety, Assurance & Nomination Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Business Ethics Committee Monitors and reviews Responsible for compliance Committee the structure, size and with financial reporting Advises the Board on composition of the Board, standards, consideration of executive remuneration Responsible for the makes recommendations the internal financial and and sets the packages Groups safety strategy with regard to any changes IT control environment and of each of the executive and performance and and ensures board the relationship with the directors within the for ensuring compliance succession plans are in external auditor.
approved Remuneration with laws and regulations place.
Read more on page 44 Read more on page 45 Read more on page 46 Read more on page 53 Executive Leadership Team The ELT operates under the authority of the Chief Executive and comprises the Group CFO plus the CEOs of our four BUs and the leaders of our other key functional areas: HSSEA: People & Organisation: Strategy & Development and now also Integration.
They are responsible for delivering against the strategy approved by the Board.
Dave Stewart Andrew Stewart Ann Massey Bob MacDonald CEO Asset Solutions CEO Asset Solutions CEO Environment & CEO Specialist Technical EAAA Americas Infrastructure Solutions Solutions Sue MacDonald Nina Schofield Steve Wayman Jeff Reilly Executive President Executive President Executive President Executive President People & Organisation HSSEA Integration Strategy & Development Find out more about the ELT at: www.
com leaders Investigations Oversight Committees In addition to the Committees above, the Board has established separate, dedicated Investigations Oversight Committees to oversee and report to the Board on the legacy AFW investigations and the legacy Wood Group internal investigation referred to in note 32 to the financial statements.
40 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Board composition Board independence Engagement with shareholders The Board comprised nine directors for After careful consideration, the Board Our investor relations activities are led the majority of the year increasing to considers all of its non-executive by the Chief Executive and Group CFO, 12 effective from 6 October due to the directors, with the exception of Ian supported by the investor relations IR AFW acquisition.
At that point, three McHoul, to be independent in character team and other members of senior former AFW non-executive directors and judgement and that there are no management as appropriate.
Roy Franklin joined as relationships or circumstances which are provide the opportunity for significant Deputy Chair and Senior Independent likely to affect, or could appear to affect, shareholders to meet with the Chief Director, and Ian McHoul and Linda their judgement.
Ian McHoul was the Executive and Group CFO at least Adamany joined as non-executive CFO of Amec Foster Wheeler up to the twice a year around the interim and directors.
Going into 2018 the Board date of acquisition and is therefore not final results announcements.
In 2017 will comprise 11 directors following considered to be independent.
we provided additional opportunities the resignation of Richard Howson in around the key milestones in the AFW January 2018.
Board re-election comprised a majority of the Board All directors, with the exception of excluding the Chair as recommended Major shareholdings Richard Howson, who resigned in January by the Governance Code.
2018, are expected to seek re-election at The Company has been notified, in the 2018 AGM.
accordance with DTR 5, of the following A clear separation of the roles of the major shareholdings in the Company as Chair and the Chief Executive has been of 22 March 2018: Conflicts of interest agreed by the Board, in compliance The Board requires directors to declare with the Governance Code.
The Chair any appointments or other situations Shareholders No of % of is responsible for the leadership and shares shares which would amount to a possible effectiveness of the Board.
He chairs the conflict of interest.
Board meetings, ensures the agendas Deutsche 46,333,419 6.84% are appropriate and is responsible for Bank AG The Board has procedures in place to facilitating that all directors actively deal with and, if necessary, approve any BlackRock, Inc. 44,662,986 6.59% contribute to the determination such conflicts.
The Chief FIL Limited 38,415,067 5.66% Executive is responsible for the day to Board development Standard Life 35,630,669 5.25% day management of the Group and Aberdeen implementation of the Groups strategy.
The training needs of directors are plc formerly He develops proposals for Board approval, periodically discussed at Board meetings Aberdeen Asset and ensures that a regular dialogue with and briefings provided on issues relating Management shareholders is maintained.
Members of to corporate governance.
Arrangements Artisan 33,979,001 5.01% the Executive Leadership Team report are in place for newly appointed directors Partners directly to the Chief Executive.
to undertake an induction process Limited designed to develop their knowledge Partnership For brief biographies of the directors: and understanding of the Groups See pages 38-39 business.
This includes briefing sessions Kiltearn 23,028,390 3.40% during regular Board meetings, visits to Partners LLP operating sites and discussion of relevant APG Asset 21,000,000 3.10% business issues.
Management N. V. Upon their appointment, directors are advised of their legal and other duties and their obligations as directors of a listed company and under the Companies Act 2006.
There is a procedure for any director to take independent professional advice at the Groups expense and all directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that the Boards procedures are followed.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 41 Governance | Corporate governance Board and Committee attendance 2017 Board programme & agenda The Charters of the Boards Committees are available on Woods website.
Attendance The Board typically schedules four by directors at the meetings of the Board and its Committees is summarised in the face to face meetings and two table below.
The dates of future Board meetings have now been agreed until the calls on an annual basis.
In 2017, end of 2020. due to the workload associated Read the Charters of the Boards Committees at: with the acquisition of AFW the www.
com charters Board met more frequently than this with an additional three Board calls held, making a total of nine meetings.
Within the face to face meetings, the following are Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec covered as standing agenda items: 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 Review of Governance and reports from Board Committees Safety, Safety, Assurance & Business Assurance & Remuneration Business Ethics Nomination Audit Ethics, Audit, Remuneration and Board Committee Committee Committee Committee the Chief Executive report Robin Watson 9 9 4 4 Operations updates and David Kemp 9 9 functional updates Legal, HSSEA, P&O, IT&S and Finance Thomas Botts 9 9 4 4 3 3 5 5 including Acquisitions, Tax & Jann Brown 9 9 3 3 5 5 4 4 Treasury and Investor Relations Jacqui Ferguson 9 9 3 3 5 5 The Board also receives Richard Howson 9 9 4 4 3 3 presentations from management and discusses other matters Ian Marchant 9 9 3 3 arising which are set out in the Mary Shafer-Malicki 9 9 4 4 3 3 4 4 table opposite.
Jeremy Wilson 8 9 3 3 5 5 4 4 Linda Adamany 2 2 1 1 Ian McHoul 2 2 1 1 Roy Franklin 2 2 1 1 appointed 6 October 2017 42 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Topic Activity Outcome Progress Strategy Approved the proposed acquisition of AFW in March 2017 Completed the acquisition of AFW, which significantly and received regular updates throughout the year until progressed the Groups strategy to reduce our dependence completion of the transaction in October 2017 on oil and gas and broadened our service offering Reviewed and approved all public documents and The Board received presentations at the November board announcements related to the transaction including the meeting on all service lines constituting the new business Prospectus and Circular including those that were added with the AFW acquisition Received updates and provided input into the integration The Board held its August meeting at the offices of STSs plan to integrate AFW into the Group automation business, received presentations on the business prospects and held meetings with local management Safety, Updates were received at each meeting on the activities Good progress was made developing the scope of the of the Safety, Assurance & Business Ethics Committee Committee, following the decision in late 2016 to include Assurance Business Ethics and Reports were received directly from the Chief Executive Business and senior management at each meeting on specific Monitoring of the Gulf of Mexico regulatory compliance plan Ethics compliance related matters and actions to ensure compliance with the administrative agreement and prevent recurrence Establishment of separate dedicated Investigations Oversight Committees in respect of the legacy AFW Establishment of a framework for group-wide monitoring and investigations and the legacy Wood Group internal decision-making in respect of the legacy AFW investigations investigation referred to in note 32 to the financial and the legacy Wood Group internal investigation statements Significant focus on the legacy AFW investigations and the legacy Wood Group internal investigation Review of Review of monthly management accounts, preliminary Reports reviewed, challenged and approved for release results statement, annual report and half year report financial results Review of Group risk register, principal risks and associated Updated principal risks included in annual and half year reports Risk controls and assurance provision, including the impact of management Risk register updated to include risks associated with the legacy the acquisition of AFW and internal AFW business, plus risks arising from the integration of that control Review and challenge of managements conclusions on the business.
effectiveness of internal control Internal controls agreed to have operated effectively during the year Board received training from the Groups external lawyers Updated CEO's Delegation of Authority and Matters Reserved Governance on the Market Abuse Regulations MAR and other to the Board approved Directors responsibilities as part of the AFW transaction Given the changes in the board following the acquisition of Reviewed and approved changes to the CEO's Delegation AFW, a formal internal review of board performance was held of Authority and Matters Reserved to the Board as a result with the intention of holding an externally facilitated review of the AFW transaction later in 2018.
The observations noted in this years review will be considered when planning the 2018 board sessions The Board participated in an internally facilitated Board evaluation process and reviewed the output from that process at the November meeting People and Reviewed succession plans in place for the ELT and other The Board noted improvement in the succession planning key positions in the Group process for senior executives, and key areas where succession succession plans require to be strengthened planning Approved the appointment of the three new non-executive directors following the acquisition of AFW Roy Franklin joined the Board as Deputy Chair and Senior Independent Director, and Ian McHoul and Linda Adamany Approved the appointment of a new Company Secretary joined as non-executive directors.
This provided a level of effective from December 2017 continuity to the board with respect to legacy AFW matters The Board seeks to understand the views of shareholders We provide the opportunity for significant shareholders to Board and take these into account where appropriate meet with the Chief Executive and Group CFO at least twice a engagement year around the interim and final results announcements, and with Regular reports received from the Group CFO on IR in 2017 we provided additional opportunities around the key shareholders activities, supplemented by analysis provided by our milestones in the AFW transaction brokers.
In 2017 this focussed on the shareholders views on the AFW acquisition During the year the opportunity to meet with the Chair was offered to significant shareholders.
The Chair and the Chair of The Chair, Senior Independent Director and the Chair of the Remuneration Committee also consulted with significant the Remuneration Committee make themselves available shareholders on proposals for the changes to executive to meet with key shareholders remuneration following the AFW acquisition John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 43 Governance | Corporate governance Safety, Assurance & Business Ethics Committee The Safety, Assurance & Business Ethics Committee is responsible for overseeing the Groups management of Health, Safety, Security, Environmental and regulatory compliance & Business ethics issues, in line with the Groups values commitment.
The primary focus of the Committee is to ensure that risks associated with matters relating to HSSE and Business Ethics are understood and managed and oversight is provided to systems and assurance activities that are in place to minimise the occurrence of major events.
During 2017, the Committee was joined by the CEOs from Wood Groups three business units who provided an overview on the key risks, mitigations and HSSEA improvement plans in their respective areas.
"Thomas Botts Chair, Safety, Assurance & Business Ethics Committee The Committee has introduced a higher level of governance for any matters concerning major regulatory investigations ""The primary focus of the Committee is or significant breaches of a compliance nature."
"In 2017, the to ensure that risks associated with HSSE business entered into an Administration Agreement with the U. S. Department of the Interior and U. S. Environmental and business ethics are understood and Protection Agency, which resulted from regulatory settlements managed. """
related to some of Wood Groups Gulf of Mexico operations.
A key focus of the Committee in 2017 was assuring compliance with the requirements of the agreement through scrutiny of Membership and responsibilities the arrangements and actions taken and oversight of the associated performance dashboard and metrics.
During 2017 the Committee comprised Thomas Botts, Chair, Mary Shafer-Malicki and Richard Howson.
The Chief Executive The Committee met in November following completion of the and Executive Director of HSSEA are also in attendance.
The Committee was joined by the former AFW In January 2018, Linda Adamany, Jacqui Ferguson and Roy directors who were appointed to the Board, where an overview Franklin joined the Committee, Mary Shafer-Malicki and was provided of specific ethics and compliance issues relating to Richard Howson stepped down from the Committee.
the legacy AFW business and in particular a case review of the The Committee meets four times a year, and has written SFO investigation into AFW's historical use of agents.
terms of reference setting out its responsibilities.
In addition to the normal routine SABE review of ongoing investigations a Case Oversight Team was established in May Read the Safety, Assurance & Business Ethics Committee charter at: www.
This was put in place to provide additional governance on any matters that have the potential to incur serious criminal sanctions or cause significant and lasting reputational harm to Wood.
The Case Oversight Team, chaired by Thomas Botts, in Main responsibilities: particular provides independent oversight of the risk analysis, mitigation and response of the business in connection with the Safety & assurance strategy and performance ongoing investigations by the relevant authorities, including the Effectiveness of the Groups policies and systems SFO, into AFW's historical use of agents.
HSSE and Business Ethics leadership development throughout the Group Internal controls over project execution are recognised as an area for improvement in 2018.
To address this the Committee Quality and integrity of internal and external reporting of will review and provide oversight of the Group Operations HSSE and Business Ethics performance and issues Assurance programme which implements processes and Preparedness for response to a major HSSE incident controls to ensure project and contract compliance with or ethics non-compliance HSSE, Technical and Quality policies and standards, as well as The process for an outcomes of investigations into major customer specific, legal and regulatory requirements.
HSSE and Business Ethics incidents Oversight of any ongoing regulatory investigations and the associated case management Committee meetings in 2017 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 44 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee monitors and reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board, makes recommendations with regard to any changes and ensuring board succession plans are in place.
The Committee met in January 2017 to consider the reappointment of Jann Brown as a non-executive director, having completed her initial term of three years.
It was unanimously agreed that her term be renewed for a further three years, subject to annual reappointment at the AGM.
The Committee met in August 2017 to consider the reappointment of Jeremy Wilson as a non-executive director, having completed his second term of three years.
Given that this was Jeremys second term a particularly rigorous review of his independence was carried out focussing Ian Marchant Chair, Nomination Committee on his contributions to Board discussions, challenges of management, experience of finance and capital markets and the overall mix of experience of the Board.
It was agreed that The Nomination Committee took steps he continued to be independent.
It was unanimously agreed to ensure appointments on the acquisition that his term be renewed for a further three years, subject to of Amec Foster Wheeler maintained a annual reappointment at the AGM.
balance of experience, background and The appointment of the three former Amec Foster Wheeler thought leadership at Board level.
directors to the board in October 2017 as part of the acquisition was discussed and agreed at a main Board meeting.
Roy Franklin is now the Senior Independent Director and Deputy Chair and Linda Adamany and Ian McHoul Membership and responsibilities were appointed as non-executive directors.
The Committee The Nomination Committee comprises the Chair and all of considers these appointments ensure diversity at Board level the independent non-executive directors.
Roy Franklin, Linda in terms of background, experience and thought leadership Adamany and Ian McHoul joined the Nomination Committee and provide a level of continuity with respect to legacy AFW following their appointment as non-executive directors.
Richard matters whilst also maintaining a minimum of one third of Howson stepped down from the Committee in January 2018 our Board being female.
following his resignation as non-executive director.
The Committee met in December 2017 to consider the The Committee meets at least once a year, and met three appointment of Martin McIntyre as Company Secretary.
It operates within a written charter setting out its roles and responsibilities.
The appointment was unanimously agreed.
Read the Nomination Committee Charter at: Diversity www.
com nomcommittee The Committee is cognisant of the Governance Codes requirement to pay due regard to the benefits of diversity, including gender, when considering appointments to Main responsibilities: the Board.
Wood is committed to remaining an equal opportunities employer.
Reviewing Board structure, size and composition Making recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes Identifying and nominating candidates for the approval of the Board Filling Board vacancies Ensuring succession plans are in place Committee meetings in 2017 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 45 Governance | Corporate governance Audit Committee The Committee met five times in 2017, including an extra meeting in May 2017 to sign off the financial elements of the Prospectus published in respect of the acquisition on AFW.
In addition to the members of the Committee, the Group Chair, the Group CFO, Group Financial Controller, Group Head of Internal Audit & Risk and the external auditors,  LLP PwC, attended all Audit Committee meetings.
During the year other relevant people from the business presented to the Committee on the topics as noted below.
The Group Head of Internal Audit & Risk and PwC have the right of direct access to the Chair of the Committee at all times and to meet the Committee without management present.
During the year the following areas were discussed at the Jann Brown Chair, Audit Committee Committee meetings.
February In this transformational year maintaining Review of the 2016 Group financial statements including Going good governance over the financial control Concern review, Fair, Balanced & Understandable review and framework has remained a key focus for viability statement the Audit Committee.
Review of 2016 external audit status, discussion of the findings of the external audit and the key judgemental areas and assessment of external audit effectiveness Review of the 2016 Audit Committee Corporate Governance Report Membership and responsibilities Review of internal audit reports and status, in addition to the 2016 During 2017 the Audit Committee comprised Jann Brown annual summary Chair, recent and relevant financial expertise, Jeremy Wilson, Thomas Botts and Jacqui Ferguson.
In January May two meetings 2018 Linda Adamany and Roy Franklin joined the Audit Update on the Groups evaluation of the impact of IFRS 15, Committee and Thomas Botts stood down.
The Chair of the including a presentation from KPMG Committee reports to each Board meeting on the activity of Review and sign off on the financial workstreams relevant to the Committee.
the issuance of the Prospectus in relation to acquisition of AFW The Committee has a written charter of responsibilities Effectiveness reviews of internal and external audit which is reviewed on an annual basis, setting out its roles and Presentation on the Groups ERP, shared services and entity responsibilities.
simplification programmes Preliminary external audit plan for 2017, including initial view on the Read the Audit Committee Charter at: impact of the potential AFW acquisition www.
com auditcommittee Update from Group Head of Internal Audit on the way forward for risk, assurance and internal audit Review of internal audit reports and status Main responsibilities: August Review of the 2017 Group interim financial statements including Compliance with financial reporting standards and Going Concern review relevant financial reporting requirements Update on 2017 interim financial statements external review Consideration of the financial and IT internal control and discussion of key judgemental areas and findings of the environment external auditor Consideration of the internal audit programme Update on the preliminary finance integration work carried out in and results anticipation of the AFW acquisition Review of the external audit relationship and provision of Review of internal audit reports and status and preliminary non-audit services plans for the integration of AFW November Review of upcoming year end issues, including acquisition accounting related to AFW Committee meetings in 2017 Review of final 2017 external audit plan and review of draft fees Review and approval of 2018 interim Internal Audit Plan, taking into account the acquired AFW businesses Review of the US ERP implementation including presentation from the Programme Director Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Review of output from Audit Committee evaluation process 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 Review of internal audit reports and status incorporating legacy AFW internal audit activity 46 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Impairment reviews Current and deferred tax balances During the year the At both the half year and the year end, The Group operates in a number of Committee focused on the Committee considered whether different tax regimes and a range of the following areas: indicators of impairment existed and judgements underpin the calculations for the results of any related impairment both current and deferred tax, including reviews.
Annual reviews are carried out uncertain tax positions.
Financial reporting and significant in relation to goodwill and indefinite accounting issues In the Income Statement, these can have life intangible assets, with the There were no new accounting an impact on both the tax charge and Committees role being primarily to standards which had a material impact the operating profit.
The Committee challenge the significant assumptions on the Group during the year, and the receives a detailed written report on and estimates made to ensure that Committee focused on the application of taxation matters at each meeting, which they are fit for purpose.
During 2017 the our accounting policies and on the areas included AFW tax matters from the AFW acquisition meant that the Cash of judgement and estimation, as well as date of acquisition onwards.
The impact Generating Units CGUs used to test the impact of the acquisition of AFW.
of the changes to US tax legislation on goodwill required to be adjusted.
The the value of the Groups deferred tax Committee reviewed the revised CGUs, The Group will adopt IFRS 15 'Revenue balances was specifically considered at the key assumptions used and other from contracts with customers' from the March 2018 meeting.
than as set out below, no impairments 1 January 2018 and has undertaken were noted.
The Committee noted a review process, assisted by KPMG, Where necessary, the Committee however, the sensitivity of goodwill to evaluate the potential impact on considers advice received from in the Asset Solutions EAAA business the financial statements.
This was also unit to impairment and agreed the the acquisition of AFW the internal recognised by PwC as an area of higher disclosures in Note 8 to the Group review was expanded to include legacy audit risk and the Committee received Financial Statements.
The output from updates on related work undertaken by these reviews was considered by the them during the year.
The Committee reviewed managements Committee at its May 2017 and March assessment of the carrying value of 2018 meetings.
The Groups assessment Review of significant contracts EthosEnergy in the year, which concluded is that it does not expect the adoption As a result of the AFW acquisition, and to that a further write down of $28m was of the standard to have a significant a lesser extent in the legacy Wood Group required at 31 December 2017.
Following impact on its reported results, however business, the Group executes a number previous write downs in 2015 and 2016, some further work is required on the of contracts on a fixed price or lump the financial performance of the joint acquired AFW entities to confirm this.
Such contracts inherently venture improved somewhat in 2017 involve a greater degree of estimation The primary areas of judgement following actions taken by management and judgement than is typically the and estimation considered by the to close down loss making operations.
The Committee in relation to the 2017 Despite this improved performance Committee reviewed and was satisfied financial statements and how they were the Group has continued to develop with the accounting for significant lump addressed are outlined below.
opportunities to dispose of its interest sum projects in progress at the year-end in the joint venture and the impairment and the material judgements taken by recorded in 2017 reflects the latest Accounting for the AFW acquisition management in recognising profit or the expectation of sales price less costs The Committee considered the quantification of known losses where to sell, along with a write down to accounting implications of the AFW these are probable.
The external auditors recoverable value of turbine engines acquisition including the determination assessed this as an area of focus and the held for sale.
The Committee reviewed of the purchase consideration, Committee received updates on related the assumptions used by management valuation of intangible assets, fair work undertaken by PwC.
to value the Group's investment in the value adjustments made to assets and JV considering the available third-party liabilities and the value of the resulting Review of provisions evidence at the end of 2017, as well as goodwill.
The Committee reviewed work The Committee considers the separately considering a value in use done by external valuation experts in appropriateness, adequacy and basis.
The Committee was satisfied that the areas of intangibles, asbestos and consistency of approach to provisioning the valuation is based on a reasonable property and the output of that work.
All material provisions, expectation of sales price less costs to The accounting for the disposal of including those made against uninsured sell and, after the impairment, gives an AFWs North Sea upstream oil and gas legal claims, asbestos litigation and appropriate carrying valuation for the business which was required to be sold doubtful debts, are discussed and investment in EthosEnergy.
The external as part of the transaction was also challenged.
Given the continued auditors assessed this as an area of focus considered and reviewed.
uncertain economic climate for the oil and the Committee received updates on and gas companies which form the core related work undertaken by PwC.
The Committee was satisfied that the customer base of the Group, there was a transaction had been accounted for continued focus on the recoverability of correctly and received reports on the receivables and on the processes in place audit work done by PwC in this area.
to assess and monitor credit risk.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 47 Governance | Corporate governance As part of this exercise, the Group Head In addition, an annual exercise to seek Internal financial control of Internal Audit also formally took feedback from around the Group on The Board is ultimately responsible for on responsibility for the corporate risk the effectiveness of the external audit the Groups system of internal control management process.
The Committee process is performed.
and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The considered whether this would give rise Audit Committee has been given the to any conflict of interest and were responsibility to review the effectiveness Appointment and independence satisfied with the safeguards in place.
The Committee has overall responsibility of the financial and IT internal control systems implemented by management.
for ensuring that the external auditors The Chair of the Committee holds This work is informed by regular updates independence and objectivity is not private discussions with the Group Head compromised.
from the Group Head of Internal Audit of Internal Audit as necessary during & Risk and the results of various selfThe Committee considers the the year outside the formal Committee assessment processes undertaken across appointment of the external auditor each process.
External audit also provide year and assesses their independence on feedback on areas of financial or IT an ongoing basis.
External audit control which they wish to bring to the Committees attention.
In 2017 this included assessing the As part of the 2017 external audit independence of both PwC as the process, PwC prepared an audit plan The Boards assessment of the Groups principal Group auditor and also of identifying their assessment of key audit internal financial and IT control EY as an auditor of material Group risks.
These risks were discussed during environment, as informed by internal subsidiaries.
During the year the the year with input from management audit, is effective, with some areas where Committee received confirmation from and the Group Head of Internal Audit improvement is needed.
Particular areas the external auditors regarding their for focus are the Groups maturity with & Risk as necessary, providing the independence.
respect to cyber security, the monitoring Committee with an opportunity to and project controls over significant understand, challenge and ultimately In accordance with UK regulations and to fixed price US government contracts in agree with the auditors which areas help ensure independence, the auditors the E&IS business unit and the controls should be covered.
adhere to a rotation policy based on around the transition of processes into Auditing Practices Board standards Following the acquisition of AFW in early shared service centres.
These areas are that require the Group audit partner to October 2017, it was agreed that the being prioritised by the Group.
Work is rotate every five years.
This is the fifth most efficient audit approach would be also ongoing to bring all areas of the and final year that Lindsay Gardiner of to retain EY, the legacy AFW external business on to the same platform both PwC, the current lead audit partner, has auditor, to complete the 2017 audit for for IT and financial reporting.
been involved in the audit of the Group.
EY were also Given the substantial change to the asked to perform audit procedures on Group structure following the acquisition IT security review the opening balance sheet at the date of AFW, the Audit Committee requested During the year the status of the Group's of acquisition.
EY reported the results of that one of the key EY audit partners IT security was discussed by the full Board their work in these areas to PwC, who for the AFW component extended their and it was agreed thereafter this would tenure for one further year, in order as Group auditors were responsible for be delegated to the Audit Committee.
to provide continuity and to support forming an opinion on the results and the maintenance of audit quality.
financial position of the enlarged Group Internal audit Consequently, they have remained a key as a whole.
Monitoring the activity of the Group EY audit partner for the 31 December Internal Audit function is an agenda item The Committee assessed the 2017 audit.
The Group effectiveness of the audit process Head of Internal Audit & Risk attended In compliance with the provisions of the through consideration of the reporting UK Competition & Markets Authority all meetings except for the extra meeting received from PwC at the half year CMA Order the Audit Committee to sign off the financial elements of and the year end, the robustness of decided to conduct a tender for the audit the AFW Prospectus.
Each year, the the external auditors handling of key during 2016.
To allow a transition of Committee agrees the plan to be carried judgemental areas and the quality of non-audit services currently performed out and receives regular updates on the external auditors interaction with, by firms tendering for the audit see next progress against this plan, including a and reporting to, the Committee.
As EY section below, and to coincide with the summary of the key findings from each audited a material part of the Group in planned lead partner rotation, it was of its reviews, an update on the status 2017, the Committee had direct access agreed that the appointment would take of actions agreed with management to the key EY partners.
EY were present effect for the audit of the year ending 31 and a note of any themes or emerging at an additional meeting of the Audit December 2018. risk areas to be considered by the Committee in March 2018.
After a full audit tender process the The Committee also reviews the Committee decided that on balance During 2017, the Committee received standing, experience and tenure KPMGs proposal demonstrated the regular updates on the restructuring of the external audit lead partner, greatest understanding of the Groups of the legacy Wood Group internal the arrangements for ensuring the culture and strategy, industry knowledge audit team.
This continued with the independence and objectivity of the and proposed an innovative and effective amalgamation of the legacy AFW external auditors and the nature and audit approach which would provide a internal audit team.
level of non-audit services provided.
high level of challenge to management.
48 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Board approved the Committees recommendation that KPMG be appointed for the 2018 audit.
Accordingly, a resolution proposing the appointment of KPMG as the Groups external auditor will be put to shareholders at the 2018 AGM.
There are no contractual obligations that restrict the Groups choice of external auditors.
The company confirms that it complied with the provisions of the CMA Order for the financial year under review.
Non-audit services One of the key risks to external auditor independence is the provision of nonaudit services by the external auditor.
The Groups policy in this area, which is set out in the Audit Committees terms of reference, is clear.
The Committee considers and approves fees in respect of non-audit services provided by the external auditors in accordance with policy and the cost of non-audit services provided in 2017 is reported in note 3 to the financial statements, including the Reporting Accountant fees and due diligence work associated with the AFW acquisition.
In the opinion of the Committee, the provision of these non-audit services did not impair PwC or EYs independence.
The Governance in action provision of prohibited services by PwC to legacy AFW entities ceased following the During the year the Board undertook a series of activities acquisition, in line with the rules on audit transition following an acquisition.
to deepen their understanding of the full service capability of the business.
Given the intention to appoint KPMG as Group auditors at the 2018 AGM the As part of the August Board meeting, the Board visited the offices of our Group has been working with KPMG automation business in the UK and received demonstrations of our automation since the conclusion of the tender capabilities from apprentice engineers as well as presentations from senior process to ensure that they would be management.
The Board then visited the main UK factory of Jaguar Land Rover, independent from the start of 2018. where they were able to see our automation services in action.
KPMG confirmed their independence of Wood, including legacy AFW, in writing Following completion of the acquisition of AFW, the Board participated in an to the Committee during 2017 and information sharing day during which members of the newly appointed ELT for confirmed that they would be able to the combined business presented on their respective service line or functional accept the audit engagement for 2018. area.
This provided the Board with the opportunity to develop a deeper understanding of the strategy and governance implications for the enlarged Committee evaluation business.
The Committees activities formed part of the review of Board and Committee effectiveness performed in the year.
Overall the Committee was considered to be operating effectively, however it was agreed that some additional deep dives into relevant areas should be scheduled for 2018 agenda and that this should include a cyber security review.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 49 Governance Directors Remuneration Report The Directors Remuneration Report DRR is the Boards report to shareholders on directors remuneration for year ending December 2017 and is in three main sections: The Boards Report Contents of Directors Remuneration Report Includes the Letter from the Chair of the Remuneration Committee, 51 Letter from the Chair of the reflecting on the activities of the Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee for the 53 Remuneration Committee year ending December 2017, and future application of the Directors 54 Statement of shareholder voting Remuneration Policy.
This section also 54 Part 1: Policy Report provides details of the Remuneration Committee and the statement of 55 Part 2: Annual Statement on shareholder voting.
Remuneration 55 2.1 Single figure of remuneration Read more on page 51 for each director 60 2.2 Pension and life assurance benefits Part 1: Policy Report 60 2.3 Long Term Plan interests Contains the Directors Remuneration awarded during the year Policy.
60 2.4 Payments to past directors Read more on page 54 60 2.5 Payments for loss of office 61 2.6 Statement of directors' shareholding and share interests Part 2: Annual Statement on 63 2.7 TSR performance summary & Remuneration Chief Executive remuneration Sets out the remuneration details 64 2.8 Percentage change in Chief of the executive and non-executive Executive remuneration directors and includes a summary of 64 2.9 Relative importance of spend the key considerations and decisions on pay taken by the Committee on directors 64 2.10 Statement of implementation remuneration during the year ending of Remuneration Policy in the December 2017. following financial year Read more on page 55 Audited Unless otherwise noted, the remaining sections of the Directors Remuneration Report are not subject to audit.
50 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Boards Report period, took into account the challenging market conditions in the oil and gas sector and the associated uncertainty: they did not take into account the acquisition as it had not been agreed or announced at that time.
Annual bonus As a Committee, we focused on establishing stretching non-financial objectives, with tangible performance outcomes focused on the delivery of short term strategic plans.
Financial measures included a measure of profit and Days Sales Outstanding DSO, in line with the remuneration policy.
During the course of 2017, and taking into Jeremy Wilson Chair, Remuneration Committee account the impact of the acquisition of AFW in Q4, the decision was taken to retain EBITA as the profit measure instead of operating profit: guidance This engagement extended to include Letter from the Chair to the market was based on EBITA.
To our new stakeholders, following the ensure the assessment of the bonus acquisition of AFW, to ensure we Dear Shareholder remained sufficiently stretching, during communicated the remuneration I am pleased to present the Directors the year the Committee increased the principles we apply, along with our Remuneration Report for the year ending profit measure target to reflect the strategy to reward fairly for exceptional 31 December 2017, on behalf of the period of AFW ownership.
The approach performance against stretch targets.
As Board and as Chair of the Remuneration to assessing DSO remained unchanged a reminder our principles are: Committee.
from previous years with stretching Alignment with strategy and delivery targets set appropriately for 2017.
The purpose of this report is to set out of shareholder value the remuneration of executive directors The financial performance outcomes Simplicity and balance and demonstrate alignment to creating in 2017 reflected a relatively resilient shareholder value while delivering the Internally fair, externally competitive performance in challenging oil and short and long term strategic business Proactive shareholder engagement gas markets.
The Group delivered and objectives of the company.
The report reported EBITA of $371.6m ahead of is fully compliant with all corporate During 2017 we carried out our first expectations, achieving 98.9% of target, governance requirements and aims to gender pay report in the UK, including resulting in partial payment.
Whilst clearly detail remuneration outcomes for eight entities in the legacy organisations progress was made on managing DSO, 2017 and the future application of the of Wood Group and AFW: more this was only sufficient to achieve a remuneration policy in 2018. information can be found on page 30. partial payment.
The Committee engages with leadership The Committee and I are proud of the HSSE measures totalled 10% of bonus and the wider workforce to ensure our business transformation led by our people policies, practices and processes opportunity: 2.6% was achieved as a executives and the wider leadership are fair and support diversity and result of the improvement against Total team.
Not only have they continued to equality.
We welcome the changes Recordable Case Frequency TRCF : safely deliver core business activities, in proposed in the corporate governance and a further 5% was achieved due to a year with ongoing industry challenges, code: for example, this year we have delivery against the HSSE 2017 plan.
but they have also accelerated taken a proactive decision to report achievement of our strategy through the Delivery against team and personal on the Chief Executive pay ratio.
As a objectives achieved 91.6%: detailed acquisition of AFW and the formation Committee we will continue to take disclosure of the achievements can of Wood.
This includes successfully an active interest in the developments be found on page 58 within section 2 delivering initial synergies committed during 2018, ensuring a considered and of the report.
Taking all of the above to as part of the transaction process, proactive approach.
implementing a new organisation into account, annual bonuses of 59.4% We were pleased to receive of maximum are being awarded to structure and forming an integrated overwhelming support from you for executive directors.
leadership team before year end.
our revised remuneration policy which As Chair, I have led the Committee in achieved 94.2% votes in favour at the LTIP reviewing and proposing remuneration annual general meeting in May 2017.
The Committee wants to support our arrangements, in consultation with our high calibre executive directors and other shareholders, in a year of substantial Remuneration and performance senior leaders and incentivise them to change.
During 2017 we have continued outcomes for 2017 deliver our business objectives safely: we to proactively engage with shareholders remain focused on ensuring the targets Targets set for both the annual bonus and to listen and understand wider views continue to be stretching.
plan 2017 and the Long Term Incentive and concerns in a constantly changing Plan LTIP, 2017 - 2019 performance executive remuneration environment.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 51 Governance | Directors' Remuneration Report The 2017 business performance Wood Group, under Robin and Davids Annual Bonus Plan we will continue to contributed to a low LTIP pay out for the leadership has resulted in a strong pay out 50% at target.
Maximum bonus opportunity for the Chief Executive will performance period 2015-2017, which balance sheet and cash position, be 175% of salary and 150% for the CFO.
had 75% of performance measures despite the extremely challenging Full details of the personal objectives, attributed to AEPS and 25% to Total industry conditions.
This enabled the which account for 30% of the annual Shareholder Return TSR.
AEPS of 53.3c acquisition of AFW at an appropriate bonus opportunity, are contained in was down 16.8% on 2016 and did not premium, accelerating achievement of section 2.10.
The other performance meet threshold performance, resulting our business strategy measures will be EBITA, accounting for in zero award for this measure: the The increased complexity and scale 20% of the annual bonus opportunity: underlying cause for this was our inability of the executive director roles for cash generation, also accounting for back in 2015 to predict the length and example, increased number of service 20%: HSSEA at 10%: and a synergy severity of the cyclical industry downturn.
lines and countries with associated target achievement at 20%.
The TSR performance achieved 56th increased risk profile percentile, resulting in award just above Long Term Plan - the maximum The executive directors and leadership threshold.
This resulted in an overall opportunity for the Chief Executive will team have already delivered more achievement of 10.9% of the maximum be 200% of salary and 175% for the than $40m of annualised cost award available for all participants.
No portion of these awards may synergies, ahead of our prospectus now be released until five years from commitments Proposed policy application for 2018 grant in line with our focus on creating The maintenance of an appropriate The following section details the changes value for shareholders over the long balance between fixed and variable that we plan to make in implementing term by linking a significant portion of pay, with the latter designed to deliver executive directors remuneration to long our policy in 2018.
In particular, we have reward, aligned to shareholders term performance.
For the performance incorporated significant focus on delivery interests, if stretch targets are achieved period commencing 2018 the of our cost synergy targets, in line with performance measures will be relative our business strategy.
The position of the proposed TSR at 50% weighting and a strategic remuneration around the median of measure based on cost synergies also at UK listed companies of a similar size Base salary - last year we informed 50% weighting.
The strategic measure is and complexity you of our intention to review, and if to achieve the three-year synergy target appropriate, increase base salaries in of $170m: threshold will be $160m and In our engagement with shareholders we recognition of the executive directors' the maximum will be achieved if $200m had proposed to increase Robins base development in their roles, taking or greater synergies are realised.
The salary from 600,000 to 750,000, with into account their performance and Committee considers these measures the maximum variable pay opportunity contribution to delivering the strategic are well aligned to our strategy and remaining unchanged: and to increase business objectives.
shareholders interest and focused on Davids base salary from 390,000 to delivering substantial value.
We will During 2017 the Committee spent a 475,000, with his maximum variable review our approach again for 2019. significant amount of time considering pay opportunity for annual bonus executive pay during our scheduled As always, we seek and welcome your increasing from 140% to 150% and from meetings with particular reference to the feedback.
Should you wish to get in 160% to 175% for LTIP.
implications of the AFW acquisition.
We touch please email the Secretary to the engaged with our largest shareholders Whilst we received some strong support Committee, Claire Yule.
to gather their views on executives for these increases, we also considered I trust that in the report for 2017 we salaries and our proposals for 2018. views that salary increases should be have clearly explained our application In recognition of Robin and Davids more paced with the longer term delivery and intentions regarding future increased responsibilities in a business of the benefits of the AFW transaction.
implementation of the Directors of significantly increased scale and We listened to this feedback and have Remuneration Policy and I look forward complexity and their performance and significantly tempered the proposed to your support on the relevant contribution, the Committee has decided increases.
to increase their remuneration with effect salary is 690,000 and Davids salary from 1 January 2018.
We will increase Davids and Board have every confidence in their maximum variable pay opportunity as ability to deliver and want to ensure their originally proposed.
The Remuneration remuneration is commensurate with their Committee understands the focus on roles in the new organisation.
executive pay and has not taken these decisions lightly.
However, we feel that When determining the appropriate these increases are the right thing to do level of remuneration to lead Wood Jeremy Wilson for the company and to maintain a highly and deliver the considerable stretching Chair, Remuneration Committee motivated and strongly performing targets the Board has set, including cost leadership to deliver further shareholder synergies of at least $170m by the end value creation.
We will review salaries of the third year following completion, again in 2019, taking into account we considered the following: business and individual performance.
Performance to date: the restructuring and transformation of 52 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Remuneration Committee Committee meetings in 2017 The Remuneration Committee advises the Board on executive remuneration and sets the remuneration packages of each of the executive directors within the approved policy.
The Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Committee has a written charter, which is reviewed annually 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 and is publicly available on the company website.
Read the Remuneration Committee Charter at: During 2017, the Committee met four times to discuss www.
com remcommittee remuneration issues and the operation of the Directors Remuneration Policy.
There was full Committee attendance During 2017, the Remuneration Committee comprised the at each of these meetings.
The Committee considered the following independent non-executive directors: Jeremy following matters during the course of the year: Wilson Chair, Mary Shafer-Malicki and Jann Brown.
Where appropriate, the Committee receives input from the Chair of February the Board, Chief Executive, CFO, Executive President of People Target setting for ABP 2017 and LTIP performance period & Organisation and the Head of Compensation & Benefits, who 2017- 2019 also acts as Secretary to the Committee.
Agreed final outcomes for ABP 2016, 2017 arrangements The aim of the Committee is to establish an overall and deferred payments from 2014 remuneration structure which will: Agreed LTIP outcomes for 2014-2016 performance period, Promote the long term success of the company and deliver 2017-2019 arrangements and deferred awards from the strategy performance period 2012-2014 Create a competitive total remuneration package that Approved 2016 Directors Remuneration Policy and Report supports recruitment, retention and motivation of executive Reviewed and approved Committee charter directors, through a balance of fixed and variable pay Reflect the size and complexity of the global business May Considered reward implications for the proposed acquisition Take account of executives individual responsibilities and of AFW including existing remuneration policy, variable geographical location reward plans and transitional arrangements Align executive remuneration with the companys long term Annual bonus Q1 performance update strategy, maximising the interests of shareholders AGM preparation Take into account the broader setting of pay conditions Reviewed approach to UK gender pay gap reporting as part elsewhere within the company of considerations of pay in the wider group In setting remuneration policy the Committee gives full consideration to the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate August Governance Code, relevant regulations enacted under Reviewed update on reward implications for proposed AFW the Companies Act 2006 and shareholder views through acquisition including transitional arrangements, retention, consultation.
potential future policy application and related shareholder During the year, the Committee took advice from Deloitte consultation process LLP, who was retained as external advisor to the Committee.
Considered employee share plan arrangements and Deloitte adhere to the Remuneration Consultants Groups application for 2018 Code of Conduct.
Deloitte received 69,270 for the provision Agreed approach to DRR 2017 for AGM 2018 of services to the Committee during the year.
These fees consisted of core services where the cost was agreed in Determined process for Committee performance advance and additional services which were charged evaluation 2017 on a time and materials basis.
As well as advising the Remuneration Committee, Deloitte provided other services in November 2017, predominately related to tax compliance and advisory, Considered proposed 2018 remuneration and policy integration activities related to the acquisition of AFW, systems application for executive directors and agreed approach to consultancy and immigration advice.
The Committee has shareholder consultation reviewed the remuneration advice provided by Deloitte during the year and is comfortable that it has been objective and Reviewed ABP projected outcomes for 2017 and agreed independent.
The Committee has reviewed the potential for process for determining achievement against 2017 objectives conflicts of interest and judged that there were appropriate Considered ABP arrangements for 2018 and process for safeguards against such conflicts.
determining executive directors objectives Reviewed estimated LTIP performance for 2015-2017 and considered arrangements for 2018-2020 performance period Completed Committee performance evaluation against 2017 objectives and agreed proposed 2018 objectives John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 53 Governance | Directors' Remuneration Report Statement of shareholder voting Part 1: Policy Report The Committee encourages shareholder engagement.
Where there are a substantial number of votes against any resolution This part of the Directors Remuneration Report contains on directors remuneration, the Committee would seek to the Directors Remuneration Policy.
This policy was approved understand the reasons for any such vote, and will detail here by shareholders at the 2017 AGM, and took effect from that any actions in response to it.
The objective of the remuneration policy is to provide a compensation package that promotes the long term success The following table sets out the 2017 AGM voting in respect of of the company and supports the strategy.
It does this through our remuneration matters: a balance of fixed and variable pay, with the intent of creating a a competitive total remuneration package which attracts and Item For Against Number of b Abstentions retains executives while creating an appropriate alignment between incentivising executive performance and the interests Advisory vote on the 299,339,821 9,737,501 447,507 of shareholders.
2016 annual report 96.85% 3.15% on Remuneration There are no proposed changes to the policy, and therefore 2017 AGM no requirement for shareholder vote at the 2018 AGM.
The Committee will put a policy to shareholders again no later than Binding vote on 290,409,885 17,782,054 1,358,331 the 2017 Directors 94.23% 5.77% the 2020 AGM.
Remuneration Policy 2017 AGM The Directors' Remuneration Policy with updated scenario charts can be found at: www.
com rempolicy Notes to the Statement of shareholding voting a.
Discretionary votes have been added to For votes.
A vote abstained is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the percentage of votes For or Against a resolution.
54 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Part 2: Annual Statement on Remuneration 2.1 Single figure of remuneration for each executive director The following table set out the single figure of remuneration for each of the executive directors: Executive directors - UK based 000 Pension Long term related a b c d e f Year Salary Benefits Bonus incentives benefits Total Robin Watson 2017 600 14 623 93 90 1,420 2016 600 14 320 156 90 1,179 David Kemp 2017 390 14 324 58 59 844 2016 390 14 208 80 59 751 Notes to the single figure of remuneration executive directors a.
Salary received during the year.
Taxable benefits received during the year.
Taxable benefits include car allowance, private medical, dental and contributory health and welfare cover as applicable.
c. Bonus awarded in relation to the year, inclusive of all amounts subject to further deferral.
d. The value of long term incentives which vested in respect of performance periods ending during the year, inclusive of all amounts subject to further deferral.
The figures have been calculated using the number of share options that vested multiplied by the closing mid-market share price on 29 December 2017 of 6.50.
LTIP performance periods commencing 2013 onwards accrue dividends from the commencement of the performance period, which are paid as additional share options: 80% is paid following the end of the performance period and 20% deferred for two years.
The deferred element may continue to attract dividends which will be reported in the period in which they are received.
The figure in the table includes dividends accrued to 31 December 2017. e. Pension figure reflects cash value of defined contribution pension contribution or cash alternative.
Further detail in relation to individual pension arrangements is provided in section 2.2. f. The single figure of remuneration, being the sum of columns a to f inclusive.
Single figure remuneration % of total 2017 Salary Long term incentives Salary Long term incentives 46% 7% 42% 7% Robin David Bonus Benefits Bonus Watson Kemp 44% 1% 38% Benefits 2% Pension related Pension related benefits benefits 6% 7% John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 55 Governance | Directors' Remuneration Report Single figure remuneration for Chair of the Board and Bonus non-executive directors For 2017, the maximum bonus opportunity for the executives was 175% of base salary for the Chief Executive and 140% for The following table sets out the single figure of remuneration the CFO.
Bonus measures were split between financial 60% for the Chair and each of the non-executive directors.
Further and non-financial 40% measures as illustrated in the chart details on the non-executive director fee structure are set out below: 10% of the non-financial corporate objectives related on page 66. directly to HSSE performance measures.
Chair & non-executive directors single figure of remuneration 000 Relative weighting % of bonus opportunity Year Total Fees Corporate Ian Marchant 2017 275.0 Profit DSO HSSE personal 2016 275.0 objectives a 48% 12% 10% 30% Linda Adamany 2017 17.2 financial measures non-financial measures 2016 n a 60% 40% Thomas Botts 2017 60.5 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% 2016 60.5 Jann Brown 2017 64.3 2016 63.7 Financial measures b Jaqueline Ferguson 2017 55.5 In line with policy, the financial measures consisted of measures 2016 4.6 of profit and revenue collection, split 48% and 12% respectively.
c Roy Franklin 2017 14.3 The profit measure for 2017 was intended to be operating profit before exceptional items, as outlined in section 2.10 of 2016 DRR.
2016 n a During the course of 2017, and taking into account the impact d Richard Howson 2017 55.5 of the acquisition of AFW during Q4, the decision was taken to retain EBITA which is reflective of the measures both companies 2016 35.4 had previously used as the profit measure for the annual bonus Mary Shafer-Malicki 2017 55.5 plan.
Guidance to the market was based on EBITA.
2016 55.5 DSO remains unchanged from previous years relating to c Ian McHoul 2017 13.1 revenue collection as a key contributing factor to cash flow.
2016 n a For the executive directors, profit threshold performance Jeremy Wilson 2017 60.5 is 85% of the target set: maximum bonus is achieved when results exceed 115% of target.
For DSO, threshold performance 2016 58.7 is 110% of the target set and maximum is 90%.
The monthly average is taken over the year and a lower DSO indicates better performance.
Notes to the single figure of remuneration Chair & non-executive directors a. Linda Adamany was appointed to the Board on 6 October 2017: fees For both financial measures, threshold performance must shown are pro rata from this date and include an uplift as a non UK based be met before any award is paid: if target performance is director.
met, 50% of the potential bonus opportunity is paid: 100% is b. Jaqueline Ferguson was appointed to the Board on 1 December 2016: fees payable for reaching maximum performance.
Performance shown for 2016 are pro rata from this date.
between threshold and target and between target and c. Roy Franklin and Ian McHoul were appointed to the Board on 6 October maximum will result in a proportionate award calculated on 2017: fees are pro rata from this date.
The relationship between performance against financial targets and bonus achieved is illustrated in d. Richard Howson was appointed to the Board on 12 May 2016.
Fees shown for 2016 are pro rata from this date.
56 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Financial performance outcomes EBITA EBITA Payout EBITA performance achieved 98.9% to target, resulting in a pay out of 22.6% of maximum 48%.
DSO achieved 107.1% of 110% target resulting in a pay out of 1.7% of maximum 12%.
The 100% financial targets for the bonus year ended 31 December 2017, 90% and the extent to which they were achieved, are set out in the table below.
80% 70% Measures Threshold Target Maximum Achieved 60% a 50% EBITA $323m $375m $438m $371.6m 40% b DSO 77 days 70 days 63 days 75 days 30% 20% Notes to financial performance outcomes 10% a.
To ensure the assessment of the bonus remained sufficiently stretching, 0% 80% 85% 90% 95% 100% 105% 110% 115% 120% the Committee increased the profit measure target to reflect the period of Amec Foster Wheeler ownership.
Threshold Target Maximum b. DSO is the average for legacy Wood Group Performance Non-financial measures Non-financial measures total 40% and were split between corporate and personal objectives 30% and HSSE DSO DSO Payout performance measures 10%.
Detailed objectives and actual performance for 2017 are detailed below: 110% HSSE measures and performance: 100% HSSE performance relates directly to HSSE improvement 90% targets 5%, measured using Total Recordable Case Frequency 80% TRCF, and delivery against the HSSE 2017 plan 5%.
70% 60% For 2017, the TRCF target was to reduce by 25%, with a 10% 50% reduction required before any pay out is achieved.
At maximum, 40% TRCF achievement accounted for 5% of the total bonus.
30% The HSSE plan for 2017 contained a number of objectives 20% including: delivery against leadership engagement plans: 10% improvement measures for close out of assurance actions and a percentage completion of culture reviews on safety breaches.
0% 80% 90% 110% 120% 100% Performance achievement is considered by the Safety, Maximum Target Threshold Assurance and Business Ethics Committee SABE.
TRCF Performance improvement in legacy Wood Group was 13%, resulting in partial pay-out of this element 2.6% : delivery against the HSSE plan resulted in full pay out for that element 5%.
This For awards made in 2017, 75% of any award will be paid in resulted in an overall pay out of 7.6% of total potential bonus.
cash in the March following the end of the performance year: the remaining 25% is deferred into nil cost share options for a Corporate and personal objectives and performance: further two years with continued employment a requirement Corporate and personal objectives are aimed at the achievement of the companys business strategy.
Achievement to receive the deferred payment, other than for those of objectives is considered by the Chair of the Board and the classified as good leavers.
Remuneration Committee as part of the annual review process.
Measurement against each of the objectives is based on tangible performance outcomes and demonstrable evidence of achievement during the year.
Overall achievement of corporate and personal objectives as agreed by the Committee for the bonus year ended 31 December 2017 is 91.6%.
2017 was dominated by the AFW acquisition intended to accelerate the long term growth strategy as laid out in the strategic objectives for 2017.
Both executive directors' personal contribution to the overall success of this transformational change and integration activities is reflected in the bonus outcome award.
Activities to date have focused on building an effective leadership organisation structure with the ELT in place for Day 1 and a further two levels of the organisation by day 100: the focus of the executive directors has delivered annualised synergies of $40m to date.
This was achieved in addition to delivering against the original objectives set at the beginning of the year.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 57 % of Bonus Paid % of Bonus Paid Governance | Directors' Remuneration Report Further details are set out in the tables below: Corporate objectives Achievements ELT through-cycle growth target - Completed AFW acquisition accelerating strategic growth plans Delivery against the strategic framework & priorities: and resulting service and sector broadening by end 2017.
The overall portfolio is now 57% oil and gas, with strengthened Overall business positioning for 2018 budget earnings to be midstream and downstream presence and expanded into mining greater than 2017 earnings and minerals, nuclear, power and process Strategic acquisitions: complete appropriate acquisitive Overwhelming shareholder support for the AFW transaction opportunities over 99% Achieve organic growth from established relationships, with Embedded Wood Group revised organisation structure the wins balanced across the BUs effectiveness of the ELT was fundamental in delivering the Continue to broadening the service and sector mix in line with acquisition and acceleration of the business strategy.
During Q4 the Group strategy 2017, an enhanced Wood organisation structure was achieved with the philosophy of best of both: this included leadership Stability and effectiveness of the ELT: structure, assessment and selection to organisation level two Develop the ELT working relationships and inter-relationships ELT development plans and succession planning in place and within the new organisational structure ongoing monitoring of team effectiveness supported via external Assess team health in a measured manner executive coaching independently via the Lintstock process Outcome will be assessed by reviewing team effectiveness and success of roles in new structure Personal objectives Executive Objectives Achievements director Robin Organisational transition - Fully embed the new Driving the plans of accelerating the strategy through the Watson organisation and complete the transition plan in AFW acquisition was a focus for 2017 delivering all of personal 2017 objectives achievement.
This includes: Customers & stakeholders - Actively engage core Multiple shareholder engagements during the course of 2017 stakeholder groups and key customers in dialogue with a focus on clearly articulating the rationale of the deal about the Groups strategic direction and potential and ensuring shareholder approval: this resulted in over 99% shareholder approval Mature our tactical decisions and delivery, from our strategy - Provide mechanisms for delivering Internal engagement activities focused on the development against the Group strategy and demonstrate of the Wood vision, values and behaviours through a focused continued tactical progress culture workstream Group positioning in Governmental and business Strengthening of the ethics and compliance function globally.
community relationships - provide a programme of Leading the strategic focus on safety with a global campaign engagement across key but non-core stakeholder 'Stand up for Safety' groups Active safety and ethics leadership - provide a programme of active leadership and delivery in the safety and ethics arena David ERP & finance shared services - Deliver 2017 ERP ERP and shared services programmes delivered substantially in Kemp and shared services plan for Finance line with plan and within budget.
c. 85% of legacy Wood Group business on Oracle ERP.
IT&S outsourcing - Deliver outsourcing of IT Services to IBM in line with agreed service levels IBM outsourcing of infrastructure and application services completed delivering significant savings Entity simplification - Establish entity simplification project and deliver 2017 workscope 103 legal entities eliminated: a further 59 commenced and future further simplification planned Establish Group supply chain and real estate function - Establish function, implement agreed Organisation designed and implemented: savings partially organisation structure and deliver efficiencies and delivered with less success in Americas savings Delivered the investor engagement programme resulting in Investor relations - Deliver 2017 investor multiple engagements during the course of 2017 with a focus on engagement programme ensuring deal approval with over 99% shareholder approval Risk management - Deliver agreed risk Risk and assurance plan delivered with Internal Audit extended management and assurance action plan into P&O, Legal, Ethics and Compliance, Commercial, Supply Chain in addition to Finance and IT 58 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Bonus award achievement summary: The table below provides a summary of overall bonus achievement for each of the executive directors: Total award as Financial award Non-financial award Executive % of max bonus Total bonus Total award as director % achieved Payment % achieved Payment opportunity payment % of salary Robin Watson 24.3% 255,212 35.1% 368,025 59.4% 623,237 103.9% David Kemp 24.3% 132,710 35.1% 191,373 59.4% 324,083 83.1% Long term incentives Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP The figures set out in the single figure of remuneration table are related to awards under LTIP 2015-2017, which vested at 31 December 2017.
Maximum awards and LTIP measures under the performance period were as per the table below: Performance Measures split Name Participation Level TSR AEPS Robin Watson 150% 25% 75% David Kemp 125% 25% 75% TSR is Total Shareholder Return and is a measure of the growth in John Wood Group PLC JWG share price plus dividends and other shareholder returns over the period: performance is measured relative to a peer group of comparative companies.
Each company is ranked and JWG position in this group is taken as a measure of success.
On reaching the threshold, or 50th percentile th for TSR, 25% of the relevant measure becomes payable: and on reaching the maximum, or 75 percentile for TSR, 100% of the relevant measure becomes payable.
For achievement between threshold and maximum, the allocation is on a straight line basis.
The TSR peer group for 2015 2017 LTIP performance cycle comprised the following companies Aker Solutions, Amec Foster Wheeler, Chicago Bridge & Iron Company, Fluor, Jacobs Engineering, KBR, McDermott, Petrofac, Saipem, SBM Offshore, Sulzer, Technip, The Weir Group, Worley Parsons and WS Atkins.
The treatment of the TSR peer group for the performance period 2015- 2017 was considered by the Committee as a result of acquisition activity within the peer group with the following rationale applied: if a company has been in for more than half the performance period then this company will be retained in the peer group, adjusting to the end of the period for the movement in the acquirers share price this should apply in the case of Technip, WS Atkins and Amec Foster Wheeler: if a company has been in for less than half the performance period, this company will be removed.
AEPS is determined using actual foreign exchange rates.
No adjustment is made to reflect changes in currency from the date the targets are set.
For the 2015-2017 performance period all vestings were made as nil cost options.
For all participants, 80% is paid following the end of the performance period and 20% of the share options awarded is deferred for a further two years.
The LTIP award accrues dividends from the commencement of the performance period, which are paid as additional share options.
The deferred element may continue to attract dividends which will be reported in the relevant period.
For executive directors, all awards granted from 2017 will have 100% of all vestings subject to a further two year deferral period following the end of the performance period.
The targets for LTIP 2015-2017, and the extent to which they were achieved, are set out in the table below.
For the performance th period 2015-2017, AEPS did not meet threshold performance resulting in zero award for this measure.
We achieved 56 percentile for our TSR peer group, which resulted in 10.9% award on this performance measure for all participants.
Financial measures Threshold Maximum Achieved Award % th th th TSR 50 percentile 75 percentile 56.25 percentile 10.9% AEPS 100.0 cents 120.0 cents 53.3 cents nil Details relating to 2016 bonus and long term incentive awards can be found in the 2016 Annual Report: www.
com ar16 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 59 Governance | Directors' Remuneration Report 2.2 Pension related benefits In line with the Directors Remuneration Policy, the executive directors can choose to participate in the relevant local defined contribution pension arrangement or receive a cash allowance in lieu of pension, or a combination thereof.
Payment may be up to 15% of base salary.
The Chief Executive was provided with life assurance cover of 2,500,000.
The CFO was provided with life assurance cover of four times basic salary, up to a maximum free cover limit as specified in the life assurance policy.
2.3 Long Term Incentive Plan interests awarded during the year The following table sets out the awards made to each of the executive directors under the companys share based long term incentive arrangements for the performance period 2017-2019.
Share incentive plan interests awarded during the year Salary Holding relevant to Face value Percentage period for Executive Type of Participation performance of the vesting at Performance 100% of director award Level cycle award threshold period award Targets th TSR threshold is set at 50 percentile with maximum at Robin 200% 600,000 1,200,000 th Conditional 75 percentile: 25% becomes Watson award of payable on reaching threshold: Two years 1 Jan 2017 shares 100% becomes payable on 25% from awarded reaching maximum.
EPS for 31 Dec 2019 vesting under the the performance period 2017- David LTP 2019 was set as 44.8 cents at 160% 390,000 624,000 Kemp threshold and 74.8 cents at maximum Performance measures are based on relative TSR and EPS weighted equally at 50%.
Performance is measured over a period of three financial years and for awards granted from 2017 onwards, 100% of any award is deferred for a period of two years following the end of the performance period.
Malus and clawback will apply as detailed in the remuneration policy.
This timeline is demonstrated below: LTIP timeline Share options Award Performance outcomes available granted award vest Three year performance period Two year deferral period Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5 2.4 Payments to past directors For the year ending December 2017, there were no payments made to past directors which require disclosure and have not already been disclosed in previous Directors Remuneration Reports.
2.5 Payments for loss of office There were no payments made for loss of office to any director during 2017.
60 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 2.6 Statement of directors shareholding and share interests Shareholding guidelines were reviewed during the 2016 directors remuneration policy review and approved by shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
The policy requires the Chief Executive to hold shares valued at 200% of base salary and the other executive directors to hold shares valued at 100% of base salary.
The holding will be built up from after tax share awards which are not subject to any further performance or other conditions, such as continued employment.
The holding does not include shares held by connected persons.
There have been no changes in the interests of directors between 31 December 2017 and 6 March 2018.
The extent to which each director met the shareholding guidelines is shown in the table below: Shareholding at 31 December 2017 Value of shares held as a % Shareholding guideline met at a not including connected persons of salary 31 December 2017 Executive director Robin Watson 198,153 214.7% Achieved David Kemp 23,891 39.8% Accumulating Notes to shareholding guidelines achievement a.
Calculated using the closing mid-market share price on 29 December 2017 of 6.50 and base salary levels at the same date.
A summary of directors share interests and incentive plan interests are provided in the following two tables.
The first table details directors interests in the ordinary shares of the company at 31 December 2017 with and without performance conditions: declaration includes shares held by connected persons as defined for the purposes of section 96B 2 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
The second table details directors interests in long term incentive plans at 31 December 2017.
Directors interests in the ordinary shares of the company at 31 December 2017.
Shares owned Shares owned Interests in share incentive plans, Interests in share incentive plans, outright as at outright as at awarded without performance awarded subject to performance Beneficial interest 1 January 2017 31 December 2017 conditions at 31 December 2017 conditions at 31 December 2017 Executive directors Robin Watson 146,951 203,346 43,422 413,164 David Kemp 2,216 23,891 28,784 219,819 Non-executive directors Ian Marchant 22,777 22,777 a Linda Adamany 2,325 Thomas Botts 8,500 8,500 Jann Brown 11,382 12,575 Jacqueline Ferguson b Roy Franklin Richard Howson Mary Shafer-Malicki 3,450 3,450 c Ian McHoul 389,225 Jeremy Wilson 10,000 10,000 Notes to share interests a. Linda Adamany was appointed to the board 6 October 2017 b. Roy Franklin was appointed to the board 6 October 2017 c. Iain McHoul was appointed to the board 6 October 2017.
His previous role was CFO of AFW and the number of shares owned outright relates to the treatment of AFW shares which vested at the point of change of control.
None of the executive directors had a material interest in any contract, other than a service contract, with the company or any of its subsidiary undertakings.
At the date of this report the interests of the directors in the shares of the company remain as stated.
Where applicable the December 2017 figures include interest in retained long term plan awards.
The 20% deferred element for LTIP performance period 2012-2014 attracts dividends which are paid as additional share options.
For performance periods commencing 2013 onwards, dividend accrues on 100% of award: 80% is paid in March following the end of the performance period and 20% is deferred for two years.
62 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 2.7 TSR performance summary & Chief Executive remuneration In accordance with the reporting regulations the TSR performance summary will be built up until a 10 year period is disclosed, and will be maintained at a 10 year disclosure period.
As the company is included in the UK FTSE 250 index, but has been included in the FTSE 100 index for part of the period under review, both the UK FTSE 250 and UK FTSE 100 indices are shown, by way of providing a reasonable TSR comparison.
The graph below compares the TSR on a holding of shares in John Wood Group PLC with the TSR on a holding of shares in the companies in the UK FTSE 250 and 100 indices for the last nine financial years.
600 John Wood Group PLC UK FTSE 100 Index 500 UK FTSE 250 Index 400 340% 325% 300 200 173% 100 0 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Chief Executive remuneration The total remuneration for the Chief Executive over the same period as the TSR performance graph detailed is listed in the following table.
This table includes details of the annual bonus received in each year as a percentage of the maximum opportunity that was available, as well as the long term incentives which vested in each year as a percentage of the maximum number of shares that could have been received.
Chief Executive remuneration 000 Year 2009 2010 2011 2012 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Allister Allister Allister Allister Bob Bob Bob Bob Robin Robin a b c Keiller Keiller Keiller Watson Watson Chief Executive Langlands Langlands Langlands Langlands Keiller Chief Executive single figure of 1,417 1,314 3,338 2,276 199 1,624 1,330 1,147 1,179 1,420 total remuneration 000 Annual bonus award as a % of maximum 60% 84% 87% 76% 75% 60% 48% 37% 43% 59% opportunity Long term incentive vesting rates as 0% 23% 100% 100% 25% 79% 51% 16% 25% 11% a % of maximum opportunity Notes to Chief Executive remuneration table a. Allister Langlands was appointed Chair on 1 November 2012.
His remuneration for 2012 related to his time as Group CEO only.
Bob Keiller was appointed Group CEO on 1 November 2012.
His remuneration for 2012 reflected his remuneration from appointment as Group CEO only.
Long term incentives vesting during the year were awarded during his time as Wood Group PSN CEO and vested based on performance targets linked to performance of that division.
c. Robin Watson was appointed as Chief Executive on 1 January 2016.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 63 Governance | Directors' Remuneration Report Ratio of Chief Executive pay to average employee 2.9 Relative importance of spend on pay For 2017, we have calculated the ratio of Chief Executive salary The table below is provided to assist shareholders in assessing with a UK comparator group using two scenarios: the relative importance of the companys spend on pay.
It contains details of the remuneration paid to or received by all The ratio of Chief Executive base salary to the average base employees of the company as well as the value of distributions salary of the integrated UK workforce is 10:1 to shareholders by way of dividend and share buyback over the previous two years.
The ratio of Chief Executive base salary, overtime, cash allowances and bonuses paid via payroll in 2017, to the 2016 2017 Difference % comparator group is 13:1 Item $m $m $m change The comparator group used relates to legacy Wood Group Remuneration paid UK integrated payrolls, which represent 59% of the total to or received by all UK workforce legacy Wood Group.
Integrated payrolls are 2,210.1 2,741.6 531.5 24.0% employees of the those which are processed in house and directly from the ERP Group system.
The calculations are based on actual payments made during 2017.
Distributions to shareholders by The average annual salary is 58,000: for the same group 116.0 125.6 9.6 8.3% way of dividend the average of salary, overtime, cash allowances and bonus and share buyback pay is 65,000.
The bonus figure used for the Chief Executive is inclusive of deferred elements, payable in equivalent share options following a two year deferral period, and the pension cash allowance.
Other pension contributions and taxable 2.10 Statement of implementation of remuneration benefit entitlement have not been included.
policy in the following financial year The Directors Remuneration Policy was approved at the 2.8 Percentage change in Chief Executive 2017 Annual General Meeting AGM.
This section provides remuneration an overview of how the Committee will implement the The following table provides a summary of the increases in remuneration policy in 2018 which is subject to shareholder remuneration for the Chief Executive as compared with the approval at the 2018 AGM.
There are no proposed changes to average increase for all other UK based employees in the policy for 2018. company.
Base salary % change between 2016 and 2017 As described in the letter from the Chair of the Committee, the b c Salary Benefits Bonus Chief Executive base salary will increase to 690,000 and the Chief Executive 0% -1.5% 93.9% CFO to 450,000 effective from 1 January.
This will form part of the advisory notification to shareholders at the 2018 AGM.
Average of all other 0% -2.4% -6.8% a UK employees 2017 annual 2018 annual Notes to the percentage change in Chief Executive remuneration Executive base salary base salary % increase a.
Given the wide variation in inflation rates across the various geographies Robin Watson 600,000 690,000 15.0% in which the company operates, the comparator group used is UK based employees: for 2017 legacy Wood Group has been used as the David Kemp 390,000 450,000 15.4% representative group due to the timing of the AFW acquisition.
UK based employees constituted approximately 23% of the overall global workforce.
Benefits are based on a sample employee with a UK average salary of Benefits 58,000 per annum, receiving taxable employee benefits including car The executive directors will continue to participate in existing allowance, private family medical and dental insurance.
The change between 2016 and 2017 is related to the reduced company cost of benefit arrangements in line with the agreed remuneration private medical and dental cover: the same cover is provided to the Chief policy.
Executive and average UK employee.
c. The bonus increase is based on average bonus award as a percentage of salary for 2016 against 2017.
The percentage increase from 2016 to 2017 for the Chief Executive is attributed to the increase in participation level, from 125% in 2016 to 175% in 2017, and a higher percentage performance outcome for 2017.
64 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Bonus Non-financial measures The 2018 annual bonus opportunities for the executive directors HSSE measures will remain as 175% for the Chief Executive.
As detailed in the Chair's letter, the CFO participation level will increase to 150%.
HSSE measures total 10% of bonus opportunity and will relate directly to HSSE improvement targets, measured using Total Consistent with previous years, bonus measures will be split Recordable Case Frequency TRCF, and delivery against the between financial, HSSE and non-financial measures with a HSSE 2018 plan.
balance of 60%, 10% and 30% respectively as illustrated in the chart below.
Corporate personal objectives Non-financial measures relating to corporate personal Relative weighting % of bonus opportunity objectives, weighted as 30% of bonus opportunity are summarised in the tables below.
These are considered stretching Corporate Cost Cash objectives, with tangible performance outcomes focused on the Profit HSSE personal synergies generation objectives delivery of strategic plans.
Detailed disclosure of performance 20% 20% 20% 10% 30% against objectives will be contained in next years Directors Remuneration Report.
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% Corporate objectives ELT Integration programme delivery and positioning for Financial measures through-cycle growth For 2018, the financial measures and the weighting will be: Develop and deliver deleveraging plan EBITA as a measure of profit, weighted at 20% ELT leadership effectiveness and mitigate the likelihood and 2018 cost synergy target, weighted at 20% effect of any down-side risk unexpected event Cash generation measure, weighted at 20% Personal objectives Robin Watson For profit and cash generation measures, threshold performance will be 90% of the target set, and maximum bonus Organisational transition: Fully embed the new organisation and is achieved when results exceed 110% of target.
Targets for cost complete the integration in 2018 synergies will reflect the overall objectives built into the strategy.
Customers & Stakeholders: Actively engage core stakeholder groups and key customers Threshold performance must be met before any of that element of the award is paid: if target performance is met, Corporate Affairs: Positioning and engagement programme 50% of the potential bonus opportunity is paid: 100% is Mature our tactical decisions and delivery, from our strategy: payable for reaching maximum performance.
Performance Provide mechanisms for delivering against the strategy and between threshold and target and between target and demonstrate continued tactical progress maximum will result in a proportionate award calculated on a Active safety and ethics leadership: Provide a programme of straight-line basis.
active leadership and delivery in the safety and ethics arena For awards made in 2018, 75% of any award will be paid in cash David Kemp in the March following the end of the performance year, with the remaining 25% deferred into nil cost share options for a Deliver 2018 Synergy Delivery Budget for Finance & further two years.
Administration The Committee has set the targets for the annual bonus Develop and communicate long term deleveraging plan and plan for the year ending 31 December 2018 at its meeting in deliver 2018 element March 2018.
It is the opinion of the Committee that these are Develop and deliver financing plan for Wood commercially sensitive and in line with previous practice, the Deliver and govern an active cash management programme details of annual bonus targets and the extent to which the across the company targets are met will be disclosed retrospectively in next years Deliver functional integration plan delivering simpler and report.
consistent operating model to Wood Provide thorough governance structure leadership, assessment of progress and reporting to Board Develop and deliver Wood investor engagement programme John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 65 Governance | Directors' Remuneration Report Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP Pension and life assurance benefits For 2018, there will be no change to the LTIP maximum The executive directors will continue to participate in existing opportunity, which will remain as 200% of salary.
The award pension and life assurance arrangements in line with the Policy.
to the Chief Executive will be 200% of salary and the award to the CFO will be 175% of salary.
As detailed in the letter from the Shareholding requirements Chair, the award for the CFO has increased from 160% in 2017.
The shareholding requirements will remain as 200% for the Chief Executive and 100% for all other executives.
Awards achieved under LTIP will be deferred in full for a period of at least two years following the end of the three year performance period, resulting in a total holding period of five Chair of the Board and non-executive director NED years from the year of the award being granted.
remuneration For the performance period commencing 2018, the The Chair and NED fee structure for 2018 is set out below, performance measure will be relative TSR, at 50% weighting which is unchanged from 2016: and a strategic measure, also at 50% weighting.
The strategic measure is to acheive the three year cost synergy target of 2018 fees per annum $170m: threshold will be $160m and maximum performance Chair of the Board remuneration 275,000 will be achieved at $200m.
No award will be made for Annual non-executive director fee 55,500 less than threshold performance: 25% becomes payable on inclusive of all Committee attendance reaching threshold and 100% is payable on reaching maximum performance.
Additional fee for senior independent 5,000 director For TSR performance, no award is made for less than th th perfomance at the 50 percentile.
On reaching the 50 Additional fee for Audit Remuneration 5,000 Safety, Assurance & Business Ethics percentile, 25% becomes payable and on reaching maximum th Chairs performance of 75 percentile, 100% becomes payable.
For th th achievement level between the 50 and 75 percentile the allocation is on a straight line basis.
The TSR peer group was reviewed by the Committee and has been amended as a result of acquisition activity and in recognition of the new organisation structure.
The peer group for 2018 will be as follows: Aecom, Aker Solutions, Fluor, Jacobs, KBR, Hunting, McDermott, Petrofac, Saipem, SBM Offshore, SNC Lavalin, Stantec, Technip FMC, Tetratech, The Weir Group, Worley Parsons and WSP.
66 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Financial statements Group financial statements The audited financial statements of Wood for the year ended 31 December 2017 68 Independent auditors' report 76 Consolidated income statement 77 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income expense 78 Consolidated balance sheet 79 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 80 Consolidated cash flow statement 81 Notes to the financial statements Company financial statements 146 Company balance sheet 147 Statement of changes in equity 148 Notes to the Company financial statements 157 Five year summary 158 Information for shareholders John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 67
