Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Governance NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT Dear Shareholder I am pleased to present our Nominations Committee Report for 2017 which describes our activities and areas of focus during the year.
Composition The Nominations Committee comprises Keith Clarke Committee Chair and Noel Harwerth, who are both independent Non-Executive Directors, and Russell Scrimshaw, the Board Chairman.
Responsibilities The main role of the Committee is to: review the structure, size and composition of the Board and to identify and propose to the Board suitable candidates to fill Board vacancies: A diverse Board of skills, keep under review the leadership needs of the Company both experience, background and executive and non-executive: and assist with the annual performance gender is an essential part of evaluation process for the Board good governance.
CHAIR The Terms of Reference for the Committee are set out in detail on the Companys website, siriusminerals.
These terms were updated in March 2017 to reflect current best practice for a Premium Listed company ahead of the Companys move from AIM to the Main Market and are reviewed on at least an annual basis.
70 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Meetings Committee attendance in 2017 The Committee has regular COMMITTEE MEMBERS scheduled meetings and holds additional meetings as and when Keith Clarke 2 2 100% required.
Members are expected, Noel Harwerth 2 2 100% where possible, to attend all Committee meetings.
The Committee Russell Scrimshaw 2 2 100% met twice in 2017 and individual attendance is set out in the corresponding table.
Committee activity in 2017 At the invitation of the Committee, and as appropriate to the matters During the year the Committee: under discussion, meetings may be attended by the Executive Directors considered appropriate reviewed the composition, size and external advisers.
candidates for the role of and structure of the Board Senior Independent Director ahead of the Companys Agendas, briefing notes and reports ahead of the Companys move to the Premium List of for each Committee meeting are move to the Main Market and the London Stock Exchange: distributed via a secure electronic recommended to the Board, having carried out this review, Board portal in advance of each the appointment of Noel considered and meeting and in sufficient time to allow Harwerth as Senior recommended to the Board proper consideration of their Independent Director: the appointment of Thomas contents.
Staley, the CFO, as an reviewed and recommended additional Executive Director: to the Board for approval, The core activities of the Committee updated Terms of Reference are documented and planned on an reviewed and recommended for the Committee: and annual basis and a list of matters to the Board the approval of arising from each meeting is the role profiles for Senior undertook an evaluation of its maintained and followed up at Independent Director, own performance.
Full minutes of Chairman of the Board and each meeting are kept by the CEO in preparation for the Company Secretary detailing the Companys move to the Main matters considered and decisions Market: taken by the Committee.
The Nominations Committee has access to the Company Secretary for assistance as required and can obtain other professional advice at the Companys expense, if required.
71 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Governance NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Committee evaluation Diversity and export credit backed debt, During the year the Committee Over the last 12 months, there have mezzanine debt and equity.
Given his undertook an internal evaluation of its been a number of diversity reviews, experience and the fact that he had performance in accordance with the including The Hampton-Alexander demonstrated his strong capabilities provisions of the Code and its Terms Review on gender balance in FTSE as CFO since joining the Company in of Reference.
The Company leadership: the McGregor-Smith 2014, especially in the delivery of the Secretary, on behalf of the Chairman, review on race in the workplace and Companys stage 1 financing, the circulated a comprehensive The Parker Review on ethnic diversity Committee was of the view that questionnaire to members and on UK boards.
Thomas would bring the necessary attendees of the Committee using required skills to the Board and was the electronic Board portal, covering The Committee continues to review the most suitable candidate.
all issues related to the functioning of and monitor the balance and the Committee.
The responses were composition of the Board and makes Female representation on the Board is consolidated and anonymised and recommendations to the Board as currently 37% with the Audit common themes identified in order appropriate as evidenced by the Committee at 66%, the Remuneration for the Committee to determine key Committees activity during the year Committee having 50% and the actions and next steps for improving under review.
It is the Committees Nominations Committee at 33%.
Committee effectiveness and intention to have a continued focus performance.
Further details on the Companys diversity and talent management can The results of the 2017 internal All Board appointments are made on be found in the Our People section on evaluation showed that overall the merit, in the context of the skills and page 46 of the Strategic Report.
experience that the Board, as a The main recommendation for action whole, requires in order to maintain Keith Clarke for 2018 was for the Committee to and enhance its effectiveness.
The Chair have an increased focus on appointment of Thomas Staley to the succession planning for the Board Board in February 2017 followed an and senior management team to assessment by the Committee that an ensure that the business is prepared additional Executive Director with for the future while also assisting in financial expertise was necessary the design of a programme of ahead of the Companys move to the training for the Board.
The length of Premium List of the London Stock Committee meetings would also be Exchange and the associated increased to allow sufficient time for enhanced governance requirements the agenda and papers to be and also in preparation for the considered and more Committee Companys stage 2 debt financing.
meetings held in person rather than Thomas has over ten years of conference call.
experience developing and financing energy, resource and infrastructure projects across a range of international markets.
His core competency was structuring commercial arrangements and financing projects utilising a wide range of capital including project 72
