Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE LEADERSHIP are kept by the Secretary, detailing Board meetings the matters considered and decisions The Role of During 2017, the Board met eight taken.
times during the year, excluding the Board Board Committee meetings to The Chairman and Chief Executive approve the financial results and The Board provides leadership The roles of the Chairman and Chief matters in connection with the move of the Company and direction Executive are held separately and to the Main Market.
It is their responsibilities are clearly attendance at each Board meeting is responsible for the long-term documented and established.
Russell set out in the table opposite.
success of the Company and Scrimshaw is the Chairman and is forensuring the appropriate responsible for the leadership and Directors are expected, where management and operation of effective running of the Board.
Chris possible, to attend all Board the Company in pursuit of its Fraser is the Chief Executive and is meetings, relevant Committee objectives.
responsible for the running of the meetings, the AGM and any General Groups business and implementation meetings.
If a Director is unable to The Board is responsible for of the strategy and policies adopted attend a specific Board or Committee setting the Companys strategy, by the Board.
meeting, he or she still receives all the values and standards and papers for discussion at the meeting ensuring the necessary controls Non-Executive Directors and can advise the Board Chairman and resources are in place for the Non-Executive Directors constructively or Committee Chairman of their Company to deliver it.
The Board challenge and scrutinise the comments in advance of the has regular scheduled meetings performance of management and meeting.
and has a formal schedule of help develop proposals on strategy.
matters requiring its approval and The terms and conditions of Board meetings are normally specifically reserved for its appointment of the Non-Executive attended by the Chief Development decision, which form the core of Directors are available for inspection Officer and the Chief Marketing the Boards agenda.
Other senior members of the at each AGM and at its registered management team and external office during normal business hours.
approving the Groups longadvisers will attend, at the invitation term objectives: of the Board, and as appropriate to Senior Independent Director the matters under discussion.
Noel Harwerth is the Senior approval of the annual Independent Director SID of the operating and capital During the year the Chairman and Company, having been appointed expenditure budgets: the Non-Executive Directors also met on 25 April 2017.
As well as being approving contracts for more on several occasions without the available to shareholders whose than a certain monetary Executive Directors present to allow concerns have not been resolved amount: informal discussions on a variety of through normal channels or extension of the Groups issues.
The Non-Executives met once whensuch channels would be activities into new business or during the year without the Chairman inappropriate, the SID provides a geographic areas: to evaluate the Chairmans sounding board for the Chairman performance.
and serves as an intermediary for the approval of major capital other Directors, where necessary.
The projects: and The core activities of the Board are SID also has responsibility for leading approval of key policies and documented and planned on an the annual appraisal of the procedures.
annual basis and a list of matters Chairmans performance.
arising from each meeting is maintained and followed up at subsequent meetings.
Full minutes of each Board and Committee meeting 60 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Board attendance in 2017 BOARD MEMBERS Russell Scrimshaw Chairman 8 8 100% Chris Fraser Managing Director & CEO 8 8 100% Thomas Staley Finance Director & CFO 8 8 100% Noel Harwerth Senior Independent Director 8 8 100% Keith Clarke Independent Non-Executive Director 8 8 100% Louise Hardy Independent Non-Executive Director 8 8 100% Lord Hutton Independent Non-Executive Director 8 8 100% Jane Lodge Independent Non-Executive Director 8 8 100% Although Thomas Staley was appointed to the Board on 2 February 2017, he attended the January 2017 board meeting.
LEADERSHIP Company is able to make timely and Executive Directors accurate disclosure of all information The Executive Directors are that is required to be disclosed to the responsible for the day-to-day market in accordance with its legal management of the Groups and regulatory obligations as a businesses, implementation of its company with Officially Listed strategy, policies and budgets and its securities which have been admitted financial performance.
Executive to trading on the Main Market.
The management meetings comprise the creation of the Disclosure Committee Executive Directors and senior is not required by the Code but, in management and are held biensuring that the Company has in monthly to discuss current issues.
place systems and procedures to enable it to discharge its obligations, Principal Committees of the Board was considered an appropriate The Board has delegated certain response and one which has been aspects of its responsibilities to four widely adopted by other companies.
Committees as shown on page 65 : The Disclosure Committee met a the Audit Committee, the number of times during the year as Nominations Committee, the was necessary and appropriate to Remuneration Committee and the fulfil its responsibilities.
The Terms of Disclosure Committee.
Reference for the Committee are set out in detail on the Companys Each Committee operates within website at siriusminerals.
defined terms of reference, which arereviewed and updated as appropriate on an annual basis and are available on the Companys website at siriusminerals.
Each Committee reports its proceedings to the Board verbally and through the submission of reports and minutes as appropriate.
Reports of the Audit, Nominations andRemuneration Committees are provided on pages 66 to 98, and include information on each Committees membership, duties, attendance at meetings and work throughout the year.
The Disclosure Committee comprises Chris Fraser Managing Director and CEO, Thomas Staley Finance Director and CFO, Nicholas King General Counsel and Company Secretary and Gareth Edmunds For a copy of the Code External Affairs Director.
Chris Fraser is the Chair of the Committee.
PLEASE VISIT TheCommittee ensures that the FRCPUBLICATIONS.
COM 61 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED EFFECTIVENESS Composition of the Board current Non-Executive Directors since The Board is comprised of eight 2013 and the Company does not Directors, which includes the Nonintend to include share options or Board composition Executive Chairman, two Executive other performance-related elements Directors and five other independent in the remuneration of the NonNon-Executive Directors.
Executive Directors in the future.
2 Notwithstanding these share options, A list of individual Directors, their the Board considers Lord Hutton and Executive Directors biographies and Committee Keith Clarke to be independent in Non-Executive character and independent in memberships as at the date of this 1 Chairman 5 judgement and therefore deemed to report are on pages 56 and 57.
Independent be independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Directors Directors.
The Board believes that there is an appropriate balance of skills, Prior to taking on the role as experience, independence and Chairman, Russell Scrimshaw was knowledge on the Board.
The Board viewed as independent in character Board tenure no.
of Directors also believes that there is an and independent in judgement.
appropriate balance of Executive TheChairmans other significant and Non-Executive Directors.
1 commitments are detailed on page 56.
The Board considers all of its Performance evaluation Non-Executive Directors to be In October 2017 the Board undertook independent.
The Non-Executive 4 an internal evaluation of its Directors disclose to the Board their 3 03 years performance in accordance with the other significant commitments and 36 years Code through the completion of a the procedure adopted by the 69 years comprehensive questionnaire using Company in relation to Directors the electronic board portal.
The conflicts of interest is detailed on results of the evaluation were page 100. presented to the Board at its meeting Nationality in December 2017 and confirmed that Louise Hardy, Jane Lodge and overall the Board was operating NoelHarwerth are independent in effectively.
The review confirmed that character and independent in 1 there were a small number of areas judgement and are therefore 2 for action for 2018, including the independent Non-Executive Directors 1 design and implementation of a in accordance with the Code.
Lord Australian formal training and development Hutton and Keith Clarke hold share British programme for Board members and options in the Company as detailed Dual British Australian more opportunities for the Board to on page 93.
These outstanding share Dual British meet informally ahead of scheduled options were granted in 2012 and American 4 Board meetings.
2013 respectively, when the Company was listed on AIM.
No further grants It is the intention that in accordance have been made to the Companys with the Code an annual review of the effectiveness of the Board will be undertaken with input from an independent external adviser in 2020 and every three years thereafter.
62 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 EFFECTIVENESS Training, development and Information and support induction of new Directors All Directors have access to the Ongoing professional development is Company Secretary.
It is the provided to all Directors.
In 2017 the responsibility of the Company Boards professional development Secretary to ensure that there are 57 years consisted of various updates, good information flows to the Board presentations and memoranda from and its Committees and between average age of the Board the Companys external advisers the Executive team and the focused primarily on the Non-Executive Directors.
The Board diversity Company Secretary advises the responsibilities and duties of a Board on all legal and corporate director of a Premium Listed company governance matters and assists the given the Companys move from AIM Chairman in ensuring that the to the Main Market as well as a health Directors have suitably tailored and and safety presentation and updates detailed induction and ongoing on regulatory and legislative Women 3 Men 5 professional development developments.
A number of the 2017 37% female programmes.
The appointment and Board meetings were held in 63% male removal of the Company Secretary Scarborough to enable the Directors is a matter for the Board as a whole.
to attend site visits to see the development of the Project.
The Board uses an electronic board portal which provides quick, easy As there have been no new external and secure access to board papers appointments to the Board during the and materials in advance of each year, a formal induction programme meeting and in sufficient time to was not delivered during the year.
allow proper consideration of their Thomas Staley was appointed to the contents.
Board during the year but had been with the Company since 2012 as There is a process by which Corporate Development Director and Directors may obtain independent more recently Chief Financial Officer.
legal advice at the Companys Thomas attended the Board meetings expense if they believe it may be in his previous roles before being required in the furtherance of appointed as an Executive Director in theirduties.
February 2017 and, as such, was familiar with the workings of the Board and the Company so a formal induction process was not deemed necessary.
63 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED RELATIONS WITH ACCOUNTABILITY SHAREHOLDERS Risk management and internal The Board recognises the importance From time to time, the Company control of maintaining good communications invites research analysts and Details of the Groups internal controls with the Companys shareholders to institutional investors to presentations and risk management framework are ensure mutual understanding of the and site visits that are designed to more fully set out on page 48 of the Groups strategy, objectives, provide more understanding of the Strategic Report.
strengths and capabilities of its business operations and strategy.
The Audit Committee, on behalf of During the year shareholders are the Board, carried out a review of the keptinformed of the progress of the Shareholders can receive effectiveness of the systems of risk Group through regular corporate documentation such as the Annual management and internal controls communications: the Preliminary Report and Accounts electronically during the year.
This effectiveness Results Announcement, the Annual and are also able to cast their votes review considered the design of Report and Accounts, the Half Year by proxy.
The Company also has an controls associated with key risks Results Announcement, the Notice of electronic proxy appointment service andthe evidence as to their proper Annual General Meeting, quarterly for CREST members.
The trading updates and press releases review did not identify any significant regarding any other significant failing or weaknesses in the system of developments, as well as the internal control and risk dissemination of regulated management.
Such communications are made available to the London Stock Exchange and are REMUNERATION simultaneously available on the Companys website, The Directors Remuneration Report, siriusminerals.
com including details of the Remuneration Policy and service contracts, is set out The Companys website houses a on pages 73 to 98. wide range of information about the Group and the Project including the Annual Report and Accounts, press releases and share price data.
64 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE The Board Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Responsible for the long-term success Russell Scrimshaw Chris Fraser ofthe Company Key objective: Key objective: Leadership of the Overall performance of Board the Company Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee Disclosure Committee Jane Lodge Committee Chair Lord Hutton Committee Chair Keith Clarke Committee Chair Chris Fraser Committee Chair Keith Clarke CBE Jane Lodge Russell Scrimshaw Thomas Staley Noel Harwerth Louise Hardy Noel Harwerth Nicholas King Russell Scrimshaw Gareth Edmunds Key objectives: Key objectives: Key objective: Key objective: Review effectiveness of Review remuneration Ensuring the Board Ensuring the Company internal controls and service contracts comprises of is able to make timely of Executive Directors individuals with the and accurate Risk management necessary skills, disclosure of required review Review of all share knowledge and information incentive plans Annual and interim experience reporting review Overseeing the relationship with the external auditor 65 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
