Corporate governance report OUR GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK A governance framework that supports the achievement of Capcos strategic objectives.
Ian Durant, Chairman Dear Shareholder, that the Board has, and will continue to have, the appropriate mix of skills and experience to deliver Capcos strategic goals.
As I am pleased to introduce Capcos 2017 Corporate Governance part of this process an updated Board diversity policy has been Report.
adopted, which is described in greater detail within the A key focus of the Board during 2017 was consideration of Nomination Committee Report.
During 2018, the Board will corporate strategy in light of the ongoing uncertain market carefully consider the implications of any updates to the UK conditions and political outlook.
Management is implementing Corporate Governance Code arising from the Financial the strategy within a robust governance framework, which Reporting Councils ongoing consultation.
includes a commitment to the highest standards of business All of the Directors will be seeking election or re-election at our practice and ethics.
Andrew Strang, Henry Staunton and Graeme Gordon have The Corporate Governance Statement, together with the each served on the Board for more than six years.
Accordingly, Committee reports that follow, explain how Capcos governance before recommending that they be reappointed, the Nomination framework works and how the Company applied the principles Committee gave particular consideration to the contribution of of the UK Corporate Governance Code during the year.
We also each Director and the balance of independence of the Board.
provide information on some of the management committees Capco has its primary listing on the London Stock Exchange and that support the controls and reporting framework across the is also listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange, and over 50 Group and constitute an environment of integrity, transparency per cent of the Companys shares are now held by South African and openness.
I am pleased to confirm that this governance investors.
There are sometimes different market expectations in framework continues to ensure that the Company operates the UK and South Africa, and one example of this is the level of effectively.
Capcos governance regime reflects the nature of the authority to issue new shares that shareholders expect to grant to Company, including our large property holdings in well known boards.
The Board feels that, to preserve flexibility, it is London locations, Covent Garden and Earls Court, and the appropriate to seek the higher levels of authority expected by UK relatively small executive team in a business which now shareholders where possible.
This has resulted in significant employs about 100 people directly.
votes against two of our AGM resolutions and Capcos inclusion During the year, there were a number of changes to the Board.
in The Investment Associations public register of shareholder In January, Situl Jobanputra took up his new position as Chief dissent.
The Board will maintain dialogue with our South Financial Officer, and we welcomed Charlotte Boyle to the African shareholders on this topic as we move into 2018.
We were sorry to lose Demetra Pinsent from the Board during the year as a result of the increasing time requirements of her other roles.
Promoted from within the business, Situls appointment reflects Capcos commitment to developing the talent of our employees.
Charlotte is an experienced board adviser and brings expertise in Ian Durant people matters including remuneration, talent development and Chairman succession planning as well as a close knowledge of UK Real 20 February 2018 Estate leadership.
I am delighted to report that both Situl and Charlotte have settled in well and are accordingly effective in their new roles.
You can read more about Capcos recruitment STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH THE process and the tailored inductions that we provide to new UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE Directors in the Nomination Committee Report from page 65.
The Company has applied the principles and complied with the Board composition and succession planning remains an area of provisions ofthe UK Corporate Governance Code the Code focus for the Board and regular reviews are undertaken to ensure during 2017.
56 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The annual Board calendar includes a two-day strategy meeting.
THE BOARD At this meeting the Board receives detailed updates from external The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success advisers and business divisions, and is able to consider strategic of the Company, and for its leadership, strategy, values, standards, issues in depth, and spend time with members of senior control and management.
Day-to-day management of the Group management in a less formal environment.
is delegated to the Executive Directors, subject to formal delegated authority limits: however, certain matters have been reserved for Board papers are circulated a week in advance of meetings to ensure Board approval.
These matters are reviewed annually and include that Directors have sufficient time to consider their content prior Board and Committee composition, strategy, significant funding to the meeting.
If matters require approval at short notice, written decisions and corporate transactions, delegated authority limits approval is sought from the Directors.
The Chairman meets regularly with the Non-executive Directors Board composition without the Executive Directors being present and maintains As at 31 December 2017, the Board comprised the Chairman, three regular contact with both the Chief Executive and members Executive Directors and six Non-executive Directors.
The table on of senior management.
page 58 summarises the membership of the Board and Committees.
As matters that require the Boards decision are often large, Biographies of each ofthe Directors can be found on pages 54 and complex and evolve over a period of time, informal update 55 and additional information on Directors skills and experience is meetings are held between Board meetings to allow Board included on page67.
membersadequate time to explore, understand and challenge matters under consideration.
These are often combined with site Board independence visits and provide an opportunity for the Non-executive Directors The Code requires that, excluding the Chairman, at least half of to meet senior management.
Four such updates were held during the Board should comprise Non-executive Directors determined 2017, including a visit to the Earls Court Project Room.
During 2017, the Board received regular asset, financial and The Board has considered the independence of the Non-executive performance updates from the Executive Directors and senior Directors, including potential conflicts of interest, and the table management from each asset and reports from the General Counsel on page 58 sets out those Directors considered to be independent & Director of Corporate Services General Counsel, the Company in character and judgement.
Each of these Directors has also Secretary and Committee Chairmen.
The table below shows thekey confirmed that there is no reason why they should not continue areasconsidered by theBoard during the year.
BOARD COMMITTEES In considering Director independence, the Board concluded that The Board has established Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Directors tenure should be counted from the date of their first Committees to enable the Board to operate effectively and ensure election by shareholders to the Capco Board.
a strong governanceframework for decision making.
The key responsibilities of Board members are set out in the table on page 59.
Each Committee has written terms of reference which are reviewed THE BOARD IN 2017 annually.
The terms of reference can be viewed on the Companys The Board met formally throughout the year with main meetings website www.
Minutes of all Committee timed around the financial calendar, and additional meetings meetings are made available to all Directors.
The Committee convened to consider specific matters as required.
Attendance Chairmen attend the AGM to answer any questions on the at Board and Committee meetings held during 2017 is shown Committees activities.
A number of management committees support the business in delivering its strategy.
A summary of the role of each Committee is shown on page 58, and the activity of each Committee during 2017 is described on pages62 to86.
MATTERS CONSIDERED BY THE BOARD IN 2017 Business Strategy, New Financial Governance, Business and Directors Properties Performance Internal Controls and Risk Strategy Property valuations Annual and half year results Risk appetite and principal risks and dividends New business opportunities Covent Garden performance Health & Safety, security risk and IT security updates Treasury and cash management Key investment decisions Floral Court and Carriage Hall Internal Board evaluation and action plan developments Group tax position Disposal of Olympia London AGM resolutions and voting Earls Court demolition and Market and broker updates Appointment of a new Board Committees terms of reference and schedule Lillie Square completions and Non-executive Director Budget of matters reserved for the Board development Board composition and Legal and regulatory updates including Acquisitions succession planning EU General Data Protection Regulation 2016 Planning consents and Tax policy submissions Criminal Finances Act 2017 Modern Slavery Act 2015 www.
com 57 Corporate governance report continued LEADERSHIP STRUCTURE THE BOARD Collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Company.
Management of strategy, leadership and risk Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Oversees financial reporting Sets remuneration policy Recommends Board appointments Monitors internal controls, Sets Executive Director remuneration Board succession planning including risk management and incentives Reviews Directors skills, Monitors internal and external auditors Approves annual performance objectives experience and independence Board evaluation Further information can be found in: Audit Committee Report on pages 62to 64 Directors Remuneration Report Nomination Committee Report on pages 68 to 86 on pages 65 to 67 Principal Risks and Uncertainties on pages 16 to 19 Business Committees: Executive Risk Committee Disclosure Committee Executive management forum for review and discussion of risks, Monitors whether there is inside information within the business controlsand mitigation measures Ensures disclosure requirements are met Ensures appropriate records are maintained GroupSafety Leadership Team Corporate Responsibility Executive Committee Provides Group-wide oversight of management and implementation Reports and coordinates the environmental, community and charitable ofCapcos Health and Safety Policy and Management System activities of the Group Provides Group-wide oversight of the management of security risk Implements the CR policy Sets targets and objectives and monitors progress BOARD INDEPENDENCE Year of first Audit Nomination Remuneration Name election Independent Committee Committee Committee Ian Durant Chairman 2011 N A Ian Hawksworth Chief Executive 2011 No Situl Jobanputra 2017 No Gary Yardley 2011 No Charlotte Boyle N A Yes Graeme Gordon 2011 No Gerry Murphy 2015 Yes Henry Staunton SID 2011 Yes Anthony Steains 2016 Yes Andrew Strang 2011 Yes 56% independent 58 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements ROLES OF BOARD MEMBERS The followingtable sets out thekey responsibilities of Board members: Roles of Board members Position Name Responsibilities Chairman Ian Durant Leads the Board, ensures its effectiveness and sets its agenda.
Ensures an effective link between shareholders, the Board and management.
Chief Executive Ian Hawksworth Develops the Companys strategic direction, implements policies and strategies agreed by the Board and manages the business.
Chief Financial Officer Situl Jobanputra Responsible for developing and implementing financial strategy for the Group.
Managing Director & Gary Yardley Responsible for leading the Groups real estate investment, overseeing significant ChiefInvestment Officer real estate transactions.
Non-executive Directors Charlotte Boyle, Graeme Constructively challenge the Executive Directors and monitor the delivery of the Gordon, Gerry Murphy, agreed corporate strategy within the risk and control framework set by the Board.
Henry Staunton, Anthony Steains, Andrew Strang All Directors have access to the advice and services of: General Counsel & Director of Anne Byrne Provides legal advice and guidance to the Board: reports on corporate services activities.
Corporate Services Company Secretary Ruth Pavey Advises the Board on corporate governance matters and ensures a good flow of information within the Board and its Committees and between senior management and the Non-executive Directors.
VISIT TO EARLS COURT PROJECT ROOM In June 2017, one of the Board updates was held at the Earls Court Project Room, which allowed the Directors to see the heavy lifting crane in situ and view presentations and models relating to the Earls Court Masterplan.
The Directors were also able to tour the Earls Court site and completed apartments at Lillie Square to see first-hand the progress made at each location.
The heavy lifting crane at Earls Court www.
com 59 Corporate governance report continued ENSURING AN EFFECTIVE BOARD Corporate website To ensure that Capcos Board continues to be effective, the Board Our corporate website www.
com allows conducts an annual evaluation of its own performance and that of visitors to access Company information, annual reports, results its Committees and Directors.
Following an external evaluation in presentations and webcasts.
The site also includes links to our 2016, in 2017 an internal evaluation was managed by the Chairman division websites and contact details for shareholder queries.
Using an online questionnaire, Directors Annual General Meeting and the General Counsel were each asked to rate and provide Our AGM allows the Board to update our shareholders on Capcos anonymous feedback on a wide range of matters relating to the progress, and provides an opportunity for shareholders to put performance of the Board, its Committees and its Directors.
A questions to the Directors, and meet senior executives.
report which summarised the responses to the evaluation was considered by the Board and it was concluded that the Board Shareholders are encouraged to vote on the resolutions put to continues to operate well.
A number of minor proposals arising the meeting, either in person, online or by submitting a proxy card.
from the evaluation will be implemented.
We publish the results of the votes on all resolutions on our website following the meeting.
In addition, the Senior Independent Director conducted an appraisal of the Chairmans performance which confirmed the Our 2018 AGM will be held on Friday 4 May 2018.
The notice of Boards continued confidence in the Chairman and that the Annual General Meeting will be issued to shareholders at least Directors are satisfied that the Chairman continues to commit 20 working days before the meeting.
Separate resolutions will sufficient time to the Company.
The Chairman also undertook be proposed on each issue and, in accordance with the Code, appraisals of the other Directors performance.
each Directorwill offer themselves for election or re-election.
The Chairman, Chairmen of the Board Committees and other COMMUNICATION WITH STAKEHOLDERS Directors will be available at the AGM to meet shareholders Our policy and answer any questions.
The Board is keen to ensure that our shareholders and potential investors have a good understanding of Capcos business Should shareholders have any concerns that they are unable to and performance, and that Directors are aware of any issues successfully resolve following communication with the Chairman, and concerns that shareholders may have.
The Company Chief Executive or Chief Financial Officer, they may raise them communicates with stakeholders in a number of ways: through the Senior Independent Director.
2017 BOARD EVALUATION The Chairman and Company Secretary considered the approach to be taken for the 2017 Board evaluation The Nomination Committee considered the proposed approach and approved an internally facilitated evaluation Each Director and the General Counsel completed an online questionnaire developed by the Chairman and Company Secretary A report was prepared and provided to the Board for consideration A number of actions were agreed ACTIONS FOR 2017 PROGRESS ACTIONS FOR 2018 Ensure Board agendas Time for strategic discussion is now Create additional time for debate by allow effective strategic included on the agenda for each Board considering certain matters on a by discussion meeting exception basis Document approach to Board succession plans have been Continue to keep Board composition succession and continue discussed regularly and will remain on under review to consider Board diversity the agenda in 2018 Consider whether proposed strategies Periodically review past Selected projects to be reviewed postcan be better highlighted within Board decisions completion Board materials Focus on culture and workforce 60 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS The table below shows Directors attendance at Board and Committee meetings held during 2017.
In addition, the General Counsel attends each Board and Audit Committee meeting and theCompany Secretary attends each Board and Committeemeeting: Name Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Ian Durant Chairman 6 6 4 4 Ian Hawksworth Chief Executive 6 6 4 4 Situl Jobanputra 6 6 Gary Yardley 6 6 1 Charlotte Boyle appointed 1 October 2017 2 2 2 2 1 1 Graeme Gordon 6 6 Gerry Murphy 6 6 3 3 5 5 4 4 Demetra Pinsent stepped down 30 September 2017 3 4 2 3 1 2 Henry Staunton SID 6 6 3 3 5 5 4 4 Anthony Steains 6 6 4 4 Andrew Strang 6 6 3 3 5 5 3 4 Total meetings held during the year 6 3 5 4 1.
Appointed to the Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee on appointment.
whether a conflict exists and recommends its authorisation by Communications with shareholders and other stakeholders the Board where appropriate.
In cases where there is a potential Communication with the Companys investors is a priority for conflict of interest, an appropriate protocol to be followed where the Board.
The Company runs an extensive investor relations a conflict of interest may arise is agreed.
In addition, a Director who programme, and the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and had a conflict of interest would not be counted in the quorum or Head of Investor Relations hold meetings with institutional entitled to vote when the Board considered the matter in which investors throughout the year, including results presentations, the Director had an interest.
The interests of new Directors are webcasts, roadshows, one-to-one meetings and investor tours.
reviewed during the recruitment process and, if appropriate, The Companys major shareholders are encouraged to meet with authorised by the Board on appointment.
the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director to discuss On appointment, and each subsequent year, Non-executive any matters they may wish to raise.
During 2017, Directors engaged Directors are required to confirm in writing that they have with shareholders on matters including the remuneration policy sufficient time to devote to the Companys affairs.
In addition, and authorities to allot shares subsequently approved at the 2017 they are required to seek prior approval from the Chairman before AGM and Capcos approach to Board diversity.
taking on any additional external commitments that may affect The Directors receive regular updates on the Companys major their time available to devote to the Company, and the Board is shareholders, and receive reports on shareholder feedback at advised of any changes.
The Non-executive Directors are invited The Chairman is also Chairman of Greggs plc and DFS Furniture to attend the Companys results presentations.
As part of the Senior Independent Directors annual evaluation Private shareholders may raise questions through the of the Chairmans performance, Directors were specifically asked to Company Secretarys office either by telephone or by email consider whether the Chairmans external commitments prevent feedback@capitalandcounties.
him from devoting sufficient time to perform his duties as Chairman of Capco, and it was concluded that the Company The Company maintains active relations with community continues to receive the appropriate time required.
Please see pages 49 and 50in the CR Report for more details of Capcos The Board is satisfied that all Non-executive Directors are stakeholder engagement.
contributing effectively to the operation of the Board.
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST AND DTR DISCLOSURE The disclosures required under DTR 7.2 of the Disclosure and TIME COMMITMENTS Transparency Rules are contained in this report, and the Audit The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to Committee and Nomination Committee Reports, except for authorise potential conflicts of interest that may arise.
The Board information required under DTR 7.2.
6 which is contained in has adopted a procedure under which Directors must notify the the Directors Report on pages 87 and 88.
Chairman of any potential conflicts.
The Chairman then decides www.
