Strategic report Governance Financial statements Nomination Committee report NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Ian Durant, Chairman of the Nomination Committee I am pleased to introduce Capcos 2017 Nomination in 2010.
It is our intention that over the next two to three years, Committee Report.
in the normal course of succession management, our Board composition will better reflect the diversity within the Company, During 2017, the Committee continued to focus on Board particularly as regards gender.
composition, undertaking a rigorous recruitment process, following which we were pleased to welcome Charlotte Boyle In 2018, the Committee will continue to monitor Board to the Board.
At this time the Board did give consideration composition, including Directors tenure, skills, experience and to appointing two new Directors, however, in light of the diversity, to ensure that the Board is best placed to deliver Capcos Companys current focus on cost control, it was not felt to strategy, and will consider succession planning for all Directors, be appropriate to make a second appointment at this time.
particularly in the context of new governance regulations.
The Committee monitored Situl Jobanputras performance Finally, all the Directors will be seeking election or re-election following his promotion to the Board, and I am delighted to at the forthcoming AGM.
In accordance with best practice, the report that Situl has settled excellently into his new role.
Nomination Committee gave particular consideration before recommending that Andrew Strang, Henry Staunton and Graeme The Committee also spent time considering diversity, both at Gordon, who have each served on the Board for more than six years, Board level and within the wider business context.
I am pleased to report that the Committee year I was pleased to engage with the 30% Club and a number concluded that each of these Directors continues to make a valuable of our shareholders on this topic.
This was a good opportunity contribution to the work of the Board and its Committees.
to explain Capcos approach to recruitment of Directors, diversity across Capcos business and the diversity initiatives in which Capco participates.
Following this engagement, the Committee encouraged the Board to review and update its Board Diversity Policy to ensure that it properly reflects the Boards view of the benefits of diversity.
We report on the revised Policy within this report.
Ian Durant Whilst the Board does not currently meet the HamptonChairman of the Nomination Committee, 20 February 2018 Alexander Reviews target for womens representation on Boards, it is notable that half of our Non-executive Director Members: appointments since 2010 have been women, and that female Ian Durant Chairman Henry Staunton representation within Capcos senior management has been Ian Hawksworth Anthony Steains consistently strong.
We have also been in line with the Parker Charlotte Boyle Andrew Strang Reports recommendation on ethnic diversity since our inception Gerry Murphy MATTERS CONSIDERED BY THE COMMITTEE DURING 2017 INCLUDED: Board and Committee composition Board evaluation Non-executive Director recruitment Directorsskills, experience and training opportunities Succession planning Directors time commitments and independence Diversity at Board level and across the Company Committee terms of reference www.
com 65 Nomination Committee report continued DIRECTOR RECRUITMENT PROCESS Nomination Committee considers Board composition and determines desired skills and experience A person specification is prepared A shortlist of executive search firms is prepared and a selection process followed A list of candidates is identified The Chairman and Chief Executive meet with shortlisted candidates and provide feedback to the Committee All Directors, the General Counsel and the Company Secretary are given the opportunity to meet the preferred candidate The Committee makes a formal recommendation to the Board The Nomination Committee has responsibility for making appointment of Charlotte, who was previously a partner of The recommendations on Board appointments and succession to Zygos Partnership which has assisted the Board with previous the Board.
recruitment, the Board concluded that there were no material business relationships that would compromise her independence.
The members of the Committee as at 31 December 2017 and the date of this report are listed in the box on the previous page.
The Director induction Nomination Committee met four times during the year, and An induction programme is provided for each new Director, which attendance at these meetings is shown in the table on page 61. is tailored depending on the individuals experience and expected role on the Board.
A typical induction programme for a Capco Board composition and succession Non-executive Director will include individual meetings with the The Committee regularly considers Board composition and Chairman, Executive Directors, General Counsel, Company succession planning for both Executive and Non-executive Secretary and members of senior management, site tours of Capcos Directors.
In considering Executive Director succession, the Boards estates with management, and meetings with the Companys strategy is to consider both internal and external candidates, whilst brokers, advisers and lawyers.
The Director is also provided with aiming to develop a choice of internal potential successors.
The copies of past Board and Committee papers and minutes, and focus of Non-executive Director succession planning is to ensure individual briefings are arranged on topics such as Directors duties that the Board and its Committees continue to have the right mix and responsibilities, remuneration structure and regulations and of skills and experience to deliver Capcos strategy.
A summary of the property market.
Directors core skills and experience is shown in the table to the right.
Board succession and composition will continue to be The Company provided Charlotte Boyle with a full induction considered at Committee meetings during 2018, and the Committee programme on her appointment.
Charlotte commented that the will make recommendations to the Board where appropriate.
This programme was comprehensive and enjoyable, and helped her is likely to include the appointment of an additional Non-executive quickly gain an understanding of the Companys operations.
A Director with property expertise, at such time as a suitable tailored induction was also provided to Situl Jobanputra on his candidate is identified.
However, the Committee is satisfied that promotion to the Board.
there is no immediate urgency in making this appointment.
Director development Director recruitment The Chairman and the Committee together ensure that Directors Capco operates a rigorous and transparent recruitment process for keep their skills and knowledge up to date to allow them to fulfil new Directors, which is summarised above.
their roles on the Board and Board Committees.
The General Counsel and Company Secretary regularly update the Board on Following Demetra Pinsents decision to leave the Board due to legal and corporate governance matters, and information on the increasing time requirements of her other roles, the Committee training opportunities and seminars is circulated to Directors.
The initiated a search for one or more new Non-executive Directors.
Company also arranges periodic briefings from external advisers, Lygon Group, which provides no other services to the Company, and Directors receive regular business updates from the Executive was engaged to assist with the process and a broad brief setting out Directors.
Directors may also take independent advice at the desired skills, aptitudes and experience was prepared to ensure that Companys expense where they feel this is appropriate.
the long-list of candidates was appropriately diverse and matched to the strategic needs of the Company.
The Committee considered a shortlist of two female candidates with different experience and, having concluded that it would be inappropriate to make two appointments at a time when the Company was focusing on cost savings, recommended that Charlotte Boyle be appointed to the Board.
In approving the 66 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Diversity Capcos diversity in figures as at 31 December 2017 : Diversity is important to Capco and the Board recognises that Capcos current diversity of experience and perspective can bring benefits across Recommendation position the business.
During 2017, the Board reviewed its Diversity Policy Hampton-Alexander Board 33% Female 10% to ensure that it aligns with the Committees aim of ensuring that the Board has the right mix of skills and experience to deliver Hampton-Alexander Executive 33% Female by 37.5% Capcos strategy, and properly reflects the Boards view of the Committee or equivalent 2020 benefits of diversity.
Hampton-Alexander Leadership 33% Female by 44.8% Capcos refreshed Board Diversity Policy states that, when team 2020 considering the nomination of new Directors, the Nomination Parker Review Board At least one One Committee will evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and director of colour experience on the Board, to establish the particular skills, by 2024 experience and aptitudes desirable for that appointment.
Such evaluations will pay particular attention to the merits of diversity, including diversity of gender, race, age and background.
Summary of Directors skills and experience The Board remains committed to encouraging diversity, and intends that over the next two to three years, in the normal course Director Skills and experience of succession management, its composition will become more Ian Durant International financial and commercial management reflective of the diversity across Capcos business, particularly in respect of gender.
The Board Diversity Policy does not include Ian Hawksworth Global real estate investment and development targets for gender or other characteristics, however in conducting Situl Jobanputra Corporate finance, capital markets and financial searches, Capco will only use executive search firms that are management signatories to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms, and will require diverse candidate shortlists, from which Gary Yardley Global real estate investment and development appointments will be made on merit.
The Board believes that Henry Staunton Financial and commercial management diverse shortlists increase the likelihood of identifying the best candidates for each appointment.
Charlotte Boyle People, talent and succession The refreshed Diversity Policy reflects Capcos past approach to Graeme Gordon A South African perspective and property investment recruitment of Non-executive Directors, under which half of new Gerry Murphy Auditing and commercial management Non-executive Director appointments since 2010 have been women, and which has supported a number of candidates in obtaining their Anthony Steains Corporate finance and Asian markets first listed company Board appointments.
Andrew Strang Real estate investment During the period, Demetra Pinsent left the Board and Charlotte Boyle was appointed.
Although there was not an opportunity to increase female representation on the Board without increasing Director numbers, Charlottes appointment meant that the gender balance of Capcos Board did not reduce following Demetras departure.
The composition of the Board will be kept under review to ensure that the best balance of skills and experience is maintained, and the effectiveness of the Board Diversity Policy will be monitored by the Nomination Committee.
Below Board level there is strong female representation within Capcos senior management team and their direct reports, which is summarised in the table to the right.
However, as a company with a relatively small headcount, a small number of changes can have a significant impact on the percentages.
Capco is supportive of employee development, including those who wish to seek non-executive roles elsewhere, and provides development opportunities, including mentoring from our Non-executive Directors.
It is hoped that such initiatives will help develop the next generation of Board members either within Capco or in the wider business world.
The Company also supports a number of initiatives which promote diversity within the property industry, such as the Real Estate Balance initiative and the RICS Inclusive Employer Quality Mark, as well as working with peer companies to promote diversity and equal opportunities.
More information on Capcos people practices and diversity initiatives can be found on pages 47 and 48 of the Corporate Responsibility Report.
