Audit Committee report AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Henry Staunton, Chairman of the Audit Committee I am pleased to introduce Capcos 2017 Audit Committee Finally, following consideration of the matters reviewed during Report.
The Committee plays a key oversight role for the the year and the Groups principal risks, the Committee Board, monitoring and reviewing all aspects of the concluded, and made a recommendation to the Board that, Groups financial reporting, internal controls and risk taken as a whole, these Annual Report and Accounts are fair, management procedures.
balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position, This report provides an overview of the work undertaken performance, business model and strategy.
The most significant topics considered by the Committee during the year included the Groups property valuations, taxation and the accounting treatment of various significant or complex corporate transactions.
The Committee also reviewed the Companys riskand viability statement disclosures before they were recommended to the Board, and updated the Companys Henry Staunton non-audit services policy to ensure that the objectivity Chairman of the Audit Committee, 20 February 2018 and independence of the auditors is not compromised by Members: any other work undertaken for the Company.
Henry Staunton Chairman Gerry Murphy Andrew Strang The Audit Committee, reporting to the Board, oversees the The Audit Committee met three times during 2017.
Attendance financial reporting process, monitors the effectiveness of internal at these meetings is shown in the table on page 61.
The Committee control, internal audit, risk management and the statutory audit also met privately during the year with both the external and and monitors the independence of the statutory auditors and the internal auditors.
As at 31 December 2017 and the The Committee follows an annual programme, which is agreed with date of this report, the Committee comprises three independent the Committee Chair, management and external auditors prior to each Non-executive Directors and is chaired by Henry Staunton who financial year, andensures it gives thorough consideration to matters is considered to have significant, recent and relevant financial of particular importance to the Company, and additional matters are experience.
The Board believes that the Committee as a whole considered when appropriate.
The Committees 2017 agenda is shown has competence in real estate matters.
in the table on the next page, and the significant matters considered by The Committees meetings were also attended by the Companys the Committee during the year are also explained on the next page.
Chairman, Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, General EXTERNAL AUDITORS Counsel, Company Secretary and Financial Controller, together Committee responsibilities with senior representatives of the external and internal auditors.
The Committee oversees the relationship with The valuers and members of senior management, including the  LLP PwC, the external auditors, Director of Finance, attended by invitation to present reports and is responsible for developing, implementing and monitoring required for the Committee to discharge its responsibilities.
the Companys policy on external audit, and for monitoring the auditors independence, objectivity and compliance with ethical, professional and regulatory requirements.
62 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements THE AUDIT COMMITTEE IN 2017 Regular meeting items February meeting July meeting November meeting Report from Financial Controller Going concern assessment Interim results announcement Effectiveness of External Auditor and recommendation for reappointment Accounting treatment of significant Preliminary results, Annual Report and 2017 Audit Plan transactions Management Representation Letter Risk management review Liquidity forecasting Accounting standards and policies Determining and recommending Internal controls Risk management to the Board that the Annual Report Property valuations Viability statement review Viability statement taken as a whole was fair, External Auditor report including Corporate governance policies, balanced and understandable regulatory update Non-Audit Services Policy Effectiveness of Internal Audit andCommittee Terms of Reference Internal Auditor report from BDO 2018 Internal Audit Plan Tax update Alternative performance measures SIGNIFICANT ISSUES CONSIDERED BY THE COMMITTEE IN 2017 Matter considered What the Committee did Valuations As in previous years, the independent external valuers presented the year end and half year valuations to the Committee at the February and July meetings respectively.
The Committee reviewed the valuation process and component parts of the valuations, discussed the valuations with the external auditors and challenged the valuers on the assumptions used.
The Committee also advised the Board on the independence of the valuers and obtained confirmation that management had provided all requested information.
The Committee was satisfied that the approach taken by the valuers was appropriate.
Further information can be found in note 15on pages 116to 119of the notes to the accounts.
Tax The Director of Financepresented a report to the Committee at the February and July meetings, explained the basis of the Groups tax position, identified key taxation risks to the Group and updated the Committee on the ongoing relationship with HMRC.
The Committee challenged the assumptions made in arriving at the tax position and discussed with the external auditors the assumptions and judgements made in arriving at the deferred tax position.
The Committee was satisfied that the policy was appropriate for the Group.
Further information can be found innote 27on page 130of the notes to the accounts.
Significant As in previous years, the Committee received updates from theFinancial Controller on significant and complex transactions and complex at each meeting.
With regard to each transaction, such as the CLSA, the Innova Investment joint venture, impairments of transactions other receivables and the sale of Olympia, the Committee discussed the accounting treatments with management and the external auditors and is satisfied that the appropriate approach has been taken.
The external auditors are not permitted to perform any work that tender by 2020, the date by which the external audit contract must they may subsequently need to audit or which might either create be tendered to comply with regulatory requirements.
This is in the a conflict of interest or affect the auditors objectivity and best interest of the Companys members because it will ensure independence.
continuity of service from the external auditors.
Access to Committee The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market The external auditors have direct access to the Audit Committee Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes Chairman should they wish to raise any concerns outside formal and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 Committee meetings.
statement of compliance The Company confirms that it complied with the provisions of the Effectiveness of auditors Competition and Markets Authoritys Order for the financial year The Committee monitored PwCs effectiveness and performance under review.
during 2017, and considered a paper prepared by the Financial Controller which confirmed that in managements view PwC Non-audit services was providing an independent and good-quality audit service Non-audit services are normally limited to assignments that are and continued to deliver against all facilities considered at their closely related to the annual audit or where the work is of such appointment.
Matters considered in reaching this conclusion a nature that a detailed understanding of the Group is necessary.
included audit partner rotation, continuity of audit team, During the year, the Committee reviewed its non-audit services commitment to understanding the Groups business and policy, and adopted an updated policy consistent with the Financial transactions and the level of technical challenge on the Groups Reporting Council FRCs current Ethical Standard.
The purpose accounts and accounting policies.
of the policy is to ensure that the provision of non-audit services The Committee is satisfied that theexternal auditors remain by the external auditors does not compromise their independence independent and objective, are able to challenge management or objectivity.
A number of non-audit services, which reflect the where appropriate, and that the Groups audit is robust and FRCs list of prohibited non-audit services, are prohibited under objective.
The Committee has therefore recommended to the the policy.
The policy requires the Audit Committee Chairman Board that PwC be reappointed in 2018. to approve in advance any non-audit work with a cost exceeding 75,000 for work related to the interim review or, for other Tendering of external audit contract projects, the lower of 50,000 or 15per cent of the estimated annual Capco tendered its external audit contract in 2010, and PwC was level of the auditors fees at that time.
The total value of non-audit appointed as Group auditors on an annual rolling contract.
This services in a financial year must not exceed 70 per cent of the is the second year in which Jeremy Jensen has been the audit average of the fees paid to the external auditors in the last three engagement partner.
The Directors plan to complete an audit www.
com 63 Audit Committee report continued consecutive years for the audit of Capco, its Group undertakings INTERNAL CONTROL & RISK MANAGEMENT and joint ventures.
Services below this limit are pre-approved by Risk management the Audit Committee under the policy, subject to consideration and The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups risk approval by an Executive Director.
Approval is only given following management framework and system of internal control and the a full and thorough assessment of the value case for using the ongoing review of their effectiveness: it also determines the risk auditors, the skills and experience the auditors would bring and appetite of the Group and regularly reviews principal risks and determination that the auditors are the most suitable provider of uncertainties.
The framework is designed to manage rather than the service.
Additionally, consideration must be given to the eliminate risk, and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, preservation of auditor independence: and in advance of providing assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has non-audit services the external auditors are required to report that delegated responsibility for the review of the adequacy and they are acting independently, that provision of the non-audit effectiveness of the Groups internal controls relating to risk services does not impair their objectivity and that they are not: to the Committee and the Committee reviews the controls relating to risks and the proposedprincipal risk disclosures.
auditing their own work: A description of the Group risk management framework andthe review undertaken making management decisions for the Company: during the year is set out on page 16. creating a mutuality of interest: Viability statement being remunerated via a contingent success fee: As part of its work in reviewing the Groups financial statements, the Committee reviewed the methodology for the preparation of developing close personal relationships with the Companys the viability statement including the principal risks, supporting personnel: or analysis, qualifications and assumptions to be disclosed.
acting in the role of advocate for the Company.
The viability statement can be found on page 19.
The Committee is satisfied that the policy is operating effectively.
Internal controls The total fees paid and payable to PwC in 2017 were 435,000 The Audit Committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness of of which 66,000 related to non-audit work.
The non-audit work the Groups internal controls and reports regularlyto the Board relates to the interim review and agreed upon procedures on the on its work and conclusions.
In reviewing the effectiveness of verification of balances for contractual arrangements, the the Groups internal controls, the Committee considers reports verification of share scheme performance outcomes and other provided by the Financial Controller, external auditors and internal regulatory requirements.
The total fees paid and payable to PwC auditor.
No significant failings or weaknesses were identified in 2017 and 2016 are set out in the table below.
2017 2016 Details of the Groups internal controls are set out below: Total fees paid to PwC 435,000 464,000 Day-to-day procedures and internal control framework 1 Non-audit fees 66,000 63,000 Schedule of matters reserved for the Board Ratio of non-audit fees 15.2% 13.6% Remit and terms of reference of Board Committees Delegated authority limits 1.
Restated to include interim review fees, which are now considered to relate to non-audit work.
Documentation of significant transactions INTERNAL AUDITOR The Executive Directors are closely involved in the day-to-day Internal Audit Plan operations of the business and hold regular meetings with senior BDO LLP BDO has been appointed to act as Capcos internal management to review aspects of the business, including risks auditor.
During 2017, BDOs audit plan included reviews of and controls procurement, IT security, risk and policies, Bribery Act 2010 Regular Board updates on strategy and project developments policies and procedures, health and safety at Covent Garden, financial management and budgetary control, payroll and A whistleblowing procedure under which staff mayraise matters employee benefits.
No significant issues were raised during of concern confidentially.
No calls were received during the year.
Specific controls relating to financial reporting During 2018, it is expected that the audit plan will include reviews and consolidation process of tax, Covent Garden project management, Covent Garden Appropriately staffed management structure, with clear lines commercial leasing, Capcos disaster recovery and business of responsibility and accountability continuity arrangements, Lillie Square facilities management, accounts payable, the corporate governance framework and A comprehensive budgeting and review system.
Board and Audit compliance with the EU General Data Protection Regulation 2016.
Committee updates from the Chief Financial Officer which include forecasts, performance against budget and financial covenants Committee responsibilities The Committee reviews the work of the internal auditor, the Led by the Chief Executive, the Group Finance team participates audit plan, any matters identified as a result of internal audits in the control self-assessment and policy compliance elements and whether recommendations are addressed by management of the risk management framework and sets formal requirements in a timely and appropriate way.
The Committee is satisfied that with business division finance functions which specify the the internal auditor continues to be independent and its reports and approvals required services effective.
BDO conducts regular audits of the Groups financial control procedures and reports its findings to the Audit Committee Access to the Committee The internal audit partner has direct access to theAudit Committee The Committee is satisfied that the Groups internal controls Chairman should they wish to raise any concerns outside formal are operating effectively and that systems are in accordance with Committee meetings.
The Committee meets with the internal FRC guidance.
auditor at least once per year without management being present.
