CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Corporate Governance Report Healy were independent.
In addition, the Major changes to the nature, scope Compliance with the UK Board determined that David Lowden or scale of the business of the Corporate Governance Code was independent at the time of his Group: appointment as Chairman.
During the year ended 31 December Corporate governance matters: 2017 and to the date of this document, There is a clear division of responsibilities Approval of Nomination Committee the Company has complied with the between the role of the Chairman and recommendations on the provisions of the UK Corporate that of the Chief Executive Officer.
While appointment and removal of Governance Code 2016 the Code.
the Board is collectively responsible Directors and succession planning: The Code is publicly available on the for the success of the Company, the Changes to the Groups capital FRC website www.
In this Chairman manages the Board to ensure structure and approval of any Corporate Governance section, together that the Company has appropriate business plan prior to a new entity with the Strategic Report on pages 1 to objectives and an effective strategy.
He being established in a new territory: 44, the Directors Remuneration Report ensures that there is a Chief Executive Financial reporting, audit and tax on pages 63 to 76 and the Directors Officer with a team to implement the matters: Report on pages 82 to 84, we describe strategy and that there are procedures in how we have applied the main principles Material contracts and transactions place to inform the Board of performance of the Code.
not in the ordinary course of against objectives.
The Chairman also business: ensures that the Company is operating The Board and its operation in accordance with the principles of Material capital expenditure corporate governance.
The Chairmans projects: The Board of PageGroup plc is the body other significant commitments are Approval of the annual budget: responsible for the overall conduct of the noted on page 46.
The Board considers Groups business and has the powers Obtaining major finance: and that these are not a constraint on the and duties set out in relevant laws of Communications with stakeholders Chairmans agreed time commitment to England and Wales and in its Articles and complying with regulatory the Company.
Patrick fide Smedt as Senior Independent The Boards role is to provide Director acts as an alternative channel entrepreneurial leadership of the Group Induction, training and of communication for shareholders.
He within a framework of prudent and information also acts as a sounding board for the effective controls which enables risk to Chairman and serves as an intermediary be assessed and managed.
The Board is The Chairman is responsible for the for other Directors.
collectively responsible to the Companys induction of new directors and is shareholders for the success of the assisted by the Company Secretary.
Steve Ingham, the Chief Executive Company.
The Board is satisfied that it On appointment to the Board, each Officer, has overall responsibility for the has met the Codes requirements for its Director discusses with the Chairman day-to-day management of the Groups effective operation.
and the Company Secretary the extent of operations.
He develops the vision the training required.
A tailored induction and strategy for the Boards review, programme to cover their individual implements the Boards approved Composition of the Board requirements is then compiled.
Elements strategy and chairs the Executive As at the end of the year under review of the programme typically consist of Committee known within the Group as the Board comprised the Chairman, meetings with senior executives, site the Executive Board which executes the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief visits, attending internal conferences and the delivery of the annual operating Financial Officer and six Non-Executive consultant shadowing to understand plans.
He also leads the programme of Directors.
The biographies of each of the day-to-day activities of a recruitment communication with shareholders.
these Directors can be found on pages consultant.
In addition, information is Executive and Non-Executive Directors 46 to 50. provided on the Companys services, are equal members of the Board and Group structure, Board arrangements, Sylvia Metayer and Angela Seymourhave collective responsibility for Board financial and environmental, social Jackson were appointed as Nondecisions.
The Non-Executive Directors and governance information, major Executive Directors of the Company bring a wealth of skills and experience to competitors and major risks.
on 1 September 2017 and 1 October the Board and its Committees.
Baroness Ruby Directors update and refresh their McGregor-Smith ceased to be a NonThe Board has a formal schedule of knowledge and familiarity with the Executive Director of the Company matters reserved for its decision which Group through site visits, participation on 23 May 2017.
All other Directors includes: at meetings with and receiving served throughout the year.
The Board Group strategy and corporate presentations from senior management.
considers that during the year under objectives: This is in addition to the access that review, and in the case of Sylvia Metayer every Director has to the Company Determining the nature and extent and Angela Seymour-Jackson from Secretary.
The Company Secretary is of the significant risks the Board their respective dates of appointment responsible to the Board for ensuring is willing to take in achieving onwards, each of Simon Boddie, Patrick that Board procedures are complied the strategic objectives of the fide Smedt, Danuta Gray and Michelle with as well as advising the Board on Company: Corporate Governance | 52 Corporate Governance Report new legislation and corporate governance of meetings are circulated to all Committee Remuneration Committee.
Board Committees and Directors members and to all members of the Board met eight times during the year.
During are also given access to independent unless it would be inappropriate to do so.
the year under review the Non-Executive professional advice at the Groups expense Directors met on several occasions without The Group also has an Executive Board if the Directors deem it necessary in order the Executive Directors being present.
The which is chaired by the Chief Executive for them to carry out their responsibilities.
Non-Executive Directors also met without Officer.
It comprises the Chief Financial the presence of the Chairman.
For each Board and Committee meeting Officer and other senior executives, Directors receive a pack of relevant biographies for whom can be found on Succession Planning information on the matters to be discussed.
The Executive Board usually Executive development and succession The Board uses a third party board meets four times a year and is responsible planning discussions are held each portal to distribute information quickly for assisting the Chief Executive Officer year.
These discussions focus on the and securely.
The Chief Executive Officer in the performance of his duties.
development and succession of the presents a comprehensive update on These include the development and Executive Directors, Executive Board the business issues across the Group implementation of strategy, operational members and other senior managers in the to the Board and the Chief Financial plans, policies, procedures and budgets.
Group with the aim of ensuring that existing Officer presents a detailed analysis of the These activities are performed at a regional senior executives are being developed financial performance.
The Board also level by regional boards for each of the UK and that there is a pipeline of talented receives at each Board Meeting an Investor and North America, Continental Europe, senior individuals within the business.
Relations Report, including any feedback Asia Pacific and Latin America, Middle East Development and succession planning is a from investors and Investor Roadshows.
Each regional board usually critical part of the Chief Executive Officers Regional Managing Directors and other meets at least four times a year.
performance objectives for annual bonus senior managers also attend relevant parts and long-term remuneration.
of Board meetings and the Board Strategy Board and Committee Day in order to make presentations on their In addition, the Nomination Committee Attendance areas of responsibility.
also considers the breadth and depth The table below sets out the number of of experience of the Non-Executive meetings of the Board held during the Board Committees Directors and considers on a regular basis year and individual attendance by the succession planning for the Board as a The Board has three principal Board Directors at these meetings, demonstrating whole.
Information on the Boards policy on Committees, each of which regularly commitment to their role as Directors of diversity both at Board level and the Group reports to the Board: the Audit Committee, the Company.
Attendance by the relevant as a whole can be found in the Nomination Nomination Committee and Remuneration members of each Committee can be found Committee Report on page 56 and the Committee.
The Audit and Remuneration on page 58 Audit Committee, page 57 Strategic Report on page 28.
Committees are comprised solely of Nomination Committee and page 64 independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Nomination Committee is comprised of Director No.
of meetings all Non-Executive Directors and is chaired Held Attended by the Chairman of the Board who was David Lowden 8 8 independent on appointment.
Details of the composition and activities of each Simon Boddie 8 8 Committee can be found in the respective Patrick fide Smedt 8 8 reports of each Committee: Audit Committee Report on pages 58 to 60: Danuta Gray 8 8 the Nomination Committee Report on pages 56 and 57: and the Directors Michelle Healy 8 8 Remuneration Report on page 64.
Steve Ingham 8 8 Each Committee has clear terms of 1 Baroness Ruby McGregor-Smith 8 3 reference, copies of which can be found on the Companys website 2 Sylvia Metayer 8 1 www.
Each Committee also 2 Angela Seymour-Jackson 8 2 reviews its effectiveness and makes recommendations to the Board of any Kelvin Stagg 8 8 appropriate changes as and when required.
Notes: The Chairman of each of the Board Committees will be available to answer 1.
Baroness Ruby McGregor-Smith ceased to be a member of the Committee on 23 May 2017 so was only eligible to attend three meetings.
shareholders questions at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Sylvia Metayer and Angela Seymour-Jackson were appointed to the Committee on 1 September 2017 and 1 October 2017 respectively, so were only eligible to attend two Committee meetings.
Sylvia Metayer was unable to attend one of the two meetings as she had a prior engagement which had been scheduled prior to her The Company Secretary acts as secretary appointment as a Director of the Company.
to each of these Committees and minutes 53 | Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION change in composition of the Board The key elements of our system of Performance Evaluation over the past calendar year.
internal control are as follows: In line with the Code, each year the Group Organisation The Board undertakes a formal and rigorous Re-election of Directors Board of Directors meets eight evaluation of its own performance, that times a year, focusing both on The Companys Articles of Association of its Committees and its individual strategic issues and operational provide that each Director must retire Directors.
In accordance with the and financial performance.
There from office every three years.
The Code Code, in 2016 an externally facilitated is also a defined policy on matters goes beyond this, requiring all Directors evaluation was undertaken by Lintstock reserved strictly for the Board.
to retire and stand for re-election at each Limited an advisory firm that specialises The Regional Managing Director, Annual General Meeting.
The Company in Board performance reviews of the supported by a Regional Finance complies with the Code requirement.
All Board and each of the Audit, Nomination Director, of each of our four regions Directors, except Danuta Gray, Sylvia and Remuneration Committees.
The is accountable for establishing and Metayer and Angela Seymour-Jackson, 2017 review of the Board and its monitoring internal controls within will submit themselves for re-election at Committees followed up on the themes our respective regions.
the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
of and actions points from the 2016 Danuta Gray will cease to be a Director Annual Business Plan The review, to ensure that year-on-year of the Company from 7 June 2018.
Board reviews the Groups strategy progress was measured.
The review was Sylvia Metayer and Angela Seymourand approves an annual Group facilitated by Lintstock through the use Jackson, both of whom were appointed budget.
Performance is then of questionnaires with anonymity of all as Directors after the Companys monitored by the Board through the respondents being ensured throughout last Annual General Meeting will, in review of monthly reports showing the process in order to promote the accordance with the Companys Articles comparisons of results against open and frank exchange of views.
of Association, stand for election at the budget, quarterly forecasts and Apart from the provision of this service, Annual General Meeting.
the prior year, with explanations Lintstock has no other connection with provided for significant variances.
The Senior Independent Internal Control and Risk Director conducted a review of the Policies and Procedures Chairman and the Chairman evaluated Policies and procedures are Management the performance of the individual documented over both financial In accordance with the Code, the Directors, by means of interviews for controls and non-quantifiable areas Board has overall responsibility for the both review processes.
such as the Groups whistleblowing effectiveness of the Groups system of policy and its policy relating to antiWhilst material progress has been made internal control and risk management.
bribery and corruption, gifts and on the 2016 action points, the Directors The procedures established by the hospitality.
agreed that the actions were still relevant Board have been designed and and further work would be undertaken in Risk Management The Board implemented to meet the particular 2018.
The action points were: has established a framework for requirements of the Group and the risks identifying and managing risk, both Focus on future Board composition to which it is exposed.
at a strategic and operational level.
priorities, taking into account These procedures also provide an An overview of this framework and the likely tenure of current Nonongoing process for identifying, a summary of the principal risks Executive Directors evaluating and managing principal risks.
identified, together with mitigating Continue enhancing the The system of internal control includes actions, can be found in the understanding of PageGroup financial, compliance and operational Strategic Report on pages 33 to 39. through site visits and by engaging controls, which are designed to meet the Internal Audit The Groups with management outside of Board Groups particular needs.
These controls Internal Audit function examines meetings aim to safeguard Group assets, ensure business process controls Assess the quality of information that proper accounting records are throughout the Group on a risk provided to the Board, particularly maintained, that the financial information basis and reports the findings to on strategic initiatives used within the business and for the Executive Board and Audit Continue to focus on key strategic publication is reliable and to support the Committee.
Agreed actions are issues and investments successful delivery of the Groups Vision.
monitored and reported to the Focus on overseeing the Any system of internal control can only Audit Committee.
development of the senior provide reasonable, but not absolute, Confirmations from Executive leadership team, with the support of assurance against material misstatement Management The Managing the Group HR Director or loss.
In practice the Board delegates Director and Finance Director of the implementation of the Boards In addition it was agreed to:- our operations in each country policy on risks and control to executive formally certify twice a year conduct, in 2018, a third party management and this is monitored by whether the business has adhered quality assessment of the Groups an Internal Audit function which reports to the system of internal control Internal Audit function: and back to the Board through the Audit during the period, including carry out a further review of the Committee.
Boards risk appetite, due to the The statement also requires the Corporate Governance | 54 Corporate Governance Report reporting of any significant control Executive Officer and the Chief Financial responsible for reviewing possible conflicts issues that have emerged, including Officer.
They make themselves available, of interest.
It makes recommendations suspected or reported frauds, so where possible, to meet with shareholders to the Board as to whether a conflict that areas of Group concern can and analysts at their request.
In addition, should be authorised and the terms and be identified and investigated as during 2017 the Company carried out an conditions on which any such authorisation required.
These confirmations and extensive shareholder consultation process should be given by the Board.
Only supporting controls self-assessment in respect of the Directors' Remuneration Directors without an interest in the matter questionnaires are reviewed by Policy which was put to shareholders at being considered will be involved in the the Internal Audit function and a the June 2017 Annual General Meeting.
decision and each Director must act in summary of findings is provided to The Executive Directors also visited nine a way they consider, in good faith, will the Audit Committee for review.
cities on roadshows across the United promote the success of the Group.
All Kingdom, Europe and North America.
Directors are aware of their continuing In accordance with the requirements of They also held investor conferences and obligation to report any new interests, or the Code and the recommendations of equity sales teams briefings, as well as changes in existing interests, that might the FRCs Guidance on Risk Management over 118 investor meetings.
The Annual amount to a possible conflict of interest in and Related Financial and Business Report and Accounts is available to all order that these may be considered by the Reporting, the Board has reviewed and shareholders either in hard copy or via the Board and appropriate authorisation given.
agreed its approach to risk and its risk Companys website www.
The appetite when considering its strategy website contains up-to-date information on and the management of its risks.
It has the Groups activities, published financial also considered its longer-term viability.
results and the presentations used for Details on the Boards risk appetite and David Lowden briefings and investor meetings held during its assessment of its longer-term viability Chairman the year.
These are available to download.
can be found in the Strategic Report on 6 March 2018 pages 33 to 39.
Further, the Board, with The Annual General Meeting is an the assistance of the Audit Committee, has additional opportunity for all Board carried out a review of the effectiveness of members to meet with shareholders and the Groups risk management and internal investors and give them the opportunity control systems, including a review of the to ask questions.
Final voting results are Internal Audit activities and the financial, published through a Regulatory Information operational and compliance controls for the Service and on the Companys website period from 1 January 2017 to the date of following the Meeting.
No significant failings or weaknesses were identified.
A confirmation Conflicts of any necessary actions is, therefore, not The Company has implemented robust provided.
However, had there been any procedures in line with the Companies such failings or weaknesses the Board Act 2006, requiring Directors to seek confirms that necessary actions would appropriate authorisation from the Board have been taken to remedy them.
prior to entering into any outside business interests which have, or could have, a Relations with Shareholders direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or Communications with shareholders may conflict, with the Groups interests.
The majority These procedures have operated of contact between the Board and effectively throughout the year under shareholders is through the Chief review.
The Nomination Committee is 55 | Corporate Governance
