CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Our Board of Directors David Lowden, Chairman Date of Appointment: Director August 2012 Chairman December 2015 Past Roles: David was a member of the Board of Taylor Nielson Sofres plc, the marketing services business, from 1999 to 2009, becoming Chief Executive Officer in 2006.
Before joining Taylor Nielson Sofres plc David held senior financial positions in Asprey plc, A. C. Nielsen Corporation and Federal Express Corporation.
David was also Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of Berensden plc from March 2010 until September 2017.
Other Current Appointments: Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee, William Hill plc.
Board Committees: Nomination Chairman Skills and Experience: Extensive experience in both general management and financial management Many years of operating within international businesses with cultural diversity Strong strategic understanding Proven ability for delivering shareholder value Strong financial, marketing and commercial skills Experienced non-executive in several sectors Steve Ingham, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director Date of Appointment: February 2001 Chief Executive Officer April 2006 Past Roles: Steve joined Michael Page in 1987 as a consultant with Michael Page Marketing and Sales.
He was responsible for setting up the London Marketing and Sales business and was promoted to Operating Director in 1990.
He was appointed Managing Director of Michael Page Marketing and Sales in 1994.
Subsequently Steve took additional responsibility for several businesses.
He was promoted to the Board as Executive Director of UK Operations in February 2001 and subsequently to Managing Director of UK Operations in May 2005.
Steve was appointed Chief Executive Officer in April 2006.
Other Current Appointments: Non-Executive Director, Debenhams plc.
Member of the Corporate Partnership Board, Great Ormond Street Hospital.
Board Committees: None Skills and Experience: 30 years service with the Group and recruitment industry 12 years as a CEO of a FTSE 250 public company, with strong IR skills, delivering shareholder value Strong entrepreneurial and strategic skills having initiated and grown many businesses Extensive experience in business development and account management Significant international experience including the emerging markets of SE Asia, China, Latin America and India Leadership of a global people business having seen PageGroup grow from 200 to over 7,000 employees Experience in other sectors and industries having worked on the Boards of a major charity and retailer Awarded the Institute of Recruitment Professionals Lifetime Achievement Award in 2017 Corporate Governance | 46 Our Board of Directors Kelvin Stagg, Chief Financial Officer, Executive Director Date of Appointment: June 2014 Past Roles: Kelvin joined PageGroup plc in July 2006 as Group Financial Controller and Company Secretary.
He was appointed Acting Chief Financial Officer in October 2013.
He held the title of Company Secretary until December 2013.
In June 2014 Kelvin was appointed Chief Financial Officer.
Prior to joining the Group, Kelvin spent six years at Allied Domecq and three years at Unilever in a variety of finance functions.
He has significant international experience and has high levels of compliance, change management, large teams and systems experience, across almost every finance discipline.
He is a Chartered Management Accountant.
Other Current Appointments: None Board Committees: None Skills and Experience: More than ten years in the Group with a detailed knowledge of the Groups operations Extensive experience in finance, audit and risk management Significant international experience including roles in the UK, Continental Europe and Asia High levels of compliance, change management, large teams and systems experience, across almost every finance discipline Strong network of finance professionals Simon Boddie, Independent Non-Executive Director Date of Appointment: September 2012 Past Roles: Simon qualified as a Chartered Accountant with Price Waterhouse.
He was Group Finance Director of Electrocomponents plc from 2005 until 2015.
Prior to that Simon held a variety of senior finance positions with Diageo over a 13-year career, latterly Finance Director of Key Markets.
Other Current Appointments: Chief Financial Officer, Coats Group plc.
Board Committees: Audit Chairman, Nomination, Remuneration Skills and Experience: CFO of FTSE 250 public company for over ten years Extensive experience in financial, audit and risk management Many years of operating within international businesses with cultural diversity Emerging markets experience Strong strategic and commercial understanding Broad industry experience, including consumer goods, distribution and manufacturing 47 | Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Danuta Gray, Independent Non-Executive Director Date of Appointment: December 2013 Past Roles: Danuta was Chairman of Telefonica O2 in Ireland until December 2012, having previously been its Chief Executive from 2001 to 2010.
Prior to that Danuta was Senior Vice President for BT Europe in Germany and during her career gained experience in sales, marketing, customer services and technology and in leading and changing large businesses.
She previously served for seven years on the Board of Irish Life and Permanent plc, was a Director of Business in the Community Ireland and Aer Lingus plc and a Non-Executive Director of Paddy Power Betfair plc.
Other Current Appointments: Non-Executive Director and Remuneration Committee Chairman, Old Mutual plc: Interim Chair of Aldermore Bank PLC: Non-Executive Director, Direct Line Insurance Group plc: Member of the Defence Board, UK Ministry of Defence.
Board Committees: Remuneration Chairman, Audit, Nomination Skills and Experience: Chairman and CEO experience Experienced non-executive in several sectors Extensive experience in general management Proven ability for delivering shareholder value Strong strategic understanding Extensive experience in sales, marketing, customer services and technology Leading and changing large businesses Michelle Healy, Independent Non-Executive Director Date of Appointment: October 2016 Past Roles: Before joining ISS in April 2015 Michelle was Director, Group Integrated Change Programme at SABMiller plc.
Prior to this, Michelle was General Manager UK & Ireland for British American Tobacco plc, having previously held a number of senior roles within the Group.
Michelles earlier career included assignments with Kerry Group plc and Trust Management Consultants in Germany.
Other Current Appointments: Group Chief People & Culture Officer, ISS World Services A S. Board Committees: Audit, Nomination, Remuneration Skills and Experience: Extensive experience in global human resources leadership Leading and delivering change Extensive experience in general management Corporate Governance | 48 Our Board of Directors Patrick fide Smedt, Senior Independent Director Date of Appointment: August 2015 Past Roles: Patrick spent 23 years at Microsoft during which time he founded the Benelux subsidiaries, led the development of its Western European business and served as Chairman of Microsoft for Europe, Middle East and Africa.
Since leaving Microsoft in 2006, Patrick has served on the boards of a number of European public and private companies.
He has deep knowledge of international markets and information technology, and experience as a non-executive in diverse industry sectors.
Other Current Appointments: Senior Independent Director of KCOM Group plc: Senior Independent Director and Remuneration Committee Chairman of Morgan Sindall Group plc: Non-Executive Director of Kodak Alaris Holdings Ltd. Board Committees: Audit, Nomination, Remuneration Skills and Experience: Extensive experience of technology and customer services Experienced non-executive in several sectors Extensive experience in general management Many years of operating within international businesses with cultural diversity Proven ability for delivering shareholder value Leading and changing large businesses Sylvia Metayer, Independent Non-Executive Director Date of Appointment: September 2017 Past Roles: Sylvia has previously held a variety of finance and general management roles in companies operating in a number of sectors, including Mattel Inc, Vivendi SA, and Houghton Mifflin Harcourt & Co. Other Current Appointments: Chief Executive, Worldwide Corporate Services of Sodexo SA and member of the Sodexo Group Executive Committee.
Trustee of the Quebec-Labrador Foundation and member of the Research Orientation Committee of the Foundation of HEC Business School, Paris.
Board Committees: Audit, Nomination, Remuneration Skills and Experience: Extensive experience and understanding of international markets, including the USA, Europe, China, India, and South East Asia Extensive experience in general and financial management Leading and delivering change Finance, HR, IT and Supply Chain management Proven ability for delivering shareholder value Strong strategic understanding 49 | Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Angela Seymour-Jackson, Non-Executive Director Date of Appointment: October 2017 Past Roles: Angela has previously held Executive Director roles with Aegon UK, RAC Motoring Services Limited and Aviva UK Limited, and was Senior Advisor to Lloyds Banking Group insurance.
Prior to that Angela held senior marketing roles with Bluecycle.
com Limited, CGU Insurance plc, General Accident plc and the Norwich Union Insurance Group.
Other Current Appointments: Deputy Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Chair of the Remuneration Committee at GoCompare.
com Group plc: Non-Executive Director at Janus Henderson Group plc, esure plc and Rentokil Initial plc.
Board Committees: Audit, Nomination, Remuneration Skills and Experience: Wealth of experience in service focused organisations Experienced executive and non-executive in several sectors Strong marketing and commercial skills Strong strategic understanding Member of the Chartered Institute of Marketing Elaine Marriner, Company Secretary Date of Appointment: December 2013 Past Roles: Prior to this appointment Elaine was Company Secretary and General Counsel of HMV Group plc.
Skills and Experience: Over 25 years experience as a Chartered Secretary Extensive public company, compliance and corporate governance experience General counsel experience in FTSE 250 companies from a number of business sectors Corporate Governance | 50
