CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Audit Committee Report Companys business model and strategy as well as the principal risks of the Company.
Training of all members of the Committee takes place on a regular and ongoing basis through updates, provided by the Companys external auditor, on developments in corporate reporting and regulation.
Only members of the Committee are entitled to attend meetings.
Other individuals, such as the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Company Secretary, the Director of Internal Audit and the external audit partner are regularly invited to attend meetings as appropriate and necessary.
The Committee can invite others to attend as appropriate.
The Board is satisfied that the Chairman of the Committee has the current and relevant financial and accounting experience required by the provisions of the Code.
Sylvia Simon Boddie, Metayer has relevant financial and accounting experience and other members of the Committee Chairman Committee have a sufficiently wide range of business experience and expertise such that the Committee can effectively fulfil its role.
The relevant qualifications and experience Dear Shareholder, of the Committee members are shown in their biographies on pages 47 to 50.
The Committee met with the external auditor during the year without the presence of As Chairman of the Audit Committee management in order to provide an opportunity for confidential discussion.
The Director I am pleased to present the Audit of Internal Audit and the external auditor have direct access to the Chairman of the Committee Report for the year ended Committee throughout the year.
This Report provides an overview of the Committee's Principal areas of focus principal areas of focus during the year under review, which includes ensuring During the year, under review the Committee has continued to focus on maintaining the integrity of the Company's published the quality and integrity of financial reporting, as well as monitoring the Companys financial information, the independence risk management systems and internal control environment to ensure they remain and effectiveness of the Group's external appropriate.
In response to the increase in importance of data security, a Director of auditor, and the effectiveness of the Information Security was appointed during the year and has reported on their activities internal audit process.
to the Committee and the Board.
The Committee has also continued to monitor the interaction between the Internal Audit function and the external auditors, to monitor and Purpose review the effectiveness of the external audit process and to ensure that the Groups governance standards are maintained.
The Company's tax strategy was considered The Audit Committee is the guardian by the Committee and recommended for approval by the Board.
It is published on the of the integrity of the Companys Company's website www.
Set out in the table on page 59 is a summary of financial statements and external the main activities of the Committee during 2017.
Key issues covered by the Committee reporting of performance.
It also has are reported to the Board.
the responsibility for ensuring that the necessary internal controls and risk The Committee met on seven occasions.
Committee meetings are set to coincide management systems are in place with key dates of the financial reporting calendar and the audit cycle.
is provided with sufficient resources to undertake its duties.
Details of the members attendance at the meetings of the Committee are as follows: Membership Director No.
of meetings During the year under review the Held Attended members of the Committee were Simon Boddie, who was the Chairman of the Simon Boddie 7 7 Committee, Patrick fide Smedt, Danuta Patrick fide Smedt 7 7 Gray, Michelle Healy, Sylvia Metayer and Danuta Gray 7 7 Angela Seymour-Jackson.
All served Michelle Healy 7 7 throughout the year except Sylvia 1 Sylvia Metayer 7 1 Metayer and Angela Seymour-Jackson who were appointed as members of 1 Angela Seymour-Jackson 7 2 the Committee on their appointment Notes: as Directors of the Company on 1 Sylvia Metayer and Angela Seymour-Jackson were appointed to the Committee on 1 September 2017 and 1 September 2017 and 1 October 2017 October 2017 respectively, so were eligible to attend only two Audit Committee meetings.
As part of the director unable to attend one of those meetings as she had a prior engagement which had been scheduled prior to her induction programme both Sylvia and appointment as a Director of the Company.
Angela were, amongst other things, provided with a copy of the Committees Terms of Reference and an indication of the expected time commitment required as a Director of the Company.
They were also provided with an overview of the Corporate Governance | 58 Audit Committee Report and clarity of the data and language: and and Accounts taken as a whole is fair, Financial Reporting a detailed review by all appropriate parties balanced and understandable and provides In its financial reporting to shareholders and including external advisers.
A checklist the information necessary to assess the other interested parties, the Board aims to of all the elements of the process was Companys performance, business model present a fair, balanced and understandable completed to document the process and and strategy.
assessment of the Groups position and cascaded sign-off implemented through prospects, providing necessary information the Groups management structure to for shareholders to assess the Companys provide assurance to the Committee that business model, strategy and performance.
the appropriate procedures had been The Company has an established process undertaken by all Group companies.
for reviewing the Annual Report and The Committee has reviewed the Accounts to ensure it is fair, balanced and Companys 2017 Annual Report and understandable.
This was used again this Accounts.
It provided comments that year.
It included a thorough understanding were incorporated into the Annual Report of the regulatory requirements for the and Accounts and has advised the Board Annual Report and Accounts: a process that, in its opinion, the Annual Report to determine the accuracy, consistency Main Activities of the Audit Committee During 2017 The Committee has an agreed, rolling programme of agenda items to ensure that relevant matters are properly considered.
The list below summarises the key items considered by the Committee during the year.
January April October Review of Financial Statements Review of Financial Statements Review of Financial Statements Quarter 1 trading update Quarter 3 trading update Quarter 4 trading update July December March Review of Financial Statements Review of Financial Statements Review of Financial Statements Quarter 2 trading update Review of 2017 Annual Report Draft preliminary and Accounts process announcement and 2016 Annual Report and Accounts Review of FRC Letter to Audit August Chairs External auditors year-end Review of Financial Statements report Revenue recognition Draft interim report Revenue recognition Risk and Internal Control Risk and Internal Control Going concern analysis Internal audit update Internal audit update Viability Statement Approval of internal audit plan Risk management update Fair, balanced and for 2018 understandable review Cyber security Risk review and confirmation of Management letter of principal risks External Auditor representation Crisis management plan review External auditors 2016 year Risk and Internal Control Annual review of anti-bribery end management letter compliance Ratification of principal risks External auditors interim Internal audit update review External Auditor Scope of the full year audit Audit progress update report Compliance Interim review management Meeting with external auditor Compliance letter of representation without Executive Directors Year-end legislative and Review of the external procedural matters External Auditor auditors fee and non-audit External auditor satisfaction Tax and Treasury services fees survey Review of Tax Strategy Review of external auditor Reappointment of external independence and objectivity Annual review of Treasury auditor Policy Compliance Regulatory update Meeting with external auditor Regulatory update Implications of IFRS 15 without Executive Directors Implications of IFRS 15 Revenue Revenue and IFRS 16 Leases 59 | Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Significant Accounting Issues and Areas of Judgement The Committee focuses in particular on key accounting policies and practices adopted by the Group and any significant areas of judgement that may materially impact reported results as well as the clarity of disclosures, compliance with financial reporting standards and the relevant requirements around financial and governance reporting.
Details on accounting policies can be found on pages 96 to 100.
The significant issues and areas of judgement considered by the Committee during the year and how these were addressed were as follows: Significant issue How the Committee addressed the issue Revenue Context: Revenue recognition for permanent and temporary placements, with particular focus on period end Recognition cut off and appropriate accounting treatment in accordance with IFRS and Group accounting policies.
Revenue from permanent placements is derived from both retained assignments income recognised on completion of defined stages of work and non-retained assignments income recognised at the date an offer is accepted by a candidate and where a start date has been determined.
There is a risk that a candidate reverses their decision to take up a placement before the start date and as such the revenue recognised would be reversed.
A provision is made by management, based on past historical experience, for the proportion of those placements where this expected to occur.
Revenue from temporary placements, which represents amounts billed for the services of temporary staff, including the salary cost of these staff, is recognised when the service has been provided.
Actions taken: The Committee assesses the Group's revenue recognition policies relative to IFRS and the sector to ensure they are appropriate, and challenges management on the internal control and compliance processes over revenue recognition, taking into account the views of Internal Audit and the external auditors.
Conclusions and rationale: The Committee concluded that the approach to revenue recognition was consistent with the policies and the judgements made were appropriate.
In the Audit Committee Report for the 2016 financial year, transfer pricing was included as a significant issue.
In determining the risks for the 2017 financial year it is the Audit Committee's opinion that this is no longer a significant issue.
This is based on the Committee's assessment of the risk of challenge by tax authorities which has decreased due to the passage of time and the overall decrease in the relevant provision.
The Committee discussed the methodology used to test the assumptions and estimates made by management in each of these areas with Ernst & Young, the external auditor.
Corporate Governance | 60 Audit Committee Report prior to the end of the 2016 financial year.
The Committee considers the annual External Auditors However, the finalisation and transition appointment of the external auditor by Independence and of the employee mobility services to the shareholders at the Annual General new service provider were not ultimately Meeting to be a fundamental safeguard.
In addition, a The performance and effectiveness of The Committee monitors the objectivity, role on the board of the statutory auditors the external auditor is also reviewed independence and effectiveness of the in Italy, performed by Ernst & Young, annually by the Committee.
The Company is mindful will transition to a new service provider qualification, expertise, resources and of the provisions of the Code, best in 2018.
No further services have been reappointment as well as assurance that practice, the Competition and Market supplied by Ernst & Young in respect there are no issues which could adversely Authority Audit Order 2014 and EU audit of employee mobility services.
The total affect the external auditors independence legislation as regards audit firm rotation non-audit fees in respect of these services and objectivity taking into account the and the provision of non-audit services.
for the year under review amounted to relevant standards.
In this respect the 28,000, of which 4,000 was preErnst & Young LLP, the Companys Committee reviewed the: approved by the Audit Committee.
The current external auditor, was appointed Robustness of the external auditors remainder were approved retrospectively in 2011 following a tender process.
In plan and its identification of key risks: by the Audit Committee on notification by accordance with audit regulation, Ernst Ernst & Young that these fees had been Fulfilment of the agreed external audit & Young LLP operate a policy of rotating incurred.
At the half year Ernst & Young plan and any variations from the plan: the Audit Partner every five years.
The LLP carried out audit related services Audit Partner who had served as the Robustness including the when they reviewed the interim statement.
Companys Audit Partner since 2011 audit's team's ability to challenge The fees in respect of this work amounted stepped down after the completion of management and perceptiveness of to 52,000 which, together with the nonthe 2015 year end audit and a new Audit the external auditor in handling key audit fees mentioned above, represent Partner, Bob Forsyth, was appointed in accounting and audit judgements 10.2% of the total fees payable to Ernst 2016. including demonstrating professional & Young.
No other non-audit services scepticism and independence: The Committee approved and were provided by the external auditor.
The Content of reports provided to the implemented in 2014 a policy for the Audit Committee reviewed the safeguards Committee by the external auditor tender of external audit services.
This in place to deal with the independence including reporting on internal policy provides that the Company will threats from this work and concluded control: and retender the external audit at least every that Ernst & Young LLP remained ten years and will change the external Feedback from management which independent.
auditor at least every 20 years.
Thus, is ascertained from staff surveys Further, during the year under review, the Company expects to tender the completed by staff involved in the the Committee discussed and agreed external audit in respect of the 2021 year audit process.
the scope of the year-end audit and end during the course of 2020, but this Following a full evaluation of the external approved the audit fee of 784,000. position is subject to annual review by the auditor at the end of the 2017 audit, the The objectivity and independence of the Audit Committee.
Committee recommended to the Board external auditor is safeguarded by: The Committee considers that in 2017 it the reappointment of Ernst & Young Obtaining assurances from the has complied with the Competition and LLP as Auditor of the Company at the external auditor that adequate Market Authority Audit Order 2014. forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
policies and procedures exist within The Committee has regularly reviewed its its firm to ensure that the firm Internal Control and policy on the use of the external auditor and staff are independent of the for non-audit services, with the last review Risk Management Group by reason of family, finance, taking place in 2016.
The policy prohibits employment, investment and The Boards responsibilities for, and the external auditor from providing business relationship other than in their report on, risk management and certain services which could give rise to the normal course of business : the systems of internal control and their independence threats such as computing Enforcing a policy of reviewing all effectiveness are set out in the Corporate tax provisions, payroll services, acting as cases where it is proposed that a Governance Report on pages 54 and 55. an advocate, internal audit and system former employee of the external design.
In line with the FRC Revised On behalf of the Board the Committee auditor be employed by the Group in Ethical Standard for external auditors, reviewed the Groups risk assessment a senior management position or at the Audit Committee has operated a procedures for identifying its principal Board level: more restrictive policy from 1 January risks and its longer-term viability.
The Monitoring the external auditors 2017 which prohibits the external auditor risk assessment takes account of all compliance with applicable UK from providing a more extensive range risks, including environmental, social ethical guidance on the rotation of of services which includes, inter alia, tax and governance matters, inherent in the audit partners: and advice, tax compliance services and strategy of the business and its plan.
Enforcing a policy concerning the global mobility support.
All such services These procedures include regular reports provision of non-audit services by the provided by Ernst & Young LLP were to the Committee from the Director of external auditor.
transferred to other service providers Internal Audit on the performance of the 61 | Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION system of internal control and on its process, including Group functions and The Group maintains a zero tolerance effectiveness in managing material risks change programmes as those around approach against corruption.
It has an and identifying any control failings or governance, environmental and social established anti-bribery and corruption weaknesses.
related matters policy, which includes guidance on the giving and receiving of gifts and The Committee also reviews the Groups Actions to maintain and improve the hospitality.
This policy applies throughout risk management process annually, effectiveness of the control environment the Group.
The policy and the training with the outcome being reported to are agreed with the Executive Board of employees is regularly reviewed and the Board.
This, together with regular and are monitored and reported to the updated when required.
The training is updates to the Board on material Committee.
Risks are also regularly undertaken by all managers and all staff risks, allows the Board to make the reviewed and required changes are in risk areas across the Group by means assessment on the systems of internal made to the risk profile and, where of review and presentation of standard control and the residual risk for the necessary, to the activity of Internal Group-prepared training material.
purpose of making its public statement.
All changes to the Internal Audit A gifts and entertainments register is The risk process, together with the plan are agreed with the Chairman of maintained to ensure transparency.
key risks and their indicators, have the Committee and reported to the A review of compliance with the policy been identified and mitigating actions Executive Board and the Committee.
is undertaken annually and reported to are described in the Strategic Report the Committee.
The review undertaken on pages 33 to 38.
Key performance Committee Evaluation in 2017 showed there was a good indicators and management incentives understanding of the issue and no The activities of the Committee were are highlighted for the main financial, breaches were reported.
reviewed as part of the Board evaluation strategic and people risks in the process performed during the year under Strategic Report on pages 21 to 22.
The 2017 evaluation process Where weaknesses have been identified was facilitated by an external third In accordance with the provisions of the in the internal control system for the party, Lintstock Limited.
Details and the Code, the Committee is responsible for mitigation of risks to an acceptable outcome of the evaluation process, and reviewing the arrangements whereby level, plans to strengthen the control the agreed actions to be taken during staff may, in confidence, raise concerns system are put in place.
Action plans 2018, can be found in the Corporate about possible improprieties in financial in this respect are regularly monitored Governance Report on page 54. reporting or other matters and ensuring until complete.
During the period under that these concerns are investigated review there were no control failings or Fraud and escalated as appropriate.
This is weaknesses that resulted in unforeseen promoted in all regions by the Human The Committee reviews the procedures material losses.
Resources function and audited by for the prevention and detection of Internal Audit.
It is run by an external Internal Audit Activities fraud in the Group.
Suspected cases third party and is available to all of fraud must be reported to the Chief employees in the Group.
There were During the year under review the Financial Officer and the Director of no reportable whistleblowing incidents Committee monitored and reviewed Internal Audit and investigated by reported during the year under review.
the effectiveness of the Internal Audit operational management and Internal function.
To ensure there is breadth Audit.
The outcome of any investigation and depth of risk and internal control is reported to the Committee.
A register experience to this function, the Groups Simon Boddie of all suspected fraudulent activity and Internal Audit function comprises a Chairman of the Audit Committee the outcome of any investigation is Director of Internal Audit and a team of kept and is circulated to the Committee 6 March 2018 internal auditors.
The Director of Internal on a regular basis.
During the year in Audit reports to the Chief Financial question, no frauds of a significant Officer on a day-to-day basis, but also nature were reported.
has a reporting line to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He also has Anti-Bribery and Corruption direct access to the Committee and the Board.
This ensures there is opportunity and Business Ethics for frank and open dialogue.
The scope The Company has a Code of Conduct of work for the Internal Audit function is which can be found on its website agreed with the Committee annually with www.
This sets out the the findings from internal audits being standards of behaviour by which all reported to the Executive Board and the employees of the Group are bound and Audit Committee.
Businesses are visited is based on the Companys commitment on a rotational risk-based approach to to acting professionally, fairly and assess the effectiveness of controls to with integrity.
mitigate risks to an acceptable level.
All major risks are addressed in this Corporate Governance | 62
