CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Nomination Committee Report Seymour-Jackson became members of future strategy.
Once finalised the profile the Committee on 1 September 2017 is recommended by the Committee to and 1 October 2017 respectively, on the Board for its approval.
their appointment as Directors of the If approved, a search and selection Company.
All other members served process based on that profile is throughout the year.
Candidates are identified Lowdens other significant commitments and selected on merit against can be found on page 46. objective criteria and with due regard Only members of the Committee are to the benefits of diversity on the entitled to attend meetings.
A shortlist individuals, such as the Chief Executive of candidates is then interviewed David Lowden, Officer, the Group Human Resources by the Chairman of the Board, the Committee Chairman Director and external advisers, may Chief Executive Officer and members attend meetings by invitation when of the Committee.
Thereafter a Dear Shareholder, appropriate and necessary.
This recommendation of appointment is made arrangement fosters appropriate to the Board.
It is with pleasure that I present the challenge, questioning and debate of Nomination Committee Report for the Geographic and gender diversity is the recommendations made by the year ended 31 December 2017.
Board important both at Board level and at Committee to the Board.
and senior leadership succession every other level in the business.
It planning continued to be a major priority therefore remains the Committees for the Board and is something the Responsibilities policy to seek diversity of experience, Nomination Committee keeps under capability, geographic experience and The key responsibilities of the Committee continuous review.
As I mentioned in gender in order to create a talented are to: my Chairmans statement on page 2, high-performing Board.
Details on the Assess and nominate members to during the year, we announced the Companys work in respect of diversity the Board: appointment of two new Non-Executive below Board level can be found in the Directors, Sylvia Metayer and Angela Maintain the right mix of character, Strategic Report on page 28.
Since the end of the skills and experience on the Board period under review Danuta Gray has and its Committees: decided not to stand for re-election at Make recommendations to the the June 2018 Annual General Meeting Board on development and and will, consequently, cease to be a succession plans for members of Director from that date.
I would like to the Board and senior management: thank Danuta for her contribution to the Approve job descriptions and Company, especially as Chair of the written terms of appointment for Remuneration Committee.
Directors: and Review the independence of NonPurpose Executive Directors, taking into The Nomination Committee is account their other directorships.
responsible for ensuring that the The Committee follows formal and Company has the executive and transparent procedures for appointing non-executive Board leadership it Directors.
It is assisted in its search requires, both now and for the future.
for new non-executive directors by an independent executive search company.
Membership With each new search the Committee During the year under review the selects the executive search company members of the Committee were David which it considers the most appropriate Lowden, who was Chairman of the and relevant for the assignment.
These Committee, Simon Boddie, Patrick fide executive search companies have no Smedt, Danuta Gray, Michelle Healy, connection with the Company other than Baroness Ruby McGregor-Smith, Sylvia the provision of the search services.
With Metayer and Angela Seymour-Jackson.
each assignment a detailed candidate Baroness Ruby McGregor-Smith profile is compiled and discussed by the resigned from the Board on Committee, taking into consideration 23 May 2017 and ceased to be a the balance of skills and experience member of the Committee on that of existing Board members and the date.
Sylvia Metayer and Angela requirements of the Company and its Corporate Governance | 56 Nomination Committee Report Activities During the Year During 2017 the Committee met on four occasions.
Details of the members attendance at meetings of the Committee are as follows: Director No.
of meetings Held Attended David Lowden 4 4 Simon Boddie 4 4 Patrick fide Smedt 4 4 Danuta Gray 4 4 Michelle Healy 4 4 1 Baroness Ruby McGregor-Smith 4 1 2 Sylvia Metayer 4 0 2 Angela Seymour-Jackson 4 1 Notes: Baroness Ruby McGregor-Smith ceased to be a member of the Committee on 23 May 2017 so was eligible to attend only one Nomination Committee meeting.
Sylvia Metayer and Angela Seymour-Jackson were appointed to the Committee on 1 September 2017 and 1 October 2017 respectively, so were only eligible to attend one Committee meeting.
Sylvia Metayer was unable to attend this meeting as she had a prior engagement which had been scheduled prior to her appointment as a Director of the Company.
The Committee continues to focus on The Committee also considered the The activities of the Committee were succession planning both for senior pipeline of talent for the Executive Board reviewed as part of the annual Board management and the Board.
The to ensure there is sufficient bench evaluation process which, in 2017, was Committee undertook the selection of strength to run key parts of PageGroup.
Details two new Non-Executive Directors which During the year under review the of the evaluation process can be found resulted in the appointment of Sylvia Committee members met Executive in the Corporate Governance Report on Metayer on 1 September 2017 and Committee members, and executives page 54.
Angela Seymour-Jackson on 1 October at the level below the Executive Board, 2017.
The independent executive search through presentations at the Companys Plan for 2018 agency, The Inzito Partnership, were annual Strategy Day and at Board In 2018 the Committee will continue to engaged for these appointments.
Meetings, and during a site visit to review the size of the Board, its mix of the Group's European Shared Service Baroness Ruby McGregor-Smith stepped skills and experience, and succession Centre in Barcelona.
The management down as a Non-Executive Director on 23 plans for both Executive and Nonand development of the talent pipeline is May 2017, having completed 10 years Executive Directors.
the responsibility of the Chief Executive service to the Company.
I would like to Officer so that the independence of thank Ruby, on behalf of the Board, for the Committee and its members is her contribution to the Company.
