Corporate governance statement The Board continues to recognise the importance of a top-down focus on corporate governance as an integral part of all of the Groups activities.
MIKE HUMPHREY CHAIRMAN 2017 has been a busy year for the Group with Compliance with the UK Corporate the combination with Touchstone Innovations, Governance Code the completion of a significant equity fundraising The Directors are committed to a high standard of and expansion into Australasia, alongside strong corporate governance and to compliance with the performances from portfolio companies in each of best practice of the UK Corporate Governance Code its sectors.
The version of the Code applicable to The Board continues to focus on developing a robust reporting periods beginning on or after 17 June 2016 corporate governance strategy alongside promoting a was the version issued by the Financial Reporting culture of risk identification, reporting and mitigation.
The Directors consider that the The Board remains focused on the execution of Group has been and continues to be in compliance the Groups strategy and working with its partner with all of the provisions set out in the Code.
institutions to develop outstanding businesses Further explanation as to how the main principles based on unique intellectual property.
In doing so, it set out in the Code have been applied by the Group continues to recognise the importance of a top-down is set out in the following statement, the Directors focus on corporate governance as an integral part of Remuneration Report, the Audit and Risk Committee all of the Groups activities.
Report and the Strategic Report.
The Board is accountable to the Groups shareholders for good governance and this report, together with The Board the Reports of the Remuneration, Nomination and Role and responsibilities of the Board Audit and Risk Committees of the Board describes the Groups detailed approach to corporate The Board is responsible to shareholders for the governance and further information on the key overall management of the Group as a whole.
Whilst developments in these areas during the year.
seeking to support entrepreneurial behaviour in its partner institutions through the identification of The Board looks forward to being able to discuss compelling intellectual property with the potential these matters with shareholders at the Groups to grow into robust, unique and world changing forthcoming AGM in June 2018 or indeed at any other business propositions, the Board also seeks to point during the year.
provide entrepreneurial leadership within a framework MIKE HUMPHREY of controls for assessing and managing risk: defining, CHAIRMAN challenging and interrogating the Groups strategic aims and direction.
64 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Our Governance Overview The Board recognises that in doing so it is necessary the proper stewardship of its affairs and its longto support the maintenance and evolution of a term success.
The responsibility of the Directors is policy and decision-making framework in which such collective, taking into account their respective roles strategic aims are implemented: ensuring that the as Executive Directors and Non-executive Directors.
necessary financial and human resources are in place The Executive Directors are directly responsible for to meet those aims: monitoring performance against running the business operations, and developing key financial and non-financial indicators: succession and implementing strategy, and the Non-executive planning: overseeing the system of risk management: Directors are responsible for constructively challenging setting values and standards in governance matters: and contributing to proposals on strategy, scrutinising monitoring policies and performance on corporate the performance of management, determining levels social responsibility and helping to shape and embed of remuneration and for succession planning for the the Groups corporate culture and values.
Executive Directors and senior management.
The Non-executive Directors must also satisfy themselves The Directors recognise that the long-term nature on the integrity of financial information and that of the business of the Group in evolving great ideas financial controls and systems of risk management are into world changing businesses presents novel and robust and comprehensive.
Further details in relation unique challenges from both an operational and to the Groups approach to the management of its strategic standpoint.
In supporting the evolution of business risks, and the function and ongoing roles and novel technologies into outstanding intellectual based responsibilities of its internal Risk Council are set out companies, the Board acknowledges the key roles on pages 46 to 53 and on pages 100 to 104. of Group functions in the fields of executive search, capital raising, company secretarial and legal support Strategy alongside the delivery of in-house mentoring and The Board reviews the strategy of the Group and development of portfolio company management any issues arising from it on a regular basis and teams, as well as from time to time facilitating portfolio exercises control over the performance of the Group company board strategy days.
The Directors believe by agreeing budgetary targets and monitoring that the Groups approach to supporting the portfolio performance against those targets.
Any decisions companies it develops in this way is unique and serves made by the Board on policies and strategy to be not only to build sustainable businesses with longevity, adopted by the Group, or changes to current policies but also to provide attractive returns for stakeholders and strategy, are made following a Board paper and by creating value over the longer term.
presentations by the Executive Directors on the same The robustness of the Groups portfolio, supported and a detailed process of review, discussion and in this way, has been borne out over the course of constructive challenge by the Board as a whole.
The impact of Brexit negotiations made, the Executive Directors are fully empowered to and other political transitions has continued to implement those decisions.
provide a volatile backdrop to what has proven to be a year of notable commercial progress within the Groups portfolio.
The Directors are responsible for promoting the longterm success of the Company, and thereby the Group, taking into account the interests of shareholders and other key stakeholders including employees, suppliers, customers, universities and other partners, the community and the environment: for ensuring that obligations to shareholders and other stakeholders are understood and met: and in maintaining a satisfactory READ ABOUT OUR STATEGY ON PAGES 16 TO 17 dialogue with shareholders.
All Directors are equally accountable to the Companys shareholders for 65 Stock Code: IPO www.
com 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Corporate governance statement CONTINUED The three principal Board Committees Audit and Risk, Schedule of Matters Remuneration and Nomination play an essential role Except for a formal schedule of matters which are in supporting the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities reserved for decision and approval by the Board, the and ensuring that the highest standards of corporate Board has delegated the day-to-day management governance are maintained throughout the Group.
of the Groups operations to the Executive Directors, Each Committee has its own terms of reference which supported closely by its senior management team set out the specific matters for which delegated comprising, amongst others, the newly created roles authority has been given by the Board.
of Managing Partner, Life Sciences and Managing Partner, Technology.
Through 2017 and the early part The current terms of reference for the Audit and Risk of 2018, this day-to-day management had previously Committee, which were updated in December 2015, been delegated to an Executive Committee but the are fully compliant with the provisions of the Code constitution of the same was reviewed in detail as and reflect best practice.
The terms of reference part of the integration of the Touchstone Innovations were reviewed by the Audit and Risk Committee business and the decision was made to make some throughout the year and no amendments were changes in order to ensure each component of the considered necessary.
Groups business was properly represented and had A previous review of the terms of reference of each a direct report into the Chief Executive Officer.
The of the Remuneration Committee and Nomination schedule of matters reserved for Board decision Committee during 2016 concluded that, whilst and approval are those significant to the Group compliant with the provisions of the Code, certain as a whole due to their strategic, financial and or amendments were desirable to reflect current best reputational implications.
The previous schedule, and market practice and the actual workings of which was adopted by the Board in August 2014 has the relevant Committee.
The terms of reference been reviewed in early 2018 as part of the integration for the Remuneration Committee and Nomination of the Touchstone business, with particular attention Committee were updated, recommended for approval being given to the effect of the increased size of the and adopted by the Board in February 2016 and May combined Group on delegated investment authorities 2016 respectively.
No further updates were made to the new created Life Sciences and Technology during 2017.
Partnerships, headed by their respective Managing Partners, as well as to the US and Australia.
Each Committee will continue to review its own terms of reference at least annually and propose The schedule of matters reserved for the Board any updates where necessary.
All of the current includes, without limitation, those matters more Committee terms of reference are available on particularly set out in the box in the table on page request from the Company Secretary or within the 67 and the full schedule can be found within the Corporate Governance section of the Groups website Corporate Governance section of the Groups website at www.
Committees and Oversight In addition to the Executive Directors, the Board delegates specific responsibilities to certain additional Committees that assist the Board in carrying out its functions and to ensure independent oversight of internal control and risk management.
66 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Our Governance Overview Matters y Approval of the Annual Report and accounts and half-year Available from the Reserved for results statement, accounting policies and procedures and any Company Secretary the Board matter having a material impact on future financial performance or on our corporate of the Group.
website y Strategic acquisitions or disposals by the Group.
com y Major portfolio investment decisions, being those: i into the Groups strategic assets as defined by the Board from time to time : ii in excess of 10m per investment: and iii in excess of 10m on a cumulative basis in a single portfolio company and 5m increments thereafter.
y Entry by the Group into strategic partnerships and collaborations with universities and other research institutions.
y Major realisations from the Groups portfolio being those: i relating to the Groups strategic assets as defined by the Board from time to time: and ii in excess of 10m.
y Approval and monitoring of the Groups strategic aims and objectives.
y Approval of the annual budget and any material changes to it.
y Considering and, where appropriate, approving Directors conflicts of interest where permitted by the Companys Articles of Association.
y Approving appointments to the Board and, subject to shareholder approval, determining and approving policies relating to Directors remuneration and any changes in relation to the same.
y Approval of terms of reference and membership of Board committees.
y Approval, subject to shareholder approval, of the appointment and remuneration of the external auditors.
y Approval of all circulars, prospectuses and other documents issued to shareholders governed by the FCAs Listing Rules, Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules or the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers.
y Changes to the Groups capital structure, the issue of any securities and material borrowing of the Group.
y The division of responsibility between the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer.
y The introduction of new share incentive plans or major changes to existing plans.
y Material borrowings by the Group.
com 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Corporate governance statement CONTINUED Board The terms of reference of each Committee establish its Available from the Committees responsibilities and are available from the Company Secretary and Company Secretary on the Groups corporate website: www.
or on our corporate website www.
com Executive Day-to-day decisions are delegated to the Executive Directors who, Directors in turn, have delegated those portfolio investment and realisation decisions other than those reserved for the Board see above to the Managing Partner, Life Sciences and Managing Partner, Technology see below.
Managing Portfolio investment and realisation decisions other than those Partners, reserved for the Board are delegated to the Managing Partner, Life Life Sciences and the Managing Partner, Technology, with a tiered level Sciences of decision within defined parameters being delegated further to and sub-committees of the Life Sciences and Technology Partnerships, Technology as well as to the US and Australia.
Disclosure Committee established in 2016 continues New directors may be appointed by the Board from to assist the Group to make timely and accurate time to time but the appointee is always subject to disclosure of all information that is required to election by shareholders at the first Annual General be disclosed to meet its legal and regulatory Meeting following their appointment.
Accordingly, obligations and requirements arising from its listing Professor Begg will submit himself for election by on the London Stock Exchange.
It also enables the shareholders at the Groups Annual General Meeting Group to meet its obligations under the Market to be held on 18 June 2018.
In accordance with Abuse Regulation and takes responsibility for the both the Code and the Groups policy, all of the assessment and control of inside information.
other Directors will submit themselves for annual re-election by shareholders at the Groups Annual Board size and composition General Meeting on 18 June 2018.
As at 31 December 2017 and following the retirement The Board unanimously recommends to shareholders of Doug Liversidge as noted below, there were nine the appointment of Professor Begg as a Director Directors on the Board: the Chairman, four Executive of the Company given both his highly esteemed Directors and four Non-executive Directors.
The background in economics, academia and business, biographies of all Directors are provided on pages 62 as well as his in depth knowledge of the Touchstone and 63. business, portfolio companies and people, having served as a non-executive director of Touchstone 2017 saw two changes to the Board: Doug Liversidge, Innovations since 20 March 2012.
Furthermore, the who had previously served as chairman of Fusion Board unanimously recommends to shareholders the IP plc prior to its acquisition by the Group in March reappointment of all of the other Directors retiring at 2014, was appointed as Non-Executive Director on the meeting and offering themselves for re-election, 24 March 2014 and became Senior Independent on the basis that the annual Board evaluation Director in March 2015, retired from the Board demonstrated that they are all effective directors of with effect from 31 December 2017 after a lengthy the Company and continue to display the appropriate period of distinguished service: Professor David level of commitment in their respective roles.
Begg, previously a non-executive director of Touchstone Innovations plc, was appointed as a An extract of the Groups Policy relating to the Non-executive Director of the Group on 18 October terms of appointment and the remuneration of both 2017 in connection with the Groups combination Executive Directors and Non-executive Directors is with Touchstone Innovations plc.
Professor Begg was detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on subsequently appointed as the Senior Independent pages 80 to 99.
Director with effect from 31 December 2017, succeeding Mr Liversidge upon his retirement.
68 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Our Governance Overview In relation to gender diversity, the Nomination Board Observers Committee gave further consideration throughout With effect from the Board meeting in February the year as to whether to set a target in relation to 2018, each of the Groups newly appointed Managing the number of women on the Board and in particular Partners of Life Sciences and Technology, Dr Sam with reference to the Women on Boards Report by Williams and Mark Reilly, will be invited to attend Lord Davies issued in March 2015 and the Hamptonthe Groups Board meetings as observers.
Such Alexander Review issued in November 2017.
Whilst attendance will at all times be entirely at the the Group endorses Lord Davies recommendations Chairmans discretion and the observers shall, upon and the target of 33% women in FTSE 250 leadership attendance but subject to disclosing and managing teams contained in the Hampton-Alexander Review, any conflicts of interest which may require the it does not consider it appropriate nor in its best relevant observer to be excluded from all or part interests to set either Board or Group-wide fixed of future Board meetings, be able to speak and targets at this stage and prefers instead to continue participate in the discussions of the Board, but not to to consider all aspects of diversity including, but not vote on any decisions required by the Board.
limited to gender when assessing the overall Board composition and in making further new appointments.
In agreeing to extend such invite to these individuals, Notwithstanding that it does not have a fixed target the Board felt that as the two most senior investment in relation to the number of women on the Board, the professionals in the business, with oversight and Company currently has two female directors on its accountability for the performance of a majority of Board and will aim to maintain female representation the value of the Groups portfolio, it was important on the Board at least at this current level.
In addition, for them to have a degree of direct representation the terms of reference of the Nomination Committee at Board meetings and to be available to report to, include a requirement for the Nomination Committee and respond directly to questions and challenge to consider diversity including but not limited from, the Board over the assets they managed.
In to gender, nationality and race in evaluating the addition, the Board welcomes the additional diversity composition of the Board and in identifying suitable of viewpoints that will be offered by such individuals, candidates for Board appointments.
their contribution to the quality of the debate on key issues affecting the Group and its portfolio and the In relation to ethnic diversity, the Nomination increased stakeholder engagement offered by their Committee has reviewed the final Parker Review attendance for example, employees and portfolio Committee Report on the ethnic diversity of company investors.
boards issued in October 2017 and is aware of the recommendation that each FTSE 250 board should Diversity have a director of colour by 2024.
Similar to the The Board is committed to a culture that attracts approach adopted by the Committee with respect to and retains talented people to deliver outstanding gender diversity, the Committee does not consider it performance and further enhance the success of appropriate to set Board or Group-wide fixed targets the Group.
In that culture, diversity across a range at this stage with respect to ethnic diversity and will of criteria is valued.
The Board recognises that continue to consider all aspects of diversity when diversity, in all its forms, is key for introducing different making further appointments.
perspectives into board debate and decision making.
When Board vacancies arise, the Groups Nomination A genuinely diverse board comprises individuals with Committee will require the Groups in-house executive a range of personal attributes, perspectives, skills, search function and or external search consultants as knowledge, experiences and backgrounds, as well as appropriate to identify and present qualified people representing differences in nationality, race and gender.
of a range of diverse backgrounds, gender, nationality The Boards policy is to make appointments to the and ethnicity to be considered for appointment.
Board based upon merit against objective criteria.
In addition, the Board agrees that diversity including gender, ethnic and cultural diversity remains a key aspect in creating an optimal board in terms of balance and composition.
com 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Corporate governance statement CONTINUED The Groups commitment to diversity at the senior Non-executive Directors presenting themselves for management level is also very strong and it actively election or re-election at the Annual General Meeting works to increase the number of women, ethnic and in 2018 have holdings in any of the Groups portfolio other cultural diversities in leadership positions within companies.
Specifically on gender, whilst, as stated Non-executive Directors are required to obtain the above, the Group does not consider it appropriate nor formal written approval of the Chairman before in its best interests to set Group-wide fixed targets for taking on any further directorial appointments and women in leadership positions at this stage, both the the Chairman requires the approval of the Board Groups Chief Executive Officer and Chairman signed before adding to his commitments.
In all cases, up to the 30% Club in January 2018, in connection with the Non-executive Directors must ensure that their which they have committed to setting an aspirational external appointments do not involve excessive time target of 30% female representation in the Groups commitments or cause a conflict of interest.
The Group is in the process of setting up a working group whose mandate will be The roles of Chairman and Chief to examine ways in which this aspirational target may Executive Officer be achieved and to thereafter lead action on those actions decided upon.
Mike Humphrey is the Groups Chairman.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the A breakdown of employee diversity showing the Chief Executive Officer is clearly established, set out number of persons who were Directors of the in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Chairman Company and senior managers at the date of this is responsible for the leadership and conduct of report can be found on page 55. the Board, the conduct of the Groups affairs and strategy and for ensuring effective communication Non-executive Directors with shareholders.
The Chairman facilitates the full The Non-executive Directors provide a wide range of and effective contribution of Non-executive Directors unique skills and experience to the Group.
By virtue at Board and Committee meetings, ensures that they of such a diverse mix of skills and experience, the are kept well informed and fosters a constructive Non-executive Directors are and continue to be well relationship between the Executive Directors and placed to constructively challenge and scrutinise the Non-executive Directors.
The Chairman also ensures performance of executive management at both Board that the membership of the Board is appropriate and Committee meetings.
to the needs of the business and that the Board Committees carry out their duties, including reporting The Code sets out the circumstances that should be back to the Board following their meetings, either relevant to the Board in determining whether each orally or in writing, at the next Board meeting Non-executive Director is independent.
The Board depending on its proximity to the meeting of the considers Non-executive Director independence on an relevant committee.
annual basis as part of each Non-executive Directors performance evaluation.
Having undertaken this The role of the Chief Executive Officer is to lead review, and with due regard to provision B.
1.1 of the the delivery of the strategy and the executive Code, the Board has concluded this year that all of the management of the Group and its operating Non-executive Directors are considered by the Board businesses.
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible, to be independent of management and free of any amongst other things, for the development and relationship or circumstance which could materially implementation of strategy and processes which influence or interfere with, or affect, or appear to enable the Group to meet the requirements of its affect, the exercise of their independent judgement.
shareholders, for delivering the operating plans and budgets for the Groups business sectors, monitoring Since 2009, the Boards policy has been to prohibit business performance against key performance personal investments by the Non-executive Directors indicators KPIs and reporting on these to the Board, in any of the Groups portfolio companies, whether and for providing the appropriate environment to new or existing, and including all Touchstone portfolio recruit, engage, retain and develop the high quality companies from the date of completion of the personnel needed to deliver the Groups strategy.
This policy remains unchanged and accordingly, none of the 70 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Our Governance Overview would not provide any coverage where a director is Senior Independent Director proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
Doug Liversidge was the Senior Independent Director A copy of the indemnity is available for inspection until his retirement on 31 December 2017.
Upon his as required by the Companies Act 2006.
The retirement, Professor David Begg was appointed as his Company has also arranged appropriate insurance successor to the role of Senior Independent Director.
cover in respect of legal action against its directors and officers.
A key responsibility of the Senior Independent Director is to be available to shareholders in the event Board meetings, provision of that they may feel it inappropriate to relay views through the Chairman or Chief Executive Officer.
information and decisions In addition, the Senior Independent Director serves The Board meets regularly during the year as well as an intermediary between the rest of the Board as on an ad hoc basis, as required in response to the and the Chairman, where necessary, and takes the needs of the Groups business.
lead when the Non-executive Directors assess the The Board had seven scheduled Board meetings in Chairmans performance and when the appointment 2017 with six Board meetings scheduled for 2018 of a new Chairman is considered other than where to ensure that the meeting schedule is sufficient to the Senior Independent Director himself or herself meet the needs of the business.
The requirement for wishes to be considered for the role.
Further, the additional scheduled meetings shall be kept under Senior Independent Director will lead the Board review by the Chairman and the Company Secretary.
in their deliberations on any matters on which the In order to assist the Board in gaining a deeper Chairman is conflicted.
understanding of the breadth, stage of development Board support and diversity of the Groups portfolio, the Heads of the Groups previous four sector teams Healthcare, The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board Biotech, Technology and Cleantech presented to the for ensuring that Board procedures are followed, Board throughout the year to enable the Board to applicable rules and regulations are complied with review the progress, performance and objectives for and that the Board is advised on governance matters the next twelve to eighteen months of each sector.
All Directors have The Board also received presentations from the access to the impartial advice and services of the New Business and Partnerships Team on the Groups Company Secretary.
The Company Secretary acts sourcing strategy and an update from the US team.
as a key point of contact for the Chairman and has an important role in the quality of information that The majority of Board meetings are held at the flows between the Executive Directors and the NonGroups offices in London.
The Board also aims to executive Directors and the Company Secretary have at least one of its scheduled meetings, or its is also responsible for ensuring agreed actions are annual strategy day s, at either the Companys completed.
The Company Secretary supports the offices in Leeds, Oxford, Sheffield or Cardiff or at the Chairman on performance evaluation, the induction location of one of the Groups partner universities of new directors and the continuing development of in order to encourage further interaction with current directors including ensuring directors receive the Groups stakeholders.
Meetings between the suitable training to enable them to comply with their Chairman and the Non-executive Directors, both duties and effectively carry out their roles.
with and without the presence of the Chief Executive Officer, are also held as the need arises.
There is also an agreed procedure for directors to take independent professional advice at the In addition to the seven scheduled Board meetings, Companys expense.
In accordance with the the Board would ordinarily have held a two-day Companys Articles of Association, directors have strategy meeting in October 2017.
Given the been granted an indemnity issued by the Company significant corporate transactions during the to the extent permitted by law in respect of liabilities year, including the combination with Touchstone incurred as a result of their office.
The indemnity Innovations which only formally completed on 17 October 2017, it was agreed that, in place of the annual strategy meeting this year, the Board 71 Stock Code: IPO www.
com 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Corporate governance statement CONTINUED should spend a full day across the two main offices Not less than five business days prior to each of Touchstone Innovations, receiving detailed scheduled Board meeting, every member of the presentations from each of the Touchstone Chief Board receives detailed Board packs, which include Executive Officer, the Touchstone Chief Investment an agenda based upon the schedule of matters Officer and the Managing Director of Imperial reserved for its approval along with appropriate Innovations on the Touchstone Innovations business reports and briefing papers, save in respect of and its strategy, its key assets and the workings of meetings called on short notice or where late papers the Imperial Innovations Technology Transfer Office.
are permitted to be included with the consent of the This enabled each member of the Board to gain a Chairman.
If a director is unable to attend a meeting proper insight into, and ask questions of the previous due to exceptional circumstances, he or she will executive directors of, the business of Touchstone still receive the supporting papers and will usually Innovations.
discuss any matters he or she wishes to raise with the Chairman in advance of the meeting.
The Company The Board intends to reinstate its annual strategy Secretary will at all times facilitate access to Board days in October 2018 to provide an opportunity meetings by electronic means videoconference, for all Directors, and particularly the Non-executive telephone conference or other equivalent methods Directors, to reflect on the first 12 months of the to ensure maximum attendance at Board meetings Group and Touchstone Innovations operating as a throughout the year for all Executive and Noncombined Group: to ensure that the strategy of the executive Directors.
combined Group is on course: to discuss medium and longer term strategic objectives, and the key drivers The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial underpinning these: and to review the combined Officer, Company Secretary and Managing Partners Groups risk framework and risk appetite, including of the Life Sciences and Technology Partnerships considering the major risks facing the combined previously the heads of two of the four sectors work Group and its strategy and how to assess, manage, together to ensure that the Directors receive relevant mitigate and or monitor the same.
information to enable them to discharge their duties and that such information is accurate, timely and The schedule of Board and Committee meetings each clear.
This information includes monthly management year is, so far as is possible, determined before the accounts containing an analysis of performance commencement of that year and all Directors or, if against budget and other forecasts, as well as appropriate, all Committee members are expected to monthly reports from each of the Life Sciences and attend each meeting.
Board meetings are often split Technology Partnerships.
Additional information over two days to ensure sufficient time is allocated for is provided as appropriate or if requested.
At each the business of the Committees and the Board and meeting, the Board receives information, reports and that full engagement is possible across all meetings presentations from the Chief Executive Officer, the from those in attendance.
Further, such scheduling other Executive Directors and, by invitation, other allowed for more in-depth engagement between the members of senior management, as required.
Going Non-executive Directors and the Executive Directors forward, given their attendance as observers from and other staff of the Group outside of the formally February 2018, the Board will also receive a report scheduled meetings.
direct from each of Managing Partner, Life Sciences and Managing Partner, Technology.
This ensures Supplementary meetings of the Board and or the that all Directors are aware of, and are in a position Committees are held as and when necessary in to monitor effectively, the overall performance of response to business needs.
In addition, the Board the Group, its development and implementation of including both Executive and Non-executive strategy, and its management of risk.
Directors met for two formal dinners and the Chairman and the Non-executive Directors met Any matter requiring a decision by the Board is without the presence of the Executive Directors once supported by a paper analysing the relevant aspects during the year.
of the proposal including costs, benefits, potential risks involved and proposed executive management action and recommendation.
72 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Our Governance Overview Board and committee attendance The following table shows the attendance of Directors at meetings of the Board, Audit and Risk, Remuneration and Nomination Committees during the year: SCHEDULED AUDIT REMUNERATION NOMINATION BOARD MEETINGS COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE 1 Mike Humphrey Alan Aubrey 2 Mike Townend 1 Greg Smith 1 David Baynes Jonathan Brooks Doug Liversidge Prof. Lynn Gladden 3 Dr Elaine Sullivan 4 Prof. David Begg 1 Mike Humphrey attended the Audit Committee as an observer.
2 Mr Townend did not attend the board meeting held in July 2017 due to a combination of travel commitments in connection with a business trip to the US and the Board meeting being brought forward at short notice in connection with the Touchstone transaction 3 Including one Board meeting attendance by telephone.
4 Appointed to the Board on 18 October 2017 KEY Attended Did not attend 73 Stock Code: IPO www.
com 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Corporate governance statement CONTINUED management and a presentation from them on their Directors conflicts of interest businesses.
In addition, the Company facilitates Each director has a statutory duty under the sessions as appropriate with the Groups advisers, Companies Act 2006 the CA 2006 to avoid a in particular its sponsor Numis Securities Limited, situation in which he or she has, or can have, a direct as well as with appropriate external governance or indirect interest that conflicts or may potentially specialists, to ensure that any new directors are fully conflict with the interests of the Company.
This duty aware of and understand their responsibilities and is in addition to the continuing duty that a director obligations as a director of a FTSE 250 company and owes to the Company to disclose to the Board any of the governance and legislative framework within transaction or arrangement under consideration by which they must operate.
the Company in which he or she is interested.
The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board The content of the induction process is regularly reto authorise conflicts or potential conflicts of interest.
evaluated by the Board to ensure it remains tailored to the needs of the business of the Group and the The Board has established procedures for managing specific profile of any incoming candidate.
Following and, where appropriate, authorising any such conflicts the completion of an induction process for a new or potential conflicts of interest.
It is a recurring director, the Company Secretary will seek feedback agenda item at all Board meetings and this gives the from the relevant incoming director to assist with this directors the opportunity to raise at the beginning of refreshing of induction processes.
every Board meeting any actual or potential conflict of interests that they may have on the matters to be Following his appointment to the Board in October discussed, or to update the Board on any change to a 2017 but given his existing in depth knowledge of previous conflict of interest already declared.
both the Touchstone side of the combined Group and its portfolio companies as well as his understanding In deciding whether to authorise any conflict, the of the combined Groups business of commercialising directors must have regard to their general duties science having sat as a non-executive director of under the CA 2006 and their overriding obligation to Touchstone Innovations plc since 20 March 2012, an act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most abbreviated induction programme is currently being likely to promote the Companys success.
In addition, formulated with Professor David Begg to enable him the directors are able to impose limits or conditions to familiarise himself with the key assets on the IP when giving authorisation to a conflict or potential Group side of the combined business, as well as its conflict of interest if they think this is appropriate.
The international and regulated businesses.
authorisation of any conflict matter, and the terms On an ongoing basis for all Directors, the Company of any authorisation, may be reviewed by the Board Secretary arranges for an external governance at any time.
The Board believes that the procedures specialist to attend one Board meeting annually to established to deal with conflicts of interest are present on the key corporate governance changes operating effectively.
over the previous 12 months and to signpost expected Induction, awareness and developments going forwards.
In addition, the Board are kept updated on key legislative changes development affecting the Group and how the Group is ensuring its A comprehensive induction process is in place compliance, including most recently, presentations on for new directors.
The programme is tailored to the preparatory work being undertaken by the Group the needs of each individual director and agreed in advance of the implementation of the General Data with him or her so that he or she can gain a better Protection Regulation GDPR and the work being understanding of the Group and its businesses.
This done in response to the introduction of the corporate process includes an overview of the Group and its criminal offences in relation to the failure to prevent businesses, structure, functions and strategic aims: facilitation of tax evasion.
training on key legal matters relevant to the Group and its policies such as matters relevant to AntiIn order to ensure that Directors continue to further Bribery and Whistleblowing policies and procedures, their understanding of the issues facing the Group, site visits to the Groups head office in London and a the Chairman and Non-executive Directors are number of the Groups portfolio companies, including, encouraged to continue to visit all of the Groups where possible, at least one or more within the offices, its portfolio companies and its partner Groups top ten holdings by value, which will include universities.
Throughout 2018, it is anticipated that as a minimum meeting with such companies at least one of the Groups Board meetings or its 74 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Our Governance Overview strategy day s will be held off-site and a day where The Group undertook an externally facilitated the Non-executive Directors receive presentations process of review for the year ended 31 December from management teams of a number of the Groups 2015 and so its next external review will be due portfolio companies has been arranged to further this towards the end of 2018.
Accordingly, the review for objective.
In addition, the Board is also exposed to the year ended 31 December 2017 the 2017 2018 the early-stage opportunities in which the Group has Effectiveness Review was conducted internally by invested through presentations at Board meetings by the Company Secretary, with support from Deloitte relevant members of the Groups staff.
In 2018, it is LLP on a limited scope basis.
Deloitte LLP has no intended that further presentations will be provided connection to the Group other than the provision of on a rolling basis by members of the newly created ad-hoc advice to the Remuneration Committee and Life Sciences and Technology Partnerships in place the undertaking of prior Board evaluation activities.
of the sector heads, as well as on the Groups This limited scope of engagement with Deloitte LLP sourcing strategy, and incorporated into the Board for the 2017 2018 Effectiveness Review comprised: agenda in order to continue to update the Board on y The distribution of an on-line internal survey for progress, to enhance the awareness of the Board as the purposes of assessing Board and Committee to how the Group operates on a day-to-day basis and effectiveness, and including case studies around explain how such functions assist in the execution of the Groups fundraising, its commencement of the Groups core strategy of systematically helping business in Australasia and its combination with create, build and support outstanding intellectual Touchstone Innovations plc: and property-based businesses.
y The completion of an analysis of the online survey As a further aspect of their ongoing development, data and collation of those results, reporting to the each director also receives feedback on his or her Company Secretary on the top-line findings.
performance following the Boards performance evaluation in each year and the Chairman reviews The anonymity of all respondents was ensured and agrees with each director their training and throughout the process in order to encourage an development needs for the year ahead.
Access to open and frank exchange of views.
The results were training and development opportunities, including collated into a report by Deloitte and shared with the those relevant to the Non-executive Directors Board in February 2018, where the five areas which membership on the Boards Committees, is facilitated had scored lowest in the survey, as well as specific through the Company Secretary.
Details relating to comments which had been made, were debated by the assessment of the Boards performance are set the Board and certain actions were identified to be out below.
taken forward as follows: y Deloitte LLP are to provide some guidance on Board effectiveness and what other company boards do by way of setting performance evaluation themselves performance specific goals distinct from the organisational goals to enable the Board In line with best practice under the Code a to debate this further and settle on any such performance evaluation of the Board, its Committees appropriate goals for itself: and and individual directors is conducted annually to ensure that Board performance continues to be y The Company Secretary is to follow up further with effective, that each of the directors demonstrates the Chairman and the Non-executive Directors to commitment to his or her respective role and discuss and agree what changes and or additions has sufficient time to meet their commitment to they wish to see to the Board meeting agenda the Group.
Further, the Code requires FTSE 350 and papers and what specific reports they wish companies to have an externally facilitated evaluation to receive at Board meetings on the combined at least every three years.
business going forward and or on each of the companies in the enlarged portfolio, from whom and the frequency of such reports.
com 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Corporate governance statement CONTINUED As part of its debate, the Board considered the merits Director rotation and independence of holding a mini-strategy day in the first 6 months of The Nomination Committee and the Company 2018: however, it was agreed that, in order to enable Secretary have agreed a standardised rotation the integrated business to properly bed down, it was schedule for each of the Non-executive Directors prudent to wait until its annual strategy day s in including the Chairman, with each being appointed October 2018. for an initial three year term pursuant to the terms Finally, the Board considered the implementation of of their respective letters of appointment: such some of the findings of the 2016 2017 review and initial three year team is then subject to renewal for noted the following: subsequent three year term s and, other than the Chairman, to a maximum of three rolling three year y In response to feedback regarding individual terms in order to maintain his or her independence director assessments, an updated format was used from a governance perspective in accordance with this year which focuses on four key areas: board the Code.
There is currently no maximum term on skills, board behaviours, governance and specific the Chairmans appointment but the Nomination roles of the Board and its members: and Committee has agreed to keep this under review in y In response to a request from Board members for light of possible amendments to the Code currently opportunities to engage more fully with the Groups being consulted upon over the next 12 months.
portfolio companies, a day has been scheduled in April 2018 for the Non-executive Directors to During 2017, the second rolling three year terms of undertake site visits of a number of portfolio each of the tenures of Mike Humphrey and Jonathan companies and to meet and receive presentations Brooks were up for further renewal and the Board from members of their management teams.
approved each of the same upon recommendation of the Nomination Committee to this effect.
Overall, it was concluded that the Board continues to work effectively, with demonstrable improvements Committees of the Board being identified from the implementation of the The composition of the three Committees of the Board findings of the previous years review.
and the attendance of the members throughout the year is set out in the table on page 73.
Director performance assessment and review Remuneration and Audit and In addition to the 2017 2018 Effectiveness Review, Risk Committees the Non-executive Directors, led by the Senior Separate reports on the role, composition, Independent Director, appraised the Chairmans responsibilities and operation of the Remuneration performance following which the Senior Independent Committee and the Audit and Risk Committee Director provided feedback to the Chairman.
are set out on pages 80 to 99 and pages 100 to Further, the performance of each of the Non- 104 respectively.
executive Directors on the Board is reviewed by the Nomination Committee Chairman with support from the Company Secretary, the performance of the Chief Executive Officer The Nomination Committee leads the process is reviewed by the Chairman and the operational for Board appointments and the re-election and performance of the other Executive Directors is succession of directors and the Chairman.
Its key reviewed by the Chief Executive Officer as part objective is to ensure that the Board comprises of the annual appraisal process.
In addition to the individuals with the necessary skills, knowledge and aforementioned annual reviews, the performance experience to ensure that the Board is effective in of the Executive Directors is reviewed by the Board discharging its duties.
on an ongoing basis, as deemed necessary, in the It is responsible for making recommendations to the absence of the Executive Director under review, in Board concerning the composition and skills of the order to avoid a conflict of interest.
Board including any changes considered necessary in the identification and nomination of new directors, the reappointment of existing directors and the appointment of members to the Boards Committees.
It also assesses the roles of the existing directors in office to ensure there continues to be a balanced Board in terms of skills, knowledge, experience and 76 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Our Governance Overview diversity.
Additionally, the Nomination Committee Succession Planning reviews the senior leadership needs of the Group The Nomination Committee recognises that putting which will enable it to compete effectively in the in place a robust succession planning framework marketplace.
The Nomination Committee also advises is a key factor in ensuring the ongoing, long term the Board on succession planning for Executive success of the business of the Group: in mitigating Director appointments although the Board as a whole the risk of any unforeseen circumstances: and in is responsible for succession generally.
ensuring that changes in Board or senior executive The Committee is chaired by Mike Humphrey.
Its positions are effectively managed and do not other members, as at 31 December 2017, were cause significant disruption to the Group.
In parallel Jonathan Brooks, Professor Lynn Gladden, Professor to succession planning at the Board and senior David Begg and Dr Elaine Sullivan, ensuring a executive level, developing internal talent at all levels majority of independent Non-executive Directors within the Group remains a continuous process.
The as prescribed by the Code.
To ensure compliance Nomination Committee is responsible for overseeing with the provisions of the Code, the independence that suitable leadership and talent development plans of the Committee and to avoid any potential and processes are in place to maximise the potential conflicts of interest, the Committee has agreed of the Groups employees and that the Group has that Mike Humphrey will not chair any meetings of effective recruitment policies to continue to attract the Committee dealing with the appointment of a and retain talented employees.
successor to the chairmanship of the Group.
During 2017, the Groups HR Director continued to The Nomination Committee meets as and when work with the Nomination Committee to further required, or as requested by the Board, and met advance the Groups approach to succession planning twice during 2017.
The attendance by each member although it was acknowledged at the Committees of the Committee at the meetings during 2017 is meeting in December 2017 that the formalised plan set out on page 73.
The Nomination Committee which had been prepared in 2016 by the Groups recommended the appointment of Professor David HR Director in consultation with the Chairman, Begg as an additional Non-executive Director during the Groups Chief Executive Officer, and Company the year in connection with the Groups combination Secretary would require a detailed review and with Touchstone Innovations.
The Committee did not updating to reflect the Board and senior management appoint an external search consultancy or use open structure of the combined Group following the advertising in connection with this Non-executive role Touchstone Innovations combination.
It is intended as it saw no benefit in doing so, given its desire for that this review work will be commenced in March the Board to have the advantage of Professor Beggs 2018, led by the Groups HR Director in consultation personal knowledge of the Touchstone business with the Chairman and others as necessary subject to and its portfolio following the completion of the the succession matter in question.
combination as explained earlier under Board size In addition, the Committee together with the Groups and composition.
HR Director is responsible for developing and In connection with any future appointments to the monitoring the Groups own internal talent pipeline.
Board, the Committee will continue to adopt a formal, Whilst it is the opinion of the Committee that sound rigorous and transparent procedure, including giving systems and procedures are already in place to full consideration to the balance, skills, knowledge, ensure the development of the Groups employees independence and diversity including gender at all levels of the organisation, the Committee along on the Board in advance of any new search for a with the Executive Directors will continue to oversee director to ensure a suitable balance is maintained further enhancement of the same for the staff of the see paragraph headed Diversity on page 69 for a enlarged Group during 2018, with support from the further explanation of the considerations made by HR Director and her team.
the Committee in this regard.
Consideration will also always be given to whether identified candidates have enough time available to devote to the role.
com 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Corporate governance statement CONTINUED and other strategic collaborations and relationships.
Internal control In order to ensure the effective facilitation of this The Board fully recognises the importance of the review the Board receives a formal presentation and Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on Risk update from the Groups Managing Director, New Management, Internal Control and Related Financial Business and Partnerships Team annually alongside and Business Reporting.
The Groups internal controls, regular reporting within the regular Board papers on which are Group-wide and were in place during the a rolling agenda basis.
whole of 2017, were reviewed by the Board and were considered to be effective throughout the year ended The Board also reviews equity investments on a 31 December 2017. quarterly basis, although performance of specific investments may be reviewed more frequently if The Board is responsible for establishing and deemed appropriate dependent on their relative size monitoring internal control systems and for reviewing as regards the aggregate portfolio as a whole.
the effectiveness of these systems.
The Board views the effective operation of a rigorous system of The Board maintains an up-to-date Register of Risks internal control as critical to the success of the Group.
setting out mitigations in place in each case.
The However, it recognises that such systems can provide key risks and uncertainties faced by the Group, as only reasonable and not absolute assurance against well as the relevant mitigations, are set out on pages material misstatement or loss.
Were more than one of the risks to occur the Groups internal control system, all of which have together, the overall impact on the Group may been in place during the financial year and are up be compounded.
to the date when these financial statements were Information and financial approved, are as follows: reporting systems Control environment and procedures The Group evaluates and manages significant The Group has a clear organisational structure with risks associated with the process for preparing defined responsibilities and accountabilities.
It adopts consolidated accounts by having in place systems the highest values surrounding quality, integrity and controls that ensure adequate accounting and ethics, and these values are documented records are maintained and transactions are recorded and communicated clearly throughout the whole accurately and fairly to permit the preparation of organisation.
financial statements in accordance with IFRS.
The Board approves the annual operating budgets and Detailed written policies and procedures have been receives details of actual performance measured established covering key operating and compliance against the budget each month.
These are reviewed and updated at least annually by the Board.
The Board considers that the Relations with shareholders controls have been effective for the year ended 31 The Company is committed to a continuous dialogue December 2017. with shareholders as it believes that it is essential Identification and evaluation of to ensure amongst its shareholders a greater understanding of, and confidence in, the short, principal risks and uncertainties medium and longer term strategy of the Group and The operations of the Group and the implementation in the Boards ability to oversee its implementation.
of its objectives and strategy are subject to a number It is the responsibility of the Board as a whole to of key risks and uncertainties.
The Board actively ensure that a satisfactory dialogue takes place.
The identifies and evaluates the risks inherent in the Boards primary shareholder contact is through the business, formally reviews these on at least an annual Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief basis or as market or business developments require Investment Officer, the Chief Operating Officer and and ensures that appropriate controls and procedures the Chief Financial Officer.
The Boards primary are in place to monitor and, where possible, mitigate contact with the limited partners and advisory boards these risks.
Specifically, all decisions relating to of its managed funds is through the Chief Investment strategic partnerships and other collaborations and Officer and the Chief Executive Officer.
The Senior strategic acquisitions and disposals entered into Independent Director and other Directors make by the Group are reserved for the Boards review themselves available, as appropriate, for contact and approval.
The Board formally reviews the with major shareholders and other stakeholders performance of the Groups university partnerships in order to understand their issues and concerns.
78 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Our Go Our Gov vernanc ernance e C Ov ommitt erview ee Reports Where considered appropriate, major institutional Political expenditure shareholders are consulted on significant changes Although it is the Boards policy not to incur political to the Board and the structure of the Executive expenditure or otherwise make cash contributions to Directors remuneration.
In addition, during 2017, the political parties, and it has no intention of changing Executives Directors and the Chairman had various that policy, the CA 2006 is very broadly drafted in dialogue with major shareholders in connection with this area and the Board has raised a concern that it the Touchstone combination in order to develop an may include activities such as funding conferences or understanding of their views.
These views were then supporting certain bodies involved in policy review communicated to the Board as a whole so they could and law reform.
Accordingly, at the AGM held on 10 be considered during the Board discussions and May 2017 as per previous AGMs, the shareholders deliberations in connection with the transaction.
passed a resolution on a precautionary basis to The Company uses the Annual General Meeting authorise the Group to incur political expenditure as AGM as an opportunity to communicate with its defined in Section 365 of CA 2006 not exceeding shareholders.
Notice of the AGM, which will be held 50,000 in total at any time from 10 May 2017 up to at 10.30am on 18 June 2018 at IP Group plc, The the conclusion of the 2018 AGM.
The Board intends Walbrook Building, 25 Walbrook, London, EC4N 8AF to seek renewed authority for the Group to incur is enclosed with this report.
In line with the Code, the political expenditure of not more than 50,000 in total Notice of AGM will be sent to shareholders at least at the Companys 2018 AGM, to be held on 18 June 20 working days before the meeting.
Details of the 2018, which they might otherwise be prohibited from resolutions and the explanatory notes thereto are making or incurring under the terms of CA 2006. included with the Notice.
To ensure compliance with Going concern the Code, the Board proposes separate resolutions for each issue and proxy forms allow shareholders The Directors confirm that they have a reasonable who are unable to attend the AGM to vote for or expectation that the Group will have adequate against or to withhold their vote on each resolution.
resources to continue in operational existence for The results of all proxy voting are published on the the foreseeable future and accordingly they continue Groups website after the meeting and declared at to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the the meeting itself to those shareholders who attend.
Shareholders who attend the AGM will have the ON BEHALF OF THE BOARD opportunity to ask questions and all directors are expected to be available to take questions.
MIKE HUMPHREY CHAIRMAN The Groups website www.
com is the primary source of information on the Group.
The 29 March 2018 website includes an overview of the activities of the Group: details of its portfolio companies, and its key university partnerships and other strategic collaborations: and details of all recent Group and portfolio announcements.
