Report of the audit & risk committee 2017 represented a particularly busy year for the Audit and Risk Committee following the completion of the acquisition of Parkwalk Advisors in the first quarter, the expansion into Australia and associated fundraising in the summer and the major acquisition of Touchstone Innovations Plc in the latter half of the year.
JONATHAN BROOKS CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE the year under review, and thereafter, that the Audit Audit and Risk Committee ARC or and Risk Committee as a whole has competence the Committee responsibilities relevant to the sector in which the company operates.
The Committee monitors the integrity of the financial Exceptionally, with the additional work resulting statements of the Group, and reviews all proposed from the acquisition of Touchstone Innovations plc annual and half-yearly results announcements in 2017, the Committee met five times during the to be made by the Group with consideration year.
All of the meetings were attended by the four being given to any significant financial reporting independent Non-executive Directors.
The members judgements contained in them.
The Committee of the Committee for the entire year were Professor also advises the Board on whether it believes the Lynn Gladden, Dr Elaine Sullivan and Doug Liversidge annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is with myself as Chair.
Doug Liversidge retired from the fair, balanced and understandable and provides the Committee and the Board following our final meeting information necessary for shareholders to assess in December and was replaced by Professor David the Companys performance, business model and Begg who joined the IP Group board in November strategy.
The Committee also considers internal 2017 and who attended the meeting in December as controls, compliance with legal requirements, an Observer.
accounting standards and the Listing, Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct The Groups Chairman, Chief Financial Officer, Group Authority, and also reviews any proposed change Financial Controller, and the external auditor were in accounting policies and any recommendations also invited to attend all of the meetings and did so.
from the Groups Auditor regarding improvements At the end of each of the meetings, the Committee to internal controls and the adequacy of resources met with the auditor without any members of the within the Groups finance function.
Finally, the executive management team being present.
Committee takes responsibility on behalf of the Board for the review of risk management and controls within Activities during the year the Group, as well as conducting an annual robust The main activities of the Committee during 2017 can assessment of these.
be seen by referring to the summary agenda items in the table overleaf.
During 2017 this was clearly A full copy of the Committees Terms of Reference divided between matters of financial oversight and is available from the Companys website at www.
those concerned with the management of risk.
was an extremely active year for the Committee Committee membership with the completion of the acquisition of Parkwalk Advisors in early 2017, the expansion into Australia The Committee comprises four independent nonand associated fund-raising in the summer and executive directors, with myself as Chair.
As the Chair the acquisition of Touchstone Innovations which of the Committee, I am deemed by the Board to eventually completed in November.
have recent and relevant financial experience, being a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants and having held senior financial positions in my career.
The Board is satisfied that for 100 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Our Go Our Gov vernanc ernance e C Committ ommittee R ee reports eports not completed a funding round within the previous Valuation of assets and liabilities year and a number were only held by a small number This remains the key audit risk for the Group, and of investors, thus limiting the ability to validate at each reporting event the Audit & Risk Committee the carrying values by reference to recent funding discusses with management and the auditor rounds or an extensive shareholder base.
As a result, the approach that has been taken in assessing all an extensive and detailed analysis was undertaken, key estimates.
backed up, where necessary, with independent valuation work by third parties and discussions with The most material area of judgement in the financial KPMG.
At the end of this process it was decided that statements has always related to the valuation of 12 of these investments should be written down and the unquoted equity investments, and the acquisition one should be written up, by an aggregate value of of Touchstone in November 2017 made this task 112.5m, or 24.4%, out of a total Touchstone portfolio more difficult.
With respect to the pre-Touchstone unquoted At year end the fair value of the Groups intangible portfolio, the Committee was able to satisfy itself that assets was 182.3m and goodwill was 172.1m, the portfolio valuations were materially correct after compared with 62.2m and 57.1m respectively at the considering findings from the year end valuations end of 2016.
The goodwill balance is tested annually review meeting, taken together with additional for impairment.
The intangible assets are reviewed valuation materials including written reports on the for impairment indicators and impairment tests are Groups portfolio companies.
However, the inclusion performed if any indicators are noted.
of the unquoted portfolio from Touchstone was more difficult since several of its unquoted investments had Summary agendas for the Audit & Risk Committee meetings in 2017 Primarily audit-focused business Primarily risk-focused business February y Full year financial statements and y Principal risks, risk appetite and controls 2017 discussions with auditor: significant y Review and division of annual agenda of accounting judgements Audit & Risk Committee y Fair, balanced and understandable review y Long term viability statement & going of Annual Report concern review for 2016 financial y Audit & Risk Committee effectiveness statements review y Third party review of cyber security y Third party review of US Operations y Risk Council terms of reference approval May 2017 y Planning of internal audit projects y Risk Council update y Half year results planning y Review of Group Treasury Policy y Update on new accounting system y Prevention of facilitation of tax evasion y Auditor effectiveness review y External review of FCA-authorised business controls including presentation y Acquisition accounting for Parkwalk by Parkwalk y Consideration of the requirement for a formal internal audit function July 2017 y Half year financial statements and review y Risk Council update with auditor of significant accounting y Ratification of provision of non-audit judgements services by auditor in respect of y Financial Positions and Prospects Touchstone acquisition Procedures related to potential Touchstone acquisition 101 Stock Code: IPO www.
com 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Report of the audit & risk committee CONTINUED Primarily audit-focused business Primarily risk-focused business October y Review of auditors 2017 audit planning y Risk register update 2017 document to include Touchstone y Touchstone integration plan y Australian business update y Controls against facilitation of tax evasion y Cyber security update y Review of D&O and PI insurances y Anti-bribery update y Whistleblowing policy: annual review of process December y KPMG Audit planning y Risk Council update: integration risks 2017 y Asset valuation methodology post y GDPR Update Touchstone acquisition y Australian regulated activities update y Accounting impact of Touchstone acquisition y Long term viability statement paper y Annual review of Committee rolling agenda y Annual review of Committee terms of reference significant risks it faces, the progress made against Regulatory Compliance its strategic objectives and the progress made by, Ensuring compliance for FCA regulated businesses and changes in fair value of, its portfolio companies also represents an important control risk from the during the year.
Ongoing internal reviews are conducted through the use of a compliance Going Concern and monitoring programme and an annual external Long Term Viability evaluation is also conducted by a specialist firm.
Annually, the Committee considers the going concern This was made more complex with the addition of principle on which the financial statements are the Parkwalk Advisors business in January and one prepared and also considers and approves the long regulated entity within the Touchstone group similar term viability review prepared by management.
As a to IP Capital in October, but during the 2017 review, business which seeks to establish and invest in new no specific issues were identified.
ventures as well as support existing investments Review of Annual Report and with further capital, the business model is currently inherently cash-consuming.
With a closing cash Accounts and Half-yearly Report balance in 2017 of 326.3m the Group has sufficient The Committee carried out a thorough review of cash reserves to continue to provide capital to the Groups 2017 Annual Report and Accounts its existing portfolio and to create and fund new and its 2017 Half-yearly Report resulting in the businesses at a similar rate to previous years for at recommendation of both for approval by the Board.
least two years assuming broadly similar levels of net In carrying out its review, the Committee gave operating expenditure and portfolio realisations.
particular consideration to whether the Annual The Committee, as in previous years, decided that the Report, taken as a whole, was fair, balanced and long term viability of the Group remained principally understandable, concluding that it was.
It did this related to a number of factors.
These included the primarily through consideration of the reporting scaling of the business across different territories, of the Groups business model and strategy, the changes in the ability to raise further capital, different competitive landscape in which it operates, the 102 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Our Go Our Gov vernanc ernance e C Committ ommittee R ee reports eports outcomes following an Oxford Nanopore exit Cyber Security and GDPR event, with the integration of the former Touchstone Recognising the increasing importance of this business a new risk factor to consider.
The impact subject following numerous well-publicised cyberof these on each of a series of forecast scenarios security breaches suffered by other businesses, was assessed.
In the scenario with significant the Group continued to invest more time and downside, where no further funding was available effort in improving its cyber security during 2017. to the Group for the next three years, together with Cyber security, a standing agenda item for the a halving in value of the entire portfolio, assuming a Committee, was discussed twice during the year.
A corresponding reduction in overheads, the business review of the Groups cybersecurity practices and remained viable for three years.
In the light of this, procedures was carried out by Nettitude Limited both the Committee and the wider Board came to following their review in 2016 and it was noted that the conclusion that the viability period should not be progress continued to be made.
In addition, the greater than three years.
Group continued to work with PwC and others to ensure compliance with the General Data Protection Risk and internal controls Regulation which will come into force in May 2018.
The key elements of the Groups internal control framework and procedures are set out on page 78.
Internal audit The principal risks the Group faces are set out The Group does not maintain a separate internal on pages 48 to 53.
During the year, the Audit audit function.
This is principally due to the size Committee devoted part of each meeting to items of the Group where close control over operations concerning risk and its management.
With the is exercised by a small number of executives.
The expansion in Australia combined with the acquisition Audit and Risk Committee currently considers the of Touchstone Innovations, the Committee felt that outsourced provision of internal audit work as both scalability, integration and management bandwidth more efficient and cost-effective than having its own issues were now of much greater importance.
However, the Audit and One important change in the management of risk was Risk Committee does review the need to have its own the decision in 2016 to establish a Risk Council, whose separate internal audit function each year.
permanent members would be the Chief Financial The Audit and Risk Committee has developed a Officer, Company Secretary and Group Financial framework to gain assurance over the system Controller, with other executives and management of internal financial and operational controls.
from across the business attending periodically This comprises: during the year as necessary.
In establishing the y A risk assessment performed by operational Risk Council the purpose was to further formalise management and the Board to identify key areas managements processes for identifying group-wide for assurance.
risks, the controls in place to mitigate such risks and to assess the design and effectiveness of such y An annual assessment by the Audit and Risk internal controls, as well as to disseminate and embed Committee of the whole system of internal established practices consistently across the Group.
The Risk Council met six times during its first full During 2017, the principal internal audit project year of operation, and reported to the Committee undertaken was a review of the Groups business following each meeting.
The Committee engaged a third party professional services firm, PwC, to examine the Whistleblowing Policy risk profile of the US business, ensure that it was There is a formal whistleblowing policy which has compliant with all local laws and regulations and been communicated to employees.
This policy had appropriate financial controls and operational provides information on the process to follow in the systems.
PwC concluded that the systems and event that any employee feels it is appropriate to processes were at a higher level than they might have make a disclosure.
The Audit Committee is satisfied expected and that overall the business was being that the policy provides an adequate basis for operated within Group policies.
employees to make representations in confidence to the Group and for appropriate and proportionate investigations.
com 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Report of the audit & risk committee CONTINUED External audit Auditor Independence The effectiveness of the external audit process is A formal statement of independence is received from dependent on appropriate risk identification.
In the auditor each year and the Board and the Audit December, the Committee discussed the Auditors Committee are satisfied that the independence of the audit plan for 2017.
This included a summary of auditor has been maintained.
the proposed audit scope and a summary of what Auditor Effectiveness the Auditor considered to be the most significant financial reporting risks facing the Group together The Committee will complete its formal assessment with the Auditors proposed audit approach to these of the effectiveness of the Groups external auditor significant risk areas.
The main areas of audit focus following the completion of the 2017 audit cycle and for the year were the valuation of investments in will report on this assessment in the 2018 annual the newly acquired unquoted companies within the report.
With respect to the 2016 audit, the Committee former Touchstone portfolio and the corresponding formally considered this at its May 2017 meeting and, goodwill arising from these, the valuation of Istesso as in the previous year, decided that the substantive Limited, following its fide-consolidation from the IP and detailed approach taken by the auditor, Jon Mills Group, and as in previous years, the valuation of of KPMG, was entirely appropriate and effective.
As Oxford Nanopore Technologies Limited.
in the previous year, the vast majority of the Groups assets were reviewed as part of the audit, and once Appointment and Independence again there was particular emphasis on the valuation The Audit Committee advises the Board on the of Oxford Nanopore which continued to represent appointment of the external auditor and on its such an important part of the Groups unquoted remuneration both for audit and non-audit work portfolio.
Specialist corporate finance staff were and discusses the nature, scope and results of the used for some of the valuation work and overall, audit with the external auditor.
The Committee the auditors risk-based approach drew on both his keeps under review the cost-effectiveness and the knowledge of the business and the wider economic independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
Controls in place to ensure this include monitoring I will be available at the AGM to answer any questions the independence and effectiveness of the audit, about the Committees work.
implementing a policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services, and JONATHAN BROOKS CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE a review of the scope of the audit and fee and performance of the external auditor.
29 March 2018 Non-Audit Work The Audit Committee approves all fees paid to the auditor for non-audit work.
In 2017 the Groups Auditor, KPMG LLP carried out a non-audit engagement to perform in respect of the acquisition of Touchstone Innovations plc.
Given the natural overlap between this work and the financial audit of the groups results, the Committee judged KPMG the most effective party to perform this work.
In other matters, the Committee prefers to engage other firms to perform consulting engagements to ensure that the independence of the Auditor is not compromised and during 2017 engaged the services of BDO, PwC and Deloitte.
An analysis of audit and non-audit fees is provided in note 6 to the financial statements on page 136.
104 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine
