STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 61 Audit Committee Report I am pleased to present to you the Report of the Audit Committee for 2017.
As usual, and in accordance with Provision C. 3.4 of the Governance Code, the Board asked the Audit Committee to advise it as to whether the Annual Report and Accounts are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
In providing our advice which is set out under Financial Reporting on page 65 we were mindful of ensuring that the Annual Report and Accounts are read in the context of the current circumstances facing the Company.
This report sets out the following information: The composition of the Audit Committee and the balance of skills and experience represented on it.
Key estimates and critical judgements exercised by the Committee.
Ferrexpos systems of internal controls and risk management.
The assessment of the external auditors independence and effectiveness.
The fair, balanced and understandable assessment.
Our Viability Statement is set out in the Strategic Report on page 40.
During the year, the Audit Committee met four times and reviewed the Annual Report and associated preliminary yearend results and the interim results, focusing on key areas of judgement and complexity and accounting policies.
The internal control and risk management procedures at Ferrexpo are set out later in this report and the main risks themselves are on pages 34 to 39 of the Strategic Report.
Throughout the year, the Committee has robustly assessed the principal risks facing the business.
The significant issues and judgements considered by the Committee in respect of the 2017 Annual Report are set out on page 63.
Inconsidering these matters, the Committee took into account the regular financial and internal audit reports made to the Board throughout the year, as well as discussing the issues with management and the external auditors at intervals throughout the year.
Detailed disclosure is given in the relevant notes to the financial statements of the significant areas in which estimates and critical judgements had to be made.
In order to satisfy itself that the accounting for these issues was reasonable and appropriate, and that disclosure in the financial statements was suitable and clear in each case, the Committee reviewed the papers setting out the procedures followed by the auditors and the responses of management, and questioned and debated them with the CFO, the Group Financial Controller and, if relevant, operational management, and with the auditors at the Committees meetings.
These discussions were also informed by the Committee members own expertise, particularly with regard to the economic and financial situation in Ukraine and operating practice in other large mining companies.
At the end of this process, the Committee was satisfied with the accounting treatment and disclosure of each issue and with managements exercises of critical judgement as disclosed in Note4 on page 103.
Our auditors, Deloitte, were appointed at the AGM in May 2017, and to date we are satisfied with their performance, independence and objectivity.
We will conduct a more formal review when their first annual reporting cycle is complete.
MARY REILLY CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE 20 March 2018 Ferrexpo plc 2017 Annual Report & Accounts CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 62 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Membership and Meetings The Audit Committee currently comprises four independent Nonexecutive Directors: Mary Reilly Chairman of the Committee, Simon Lockett, Vitalii Lisovenko and Bert Nacken.
Oliver Baring also served on the Committee until November 2017.
All members of the Audit Committee and especially Bert Nacken with his long experience of the mining industry are considered to possess appropriate knowledge and skills relevant to the activities of the Group, and Mary Reilly is considered to have recent and relevant financial experience, including of accounts and auditing, due to her career as an audit partner with Deloitte LLP and her experience as a member of the audit committees of other companies.
The Audit Committee met on four occasions during 2017.
The attendance record of the Committee members is shown in the table on page 58.
In addition to its members, other individuals and external advisers, and the Chairman of the Board, may be invited to attend meetings of the Committee at the request of the Committee Chairman.
The Committee regularly meets the external auditors at the end of its scheduled meetings, without Executive Directors or management being present.
Activity During 2017 Key activities of the Audit Committee during 2017 are set out below.
Date Matters discussed Reviewed and approved, with input from Ernst & Young, the external auditors at the time, the Viability Statement for inclusion in March the 2016 Annual Report Reviewed impact on the accounts of the liquidation of Bank F&C Reviewed the valuation of lean and weathered ore stocks and confirmed the Groups intention to process it in due course Reviewed the Annual Report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 and concluded that they were fair, balanced and understandable, and the draft preliminary announcement and recommended Board approval of: Financial statements Audit Committee Report Internal controls disclosures Going concern assessment Reviewed Ernst & Youngs report on the 2016 financial statements and the management representation letter Reviewed risk register Reviewed community support donation disclosures, controls and audit reports Reviewed compliance report 2016 yearend review including review of external audit process and Ernst & Young management letter May Reviewed Deloittes planning report for 2017 interim and Annual Reports Reviewed the possible applicability of Ukrainian withholding tax to intragroup interest payments Reviewed risk register Reviewed community support donations and recommendations of Ernst & Young for improvements in the control environment Reviewed compliance report Internal audit update, including review of performance against plan and audit of Group compliance Review of halfyear results, including: July Discussing findings of Deloittes review of the results Financial statements Going concern assessment Reviewed Modern Slavery Act compliance statement Reviewed risk register Reviewed community support donations and progress on implementing administrative improvements at the charities Reviewed compliance report 2017 yearend planning November Review of Deloitte planning report External auditor fees proposal Reports from the external and internal auditors and Ferrexpos IT department on the impact of the cyber attack on Ukraine in June 2017, and on remedial action Internal audit update including progress against 2017 internal audit plan, approval of 2018 plan, and a review of whistleblowing line statistics Briefing on the Criminal Finances Act 2017 Reviewed risk register Reviewed community support donations including yearend audit plan and outstanding matters previously requested by the Board Reviewed compliance report Audit Committee performance evaluation taken at the Board meeting : the previously identified need for more frequent training and briefing on developments in regulation and practice had been addressed with a training session for the Committee in November.
No further needs had been identified in the 2017 evaluation Ferrexpo plc 2017 Annual Report & Accounts STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 63 Key Estimates and Critical Judgements The significant issues and judgements considered by the Committee in respect of the 2017 Annual Report are set out below.
Issues Judgements actions taken The Committee accepts managements estimates regarding the recoverability of these assets.
Taxation: recoverability of deferred tax assets Accounts Note12 Having considered the background to this matter and having kept it under review during the year, the Committee Taxation: tax legislation in Ukraine shares managements confidence that Ferrexpo will continue to be successful in defending any claims made by the Accounts Note12 Ukrainian authorities.
The Committee endorses the estimates underlying managements decision to capitalise US$22.7 million of Property, plant and equipment: preproduction stripping costs as at 31 December 2017. deferred stripping costs Accounts Note14 Property, plant and equipment: The Committee agrees that it is appropriate to assess the Groups assets for impairment on a single cash generating unit CGU basis.
determination of cashgenerating unit Accounts Note14 The Committee notes that stocks of lean and weathered ore have continued to increase, but accepts that it is still Inventories: lean and weathered the Groups intention to process them in due course.
ore Accounts Note17 The Committee supports managements view that the balance of the loans granted by the Group to its Ukrainian Share capital and reserves: net subsidiaries qualifies as net investment in its foreign operations.
investments in foreign operations Accounts Note32 Internal Control and Risk Management The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control, which includes risk management, and monitoring and reviewing its effectiveness.
The system of internal control is designed to identify, evaluate and manage significant risks associated with the achievement of the Groups objectives.
Because of the limitations inherent in any system of internal control, this system is designed to meet the Groups particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed, rather than eliminate risk altogether.
Consequently it can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The daytoday responsibility for managing risk and the maintenance of the Groups system of internal control is collectively assumed by the Executive Committee.
Key risk and control issues are reviewed regularly by the Executive Committee, Finance and Risk Management Committee FRMC, CSR Committee and Audit Committee.
On behalf of the Board, the Executive Committee and FRMC have established a process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
This process was followed throughout 2017 and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report.
The Group has also adopted a riskbased approach in establishing the Groups system of internal control and in reviewing its effectiveness.
To assist in managing key internal risks, it has established a number of Groupwide procedures, policies and standards and has set up a framework for reporting matters of significance.
Controls over Community Support Donations In 2017 Ferrexpo continued to support communities on a local and national basis see the section on social responsibility in the Chairmans Statement on page 10, the A Responsible Business section of the Strategic Report on pages 41 to 49, and Note7 to the financial statements on page 106.
Community support activities take place exclusively in Ukraine, and donations are made within a Boardapproved framework agreed annually at the time of setting the budget: they are subject to the internal control and approval limits applicable within the individual subsidiaries of the Group, which are set by the Board.
The Board exercises control of the local charitable spending via its CSR Committee, which oversees and directs these activities.
As in the prior year, the Group has continued to fund national charitable activities via Blooming Land, a charity established primarily to coordinate the Groups national CSR programme independently of Ferrexpo.
The Board has made progress in improving the control environment surrounding the fund and continues to do so.
In relation to Blooming Land, controls include: Board approval of the use of the relevant charity.
Board approval of the annual budgeted expenditure.
Board approval of disbursements on a bimonthly basis.
Confirmation by Blooming Land of application and use of funds for relevant community support purposes for each payment, typically US$500,000.
Confirmation by Blooming Land, its three subfunds and the subcontracted event managers, of compliance with relevant local and international legislation.
Consideration of relevant due diligence on the charities involved, including thirdparty checks on the relevant managers and funds.
Receipt and consideration of reporting by an independent firm of Ukrainian auditors on the financial statements of Blooming Land.
Reviewed reporting from the external auditor in relation to their procedures on CSR as part of their audit of the Group.
Verification of expenditures on a sample basis.
Ferrexpo plc 2017 Annual Report & Accounts CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 64 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED During 2017 the Board continued to receive reports from the funds concerning their activity, and has continued to exercise oversight to ensure that community support funds are applied as directed.
As part of its reporting, Blooming Land detailed 129 charitable events which took place in 83 locations relating to activities which consumed the majority of its funding.
As part of the control procedures, on a sample basis, Group employees attended four events and received reports and analysis of expenditure for ten events.
The relevant charitable activities are supported directly by the Groups subsidiary Ferrexpo Poltava Mining and approval, including compliance with local and taxation legislation, is confirmed at the local level via the relevant management board.
The controls in place have developed following the increase in the need for community support donations due to the political upheaval of four years ago.
Charities which operate independently of Ferrexpo are inherently more difficult to monitor and oversee, than the Groups own charitable funds.
However, these charities are a normal, efficient and appropriate channel for donations in Ukraine.
The Board is confident that the controls in place within the Group are appropriate.
Ferrexpo is a large employer in Ukraine and makes substantial community support donations.
The Board will continue to exercise close oversight of these and will, if necessary, further enhance controls during 2018.
Internal Controls General Key elements of the internal control and risk management system include: Regular review of risk and identification of key risks at the Executive Committee which are reviewed by the Audit Committee and by the Board.
The Executive Compliance Committee ECC, an executive subcommittee which meets regularly six times in 2017 is charged, on behalf of the Executive Committee or Audit Committee, as appropriate, with ensuring that systems and procedures are in place to comply with laws, regulations and ethical standards.
The ECC is attended by the Group Compliance Officer and, as necessary, by the local compliance officers from the operations, who present regular reports and ensure that the ECC is given prior warning of regulatory changes and their implications.
The ECC enquires into the ownership of potential suppliers deemed to be high risk, and oversees the management of conflicts of interests below Board level and general compliance activities including under the UK Bribery Act 2010, the Modern Slavery Act, the Criminal Finances Act, and the EU General Data Protection Regulation.
Clearly defined organisational and reporting structure and limits of authority for transaction and investment decisions, including any with related parties.
Clearly defined information and financial reporting systems, including regular forecasts and an annual budgeting process with reporting against key financial and operational milestones.
Investment appraisal underpinned by the budgetary process, where capital expenditure limits are applied to delegated authority limits.
The Investment Committee an executive subcommittee which meets as required in order to consider and approve capital expenditures within limits delegated by the Executive Committee and the Board.
A budgetary process and authorisation levels to regulate capital expenditure.
For expenditure beyond specified levels, detailed written proposals are submitted to the Investment and Executive Committees and then, if necessary, to the Board for approval.
The Finance and Risk Management Committee FRMC an executive subcommittee reviews financial information and management accounts, and meets regularly.
Clearly defined treasury policy details of which are given in Note27 to the financial statements on pages 130 to 136 monitored and applied in accordance with preset limits for investment and management of the Groups liquid resources, including a separate treasury function.
Internal audit by an inhouse auditor based in Ukraine see below who monitors, tests and improves internal controls operating within the Group at all levels and reports directly to the Chairman of the Audit Committee, and to the CFO for line management purposes.
A standard accounting manual is used by the finance teams throughout the Group, which ensures that information is gathered and presented in a consistent way that facilitates the production of the consolidated financial statements.
A framework of transaction and entitylevel controls to prevent and detect material error and loss.
Antifraud measures through an internal security department operating in the Groups key operating subsidiaries.
A whistleblowing policy is in place under which staff may in confidence, via an independent, secure website, raise concerns about financial or other impropriety, which are followed up by internal audit and reported on to the Audit Committee.
The Board, with assistance from the Audit Committee, regularly reviews the policies and procedures making up the internal control and risk management system, and any significant matters reported by the Executive Committee.
The risk register, which includes details of the controls in place to manage and mitigate identified risks, is considered at every scheduled Board and Audit Committee meeting, with specific risks discussed in detail as and when required.
The Board has delegated its responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of the internal control and risk management system to the Audit Committee.
In making its assessment, the Audit Committee considers the reporting provided to it during the year in relation to internal control systems and procedures, including the risk register, and may request more detailed investigations into specific areas of concern if appropriate.
The Committee and the Board continued to keep the Bank F&C situation under review throughout the year see Note30 to the financial statements on page 140.
Full details of the Groups policy on risk and uncertainties are set out in Note27 to the financial statements on pages 130 to 136.
See also the Principal Risks section of the Strategic Report on pages 34 to 39.
Ferrexpo plc 2017 Annual Report & Accounts STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 65 Internal Audit There is an internal audit function with a Groupwide remit, and the Head of Internal Audit, who has mining and international experience, reports directly to the Chairman of the Audit Committee and the CFO.
The Committee reviews at least annually the effectiveness of the internal audit function by assessing outcomes against plan targets, and is satisfied, following its 2017 assessment, with the rigour of the audit projects and with managements response to the Head of Internal Audits findings.
An internal audit programme for 2018 was approved by the Audit Committee in November 2017.
An internal audit programme for 2017, approved by the Audit Committee, focused on the compliance process: the operational risks relating to the availability of iron ore: IT: and the Ukrainian subsidiary DP Ferrotrans.
The Committee received a report from the Head of Internal Audit twice during the year, and reviewed the progress of the internal audit plan with the auditors and the Head of Internal Audit.
The reports include the Head of Internal Audits assessment of the operation and effectiveness of relevant elements of the Groups internal control systems, and therefore form part of the Committees ongoing monitoring and assessment of such systems.
External Audit Auditor Independence and Assessment of Audit Process Effectiveness The Audit Committee and the Board place great emphasis on the independence and objectivity of the Groups external auditors when performing their role in the Groups reporting to shareholders.
The effectiveness of the audit process and the overall performance, independence and objectivity of the auditors are reviewed annually at the end of the annual reporting cycle by the Audit Committee, taking into account the views of management.
The outcome of the March 2017 review was relayed to the relevant partners of Ernst & Young LLP.
This review takes the form of an assessment using a questionnaire of the auditors performance under various headings: the robustness of the audit, the quality of delivery, and the calibre of the audit team.
The auditors also provide to the Audit Committee information about policies and processes for maintaining independence and monitoring compliance with relevant current requirements, including those regarding the rotation of audit partners and staff, the level of fees that the Group pays in proportion to the overall fee income of the firm, and other regulatory requirements.
The Committee reviewed these arrangements during the year and believes that they are still appropriate.
Deloitte LLP were appointed as auditors at the AGM in May 2017 with Christopher Thomas as lead partner, and to date the Audit Committee and the Board are satisfied with their performance, independence and objectivity.
A formal review will take place when their first annual reporting cycle is complete.
Non-audit Services The Audit Committee operates policies in respect of the provision of nonaudit services and the employment of former employees of the auditors.
These policies ensure that the external auditors are restricted to providing only those services which do not compromise their independence under EU guidance.
The policy on the provision of nonaudit services prohibits the use of the auditors for the provision of transaction or payroll accounting, outsourcing of internal audit and valuation of material financial statement amounts.
Any assignment that is proposed to be given to the auditors above a value of US$20,000 must first be approved by the Audit Committee or its Chairman who are routinely notified of all nonaudit services.
Fees for auditrelated and nonauditrelated services performed by the external auditors during 2017 are shown in Note7 to the financial statements on page 106.
Financial Reporting The Board has asked the Committee to advise whether it considers the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable and that it provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
In providing its advice, the Committee noted that the factual content of the Annual Report and Accounts has been carefully checked internally, and that the document has been reviewed by senior management in order to ensure consistency and overall balance.
The Committee has also conducted its own detailed review of the disclosures in the Annual Report and Accounts taking into account its own knowledge of Ferrexpos strategy and performance, the consistency between different sections of the report, the accessibility of the structure and narrative of the report, and the use of key performance indicators.
The Committee is satisfied that, taken as a whole, the Annual Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable and that it provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy and has advised the Board accordingly.
The Committee has also advised the Board on the process which has been undertaken in the year to support the longerterm viability statement required under the Governance Code.
The Viability Statement is set out in the Strategic Report on page 40 and a statement setting out the Boards assessment of the Company as a going concern is contained in the Directors Report on page 85 and Note2 to the accounts on page 101.
Whistleblowing Policy The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the Groups whistleblowing arrangements, and receives regular reports from the Head of Internal Audit which detail any new whistleblowing incidents and, where appropriate, steps taken to investigate such incidents.
MARY REILLY CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Ferrexpo plc 2017 Annual Report & Accounts
