STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 59 Nominations Committee Report Dear Shareholder, I am pleased to present the Nominations Committee Report for 2017.
The Committee met formally once during the year, but its main activity was conducting the search for a new Nonexecutive Director.
This search culminated in the Committee recommending the appointment to the Board of Simon Lockett who, after a short period of introduction, succeeded Oliver Baring as Senior Independent Director at the beginning of September.
The Nominations Committee remains composed of an independent Nonexecutive Director and the Chairman of the Board.
STEVE LUCAS CHAIRMAN OF THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE 20 March 2018 Membership and Meetings The Nominations Committee is chaired by Steve Lucas and its other member is Simon Lockett: Oliver Baring also served on the Committee during 2017.
The Nominations Committee meets at least once a year, as required by its terms of reference, and met formally on one occasion in 2017 besides holding periodic meetings with search agents and interviews with candidates.
Appointment Process and Succession Planning The Committee is aware of the Governance Code recommendation that nonexecutive membership of the Board should not extend beyond nine years in an independent capacity.
The search for new Directors to replace the existing Directors as they gradually retire was completed for the time being during 2017 with the appointment in June of Simon Lockett as a Nonexecutive Director.
He succeeded Oliver Baring as Senior Independent Director in September, and Oliver Baring retired from the Board in November.
Additionally, Sir Malcolm Field retired at the AGM in May.
In the case of Simon Lockett, after consulting the Nominations Committee about the skills and experience required, the executive search consultants Odgers Berndtson who have no other connection with the Company drew up a long list of candidates from which a shortlist were chosen to be invited for interview by the Nominations Committee.
The Nominations Committee then recommended Simon Lockett as the preferred candidate, and he was interviewed by other members of the Board before being formally appointed on 15 June 2017.
As indicated last year, in future the Committee intends to pursue a more gradual process of Board succession than has been possible in the recent past, and in the coming year will be developing plans for future succession.
Ferrexpo plc 2017 Annual Report & Accounts CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 60 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Re-election In accordance with the provisions of the Governance Code, it is expected that all Directors will stand for reelection by shareholders at the Companys 2018 AGM.
Board Diversity Policy The Nominations Committee and the Board recognise the importance of boardroom diversity in terms of cultural and professional background, expertise and gender, and believe that the present composition of the Board is satisfactory according to those criteria.
The Committee seeks to apply this policy by ensuring that all available suitable candidates are taken into account when drawing up shortlists of candidates for appointment to the Board, and seeks only to engage executive search consultants who have signed up to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for executive search firms.
The final decisions to make appointments to the Board are, however, made on merit against objective criteria, so as to ensure that the strongest possible candidates for the role are recruited.
The Committee will continue to ensure that gender and other diversity is considered when conducting future searches for Board positions, and will take account of the recommendations of the HamptonAlexander and Parker reviews regarding gender balance and ethnic diversity on boards.
Management and Staff Diversity As stated under Workforce in the Our People section of the Strategic Report on page 45, Ferrexpos policy is to employ a diverse workforce.
Gender Diversity Currently 29% of the workforce is female.
20% of management positions are held by women, and it is intended to increase this figure to 23% by 2021.
Efforts to increase the representation of women more generally are expected to be assisted by a recent change in Ukrainian law to allow women to be employed in certain operational roles from which they were previously excluded.
Ferrexpo is currently training a number of female staff with the aim of having the first two of them driving trucks in the pit by the end of 2018.
Additionally, it is planned to direct some of our community support donations towards programmes aimed at helping women.
Disability In Ukraine, Ferrexpo is required by law to ensure that registered disabled people make up at least 4% of its workforce.
This requirement was met in 2017.
Ferrexpo plc 2017 Annual Report & Accounts
