Strategic report Governance Financial statements Corporate governance framework This report outlines the key features of the Companys corporate and Dutch business, the acquisition of IMPT and return of 578.1 governance framework and sets out how the Company has applied million capital to shareholder.
The scheduled Board and Committee the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code published in meetings have standing agenda items, which ensures that all April 2016 the Code and the extent to which it has complied with aspects of the business are given due consideration as appropriate.
A copy of the Code is available on the Financial The Board regularly reviews strategic matters as part of the standing Reporting Council website at www.
The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the Groups Audit Nomination Remuneration system of internal controls, including the review of its effectiveness Board Committee Committee Committee and suitable monitoring procedures, in order to safeguard Melvyn Egglenton 7 2 3 shareholders investment and the assets of the Group as well as the integrity of its accounting records and provide reliable information Ian Watson1 7 1 for use within the business and for publication.
The Groups system Morgan Jones1 7 1 of internal controls is designed to manage rather than eliminate the Richard Lowes 7 risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only David Rough 7 3 2 3 reasonable and not absolute assurance against material Margaret Young 7 3 2 3 misstatement or loss.
Rebecca Worthington 7 3 2 3 Number of meetings 7 3 2 3 The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal during the year control for the period under review and up to the date of this report.
The process of this review is summarised within the Report of the 1Either of the Joint Chief Executives attends the Nomination Committee Audit Committee on pages 26 to 30.
During the course of its review, the Board has not identified nor been advised of any failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be significant.
Therefore, a Board activities during the year confirmation in respect of necessary actions is not considered The Board dedicates one of its meetings every year to focus on necessary.
The internal control environment will continue to be reviewing the Groups strategy and to consider annual objectives.
monitored and reviewed by the Board.
The Board monitors the achievement of the Companys objectives through regular reports which include updates from the Joint Chief Compliance with the Code Executives, the Finance Director and other key personnel.
There is a Throughout the year ended 31 December 2017 the Company rolling agenda of items that are regularly considered by the Board adhered to all the principles of the Code and complied with all the and this agenda is continually updated to include any topical matters provisions, except in respect of the following provision: that arise.
D. 1.1 relating to malus and clawback.
Prior to the AGM in 2017 the The roles of the Chairman and Joint Chief Executives remuneration policy did not contain malus and clawback provisions The division of responsibilities between the role of Chairman and the for the annual performance related bonus, PSP and Founder LTIP roles of the Joint Chief Executives is clearly defined, set out in writing schemes because provision D. 1.1 was introduced to the Code after and reviewed annually by the Board.
that remuneration policy and Founder LTIP was approved by shareholders in June 2014 and June 2012 respectively.
The 2017 The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and effective working AGM Remuneration proposals, which were approved on 13 June of the Board, ensuring that all members of the Board, including in 2017, incorporated malus and clawback provisions for the annual particular, the Non-Executive Directors, have an opportunity to performance related bonus, PSP scheme and Founder LTIP.
contribute effectively, and that there is appropriate and timely communication with shareholders.
The Company complies with the Corporate Governance Statement requirements of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure The Joint Chief Executives are responsible for the strategic direction Guidance and Transparency Rules by virtue of the information and operational and financial performance of the Group, having been included in this Corporate Governance Statement supplemented by delegated this responsibility by the Board.
the information contained in the Directors Report on pages 47 to 51, the Report of the Audit Committee on pages 26 to 30, the Report of Effectiveness the Nomination Committee on pages 31 and 32 and the Report of Composition of the Board the Remuneration Committee on pages 33 to 46.
To meet the business requirements, the Board during the year has comprised of the Chairman, three Independent Non-Executive Leadership Directors and three Executive Directors.
The biographies of these The role of the Board of Directors Directors are set out on pages 20 and 21.
Non-Executive Directors The Board is responsible and accountable to the shareholders of the are typically expected to serve two three-year terms and may be Company for the long-term success of the Company, strategy and invited to by the Board to serve an additional three-year period.
Any future development of the Group and the efficient management of term renewal is subject to Board Review and annual re-election by its resources.
Accordingly, there is a clear division of responsibilities, the shareholders.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance with the Executive Directors running the Companys day-to-day Code all Directors with one exception will offer themselves for business and the Non-Executive Directors and Chairman re-election at the 2018 Annual General Meeting.
constructively challenging the Executive Directors, please refer topage 23.
To facilitate this team working, the Board has a schedule Rebecca Worthington, Non-Executive Director and Audit of matters reserved for its decision, which includes approval of Committee Chair gave notice of her resignation on 10 November annual budgets, acquisition and divestment policy, approval of major 2017, will step down from the Board on 20 March 2018 and will not be capital projects, the raising of finance and management policies.
Following Rebeccas resignation, the Company TheNon-Executive Directors also meet the property valuers, commenced a search for a Non-Executive Director to replace her independent of management, to discuss the year-end and half-year the details of which are given in the Nomination report.
The Board meets at least five times a year with ad hoc meetings as required.
All of the Directors are considered to be able to allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
Board and Committee meeting attendance At the time of appointment, all Directors are made aware of the time There were seven scheduled Board meetings held in 2017 and seven commitment necessary to discharge their responsibilities and the Board meetings are scheduled for 2018, including one Strategic letters of appointment for the Chairman and each Non-Executive specific meeting.
At the Strategic meeting the Board reviews, Director set out an anticipated time commitment.
In addition to his considers and discusses the ongoing strategic development of role as Chairman of Hansteen Holdings PLC, Melvyn Egglenton is theGroup and the key strategic focuses for year and beyond.
Six Director of the James Family Trusts, Non-Executive Director of additional ad-hoc Board meetings were held during the year to Soho Estates Holdings Limited, Irwin Mitchell Holdings Limited discuss specific business matters, including the disposal of German andwas Chairman of Pendragon PLC until 20 October 2017.
23 Corporate governance framework | continued The main topics considered by the Board during the year included: Area Agenda Items Financial Reporting Review of Management accounts.
Review of cash, debt forecasts and gearing levels.
Review of dividend policy, dividend payment recommendation as appropriate.
Budget Approval of 2018 and 2019 annual budget.
Internal Control and risk Consideration of risk appetite and principal risks.
management in conjunction Assessment of effectiveness of internal controls and risk management systems.
with the Audit Committee Consideration of viability statements and going concern.
Consideration of cyber-risk and mitigation.
Operations Disposal of the Dutch and German businesses.
Settlement of 100 million Convertible Bonds.
Return of 578.1 million Capital to shareholders.
Strategy Consideration of overall strategy, strategic projects and monitoring progress.
Shareholder engagement Regular updates on views of investors, including independent feedback from brokers following investor meetings and AGM.
Consideration of market reaction to key announcements.
Monthly review of share register and share-dealing reports.
Board Consideration of Board Evaluation results for 2017.
Approval of the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts and related documents.
Governance Review of Terms of Reference of Committees and matters reserved for the Board.
Review of membership of Board Committees, diversity and independence.
Review of Company policies and approval of changes to Board delegated authorities.
Updates on governance, legal and regulatory matters and the impact of regulatory changes, including Corporate Governance reform proposals and Market Abuse Regulations.
The Board is satisfied that the Chairman who was independent on All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company appointment and the Non-Executive Directors, each of whom has Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring the Board no day-to-day involvement in the running of the Company, are procedures, are complied with and that Directors have access to independent from management, have no commercial, financial or independent and professional advice at the Companys expense, other connection with the Company, other than as a shareholder, where they judge this to be necessary to discharge their and are able to exercise independent judgement.
During the year we chose to fully outsource the function of Company Secretary and have appointed The service agreements of the Executive Directors and terms and Link Company Matters Limited part of the Link Group.
conditions of the Non-Executive Directors appointments are available for inspection at the Companys Annual General Meeting Information and support provided to the Board orat the Companys registered office.
The Board is supplied, in a timely fashion, with the information it needs to enable it to discharge its duties.
In between Board Appointments to the Board meetings, the Board receives a monthly performance pack In compliance with the Code, the Board has established a containing detailed information on the entire property portfolio.
The primary role of the Nomination TheBoard is also kept informed of changes in relevant legislation Committee is to keep under review the composition of the Board, to andchanging commercial risks, and each Director has access to plan for its refreshment, with regard to balance of skills, experience, independent professional advice and the advice and services of independence, knowledge and structure, and to consider issues of theCompany Secretary.
The appointment of new Directors will follow a formal rigorous and transparent procedure and is a matter for the Board as Evaluation of the Board and its Committees a whole, following recommendations made by the Nomination In line with the requirements of the Code, during 2017 the Board Committee.
andCommittees undertook an informal review of their performance having completed a formal evaluation in 2016 facilitated by The Nomination Committee works from terms of reference and Independent Audit Limited Independent Audit Limited has no these are available on the Companys website www.
In addition, the Chairman metwith each of the Non-Executive Directors to evaluate their The Nomination Committees report is set out on pages 31 and 32, individual performances and those of the Executive Directors.
and should be read in conjunction with this Corporate Governance TheNon-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Statement.
Director met without the Chairman present to evaluate his performance as Chairman.
Directors induction and professional development This informal review required the Directors to complete a tailored, The Company has in place an induction programme, led by the high-level questionnaire.
The questionnaire provided the Directors Chairman and the Joint Chief Executives, for new Directors to with an opportunity to express their views concerning: provide them with a full, formal and tailored introduction on joining the Board, which ensures that they attain sufficient knowledge of the the performance of the Board and its Committees generally such Company to discharge their duties and responsibilities effectively.
as including how the Directors work together as a whole as well as The programme includes meeting with senior management and the balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of advisers and visits to the Groups operational locations.
The Board the Directors: and calendar is planned to ensure that Directors are briefed on a wide specific topics, including strategy and risk, reward strategy, range of topics, including updates on accounting standards or on performance and engagement with the auditor.
corporate governance and regulatory matters.
24 Hansteen Holdings PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | Governance Strategic report Governance Financial statements The main topics considered by the Board during the year included: 2017 Board Evaluation Results Actions to take forward Clarifying the Group strategy following The Board has debated the strategy post the sale of the Dutch and German business and the sale of the European business it remains committed to a diverse UK portfolio which provides investors with consistent high realised returns.
Continue to review succession planning The Board has invited senior managers to attend board meetings and to present items when appropriate.
Senior managers are requested by the Executive Directors to prepare within the Executive Team briefing notes to the Board on a range of topics.
These actions enable the Non-Executive Directors to better understand the capabilities and potential of senior managers.
Ensure that the NEDs receive adequate The Remuneration Committee review the recommendations of Executive Directors in information on pay and conditions across relation to the remuneration of individual senior management and all other employees of the Group.
the Company The responses to the evaluation of the Board and its Committees Remuneration were reviewed with the Chairman and then considered by the In compliance with the Code, the Board has established a relevant Committees and Board.
Separate meetings were also Remuneration Committee.
The primary role of the Remuneration heldbetween the Chairman and individual Directors to discuss the Committee is to determine and recommend to the Board the Boards effectiveness and individual performance.
The results of specific pay and benefits packages for the Executive Directors which theevaluation indicated that the Board continues to work well and are designed to promote the long-term success of the Company there are no significant concerns among the Directors about its andto ensure that performance related elements are transparent, effectiveness.
It was agreed that the following were key areas of stretching and rigorously applied.
focus for the Board in 2017: The Remuneration Committee works from terms of reference and The results of the evaluation of the Chairmans performance these are available on the Companys website www.
wereconsidered by the Senior Independent Director and the Non-Executive Directors and were discussed between the Senior The Remuneration Committees report is set out on pages 33 to 46 Independent Director and the Chairman.
In accordance with the and should be read in conjunction with this Corporate Governance Code, the Board will be undertaking an externally facilitated Statement.
Relations with shareholders The Board is confident that the performance of the Board and the The Executive Directors regularly meet with institutional Committees was and is effective and that all Directors demonstrate shareholders and analysts.
The Board receives regular updates at full commitment in their respective roles.
Board meetings on the views of its shareholders, and the Chairman and Senior Independent Director are available to meet shareholders Accountability if they wish to raise issues separately.
The Chairman and Joint Chief In compliance with the Code, the Board has established an Audit Executives also ensure that there is effective communication with Committee.
The primary role and responsibility of the Audit shareholders on matters such as governance and strategy, and are Committee is: responsible for ensuring that the Board understands the views of major shareholders.
Private investors are also encouraged to meet to monitor the integrity of the financial statements and with the Board and to participate in the Annual General Meeting.
announcements of the Company relating to the Companys financial performance, including any significant financial The Chairs of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees judgements: are available to answer questions, where appropriate, at the Annual to review the Companys internal financial controls and risk General Meeting.
The Senior Independent Director is available to management systems: shareholders if they have concerns, which contact through the to make recommendations to the Board, for consideration by the normal channels has failed to resolve or for which such contact is shareholders for their approval in general meeting: inappropriate.
to review and monitor the external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process: In March 2018, the Company Chairman and Chair of the to develop and implement policy on the engagement of the Remuneration Committee wrote to the Companys major external auditor to supply non-audit services: and shareholders to discuss proposed changes to the remuneration to report to the Board on how it has discharged its packages of the Joint Chief Executives.
Further details are set out in responsibilities.
the Report of the Remuneration Committee on pages 33 to 46.
Thereby providing shareholders with increased confidence in the credibility and objectivity of the Groups published financial information.
The Audit Committee works from terms of reference and these are available on the Companys website www.
The Audit Committees report is set out on pages 26 to 30 and should be read in conjunction with this Corporate Governance Statement.
