Report of the Audit Committee I am pleased to present my report as Chair oftheAudit Committee for the year ended 31December 2017.
Rebecca Worthington Chair of the Audit Committee This report sets out: Introduction by the Chair of the AuditCommittee information regarding the composition of the Committee, the I am pleased to present my report as Chair of the Audit Committee.
meetings it held during the year and the evaluation of its performance: The obj ectives of the Committee are to: the responsibilities of the Committee and the way it discharges increase shareholder confidence in the credibility and obj ectivity them: and of the Groups published financial information: the areas of significant j udgement considered by the Committee assist the Board in meeting its financial reporting responsibilities during the year.
by ensuring the adequacy and eectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control procedures and to ensure that On 10 November 2017, I advised the Board that I would be standing the principles, policies and practices adopted in the preparation down during the first quarter of 2018 and I agreed with the Board of the Annual Report and Financial Statements comply with that my resignation would be eective from 20 March 2018 after the applicable statutory requirements: and announcement of the Groups audited results for the year ended strengthen the independent position of the external auditor by 31 December 2017.
Jim Clarke was appointed to the Board as an providing channels of communication between them and the Independent Non-Executive Director and to the Audit Committee Non-Executive Directors.
on 27 February 2018 and succeeds me as Audit Committee Chair with eect from 20 March 2018.
The Audit Committee is required to report its findings to the Board, identifying any matters on which it considers that action or improvement is needed, and make recommendations on the stepsto be taken.
Rebecca Worthington Chair of the Audit Committee 19 March 2018 26 Hansteen Holdings PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | Go v e rna nce Strategic report Governance Financial statements maintaining an appropriate relationship with the Groups external Composition of the Committee auditor, reviewing their effectiveness, objectivity and The current members of the Audit Committee are shown on page independence, considering both the scope of their work and the 21, these individuals having been selected to provide the right fees paid to them for audit and non-audit services: and balance of knowledge, skill and experience to support the business developing and implementing the policy for the provision of inpursuing its strategy and achieving its objectives.
non-audit services by the external auditor.
All Committee members are considered by the Board to be The Committee is satisfied that it receives sufficient, reliable independent.
Rebecca Worthington, Margaret Young and David andtimely information from management to allow it to fulfil its Rough all have recent and relevant financial experience as required responsibilities.
The ways in which the Committee discharged its by the Code, further details of which are given on page 21.
The Chair responsibilities during the year are described below.
of the Committee, Rebecca Worthington, is considered to have the necessary competence in accounting.
The Audit Committee as a Oversight of the Financial Reporting Process whole have relevant industrial property experience.
No members of On behalf of the Board the Committee reviewed and considered the the Committee have links with the Companys external auditor.
following areas in respect of financial reporting and the preparation of the interim and annual financial statements: Jim Clarke who has been appointed to the Board as an Independent appropriateness of the accounting policies applied by Non-Executive Director will succeed Rebecca Worthington as Audit management: Committee Chair with effect from 20 March 2018.
Jim Clarke has extent of compliance with external and internal financial recent and relevant financial experience as required by the Code, and reporting standards and policies: has the appropriate competence in accounting, further details of appropriateness of the significant judgements made by which are given on page 21. management: adequacy of statutory disclosures: Meetings completeness and adequacy of the disclosure of the principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group: and The Committee meets regularly during the year, its meetings being whether the Annual Report and Financial Statements are fair, aligned to the financial reporting timetable.
Senior representatives balanced and understandable.
of the external auditors, Executive Directors and senior management may be invited to attend the meetings at the To carry out this work, the Committee considered the work and Committees discretion.
The Committee holds a private session with recommendations of the finance team led by the Finance Director, the external Auditor after the March meeting at which the Annual Richard Lowes.
In addition, the Committee received regular reports Report is reviewed and at other times during the year without from the external auditor setting out their views of the accounting members of management being present, where necessary.
treatments and judgements included in the financial statements.
TheCompany Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
The reports from the external auditor are based on a full audit of the annual financial statements and a review of the unaudited interim During 2017 the Committee met three times for scheduled financial statements.
meetings and twice for ad-hoc meetings.
Details of members attendance at each meeting are shown on page 23.
Internal Control and Risk Management An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing Annual evaluation of performance themost significant risks faced by the Group has been in place An internal evaluation of the performance of the Committee was throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the Annual carried out during the year, following the externally facilitated Board Report and Accounts.
That process, which accords with the 2014 evaluation exercise undertaken during the previous year and the FRC Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Committee was found to be operating effectively.
Further details of Financial and Business Reporting, is designed to manage rather than the evaluation are given on page 22 of the Corporate Governance eliminate risk and applies to all material controls, including financial Statement.
This is supported by regular meetings of the Board and Committee along with: Responsibilities of the Committee Formalised management structure comprising a clear organisational structure with well-defined lines of reporting The Audit Committee the Committee has been established in andresponsibility, along with set parameters under which the accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
business can operate without further or specific consideration bythe Board: The full terms of reference of the Committee, reviewed in 2017, are Financial reporting disciplines covering performance available on the Companys website www.
monitoring, profit and cash flow forecasting and the preparation The Committees principal responsibilities include: of the consolidated accounts: reviewing the content of the Annual Report and Financial Investment appraisal procedures a clearly defined framework Statements and advising the Board on whether, taken as a whole, for capital and development expenditure and subsequent it is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the on-going appraisals: and information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups Risk identification and management procedures risk position, performance, business model and strategy: identification and management is an integral part of the system reviewing the interim and full year financial statements prior to of internal control.
Identified risks along with the associated their submission to the Board, considering whether the Groups controls and monitoring procedures intended to mitigate them, chosen accounting policies have been properly applied and are documented in a risk register.
The risk register is reviewed whether any changes to financial reporting requirements have bi-annually and updated where appropriate, reports are received been properly dealt with: from the executive on control procedures, and any areas for reviewing the Groups principal risks on a bi-annual basis: improvement are agreed for subsequent action.
Information ensuring that the Group has in place the internal controls, regarding the key risks the Group faces in pursuing its strategy systems and procedures reasonably needed to mitigate its and achieving its objectives is reported in the Strategic Report on identified risks and ensure the integrity of financial information: pages 1 to 19. monitoring the Groups internal audit requirements: ensuring that the Group has in place the systems and procedures The Committee has concluded that the systems of internal control necessary to comply with relevant legislation, regulation and best and risk management within the Group are effective.
practice concerning social, environmental and ethical matters: reviewing the Groups arrangements for its employees and contractors to raise concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters, reviewing the systems and controls for the prevention of bribery and the procedures for detecting fraud: considering all matters relating to the recommendation for appointment, re-appointment, remuneration and terms of engagement of the Groups external auditor: 27 Report of the Audit Committee | continued The Committee believes that it receives particular benefit from Internal Audit certain non-audit services being provided by the external auditor The majority of the processing and accounting for the day-to-day due to their wide and detailed knowledge of the Group and so transactions of the Group is outsourced to third-party suppliers.
discretion is used, subject to the controls set out above, in obtaining Management maintain a close relationship with these suppliers and such services from Deloitte.
perform regular detailed reviews of their work, reporting to the Committee if any significant concerns are raised by these reviews.
In accordance with the Ethical Standards issued by the Auditing The Committee regularly reviews the internal controls to ensure that Practices Board the Group prohibits the engagement of the external they are adequate for the size and complexity of the business.
auditor to provide services including inter-alia, taxation, internal audit, the design of internal controls and HR services.
The Committee believes that the outsourcing of day-to-day processing and accounting routines, combined with the oversight Where non-audit services are provided, the fees are based on the and review procedures performed by management and the work undertaken and are not success related.
Consideration is independent challenge and assurance provided by the external givento the nature of and remuneration received for other services auditor, provides three lines of defence that mitigate the need for an provided by Deloitte to the Group and confirmation is sought from internal audit function at this time.
The Committee and the Board them that the fee payable for the annual audit is adequate to enable will continue to monitor this position on an ongoing basis.
them to perform their obligations in accordance with the scope of the audit.
Whistleblowing The Group has in place a formal whistleblowing policy and a In addition to acting as external auditor to the Group during 2017, the dedicated independent whistleblowing hotline, as part of the main engagement by Deloitte under permitted non-audit services arrangements set up and monitored by the Committee, so that was that of a working capital review in respect of the disposal of the employees can report any matters of concern.
The Board has German and Dutch Companies and subsequent return of capital to appointed the Audit Committee Chair as the Board member with Shareholders.
In line with EU Audit Directive and Regulation on Audit responsibility for the Companys whistleblowing arrangements.
Reform, the Committee is responsible for approving all non-audit services provided by the auditor.
External Audit Compliance with CMA Order 2014 The Committee confirm that the Company has complied with Payments made by the Group for non-audit fees for the year TheStatutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market represented 75% of the audit fees paid to Deloitte.
Further details Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes ofaudit and non-audit fees for the year are disclosed on page 73. andAudit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014.
The Committee has fully evaluated all non-audit work undertaken by Deloitte during the year against its policy and remains comfortable External Audit Appointment that it is appropriate, the fees justified, and that Deloitte remain Deloitte has been the Groups external auditor since 2006 when the independent.
The level of non-audit fees are unusually high in the Group prepared its first Annual Report and Financial Statements.
current year as a result of the reporting accountant work in respect The audit partner responsible for the Groups audit matters is of both the disposal of the German and Dutch portfolio and the changed every five years in accordance with the Ethical Standards return of capital.
Non-audit fees are not anticipated to remain at issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
The current audit partner, thislevel.
Claire Faulkner, was appointed to that position with effect from 19 March 2016.
External Audit Effectiveness The Committee has adopted a formal framework in its review of the The Committee has established a tendering policy that requires an effectiveness of the external audit process which includes: audit tender every 10 years.
The last audit tender was carried out in considering how the audit process can support the work of the 2015 following which the Board approved the reappointment of Committee: Deloitte for the year ended 31 December 2016. determining the scope of the audit, including the completeness of the risks of material misstatement identified in the External Audit Independence and objectivity independent auditors report: In forming their opinion on the independence and objectivity of the monitoring the planning and execution of the audit: external auditor, the Committee takes into account the safeguards reviewing communications received from the auditor: operating within Deloitte and they are asked to provide a formal assessing the quality of the formal audit report to shareholders: statement of their independence annually.
appraising the audit partner and the audit team: evaluating the extent to which the audit contributes insights and To safeguard the independence of the external auditor, the adds value: and Committee ensures compliance with its policy governing the assessing the effectiveness of the management team in the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor under which audit process.
Deloitte may not provide a service which places them in a position where they may be required to audit their own work.
Specifically, A comprehensive auditor assessment questionnaire is completed Deloitte are precluded from providing services relating to annually by each member of the Committee and the Finance bookkeeping or other services relating to the accounting records or Director.
In addition, feedback is obtained from members of the financial statements of the Group, financial information system senior management team, including the Joint Chief Executives, and design and implementation, appraisal or evaluation services, from the wider finance team.
The responses are collated and the actuarial services, any management functions, investment banking resulting analysis considered by the Committee with any concerns services, legal services unrelated to the audit, remuneration related being discussed with the auditor.
Every year the external audit services or advocacy services.
partner meets with the Committee Chair and Finance Director to formally discuss the quality of the external audit process using this To further fulfil its responsibilities regarding the independence and evaluation framework and the outcome of those discussions feeds objectivity of the external auditor, the Committee reviewed: into the audit process for the subsequent three years.
the scope of the audit as set out in the external auditors engagement letter: The Committee meets as considered necessary with the external the external auditors overall work plan: auditor without management being present.
The effectiveness of the external auditors fee proposal: the management teams role in the external audit process is a report from the external auditor describing their arrangements assessed principally using the following performance measures: to ensure objectivity and to identify, report and manage any the timely identification and resolution of areas of accounting conflicts of interest: and judgement: the extent, nature and associated fees of non-audit services the quality and timeliness of papers analysing those judgements: provided by the external auditor.
the management teams approach to the value of independent audit and the booking of any audit adjustments arising: and the timely provision of draft public documents for review by the auditor and the Committee.
28 Hansteen Holdings PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | Governance Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Committee concluded that it was satisfied with the performance and independence of Deloitte LLP as external auditor and recommended their re-appointment.
FRCs Audit Quality Review The Committee considered the findings of the FRCs Audit Quality Review AQR teams report into the conduct of Deloittes audits generally.
In addition, the AQR team selected to review the audit of the Groups 2016 financial statements as part of its annual inspection of audit firms.
The Chairman of the Committee received a copy of the findings of the AQR team and has discussed this with Deloitte.
Whilst there were no significant findings, some areas of Deloittes audit procedures were identified as requiring limited improvement and we are satisfied with the responses implemented by Deloitte in the audit of the Groups 2017 financial statements.
None of the findings related to the Groups accounting policies.
Areas of significant accounting judgement considered by the Audit Committee during 2017 The areas of significance considered by the Committee in relation to the financial statements and its responses to them were as given below.
In each case the Audit Committee agreed and approved the action taken.
Area considered Audit Committee response Audit Committee conclusion Accounting for the The Committee considered the form and The Committee concluded that prior to 7 April Groups stepped substance of the Groups influence over IMPT 2017 the Group did not have control of IMPT acquisition of inthe period from when it acquired its initial and therefore it was held as an investment and Industrial Multi investment in IMPT in February 2017 through to was not a subsidiary of the Group.
Property Trust PLC theGroups purchase of the remaining minority Assets and Liabilities of IMPT were IMPT interest in July 2017. consolidated after 7 April 2017 with the The Committee considered the classification in the minority interest recognised on the balance Group accounts of the investment in IMPT during sheet and full profits recognised after the period of the stepped acquisition and changing completion of the purchase of the degrees of control.
The Committee considered if the acquisition Further information is given in notes 4 and 18 should be treated as a business combination or an to the financial statements.
Accounting for the The Committee considered whether the disposal The Committee concluded that the disposal of Groups disposal of of the Dutch and German businesses should be the Dutch and German businesses would be the Dutch and classified as a discontinued operation.
classified as a discontinued operation within German businesses The Committee considered the presentation of the interim accounts.
the disposal in the Group accounts including the Further information is given in notes 4, 15 and recycling of translation reserves realised on the 16 to the financial statements.
disposal to the Income Statement.
The Committee considered the tax implications of the disposal.
Accounting for the The Committee considered the accounting The Committee agreed that the premium settlement of the treatment of the settlement by way of part arising on the part conversion to equity of Groups 100 million cashand part conversion to equity of the Convertible Bonds should be transferred to Convertible Bonds Convertible Bonds.
The Committee considered the presentation in the Further information is given in note 26 to the Group accounts of the settlement.
The Committee considered the impact of the 2006 Companies Act Merger Relief provisions on the transaction.
Accounting for the The Committee considered the working capital The Committee concluded that the Company return of 580 statement prepared to demonstrate that the had sufficient working capital to make the million capital to the Company had sufficient working capital for the 578.1 million return to shareholders.
shareholders twelve months following the Circular issued in Further information is given in note 29 to the connection with the return of capital.
The Committee considered the forecasts and the stress testing of those forecasts prepared by the Company and concluded that the Company had sufficient resources to make the working capital statement included in the Circular dated 4 October 2017 and found at www.
Investment Members of the Committee with relevant and The Committee concluded that the external property valuations current expertise in property valuations met with property valuations were reasonable.
the external valuers of the Groups property Further information is given in note 18 to the portfolio to understand and challenge, where financial statements.
The Committee considered and debated the external auditors findings in this area.
29 Report of the Audit Committee | continued Area considered Audit Committee response Audit Committee conclusion Judgements and The Committee reviewed and challenged the The Committee concluded that the Company disclosures made in underlying assumptions used in the going concern remained a going concern and that long-term relation to going forecasts and long-term viability calculations as viability calculations were suitably stress concern and well as the reasonableness of the stress tests tested.
long-term viability carried out by management in relation to those The Committee also determined that the forecasts.
disclosure in the Annual Report and Financial The Committee considered the support for, and Statements were justified.
adequacy of, the disclosures made in the Annual Further information is given in the Directors Report and Financial Statements in relation to Report on pages 47 to 51. going concern, long-term viability, debt maturity and covenant compliance.
The Committee considered the Groups process The Committee have assessed the Basis for qualification for for monitoring and maintaining REIT status.
managements processes of monitoring and The Committee considered the supporting maintaining REIT status and overseas income REIT status and the recognition of evidence for recognition of overseas deferred tax and conclude that the Group had complied overseas deferred assets, particularly in relation to tax losses.
with the REIT status requirements.
tax assets The Committee considered the reasonability of Further information is given in note 12 to the managements assessment of the likelihood of financial statements.
future utilisation of tax losses in each relevant entity and jurisdiction.
Recognition of The Committee reviewed and challenged the The Committee concluded that the expense for the assumptions applied by management in its assumptions applied by management in its Founder Long-Term valuation of the Founder LTIP, the charge to be valuation of the Founder LTIP, the charge to be Incentive Plan recognised for the year and the dilutive impact on recognised for the year and the dilutive impact Founder LTIP the calculation of Earnings per Share and EPRA on the calculation of Earnings per Share were NAV.
The Committee also concluded that The Committee considered the adequacy of the the presentation and disclosure regarding the presentation and disclosure regarding the Founder Founder LTIP in the Annual Report and LTIP in the Annual Report and Financial Financial Statements is adequate.
Further information is given in note 4, 14 and 32 The Committee considered and debated the to the financial statements.
external auditors findings in this area.
An ongoing focus of the Committee in its work is assisting the Board in ensuring that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable FBU and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee considers the Code provisions which require the Board to make this statement on the report, together with information on the processes to support the statement to be made.
Robust year-end governance processes are in place to support the Committees considerations, which include: ensuring that all of those involved in the preparation of our Annual Report have been appropriately trained and fully briefed on the FBUrequirements: regular engagement with and feedback from senior management on proposed content and change: feedback from external advisers corporate reporting specialists, remuneration and strategic reporting advisers, external auditor toenhance the quality of our reporting: and early opportunity for review and feedback on our annual report by Committee members.
The Committee, having completed its review, recommended to the Board that, when taken as a whole, the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
30 Hansteen Holdings PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | Governance
