Board of Directors The Board currently comprises five Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, four of whom are independent, and three Executive Directors.
The Board is responsible to the shareholders of the Company for the strategy and future development of the Group and the ecient management of its resources.
Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors Morgan Jones Ian Watson Richard Lowes Melvyn Egglenton Joint Chief Executive Joint Chief Executive Finance Director Non-Executive Chairman Founder Director of Hansteen.
Joined Hansteen on 1 January Appointed an Independent Member of the Nomination Member of the Nomination 2006 as Chief Financial Non-Executive to the Board in 1 1 Committee.
Ocer and appointed Finance June 2014 and was considered Director in October 2011. independent on appointment as Non-Executive Chairman on 23 August 2016.
Experience Experience Experience Experience Qualied as a Chartered Qualied as a solicitor with Prior to this he worked in a Melvyn qualied as a chartered Accountant with Touche Ross.
Founder Director similar role for Ashtenne accountant and has over Founder Director and Joint and Joint Chief Executive of between 1997 and 2005 30years of broad business Chief Executive of Ashtenne Ashtenne from 1989 to 2005. andas Finance Director of experience and knowledge from 1989 to 2005.
Trafalgar House Property gained in practice and Limited and a Director of commerce.
IdealHomes Holdings PLC from 1988 to 1995.
Other appointments Other appointments Morgan j oined the Board of Currently he is also a Director Trustees of St Christophers of the James Family Trusts, a Hospice in January 2002 and Non-Executive Director of was appointed Chairman of Soho Estates Holdings Limited the Trustees on 10 December and Irwin Mitchell Holdings 2013.
Formerly he was Chairman of Pendragon PLC and Regional Chairman of KPMG Midlands.
Chair of the Nomination Committee and a member of the Remuneration Committee.
Audit Committee Senior Independent Director 1 Nomination Committee Committee Chair Either Morgan Jones or Ian Watson attends the Nomination Committee as only Remuneration Committee one j oint Chief Executive is entitled to attend any one meeting.
20 Hansteen Holdings PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | Go v e rna nce
