Strategic report Governance Financial statements Governance structure Board The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the business.
It provides leadership and direction, including setting and overseeing the implementation of the strategy, monitoring management activity and performance, building relationships and trust with our major stakeholders, ensuring that the Group operates within an appropriate risk and control framework, and establishing the culture and values of the organisation.
More details on the roles and responsibilities of the Board are set out on pages 54 to 60 Audit Nominations Remuneration Chief Executive Committee Committee Officer CEO Committee The Audit Committee is The Remuneration The CEO is responsible The Nominations Committee responsible for oversight of Committee reviews and for the development and reviews the structure, size the Groups financial reporting recommends to the Board implementation of the and composition of the Board processes and significant the Remuneration Policy and strategy, managing the and its Committees, and financial judgements, the determines the remuneration overall performance of the makes recommendations to integrity and clarity of the packages of the Executive business, and ensuring an the Board accordingly.
It has financial statements, review Directors whilst overseeing effective leadership team is responsibility for succession of the risk management and the appropriateness in place.
planning at Board level internal controls framework, of the remuneration to ensure that the Board and agreeing the scope structure for executive retains an appropriate and and effectiveness of the management and the wider diverse balance of skills and external audit process.
experience to effectively lead The Audit Committee the Company.
also directly oversees the process for the selection of the external auditor and makes recommendations for their appointment.
More details are set out More details are set out More details are set out More details are set out on pages 61 to 67 on pages 52 to 53 on pages 68 to 86 on pages 54 to 56 Executive Committee The Executive Committee is led by the CEO and comprises senior management from across the business.
Its role is to provide the highest executive level governance and discussion forum, responsible for optimising performance and delivery of strategic objectives.
It also assists in the implementation of operating plans, budgets, policies and procedures, and manages the operational and financial performance of the business.
More details about the Executive Committee are set out on page 21 Statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code UBM plc is a Jersey incorporated company with a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange.
During the 2017 financial year UBM has complied in full with the provisions, and applied the principles of the Code, with the following exceptions: 1.
Under Code Provision C. 3.1 the company chairman of smaller companies only may be a member of the Audit Committee.
On taking on the role of Acting Chairman Greg Lock remained as a member of the Audit Committee.
Under Code Provision D. 2.1 the company chairman may be a member of, but not chair, the Remuneration Committee if he or she was considered independent on appointment as Chairman.
On taking on the role of Acting Chairman Greg Lock was the incumbent Remuneration Committee Chairman and remained in that role.
The Board considered that, in light of the unusual circumstances, and in order to maintain continuity, it was in the best interests of the governance of UBM that Greg Lock should remain as an Audit Committee member and the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee during the recruitment process for a new Chairman.
On his appointment as Chairman on 30 January 2018, Greg Lock stepped down as a member of the Audit Committee and retired as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2017 51 Corporate Governance Report Nominations Committee Report Dear shareholder I am pleased to present our Nominations Committee report for 2017, in what has been a busy year for the Committee.
Selecting a new Chairman is one of the most important decisions that a Board can make, and the Committee agreed on the importance of considering as wide a range of candidates as possible.
Further details on this process are set out on page 53 of this report.
The Committee continued the work started in 2016 on the development of the Board succession plan.
In the first part of the year we considered the replacement for Alan Gillespie, who stepped down having served nine years as a Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director.
I would like to take The Committee has a responsibility this opportunity to thank Alan for his significant contribution over the years.
to ensure that there is integrity in the In May, Warren Finegold was appointed as Board appointment process, balancing an Independent Non-Executive Director.
Following Alan's departure in May 2017, the requirements of the business and I was appointed as Senior Independent expertise required with a transparent Director and following my appointment as Chairman in January 2018, Warren recruitment process.
Finegold has been appointed as Senior Independent Chairman and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
The Committee has continued to ensure Membership an appropriate balance of experience Greg Lock Terry Neill and abilities on the Board.
This enables it to support and constructively challenge Warren Finegold Trynka Shineman management in the implementation and John McConnell David Wei development of the Events First strategy.
Mary McDowell Number of meetings Seven Reporting Greg Lock Nominations Committee meetings are scheduled to take place shortly Chairman, before Board meetings.
Nominations Committee The Chairman reports to the Board.
Attendees by invitation CEO, CFO, Group Company Secretary and executive and non-executive search agencies as appropriate Terms of Reference www.
com investor corporate-governance  UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2017 52 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Purpose To ensure that the Board is functioning effectively and, in supporting this objective, to regularly review the size and composition of the Board, giving full consideration to succession planning for Directors and to support management in considering the need for a suitable talent pipeline to meet the future needs of the Group.
Over the subsequent two weeks each A longlist of candidates was produced Chairman selection process Director met with MWM to refine and reviewed by the Committee.
As Greg Lock was a candidate, Terry the specification.
Five candidates were invited for an Neill led the Chairman selection process.
interview with the Chairman, from Mr Lock was not present during A shortlist of candidates was presented to which a shortlist was produced.
Committee meetings where his own the Committee in October.
The sub-group candidature was discussed.
then interviewed four external candidates All members of the Committee then and recommended a final shortlist of two.
met with the shortlisted candidates.
In August 2017 a sub-group of the The CEO and CFO also met the Committee, comprising Messrs Neill Part-way through this process candidates.
The Committee agreed that and Finegold, together with the CEO the Committee had to address the Warren Finegolds extensive experience and supported by the Group Company ramifications on the process of the in strategy and technology, as well as his Secretary, finalised the draft Chairman's approach by Informa.
investment banking and capital markets role specification.
Qualities that the background, would prove invaluable as In January 2018, the Committee Committee considered would be UBM continues to implement its Events determined that it would recommend required included: First growth strategy.
to the Board that Greg Lock should be Proven Chairman or recent CEO appointed as Chairman.
In May 2017 the Committee of a business of global scale and formally recommended that the Non-Executive Director complexity: Board appoint Warren Finegold selection process Analogous sector experience: to the Board, Remuneration and In seeking a replacement for Alan Nominations Committees.
Good understanding of UK corporate Gillespie, the skills matrix set out on governance models: MWM does not have any other page 49 was reviewed to provide a first Digital experience: connection with the Company.
step in formulating the role specification.
The matrix sets out the balance of Strong external reputation, wellskills on the Board and helps to identify respected by investors: any areas where a skills gap could International experience, particularly potentially develop in the near term.
in the US and Asia: Qualities that the Committee felt would be Ability to build effective working required included: relationships with the CEO and Capital Markets Corporate Finance executive team: experience in a listed company FTSE An inclusive, respectful and open environment: style that ensures the Board operates familiarity operating within a global effectively as a team and is able to group and partnering with joint get the best out of a geographically ventures: and experientially diverse group of M&A and entrepreneurial experience: Directors.
marketing, technology and systems Three external search firms were knowledge: and invited to participate in a tender process.
This included a detailed written customer-facing experience.
proposal and a meeting with the subMWM was appointed to search for group, following which the sub-group suitable candidates.
recommended to the Committee that MWM Consultants MWM be selected, which the Committee approved in September.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2017 53 Leadership Board composition and attendance chart - 2017 Unscheduled Name Role Board Board Nominations Audit Remuneration Dame Helen Alexander Chairman to 5 August 2017 2 of 3 1 of 2 2 of 4 Greg Lock Acting Chairman from 21 July 2017 6 of 6 5 of 5 4 of 7 4 of 4 6 of 6 and SID from 17 May 2017 Tim Cobbold CEO 6 of 6 5 of 5 Marina Wyatt CFO 6 of 6 4 of 5 Alan Gillespie SID to 17 May 2017 2 of 2 1 of 2 1 of 1 Warren Finegold NED from 19 May 2017 3 of 4 5 of 5 5 of 5 3 of 3 John McConnell NED 6 of 6 3 of 5 6 of 7 4 of 4 Mary McDowell NED 6 of 6 4 of 5 7 of 7 6 of 6 Terry Neill NED 6 of 6 5 of 5 7 of 7 4 of 4 Trynka Shineman NED 6 of 6 5 of 5 6 of 7 4 of 4 David Wei NED 5 of 6 5 of 5 6 of 7 4 of 6 Role of the Board Whilst the Chairman provides To see the full list of Matters leadership of the Board, the day-to-day Reserved for the Board, please visit The Companys governance structure management of the Company is delegated www.
com investor corporateis based on the principles of the UK to the CEO and his senior management governance.
Regular updates are provided Corporate Governance Code.
The Board is team the Executive Committee.
on UBMs finances, operations, strategy collectively responsible to shareholders, The Executive Committee assists and development.
Standing items include and wider stakeholders, for the long-term the CEO in operational and strategic written reports from the CEO, CFO, and success of the Company.
It fulfils this decision-making and the Committee the Group Company Secretary as well responsibility by providing leadership, collectively reviews areas such as strategy as reports from the Head of Investor setting the strategic goals for the implementation, operational and financial Relations and Corporate Communications.
Company and overseeing the execution of performance, budget and risk matters The inclusion of a forward agenda in the strategy by management.
It ensures across the Group as a whole.
each Board pack provides an overview the Company has adequate resources of these and other matters which are to deliver the Events First strategy How the Board operates scheduled for discussion over the course and reviews the operating and financial There are key decisions that cannot of the financial year.
This is linked performance of the Group.
The Board be delegated to senior management.
to ongoing corporate activity and is ensures that the execution of the These matters reserved for Board regularly reviewed.
strategy and value creation are achieved approval are: within a framework of prudent and Papers for Board and Committee meetings Group strategy, corporate vision and effective controls.
are normally circulated at least six days governance: before the relevant meeting.
At meetings, The Companys Articles of Association presentations are made by Executive Three-year financial forecasts, annual and the regulatory environment set Directors, divisional management and operating and capital expenditure the external framework for how the other senior executives on specific issues.
The Board is Guidelines have been established for assisted in fulfilling its responsibilities Financial statements, going concern such presentations to ensure that the by delegating some of these to each and reporting to the market: Board receives adequate information.
We describe Dividend policy: Sufficient time is built into each agenda how the Committees discharge these for debate and challenge.
From a cultural responsibilities in this report.
Both the Acquisitions and disposals, capital perspective, Board discussions are held in expenditure or material contracts Board and the Committees each have a an atmosphere of transparency, openness above specified spending limits: rolling annual schedule of topics and items and mutual respect, allowing issues to be for discussion.
The agendas for Board Extension of the Groups activities into discussed openly within an atmosphere meetings are prepared by the Chairman, new business or geographic areas: of supportive challenge.
The Board also assisted by the Group Company Secretary.
Resolutions and documentation for meets for dinner before each Board The same process is adopted for each of shareholders: and meeting, often with an invited guest, to the Board Committees.
discuss a pre-determined topic in a more Changes to the structure, size and informal setting.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2017 54 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Attendance Board and committee meetings Board visit to Shanghai Dame Helen Alexander was unable to The Board has six scheduled meetings September 2017 attend one Board, one Nominations and each year and meetings may be convened two Remuneration Committee meetings at other times as and when necessary.
The Board held a two-day meeting in due to ill-health.
In 2017, 11 Board meetings were held in Shanghai, during which the Directors: total, five of which were unscheduled Greg Lock was absent from three Met local management who gave to consider the approach by Informa.
Nominations Committee meetings where several presentations on current Board meetings are generally held at his candidacy for the role of Chairman performance and future plans in UBMs London office, with one or two was discussed.
Asia, and later met informally with meetings per annum held at one of the local management over dinner: overseas business locations.
Warren Finegold was unable to attend one Board meeting due to commitments Met with management of the Independence arranged before he joined UBM.
two principal venues in Shanghai The Board regularly reviews the NECC National Exhibitions David Wei was unable to attend Board, independence of the Non-Executive Conference Centre and SNIEC Nominations and Remuneration Directors, with primary regard to the Shanghai New International Expo Committee meetings due to commitments personal qualities demonstrated by each Centre to better understand their arranged before he joined UBM.
Director, particularly their judgement, and future plans: the level of engagement and challenge Where Directors were not able to attend Visited DenTech China a Major that they provide in Board and Committee meetings, this was entirely due to prior event, with the opportunity to discussions.
The Board considers that all business commitments or ill-health.
meet with employees, exhibitors of the Non-Executive Directors continue In each case, they reviewed the papers and visitors: and to remain independent and free from circulated for that meeting and provided any relationship or circumstances that Had an external expert address comments directly to the Chairman or could affect, or appear to affect, their the Board on the Chinese business Committee Chairman, as appropriate.
environment, future prospects and Setting strategy key priorities.
Non-Executive Directors appointments Each year there is an annual review of are reviewed every three years.
strategy held over two days, where the All Directors appointments are subject CEO and the members of the Executive to annual election or re-election Committee present their plans to as appropriate by shareholders.
More information about the knowledge, skills and experience of the Board can be found in their biographies and the skills 2017 Board strategy meeting matrix on pages 47 to 49.
The Board held a two-day strategy meeting in May 2017 to consider the following topics: The Events First strategy current position, market and competitor update, trends and developments: Organic growth and target portfolio: The future landscape of B2B Events: and Three-year planning.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2017 55 Leadership continued Division of responsibilities Being clear on the respective roles and responsibilities of Board members is important in enabling the Board to function effectively.
The Board has established clearly defined responsibilities for each of the Chairman, CEO, Senior Independent Director, and the Non-Executive Directors.
Chairman CEO The effective running of the Board.
The Chairman spends an Running the Groups business, within the authority limits delegated average of two days per week carrying out his responsibilities, to him by the Board.
but takes no part in the day-to-day running of the business.
Leading the Board effectively to ensure that there are sufficient Proposing and developing the Groups strategy and overall meetings, agenda items are appropriate and there is adequate commercial objectives.
Ensuring that Directors are able to contribute fully to Board Recommending an annual budget for Board approval and ensuring discussions and that their skills are utilised to best effect leading its achievement.
the Board succession planning process.
In conjunction with the Group Company Secretary, Identifying and executing acquisitions and disposals.
ensuring compliance with the Boards approved procedures and maintaining a high standard of corporate governance.
Providing a sounding board for the CEO on key business issues.
Maintaining dialogue with the Chairman on the important and strategic issues facing the Group.
Overseeing the process for evaluating the performance of the Developing and making recommendations to the Remuneration Board, its Committees and individual Directors.
Committee on remuneration strategy for Executive Directors and other senior management.
Identifying development needs for the Board and Directors and Chairing the Executive Committee.
ensuring that Directors update their skills and knowledge to enable them to carry out their responsibilities.
Maintaining contact with major shareholders to understand their Leading the communication programme with shareholders and ensuring issues and concerns, ensuring that their views are communicated the timely and accurate disclosure of information to the market.
Chairing the Nominations Committee and leading the Boards succession planning process.
Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Directors Ensuring that the views of each of the Non-Executive Directors Challenging and agreeing the Groups strategy with senior management are given due consideration and facilitating communication and scrutinising the performance of management in meeting agreed between the Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman.
goals and objectives, and monitoring reporting of performance.
Holding meetings with the Non-Executive Directors without the Determining appropriate levels of remuneration for Chairman being present to review the Chairmans performance.
Available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact Meeting with the Senior Independent Director without the Chairman through the normal channels of the Chairman, CEO, CFO or Head being present to review the Chairmans performance and other matters.
of Investor Relations has failed to resolve, or where such contact is thought inappropriate.
Meeting with the Chairman without Executive Directors being present.
monitors the situation and ensures that all with the terms of appointment and is Conflicts of interest actual and potential conflicts of interest subject to review by the Group Company The Company has established procedures are appropriately recorded and authorised Secretary and approval by the Chairman.
in place through its Articles of Association where necessary.
No conflicts of interest No such expenditure was incurred in 2017. to manage conflicts.
The Articles allow were disclosed during 2017. for interested Directors to vote provided All Directors have access to the advice they have made sufficient disclosure and and services of the Group Company Independent professional advice have been authorised by the Board to Secretary, who has primary responsibility Each Director has access to independent do so.
Directors are permitted to excuse for keeping Directors informed of advice at the Companys expense, themselves from decisions when they are general developments.
to help them discharge their duties.
concerned about a conflict or potential Any expenditure is made in accordance conflict.
The Group Company Secretary UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2017 56 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Effectiveness The Board believes that diversity should Professional development, Conclusions of the not solely consider gender and embraces support, training and induction diversity in its broadest sense.
A wide 2017 review for Directors range of experience, background, Overall the responses were positive.
All Directors are offered the opportunity perspective, skills and knowledge is Key themes that emerged included to further their professional development required to contribute towards a high making time to look beyond Events by attending seminars and briefings.
performing, effective Board, which is First and discuss longer-term Another resource provided to the better able to support and direct the ambitions: deeper insight into Directors is a Reading Room, accessible Company.
In encouraging this the Board customers and succession planning, through the electronic board portal.
supports the recommendations of the and focusing on the culture UBM is The Reading Room contains key Parker review to increase the ethnic aiming for.
induction information, including Board diversity of UK FTSE-350 Boards.
Committee Terms of Reference and Strengths Board effectiveness review other documents relevant to the Groups The Board had a diverse skill-set: corporate governance structure, including Each year the Board, as required by the Committees are well-run with the Matters Reserved for the Board.
Code, carries out an evaluation of its highly regarded Chairmen: The Reading Room also provides the own effectiveness.
Following a thorough Board with access to analyst reports, Meetings were well-managed external evaluation conducted in 2015 financial, risk and controls information with everyone given a voice: by Independent Audit Limited, the Board including monthly financial reports, decided to conduct an internal review for There was a constructive project and industry updates.
The review took atmosphere that encouraged the form of an online questionnaire, using management to be open: The induction process includes Independent Audit Limiteds Thinking discussions with the Chairman and Discussions were open and an Board tool, and concentrated on specific Executive Directors as well as individual appropriate level of challenge questions designed to assess what the briefings and presentations from other was maintained: Board and its Committee do well and to Directors and Executive Committee Good progress made on the identify areas for development.
members on matters relating to UBMs diversity agenda.
business and operational processes The results were presented to the Board, and procedures.
The induction includes Areas for development and discussed in detail in February 2017. meetings with other senior management An internally-managed effectiveness Understanding better the risks as well as UBMs corporate brokers, review has been completed for 2017, the lessons learned following postexternal auditor and other advisers.
output of which was discussed at the acquisition reviews: Board meeting in February 2018 and will Deeper insight into customers and Diversity be reported on in the 2018 Annual Report.
the progress of Agile Growth: We strongly support the principle of improving gender balance both at Board Greater clarity on how succession level and throughout our business, and planning and the HR strategy are fully support the recommendations of the progressing: Hampton-Alexander Review into improving Board paper format that supports gender balance in FTSE Leadership, quick identification of key issues having achieved the Board level target of and risks.
having 30% female Directors by the end Actions taken of 2015.
Currently one third of the Board Post-acquisition reviews PARs is female 2016: 40%.
At the Executive and a programme of detailed Committee this percentage stands at Sector Reviews were added to 37.5% 2016: 33% and for the broader the rolling forward agenda, senior leadership team the percentage with local management presenting stands at 27% 2016: 27% as detailed to the Board: on page 25.
A detailed succession-planning In January 2018 the CEO became a review was presented to the Board signatory to the 30% Club, targeting by the HR Director: 30% women on FTSE-350 boards by 2020.
Improved format for Board papers, with common templates, a clear executive summary, and supporting data separated from the core paper into an appendix.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2017 57
