Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Audit and Risk Committee Report I am pleased to present this Audit and Risk Committee Report Robin Taylor for the year ended 31 December 2017 which summarises our Chairman of the activities since the Committee was formed in May 2017, as well Audit Committee as setting out intended key areas of focus as we move into 2018.
Since formation, the Committees primary focus has been to ensure the integrity and transparency of external financial reporting, as we published the interim condensed consolidated financial statements in August 2017, and put in place a work plan for the year ahead.
Following the publishing of the interim condensed consolidated financial statements we have turned our attention to year end reporting processes, the reassessment of our risk management framework and risk appetite assessment and system of internal controls.
In December 2017 we appointed KPMG as internal auditors to provide independent assurance on these matters to the Board.
An annual plan has been put in place, which includes the use of Membership of the Committee IT and security specialists where considered appropriate.
1,2, 3 Robin Taylor Chairman Independent Non-Executive Director Moving into 2018, we will continue to discuss and give healthy challenge to management on their key judgements and 1,3 Karen Slatford estimates in relation to financial reporting, review and assess Independent Non-Executive Director the performance of the business in line with the plan and ensure 1,3 Richard Longdon that the Alfa systems, processes and people are supported and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director developed to align with the growth of the business.
1 D enotes independent member under the Code.
Membership of the Committee 2 Recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committees members are all Independent Non- 3 Software experience.
Executive Directors, and therefore the Committee make up complies with the Code.
There have been no changes in Role of the Committee Committee membership since the IPO in June 2017.
The Board has delegated to the Committee Members skills and experience are documented on page 55. responsibility for: The Board is satisfied that the Committee meets the overseeing the financial reporting and internal financial requirement to have recent and relevant financial experience controls of the Company: and that as a whole we have sufficient experience of the reviewing the Groups internal control and risk technology sector.
management systems: and Role of the Committee maintaining an appropriate relationship with the The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility for External Auditor.
overseeing financial reporting, review and assessment of the effectiveness of the internal control and risk management Committee meetings in 2017 systems and maintaining an appropriate relationship with the Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec External Auditor.
12 29 23 In order to fulfil these responsibilities, the Committees duties Meetings held on 29 August and 23 November, External include the following: Auditors met independently with the Committee members giving due consideration to applicable laws and regulations: excluding management.
monitoring the integrity of the consolidated financial Meetings statements: The Committee met three times during the year.
reviewing and challenging the application of accounting Attendance by the Committee members at these policies, including estimates and judgements made by meetings is shown below: management, and the clarity and completeness of disclosures: 1 1 12 Jul 29 Aug 23 Nov reviewing and assessing the internal audit function including Robin Taylor Chair approval of any appointments and the scope of their remit: Richard Longdon overseeing the relationship with the External Auditor: and monitoring the effectiveness of the Companys internal Karen Slatford financial controls and risk management systems.
1 D enotes meetings where the External Auditors met Further details on the Committees roles and responsibilities independently with the Committee members excluding management.
can be found in our Terms of Reference on our website, at www.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC 63 Audit and Risk Committee Report continued Meetings Principal activities of the Committee The Committee met three times during 2017.
The agendas are The Committee receives drafts of the Annual Report and linked to the financial calendar and to an annual plan which consolidated financial statements in sufficient time ahead of was prepared prior to the listing.
The annual plan was devised signing, to enable sufficient review, challenge and discussion to ensure that we cover the requirements as documented in of key judgements, the narrative and disclosures.
This annual plan is dynamic and During the year, the Committee has undertaken the therefore will evolve when the Committee feels that there is following activities: a need for greater focus on a specific area.
During the year, all members of the Board attended all meetings by invitation 12 July First meeting post IPO together with other senior managers where it was deemed useful to keep fully appraised of specific aspects of the Approval of the Committees Terms of Reference business, such as IT controls and security.
and the annual Audit and Risk Committee plan.
Prism, our outsourced Company Secretary, acts as Secretary Discuss the approach to internal audit.
to the Committee and I am satisfied that the Committee Review any required changes to the risk register.
received information on a timely basis and that meetings 29 August were scheduled adequately to allow members to have an informed debate.
Approve interim condensed consolidated financial In addition to the formal meetings, the Committee met the statements and analysts presentation.
External Auditors privately without Executive Management Going concern review.
I also have direct communication with our Audit Review relevant accounting policy changes.
Partner, predominantly around the external reporting times.
Review and approval of any non-audit services.
In 2018, we would expect the internal auditors to attend 23 some of the Audit and Risk Committee meetings to present November their findings.
Presentation of the External Auditors plan, including review of non-audit fees and approval of audit fee for 2018.
Our focus in 2017 has been in assisting Review of principal risks and uncertainties and the risk the Board through the oversight and management process.
Review of viability assumptions and methodology.
monitoring of financial reporting, Further discussion on the approach to internal audit, specifically the key accounting including approval of internal audit outsourced supplier and first internal audit projects.
judgements and estimates used in Review a draft of the ACR report and Corporate preparing those statements, and also Governance Statement.
in evaluating the development of Alfas As part of the IPO process the Board approved a number of internal financial control framework policies which included Whistle blowing, Code of Conduct, Delegation of Authority and Shareholder relationships.
These and risk management processes.
policies will be reviewed each year and are included as part of the Committees 2018 agenda.
At every meeting the Committee reviews the following: minutes and actions from the last meeting: the CFO report: updates to corporate reporting or corporate governance as applicable: and internal audit and control matters and updates to the risk management systems.
64 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information estimate of the fair value of the A and A1 shares issued to Key matters considered in relation to employees, is no longer required at 31 December 2017 as the consolidated financial statements managements estimate was as at the grant date in 2014 and Prior to the relevant Committee meeting, management 2015.
The External Auditors reported to the Committee any prepares a paper providing details of significant areas of misstatements that they found in the course of their work and accounting, tax, disclosure and other matters where relevant.
no material adjustments were required.
The critical accounting estimates, judgements and disclosure areas are disclosed below.
After reviewing the presentations and reports from management and consulting where necessary the External During the year, the Committee reviewed these judgements, Auditors, the Committee was satisfied that the consolidated which are described further in the relevant accounting policies financial statements appropriately addressed the critical and detailed notes to the consolidated financial statements.
It judgements and key estimates in respect of both the amounts should be noted that a critical accounting estimate in relation reported and disclosures.
to share based payment expense, specifically in relation to the Revenue recognition Key assessment Implementation projects have three revenue streams, being recognition of a perpetual license, generally invoiced at the beginning of the implementation project, implementation revenues based on effort incurred and development revenues based on effort incurred.
As the license is not separable from the implementation effort, license revenue is combined with the implementation services as a single performance obligation and therefore effectively recognised based upon a percentage of completion of the implementation project delivered.
This is calculated by evidencing the man days worked as at the end of the applicable period as a percentage of the total estimated implementation man days to complete the implementation.
The total estimated man days to complete an implementation project relies on management assumptions and judgements which are in turn based on historical experience, definition plans delivered to the customer and also reliant on facts and circumstances which arise during the implementation.
As an implementation can take up to five years, there may be a number of revisions to this estimate during the period of implementation.
Additionally what forms the implementation effort may be a matter of judgement, as while there are core deliverables such as migration, testing and development work to ensure that the go live is achievable, there may be ancillary services which may or may not be integral to the implementation.
Management reviews each implementation estimate and judgement on a monthly basis with the project team, with a further more detailed quarterly review to assess any changes to estimates or judgements.
The revenue recognition accounting policy is detailed in note 4 of the consolidated financial statements.
Committee action The Committee reviewed each of the key projects in detail with management and the External Auditor and is satisfied with the explanations provided, the judgements and conclusions made, compliance with accounting policies and the disclosure in the consolidated financial statements.
Development costs Key assessment Alfa invests a substantial effort in the ongoing development of Alfa Systems, specifically in relation to the ongoing enhancement of the Alfa Systems product platform and capabilities.
While research work is minimal, most development effort is undertaken in partnership with customers and therefore very specific to that implementation or customers process.
Research and product development expenditure incurred on minor or major upgrades, or other changes in software functionalities, does not satisfy the capitalisation criteria where the product is not substantially new in its design nor functional characteristics.
Such expenditure is therefore recognised as an expense.
Judgement is required in relation to whether the development is substantially new in design nor functionality and whether it is commercially viable in the open market.
Management forms an initial judgement at the beginning of a development project, and revisits this each quarter and at the completion of the development cycle, which is generally less than six months.
Committee action The Committee reviewed and discussed with management and the External Auditor as to whether development costs met the capitalisation criteria under IAS 38 and is satisfied that such expenditure should be expensed.
Financial Statements Page 86 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC 65 Audit and Risk Committee Report continued Alternative performance measures APMs and presentations not specifically defined by IFRS Key assessment Alfa uses certain APMs which are not specifically defined by IFRS, including Adjusted Earnings and Adjusted EPS, to show the impact on earnings after exceptional items such as Share Based Payments and IPO costs.
Adjusting for exceptional items is judgemental in nature as there is no definition under IFRS.
Additionally, Alfa uses constant currency revenue growth to show the underlying growth of the geographical segments excluding the effects of currency, and Operational Cash Flow Conversion to show the conversion of Adjusted EBIT.
These measures are not specifically defined by IFRS and are used by management as they believe they present a better understanding of the Groups underlying performance.
Committee action The Committee considered the presentations made in light of the guidance updated in October 2017 provided by the European Securities and Markets authority and is satisfied that the measures presented were appropriately adjusted and disclosed as non-GAAP measures.
The Committee is satisfied that the non-GAAP measures were not given undue prominence and that the reconciliations provided were presented in a clear manner.
Newly applicable accounting standards Key assessment Management has carried out an assessment of newly issued accounting standards applicable from 1 January 2018, being IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, and IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, with IFRS 16 Leases applicable from 1 January 2019.
Management intend to implement IFRS 15 on 1 January 2018, using the retrospective approach.
In assessing the impact of IFRS 15, management has assessed the terms and conditions of each contract for revenue with customers in existence as of 1 January 2017 to determine the performance obligations under each contract, reassess the transaction price and, where relevant, allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation.
A further area of consideration was whether individual promises within the contract constituted distinct performance obligations and whether the fair value of any undelivered upgrade obligations constituted a material right.
Management has also adjusted its internal controls and processes to increase the monthly focus on the estimates around the performance obligations and internal reporting.
Following this assessment, management have concluded that due to the high degree of customisation and implementation required for Alfa Systems and the fact that license revenue is generally invoiced at the start of the project, the three revenue streams of an implementation being license, implementation and development revenues form one performance obligation.
Therefore management expects no differences on the adoption of IFRS 15, as written and endorsed by the EU and using applicable current guidance, to the comparative period revenues or on future revenues on existing implementation projects.
Management intends to implement IFRS 9 on 1 January 2018 and IFRS 16 on 1 January 2019.
Management does not expect IFRS 9 and IFRS 16 to have a material impact on the Groups results.
Committee action The Committee is satisfied with the explanations provided, the judgements and conclusions made and the disclosure in the consolidated financial statements.
Going concern and viability statement Key assessment The Directors must satisfy themselves as to the Groups viability and confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will continue to operate and meet its liabilities as they fall due.
The period over which the Directors have determined it is appropriate to assess the prospects of the Group has been defined as three years.
In addition, the Directors must consider if the going concern assumption is appropriate.
Committee action The Committee reviewed managements summary budget and forecasts, including an overview of the assumptions made in the preparation of the base case supporting the going concern and viability statement.
This included the Groups 2018 budget and also the mid-term plan to 2020.
The Committee discussed, and challenged as appropriate, before agreeing with the reasonableness of the three-year period.
The Committee assessed this in light of the principal risks and uncertainties as disclosed on pages 34 and 35 of this Annual Report.
The Committee discussed and robustly challenged the downside scenarios modelled as part of the viability statement as disclosed on page 37 of this Annual Report, the funding available and the feasibility of mitigating actions and the speed of implementation of any cost saving measures following management decision making.
The Committee notes the Code requirement for the Directors to state whether they consider it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting for a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the 2017 financial statements.
Following this evaluation and analysis, the Committee is satisfied with the judgements and that the adoption of the going concern basis is appropriate and the viability statement is reasonable.
Viability statement Page 36 66 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information The following key elements comprise the internal control Assessment of the Annual Report environment which has been designed to identify, evaluate The Committee has reviewed the contents of this 2017 and manage, rather than eliminate, the risks facing the Group Annual Report to assess whether, when taken as a whole, it is and to ensure timely and accurate reporting of financial data.
fair, balanced and understandable and provides the necessary information for shareholders to assess the Groups position, An appropriate organisational structure with clear lines performance, business model and strategy.
When forming its opinion, the Committee assessed A comprehensive process for the annual strategic and the following: business planning process.
Fair Systems of control procedures and delegated authorities, Complete information has been presented based on beyond the Board Terms of Reference, which operate within materiality.
defined guidelines and approval limits for capital and Key messages are aligned and supported by KPIs.
operating expenditure and other key business transactions Revenue, profit and cash flow analysis in the financial and decisions.
review is aligned to the consolidated financial statements, Procedures by which the Groups consolidated financial the KPIs and the outlook presented.
information and statements are prepared, taking into Balanced account changes to financial risks as a result of changes to The Strategic Report is consistent with the consolidated operating models or commercial terms or new accounting financial statements.
There is an appropriate balance between financial measures Established policies and procedures setting out expected under IFRS and adjusted measures not defined by IFRS, standards of business conduct, integrity and ethical with the latter not having undue prominence.
standards which require all employees to adhere to legal The key judgements and issues set out in this report and regulatory requirements in the area in which they are consistent with the critical accounting estimates do business.
and judgements in the consolidated financial statements A finance function which has appropriate experience and and the significant issues set out in the report of the qualifications and which regularly assesses the financial External Auditors.
impact of risks facing the Group.
The principal risks and uncertainties set out in the Strategic Report align with the key risks set out in the report of the An appropriate and documented risk management process.
Review of effectiveness of the internal control environment The Committee, on behalf of the Board, is responsible for Understandable reviewing the effectiveness of the internal control systems Are the important messages highlighted and presented and the risk management process on an ongoing basis.
consistently throughout this Annual Report?
The process was established when the Committee was Are the messages written clearly and transparently?
formed and was ongoing through the date of approval Will a shareholder understand the market we operate in of this Annual Report.
and how we generate value?
At each Committee meeting, management reports any Following the Committees review, the Directors confirm whistle blowing activity, frauds identified and any other that the 2017 Annual Report, when taken as a whole, is fair, significant issues.
The Committee has neither identified, nor balanced and understandable and presents the information been informed of any failings or weaknesses that it has necessary for a shareholder to assess the Companys position determined to be significant.
and performance, business model and strategy.
In 2018, management has indicated to the Committee that Internal controls and risk management the automation of controls will be a key focus as the Group While the Board is ultimately responsible for the operation of transitions to new financial and HR software.
an effective system of internal control and risk management appropriate to the business, the Committee is responsible for Risk management process reviewing the risk management systems and internal controls Alfa recognises that effectively managing risk is integral to to ensure that they remain effective and that any identified allowing the Group to deliver on the strategy.
Therefore weaknesses are appropriately dealt with.
management has implemented a five step process to monitor and manage risk throughout the business, as discussed in more Internal control environment detail on pages 32 and 33 to this Annual Report.
Additionally, Throughout the IPO process, the Company worked with a the Committee will review the risk register a minimum of twice focus on ensuring a control environment was in place which annually and assess the actions taken by management to allowed the Company to report externally and to assess risks manage and mitigate the risks.
in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
A review of the Groups risk management processes and principal risks and uncertainties are laid out on pages 34 and 35 to this Annual Report.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC 67 Audit and Risk Committee Report continued Internal Audit During the year 0.8 million of non-audit related services were The Committee appointed KPMG LLP in December 2017 as provided by Deloitte to the Group in respect of reporting the Groups outsourced internal audit function following a accountant fees prior to Alfa listing.
No non-audit services tender process.
Its key objectives are to provide independent have been provided post listing.
Further details of these and objective assurance on risks, and controls, to the Board, amounts are included in note 5 to the consolidated the Audit and Risk Committee and senior management, and financial statements.
to assist the Board in meeting its corporate governance and The External Auditor is prohibited from providing internal regulatory responsibilities.
No former employee of the external or internal The three-year internal audit plan for 2018 was approved by audit providers is employed by the Group.
Deloitte has the Committee in March 2018 and covers a broad range of confirmed its independence to the Committee on a regular core financial processes and controls focusing on specific risk basis during the year of review.
areas including but not limited to: Effectiveness of the External Auditor core financial processes: The Committee has reviewed the quality of the audit plan expense controls: and and related reports for the 2017 audit and is satisfied with the quality of these documents.
Additionally, the Committee new business acceptance.
intends to review the effectiveness and quality of Deloittes IT resilience, disaster recoverability and scalability and data 2017 year-end audit, which will be the first year-end audit protection and cyber security reviews will be carried out by following the listing.
This review is intended to take the third party specialist providers in 2018. form of a questionnaire, to be completed by the relevant stakeholders.
It is intended that the survey will cover the The effectiveness of the Internal Audit team will be reviewed quality of the service being provided, the competence of annually, from 2018. the staff and their understanding of the business and Independence and performance related financial risks.
of the External Auditors The Committee has reviewed the independence of the The Board has approved a policy which is intended to maintain External Auditor and concluded that it complies with UK the independence and objectivity of the External Auditors.
regulatory and professional requirements and that its The policy governs the provision of audit, audit related objectivity is not compromised.
The external audit will not services and non-audit services provided by the auditor.
In be put out to tender in the coming financial year as the summary this requires Committee approval for all projects appointment of Deloitte LLP has occurred in the last five with an expected cost in excess of 10,000. years, and therefore the Company has complied with the The Groups auditors are Deloitte LLP, and were appointed, Competitions and Markets Authority requirement in relation as statutory auditor to the Group on 5 May 2017 for the year to audit tenders every 10 years.
The Committee will continue ended 31 December 2016.
They were re-appointed for the to keep this under review as part of their review of 31 December 2017 period on 29 August 2017 and the effectiveness of the External Auditor.
Committee has recommended to the Board that a resolution Performance of the Audit and Risk Committee to reappoint Deloitte LLP for the 2018 financial period be The performance of the Committee will be assessed by way prepared and presented to shareholders.
of an internal process in 2018.
The audit partner is Richard Howe, who has been the partner Our priorities for the year ahead on the engagement since 2016.
During 2018, the Committee will continue to focus on the 1 Jan 1 Jun 2 Jun 31 Dec Fee integrity of the financial controls: particularly the work Description 2017 2017 000s management is planning to automate more processes, risk PLC audit 63.0 63.0 management systems and IT security arrangements to ensure Holding company 10.0 10.0 that they are appropriately robust to support the strategies of a high growth business.
Trading entities 99.5 99.5 FY audit fees 172.5 172.5 Audit related services Robin Taylor interim review 61.0 61.0 Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee Audit related fees 61.0 61.0 Non-audit fees 779.0 779.0 8 March 2018 Total fees 779.0 233.5 1,012.5 68 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017
