Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Corporate Governance Report Statement of Corporate Governance This Corporate Governance Report, including the sections Code provision A.
3.1: Our Chairman was not independent on which follow, sets out how the Company has applied the main appointment as he had previously been the Chief Executive principles of good governance as set out by the UK Officer and is the controlling shareholder.
On listing, the Corporate Governance Code, April 2016, as issued by the Board had unanimously supported the appointment of the FRC the Code.
Chairman with the purpose of ensuring continuity with customers and commercial partners.
This appointment also The Directors consider that the Company has been compliant allows the Company to retain his experience and expertise, with the Code provisions as applied during the period since all skills required in the role of an Executive Chairman.
listing, other than the exception as laid out opposite: The Directors of Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC the We have laid out this Corporate Governance Report using the Company present this first Annual Report for the year ended UK Corporate Governance Code the Code as a framework 31 December 2017, on the affairs of Alfa, together with the for articulating the Boards activities this period and also to Consolidated Financial Statements and the Auditors report.
frame our focus for the coming year.
The structure of this Corporate Governance Report is as follows: Alfa is committed to achieving the highest levels of corporate governance and, in 2017, has continued to build on the Leadership and effectiveness corporate governance framework which was established on Accountability incorporation of the Company.
Stakeholder engagement and relationships Remuneration Governance area Highlights Independence At the point of listing, and at the date of this Annual Report, we have a non-independent Chairman.
However, we have a majority of independent Non-Executive Directors on our Board, excluding the Chairman, which is in line with the guidance under the Code.
Experience When the Board was established, our focus was to ensure that we had relevant industry, financial and public company expertise and we believe that we have achieved that with our Board today.
Accountability We have clear and documented separation of duties between the Chairman and the CEO.
The Alfa CEO, Andrew Denton, is responsible for determining the Alfa strategy and day to day operations, leading the Executive Committee, which assists in the day to day delivery of this strategy and general operations.
Andrew Page, as Chairman, provides oversight and guidance to Andrew Denton on the strategic direction, key commercial or contracting decisions and overall succession planning for the Board.
Evaluation We have not undertaken an internal evaluation of the Board or the Boards committees as they were established in May 2017.
Instead, an internal evaluation will be undertaken in the second half of 2018 ahead of the 2018 annual reporting process.
Attendance Each of our Directors has attended all relevant Board and committee meetings with an acceptable level attended in person.
Compliance of The composition of our committees complies with the Code requirements.
composition of committees Shareholder A relationship agreement was executed on 26 May 2017 setting out the framework under which the relationship controlling shareholder, CHP Software and Consulting Limited, and the shareholders of the controlling agreement shareholder would operate to protect the rights of non-controlling shareholders.
The agreement gives the right to appoint two Directors to the Board, not compete and, where applicable, all transactions between the controlling shareholder and Alfa will be conducted at arms length and on normal commercial terms.
Internal audit We have applied an outsourced internal audit model, appointing KPMG LLP as our outsourced internal audit provider for 2018.
Remuneration We present our Remuneration Policy on pages 71 to 76, which is designed to incentivise and motivate and reward the Executive Team to achieve the strategy as laid out in this Annual Report.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC 51 Corporate Governance Report continued 1.
Leadership and effectiveness The role of the Board Alfa is led and controlled by the Board which is collectively responsible for the long-term and sustainable performance of Alfa.
The roles of the Chairman and the CEO are separate and clearly defined, with the division of responsibilities set out below.
The responsibilities of the Board Role Principal responsibilities Manages and provides leadership to the Board.
The Chairman develops and sets the agendas for Board meetings, Chairman working with the CEO and Company Secretary.
Acts as a direct liaison between the Board and management, working with the CEO to assist the Recommends an annual schedule of Board and committee flow of information.
Ensures that the Directors have sufficient information to Ensures effective communications with shareholders and other enable the Directors to form appropriate judgements.
Responsible for the day-to-day management of Alfa.
Ensures the successful delivery against plan and other key business Chief objectives, allocating decision making and responsibilities accordingly.
Together with the Executive Committee, is responsible Executive for executing the strategy, once it has been agreed by Together with the Executive Committee, identifies and executes new Officer the Board.
business opportunities and assesses potential acquisitions or disposals.
Creates a framework that optimises resource allocation Manages the Group with reference to its risk profile in the context of to deliver strategic objectives over varying timeframes.
Serves as an intermediary for the other Directors when necessary.
Senior Provides a sounding board for the Chairman and CEO.
Is available to shareholders if they have concerns.
Independent Director Provide constructive challenge to the Executive Directors.
Satisfy themselves on the integrity of financial information and that Noncontrols and risk management systems are robust and defensible.
Help develop proposals on strategy.
Executive Determine appropriate levels of remuneration for Executive Directors.
Scrutinise managements performance in meeting agreed Directors goals and objectives.
Appoint and remove Executive Directors as required and review succession planning.
Overall management of the financial risks of the Group.
Ensures effective financial compliance and control, while responding Chief to regulatory developments, including financial reporting, capital Responsible for financial planning and record-keeping, Financial requirements, and corporate responsibility.
as well as financial reporting to the Board and Officer shareholders.
The relationship between the Board and Controlling Board balance and independence Shareholder, CHP Software and Consulting Limited, is The Code recommends that at least half the Board of governed by the Relationship Agreement May 2017.
Under Directors, excluding the Chairman, should comprise this agreement, two Non-Executive Directors can be appointed independent Non-Executive Directors.
We have three Nonto the Board for as long as the Controlling Shareholder holds Executive Directors whose skills and experience are detailed 20% or more of the voting rights over the Companys shares, on page 55 to this Report.
The Board considers that all of its one Non-Executive Director can be appointed to the Board for Non-Executive Directors are independent, in character and so long as the Controlling Shareholder holds 10% or more but judgement, and therefore the Alfa Board complies with the less than 20% of the voting rights in respect of the Companys requirements of the Code.
Additionally, the Directors, both shares and if none of the Controlling Shareholders are members individually and collectively, have the range of skills, of the Nomination Committee, the Controlling Shareholder can knowledge, diversity of experience and dedication necessary appoint an observer to the Nomination Committee.
to lead the Group and have the requisite strategic and commercial experience to contribute to the leadership of Alfa.
Andrew Page is designated as the first appointed Director of the Controlling Shareholder.
Andrew Denton has not been Board induction and training appointed as a designated Director by the Controlling To ensure that all Non-Executive Directors are able to Shareholder.
It has been agreed that for as long as the influence, participate fully in discussions and challenge Controlling Shareholder has the right to appoint two Directors appropriately and knowledgeably, all Non-Executive Directors to the Board, and while Andrew Denton is a Director, the received a full and tailored induction on joining the Board in Controlling Shareholder will not exercise its right to appoint a May 2017, including meeting with the Executive Committee second Director to the Board.
There have been no Board members and other members of the Alfa senior team and observers appointed either under the Relationship Agreement meetings with Alfas team of external advisors.
involved visits to Alfas head office in London, attendance at industry events and presentations as part of the Board For further details of the Relationship Agreement, see the strategy day.
Further training will be provided as needs are Directors Report.
52 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information identified and we continue to utilise a portion of our Board business objectives and therefore they can only provide meetings to provide market updates or to discuss a variety of reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material industry, regulatory and governance issues or changes, in light errors, losses, fraud or breaches of law and regulations.
We of the impact these could or do have on our business.
have a number of internal controls which operate across the Alfa business.
The key controls which are relied upon during What we focused on in 2017 the year are set out on page 33 to the Strategic Report.
During the period since listing we assessed, considered and This should be read in conjunction with the principal risks and debated a wide range of matters including but not limited to: uncertainties facing Alfa, which are detailed on page 34 to 35 Strategy to the Strategic Report.
Stakeholder engagement and relationships Performance of the business and updates on the asset finance Shareholder relations industry both financial and operational The Board is committed to ensuring that we maintain good Financial statements, announcements and other financial communications with existing and potential shareholders reporting matters based on mutual understanding of the Companys objectives.
A comprehensive investor relations programme underpins Budgets and long-term plans this commitment.
Shareholder feedback and reports from brokers and analysts The Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer regularly engage with institutional Risk management and controls shareholders in order to develop an understanding of their views, which is communicated back to, and discussed with, Succession and talent management the Board.
Remuneration Presentations given to analysts and investors covering the annual and interim results, along with all results and other regulatory Regulatory updates announcements as well as further information for investors, are included on the investor relations section of the Companys 2.
Additional Responsibility for the Annual Report shareholder information is also set out inside the back cover.
The Board has charged the Audit and Risk Committee with Shareholders are able to contact the Company through the reviewing the contents of this 2017 Annual Report to assess Company Secretary or Head of Investor Relations at the whether, when taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced and Companys registered office, listed at the end of this Report.
understandable and provides the necessary information for shareholders to assess the Alfa consolidated position, Our Senior Independent Director, Richard Longdon, serves as performance, business model and strategy.
This process and an additional point of contact for shareholders should they the focus of this review is further disclosed on page 67 to the feel that any concerns are not being addressed properly Audit and Risk Committee Report.
He may be contacted through the Company Secretary.
Risk management and internal controls The Board is responsible for the overall system of internal Other stakeholders control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Therefore the Other stakeholders, other than shareholders, have been Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal identified as customers, employees and the communities in risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its which we operate.
See page 46 of the Strategic Report.
business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity as Annual General Meeting detailed on pages 34 to 35 of the Strategic Report.
The Board All shareholders are encouraged to attend, and have the has delegated the responsibility for designing, operating and opportunity to ask questions at the Companys AGM and at monitoring the internal control and risk management any other times by contacting the Company.
As well as the framework and systems to the Executive Committee.
The Chairman, the CEO and the CFO, the Chairs of the Audit and internal control and risk management framework and systems Risk, Nomination and Remuneration Committees will be have evolved through the identification, evaluations and available at the AGM to answer questions relating to the assessment of how to manage key risks, taking into account responsibilities of those committees.
The Executive Committee reports changes, developments or results of testing to the Board, through The Notice convening the 2018 AGM, to be held on 24 April the CEO and CFO, on a bi-annual basis.
We have laid out a 2018, will be issued along with this Annual Report to the summary of our risk management processes on pages shareholders at least 20 working days in advance of the 32 to 33 of the Strategic Report and provided further detail meeting.
This will provide shareholders with the appropriate on page 67 of the Audit and Risk Committee Report.
time, as set out in the Code, to consider matters.
Separate resolutions will be proposed on each substantially separate There have been no changes to the internal control or risk matter.
The results of the proxy votes on each resolution will management frameworks during the period since listing and be collated independently by the Companys registrar and will up to the date of approval of the Annual Report.
It should be be published on the Companys website after the meeting.
noted that the systems of internal control are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC 53
