Board of Directors A comprehensive 3. and balanced mix of experience and expertise 1.
Board overview Gender diversity Age profile Composition Female 2 3550 2 Chairman Executive 1 Male 4 5060 1 Executive Directors 2 6070 3 Non-Executive Directors 3 54 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 1.
Vivienne Maclachlan Executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board 2017 2017 2017 Committees Committees Committees Nomination Committee N A N A Meeting attendance Meeting attendance Meeting attendance 4 4 3 3 3 3 Other appointments Other appointments Other appointments N A Chief Executive Officer of Alfa since 2014 Chief Financial Officer of Alfa since 2016 Past roles Past roles Past roles N A N A N A Relevant experience Relevant experience Relevant experience Considerable senior management Computer scientist by training, considerable Wide ranging financial and capital raising experience and deep understanding senior management experience and significant expertise.
Vivienne is also a member of the of the asset finance industry.
experience in the asset finance industry.
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
Robin Taylor Senior Independent Director Independent Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointment to the Board 2017 Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board 2017 2017 Committees Chair of Nomination Committee Committees Committees Chair of Remuneration Committee Chair of Audit and Risk Committee Remuneration Committee Audit and Risk Committee Nomination Committee Nomination Committee Audit and Risk Committee Remuneration Committee Meeting attendance 10 10 Meeting attendance Meeting attendance 10 10 10 10 Other appointments Non-executive Director of Prometheus Other appointments Other appointments Group LLC Chair of Draper Esprit plc and The Foundry Non-executive Director of FDM Group PLC Chairman of Process Systems Enterprise Senior Independent Non-executive Director Senior Independent Non-executive Director at Micro Focus International PLC of Emis Group Senior Independent Non-executive Director of Fidessa Non-executive Director of Intelliflo Ltd Past roles and Accesso Technology Group PLC Past roles Chief Financial Officer of publicly listed companies Intec Telecom Systems plc, Chief Executive Officer and President of Past roles ITNET plc and JBA Holdings plc AVEVA.
Vice President and General Manager Worldwide Sales & Marketing for the Business Customer Relevant experience Relevant experience Organisation at Hewlett-Packard Company.
Significant financial, technology and consulting Deep knowledge of the technology sector and sector experience and considerable senior considerable experience in senior management Relevant experience and executive positions.
management and listed company expertise.
Considerable technology sector experience coupled with senior management, M&A and listed company experience.
Meeting attendance represents meetings of Board or committees where the Director is a member.
Experience Technology 6 6 Finance and Leasing 3 6 Financial 2 6 Plc Board 3 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC 55
