Executive Management Team Day-to-day management of the Group is delegated to the Executive Committee, which is chaired by Andrew Denton 1.
56 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 1.
Lucy Matthews Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Chief People Officer Joined Alfa Joined Alfa Joined Alfa 1995 2016 1991 Experience Experience Experience Andrew joined Alfa in 1995 as a developer Viv joined Alfa in September 2016 where Lucy is responsible for HR, project resourcing before being appointed Sales and Marketing she oversees the core finance function and the ongoing learning and development Director in 2003.
He was made COO in 2010 responsibilities and investor relations, as of the Alfa team.
In the past she has been and became CEO in September 2016.
Andrew well as being a key member of the Executive responsible for some of Alfas largest UK is also director and joint founder of the Leasing Committee.
Prior to joining Alfa, Vivienne implementation projects and continues to Foundation, an organisation that supports the was a capital markets specialist for more than maintain a customer relationship role.
Lucy leasing and asset finance industry through 12 years at PwC in London, assisting companies was appointed to the Executive Committee in charitable activities, research and development.
to raise capital in the UK and US markets.
December 2017 and has 30 years of experience Vivienne is a member of the Institute of in the asset finance industry.
Steve Taplin Chief Commercial Officer Chief Information Officer Global Sales and Marketing Director Joined Alfa Joined Alfa Joined Alfa 2002 1998 1997 Experience Experience Experience With more than 16 years experience in the asset With more than 19 years of experience in the Steve heads up the sales and marketing group finance industry, Mike is responsible for leading asset finance industry, Ralph is responsible for of Alfa, and has more than 20 years of experience commercial client negotiations across all of Alfas technical operations, including software in the asset finance industry.
Since starting his Alfas territories in addition to project initiation, development, hosting services, internal systems, career at Alfa as a developer, he has led a number purchasing and supply chain management.
Mike information security and business continuity.
of key implementation projects in the UK.
was most recently responsible for Alfas growth He leads a team of over 70 dedicated developers He was appointed Global Sales and Marketing in the Nordics, and has extensive experience in based in the United Kingdom.
Along with his sales brief and delivering implementations, sales and project Alfa management team activities, Steve takes a Before progressing to CIO, Ralph was the management.
lead role in the direction of the Alfa Systems lead project director on a number of UK and product, as well as authoring industry articles, Asia-Pacific customer implementations.
presenting at industry events and working on strategic consultancy engagements.
Matthew White Delivery Director Joined Alfa 1999 Experience Matthew joined Alfa as a graduate in 1999, starting in a software development role before assuming a role on the Executive Committee in 2016.
During his 17 years of experience in the asset finance industry, Matthew has undertaken a variety of roles within Alfa, from system configuration and testing support to project management for a number of UK and European implementation projects.
Matthew is accountable for the operations of the business, including project delivery.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC 57 Corporate Governance Report continued Board committees The Board has established three committees, being the Audit and Risk Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee.
The membership, responsibilities and focus of each of these committees is documented in the report of each committee respectively.
Nomination Audit and Risk Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Key objectives Key objectives Key objectives Monitoring the structure, size and composition Oversight of Alfas financial reporting Determining, and advising the Board on, the process, internal control system, risk of the Board, advising on succession planning framework and policy for the remuneration and making recommendations on management system and internal and of the Executive Directors and senior appointments to the Board.
Principal responsibilities Principal responsibilities Principal responsibilities Reviewing structure, size and composition Monitor the integrity of financial Responsibility for setting, monitoring and statements: of the Board: reviewing the Remuneration Policy: Board succession planning: Review and challenge accounting policies Consultation on major changes to and the application of these policies to employee benefit structure: Evaluation of Board appointments with unusual transactions: consideration to matters such as skill, Approval and determination of experience, knowledge, diversity: Review and approve assumptions in relation performance related pay schemes to viability: with regard to the Code and LRs : Review of Non-Executive Directors time required: Assess compliance with accounting Responsible for selection and appointment standards: of remuneration consultants: Review matters relating to continuation Review clarity, transparency and of Directors office: Review, design and assessment of share completeness of financial statements: incentive plans: Review results of the Board performance evaluation process: and Oversee material information presented Review of Director pension arrangements: with financial statements: and Review all conflicts of interest.
Review content of Annual Report to advise Approval of Director service contracts if fair, balanced and appropriate for and severance.
shareholders: Review and advise on adequacy and effectiveness of the Companys internal financial and operational controls, including the risk management framework: Monitoring and review of internal and external audit: and Review of whistleblowing, fraud and compliance.
Membership Membership Membership Robin Taylor Chair Richard Longdon Chair Karen Slatford Chair Andrew Page Richard Longdon Richard Longdon Karen Slatford Karen Slatford Robin Taylor Robin Taylor Nomination Committee Audit and Risk Committee Remuneration Committee Report page 60 Report page 63 Report page 69 Board and committee meetings and attendance Board Audit and Risk Remuneration Nomination 1 No.
of meetings 3 3 3 1 Andrew Page Chairman 3 1 Andrew Denton 3 Vivienne Maclachlan 3 Richard Longdon 3 3 3 1 Karen Slatford 3 3 3 1 Robin Taylor 3 3 3 1 1 Number of meetings does not include attendance at the strategy day.
58 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Executive Committee Operational issues such as resourcing, recruitment In addition to the Board, the Executive Committee, and training and development: as detailed on pages 56 and 57 of this Annual Report, meets regularly to discuss the following: Product updates, with focus on the development roadmap, Current trading: technical developments and strategic direction for the product: Market and industry developments: Sales pipeline and marketing: and Financial updates actual and planning: Execution of strategic plan.
Matters reserved for the Board Corporate Review and approve overall strategy and business objectives strategy Review and approve all take-over offers Capital Approve any share issues excluding employee share plans and any major changes to the share structure structure Approve any changes to the Articles of Association of the Company Approve any changes to the Companys listing Finance Review and approve half year and year-end consolidated financial statements, including accompanying reports Review and approve budget and three-year plan Review and approve dividend policy Approve any material changes to accounting policies and practices, including hedging policy Risk Review and set risk appetite management Review procedures for detection of fraud and prevention of bribery Approve annual assessment of effectiveness of risk and control processes Approve levels of insurance coverage for Alfa and the Directors and officers Corporate Approve statement that Non-Executive Directors are independent governance Undertake a formal review of performance of Alfa in relation to corporate governance framework, collective effectiveness of Board and committees and effectiveness of individual Directors Expenditure 1m of capital or operating expenditure outside budget All class 1 or 2 transactions or any acquisitions or disposals 25 million New material borrowing facilities All related party transactions Shareholder Receive and consider views of shareholders communication Approve all circulars, annual reports and press releases with significant matters included Approve all resolutions and related documentation for general meetings Succession Succession plans for Board and Executive Committee, including selecting a Chairman, planning CEO and appointing a Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Appointment of a Company Secretary Share dealing code Alfa has adopted a share dealing code which applies to the Companys Directors, its other PDMRs and certain persons deemed insiders.
In accordance with the Market Abuse Regulation, the Directors and PDMRs are responsible for procuring the compliance of their respective connected persons with the Alfa share dealing code.
The share dealing code has been published on the Alfa intranet and further training will be provided in 2018 to all of the Alfa team.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC 59
