Nomination Committee Report I am pleased to introduce the Nomination Committee Richard Longdon the Committee Report for 2017.
The members of the Senior Independent Committee are myself, two Non-Executive Directors, being Director and Chair of the Karen Slatford and Robin Taylor, and the Executive Chairman, Nomination Committee Andrew Page.
We can confirm that we have complied with the Code recommendations that the Committee comprises a majority of Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Myself, Karen Slatford and Robin Taylor are confirmed as independent, whilst Andrew Page is not deemed independent for the purposes of the Code.
Prism Cosec, the outsourced Company Secretary, acts as Secretary to the Committee.
By invitation, the meetings of the Committee may be attended by the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer.
Membership of the Committee There have been no changes in Committee membership since 1 Richard Longdon 31 December 2017.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee, SINED Role of the Committee 1 Karen Slatford The Committees primary purpose is to develop and maintain Independent Non-Executive Director a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for identifying appropriate candidates for Board appointments and 1 Robin Taylor reappointments and to make recommendations to the Board.
Independent Non-Executive Director In addition, the Committee is responsible for reviewing the Andrew Page succession plans for the Executive Directors and the NonExecutive Chairman Executive Directors.
1 D enotes independent member under the Code.
This involves: keeping under review the leadership needs of the Group, Role of the Committee both Executive and Non-Executive, with a view to ensuring The role of the Committee is set out in Committee the continued ability of the Group to compete effectively in Terms of Reference which are available at the marketplace: www.
com regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board to ensure it has an appropriate balance of skills, Committee meetings in 2017 diversity, experience, knowledge and independence, and Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec reporting and making recommendations to the Board with 23 regard to any changes: and regularly assessing the knowledge, skills and experience of individual members of the Board and reporting the results to Meetings the Board.
The Committee met once during the year.
Attendance by the Committee members at these meetings is On the recommendation of the Committee and in accordance shown below: with the Companys Articles of Association with the Code, all currently appointed Directors will retire at the forthcoming 23 Nov AGM and offer themselves for re-election by shareholders.
Richard Longdon Chair Karen Slatford Robin Taylor Andrew Page 60 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Diversity The Committees main focus since The Committee will take into account a variety of factors incorporation has been the oversight before recommending any new appointments to the Board, including relevant skills to perform the role, experience, of succession planning for the Board knowledge and diversity.
Alfa endeavours to achieve and senior management and to appropriate diversity, including gender diversity, throughout the Company.
The most important priority of the Committee ensure there is a diverse and has been and will continue to be ensuring that members of the appropriate balance of skills on Board should collectively possess the broad range of skills, expertise and industry knowledge, and business and other the Board.
experience necessary for the effective oversight of the Group.
The Board has adopted a Diversity Statement as set out on page 62.
Appointments Meetings Richard Longdon, Karen Slatford and Robin Taylor.
The first meeting of the Committee took place on 23 November 2017.
The meeting focused on succession As part of the preparation for Admission, the Board appointed planning, constitution of the Board and committees three Non-Executive Directors, selected on the basis of their and the Board Diversity Policy.
industry and public company skills, knowledge and experience The Nomination Committee and the Board are of the view required for Board members as guided by the UK Corporate that its size and composition as well as the mix of talents, Governance Code.
An external recruitment consultant was quality and skills are well suited to Alfas current circumstances not engaged as part of the recruitment process, and nor was and needs and allow for its efficient functioning as a decisionthere public advertising.
Instead recommendations from the making body and promote sound governance.
An assessment of the candidates skills was undertaken and interviews were held Activities with members of the Board and Executive Committee on a Induction, training and development one-on-one basis prior to appointment.
A tailored induction programme was arranged for the Annual evaluation independent Non-Executive Directors, both in the run up to As the Nomination Committee has only been established for their appointment but also following the IPO as part of the a short time, a formal performance evaluation has not been strategy day held on 18 October 2017. conducted.
It is intended that a performance evaluation will be conducted in 2018 and reported on in the Companys 2018 Annual Report.
Richard Longdon Chairman of the Nomination Committee 8 March 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC 61 Corporate Governance Report continued Diversity Policy and statement In satisfying our commitment to selecting the best persons In identifying and nominating candidates for election or to propose to shareholders as candidates for the Board re-election to the Board of Directors, the Committee: and designate as members of the Executive Committee, will seek to include diverse candidates in any director the Board believes that diversity is important to ensure search.
This process will take into account that qualified that the profiles of Directors and members of senior candidates may be found in a broad array of organisations, management provide the necessary range of perspectives, including privately held businesses and trade associations, experience and expertise required to achieve effective in addition to the traditional candidate pool of corporate stewardship and management.
Directors and officers, and from a variety of cultural and geographic backgrounds: Accordingly, Alfa has adopted a diversity policy which periodically review Board of Directors recruitment and outlines its approach to achieving and maintaining selection protocols to ensure that diversity remains a diversity on its Board and in senior management positions.
component of any director search: and This includes requirements for the Board to establish measurable objectives for achieving diversity on the will report its findings to the Board in order to assess Board of Directors and in senior management positions, what actions may be required for the coming year.
and for the Nomination Committee to monitor the For the financial year ended 31 December 2017, females implementation of the policy, assess the effectiveness comprise 33% of all Directors.
of the Boards nomination process and the appointment A subsection of the Nomination Committee, composed process for management positions in achieving the entirely of independent Directors, has the mandate to objectives of the policy and to measure our annual and oversee the succession planning for the Chairman and cumulative progress made in achieving the objectives.
Chief Executive Officer and a number of selected senior The Nomination Committee is responsible for monitoring executive positions, with the appointment and promotion the implementation and effectiveness of the diversity of other members of management being delegated to policy.
As such, the Nomination Committee will assess management.
In compliance with our diversity policy the on a periodic basis: Nomination Committee and, where applicable, management will: the mix of diversity, talents, quality and skills on the Board and in senior management positions: and consider candidates that are qualified based on their experience, education, expertise, personal qualities, progress made on diversity, including with regard to the and general and sector-specific knowledge: achievement of measurable objectives set pursuant to the diversity policy.
make decisions on appointments and promotions on the basis of performance, skill and merit: and In consultation with the Executive Chairman of the Board, review potential candidates from a variety of cultural the Nomination Committee will develop, review and monitor and geographic backgrounds and perspectives, with appropriate selection criteria for Board membership that Alfas diversity objectives in mind.
strive to attain a diversity of competencies, genders, personal qualities, geographical representation, business Pursuant to its mandate, the Nomination Committee background, cultural background, experience, overall will ensure that appropriate hiring policies, competency expertise and financial competency, taking into account profiles, training policies and compensation structures, Alfas circumstances and needs.
including retirement benefits, are in place so that Alfa can attract, motivate and retain the qualified personnel required to meet its business objectives.
All internal and Positions held by women external training opportunities are based on merit and in At Dec 2017 light of the Companys needs and individual needs.
In addition, the Nomination Committee will ensure that monitoring is in place regarding social issues such as employment equality, harassment and discrimination, and will review a 12-month consolidated Ethics and Board 33% Compliance activity report on human resources issues.
Alfas commitment to diversity is further reflected in its Code of Ethics, pursuant to which Alfa shall offer equal employment opportunities without regard to any distinctions based on age, gender, sexual orientation, disability, race, religion, citizenship, marital status, family Senior management 29% situation, country of origin or other factors, in accordance with the laws and regulations of each country where it does business.
62 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017
