NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT we also aim to have at least 25% female representation on the Board and we achieved this aim by 1 January 2018.
However, our overriding policy in recommending any new appointment is to select the best candidate on merit against objective criteria: all Directors need to be able to add real value to Board debates and support the achievement of our strategic objectives.
As a Committee, we also need to fulfil our role in safeguarding the continued success of the Company.
In February 2018, Richard Parry-Jones indicated that he wished to stand down as Senior Independent Director.
The Committee recommended to the Board the appointment of Angus Cockburn to the role taking into account the investor relations experience gained from his finance director positions.
Dear Shareholder Chief Executive The appointment and retention of strong candidates is key to the success of the Company.
The Nominations Committee plays a vital In considering succession planning for a new Chief Executive to role in ensuring the selection and recommendation of appropriate take over from Nigel Stein, the Committee followed Board-approved candidates for appointment to the Board.
It engaged Spencer Stuart, an external search consultancy, to conduct assessments of internal candidates and identify appropriate We keep under review the balance of skills, knowledge and experience external candidates.
Spencer Stuart has no other connection with the on the Board and the composition of Board committees, with any Company.
Following consideration of both internal and external changes recommended to the Board for its consideration.
We also candidates, and taking into account the results of the assessments, review succession planning, both to the Board and to the senior Kevin Cummings was appointed Chief Executive Designate.
management grade immediately below Board.
In November 2017, on further consideration, the Board determined that the next stage of GKNs development would be best delivered under 2017 activities alternative leadership and as a result Kevin Cummings left the Company.
Given her extensive experience across automotive and During 2017 we: aerospace industries, the Nominations Committee excluding Anne Stevens concluded that it would be appropriate to request considered succession planning for the Chief Executives position that Anne Stevens take on the role of Chief Executive on an interim and made recommendations to the Board as to the appointment of basis, pending a search for an external candidate.
Kevin Cummings as Chief Executive Designate and Anne Stevens as interim Chief Executive subsequently confirmed as a permanent In the period during which Anne acted as interim Chief Executive, role in January 2018 the Board was impressed with the contribution she made in setting out plans for a significant improvement to the Groups performance.
recommended the appointment of Jos Sclater as Subsequently, on 12 January 2018, Anne Stevens was appointed Group Finance Director as the new Chief Executive.
The Committee considered Annes track recommended to the Board a three-year extension to record in previous roles and her capability to transform GKN.
The Tufan Erginbilgics term of appointment.
Committee considered that she had the experience and operational and strategic skills that were ideally suited to the challenges facing the Group, including executing Project Boost.
The Board accepted the Board and committee composition Committees recommendation to appoint Anne as Chief Executive on a permanent basis.
We keep the composition of the Board under constant review to ensure that it is appropriately balanced and diverse in terms of skills, experience and industry knowledge.
To supplement this diversity, 64 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Committee membership Role Mike Turner Chairman The role of the Nominations Committee is to lead the process for identifying, and making recommendations to the Board on, candidates for appointment as Directors and as Company Angus Cockburn Secretary, giving full consideration to succession planning and the leadership needs of the Group.
Tufan Erginbilgic It also: Shonaid Jemmett-Page makes recommendations to the Board on the composition of the Nominations Committee and Richard Parry-Jones the composition and chairmanship of the Audit & Risk and Remuneration Committees All members are non-executive Directors.
keeps under review the structure, size and composition of the Board, including the balance of The Secretary to the Committee is skills, knowledge, experience, ethnicity and gender and the independence of the non-executive Kerry Watson, Company Secretary Directors makes recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes.
The Committee follows Board-approved procedures in making its recommendations.
These procedures, together with written terms of reference that outline the Committees authority and responsibilities are available on our website at www.
The Committee held five scheduled meetings in 2017.
Our attendance at these meetings is set out in the table on page 59.
Additional meetings were held on an ad hoc basis as required.
Group Finance Director In considering a replacement for Adam Walker as Group Finance Director, the Committee considered the internal candidates available for this role.
Jos Sclater joined GKN in late 2011 as General Counsel.
He has undertaken a number of additional roles since that time including acting as Company Secretary from 2014 to 2016 and as Director of Strategy and M&A from 2016.
Earlier in 2017 he also assumed responsibility for GKNs additive manufacturing activities.
With his strategic and commercial experience, Jos was considered to be ideally suited to the requirements of the role and the Board accepted the Committees recommendation that he be appointed as Group Finance Director.
Performance evaluation The Committees annual evaluation was carried out as part of the Board review process described on page 60.
No changes were considered necessary to the Committees terms of reference as a result, and the Committee was considered to be effective in fulfilling its role throughout 2017.
On behalf of the Committee Mike Turner CBE Chairman of the Nominations Committee 26 February 2018 gkn.
