BOARD OF DIRECTORS Mike Turner CBE N Anne Stevens E Angus Cockburn A R N Chairman Chief Executive Independent non-executive Director Appointed to the Board in September 2009 Appointed to the Board as an Independent Appointed to the Board in January 2013 and became Chairman in May 2012. non-executive Director in July 2016 and became and as Senior Independent Director in Chief Executive in January 2018.
Experience Has extensive experience of the aerospace industry having worked for BAE Experience Has extensive experience across Experience Currently Chief Financial Officer Systems plc for over 40 years, including both the automotive and aerospace industries.
He joined Serco in October as its Chief Executive from 2002 to 2008.
Former non-executive director of Lockheed 2014 from Aggreko plc where he held the role Former President of the Aerospace & Defence Martin Corporation and former Chairman, Chief of Chief Financial Officer for 14 years and was Industries Association of Europe and former Executive Officer and President of Carpenter latterly Interim Chief Executive.
Prior to this, non-executive director of Lazard Ltd.
Prior to this, Anne undertook he was Managing Director of Pringle Scotland, of the Royal Aeronautical Society.
a number of roles during a 16-year career at a division of Dawson International plc.
Ford Motor Company where she was latterly Previously held a number of roles at PepsiCo External appointments Chairman of Babcock Chief Operating Officer for the Americas.
Her Inc and was latterly Regional Finance Director International Group PLC and non-executive early career was spent at Exxon Corporation for Central Europe.
Former non-executive director of Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank where she held roles in engineering, product director of Howden Joinery Group plc and PLC.
Member of the UK Governments development and sales and marketing.
former chairman of the Group of Scottish Apprenticeship Ambassadors Network.
He is also an Honorary External appointments Non-executive Professor at the University of Edinburgh.
director of Anglo American plc and XL Group plc.
Tufan Erginbilgic A R N Shonaid Jemmett-Page A R N Independent non-executive Director Independent non-executive Director Appointed to the Board in May 2011.
Appointed to the Board in June 2010.
Experience Currently Chief Executive, Experience Former Chief Operating Officer Downstream for BP plc with specific of CDC Group plc, the UK Governments responsibility for the Fuels, Lubricants development finance institution.
He joined CDC from Unilever, where for eight years BP in 1997 and has held a number of senior she was Senior Vice-President Finance marketing and operational roles, including and Information, Home and Personal Care, Chief of Staff to the Group Chief Executive, originally in Asia and later for the group as Chief Operating Officer of the Fuels business a whole.
Her early career was spent at KPMG, and Chief Executive of the Castrol Lubricants latterly as a partner.
His early career was spent at chairman of Origo Partners plc.
non-executive director of Havelock Europa, Close Brothers Group plc and APR Energy plc.
External appointments Director of the Turkish-British Chamber of Commerce External appointments Independent nonand Industry and member of the Strategic executive director of Greencoat UK Wind plc Advisory Board of the University of Surrey.
Non-executive chairman of MS Amlin plc and senior independent director of Clearbank Limited.
52 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
