STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Leadership The role of the Board We are responsible for the stewardship and approving key strategic projects and the Our governance framework establishes a clear long-term success of GKN.
Our overarching Group and divisional budgets division of responsibilities that have been aim is to create sustainable value for the approved by the Board and are summarised ensuring that the Group has an effective risk benefit of our shareholders.
Further details can be found on our management framework we achieve this through: website at www.
com together with a full setting and maintaining the values and description of our role as a Board and the setting the strategic objectives of the Group standards of the Group specific responsibilities reserved to us.
and ensuring it has the executive leadership and necessary resources to meet those aims reviewing management performance.
Shareholders Board Accountable to shareholders and responsible for the long-term success of the Company Chairman Board committees Chief Executive Leads the Board and is responsible for Support the Board in the fulfilment Leads the business and is responsible its effectiveness of its duties for executing the strategy Senior Independent Director Non-executive Directors Executive Directors Acts as a sounding board for the Chairman Constructively challenge and help Responsible for the day-to-day and intermediary for other Directors develop the Groups strategy operation of the business where necessary Company Secretary Provides independent advice to the Board, ensures good information flow and maintains good shareholder relations gkn.
com 55 Corporate governance continued Board meetings We meet formally for scheduled meetings In addition to regular Board reviews of meetings during the year to build and maintain approximately eight times a year.
To increase strategic projects, we hold an annual two-day strong relations between Directors.
Additionally, our visibility of the Groups operations and Board meeting which is devoted to reviewing I meet from time to time with the non-executive provide further opportunities to meet senior progress made against Group strategy and Directors without the executive Directors management, at least one Board meeting is discussing longer-term strategic options.
being present so that we can discuss their combined with a visit to the Groups business During this meeting, we receive detailed priorities and concerns.
In October 2017, we visited GKN updates on markets and technology trends I have set out below the areas on which we Drivelines facility in Zumaia, Spain, where we from external experts and we discuss and focused in 2017. toured the facility, reviewed business approve the strategy for each division and the performance and met employees.
We also hold a number of informal Board focus areas in 2017 Strategy Reviewed overall Group strategy.
Reviewed and approved the Groups strategic plans and annual budget.
Reviewed a number of potential acquisitions.
Risk Assessed the risks to the achievement of the Group strategy and calibrated the Groups risk appetite.
Considered and debated the principal risks and uncertainties which could impact the Group.
Agreed severe but plausible scenarios to model and test the viability of the Group.
Reviewed the impact of Brexit and agreed actions to be taken to further understand the risks.
Capabilities Considered succession planning for the Board, the Executive Committee and senior executive positions within the Group.
Evaluated the effectiveness of the Board and agreed appropriate actions.
Performance Considered Group financial performance against budget and forecast.
Considered health and safety performance throughout the Group.
Reviewed the half-year and annual results and approved the annual report and interim financial statements.
Reviewed Group and divisional key pPerformance indicators.
Control Assessed, with the support of the Audit & Risk Committee, the effectiveness of internal control and audit processes.
People Reviewed progress against the Groups diversity targets.
Approved the decision to cease future accrual in the Companys UK defined benefit pension scheme.
Adopted the SAYE and SIP plan approved by shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
Stakeholder Received a presentation on feedback from the Groups employee engagement survey.
engagement Received papers on investor relations activity, key investor comments and shareholder feedback.
In addition, the Board devoted a significant amount of attention during the final quarter of the financial year to the issues arising out of the North American Balance Sheet Review see page 26, the culture of the organisation and the revision of the Groups strategy including the development of Project Boost.
56 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Board committees In line with the Code we delegate certain Reports on the activities of our principal although additional attendees may be invited responsibilities to our Board committees, committees can be found on the following should their input be required.
In order that the which assist the Board in carrying out its pages and their terms of reference are Board remains fully updated on their work, the functions and ensure that there is independent available on our website.
All Board committees committee chairmen report on committee oversight of internal control and risk are supported by the Company Secretariat.
activities at the subsequent Board meeting.
management, executive remuneration and Only the committee chairman and members are new Board appointments.
entitled to be present at committee meetings, GKN plc Board Audit & Risk Remuneration Nominations Executive Disclosure Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Chairman Shonaid Jemmett-Page Richard Parry-Jones Mike Turner Nigel Stein until Nigel Stein until 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 Anne Stevens Anne Stevens from 1 January 2018 from 1 January 2018 Composition All independent All independent All non-executive Chief Executive, Group Chief Executive, Group non-executive Directors non-executive Directors Directors Finance Director, Finance Director and divisional chief the Company Secretary executives, Group HR Director, General Counsel until 10 November 2017 and the Head of Strategy and Communications from 1 February 2018 Role Monitors the integrity Agrees remuneration Leads the process Leads, oversees and Ensures adequate of the financial of the executive for identifying and directs the activities procedures, systems reporting process.
Directors and the appointing Directors of the Group.
and controls are Company Secretary with skills and maintained to enable Reviews Executes the Groups within the terms of experience to deliver the Company to managements strategic plan.
the continued success comply with its responsiveness to the Approves and of the Company.
obligations regarding external auditors Reviews and leads the consistent identification and findings.
approves proposed Keeps under review implementation of disclosure of inside shortand long-term the succession Reviews the Groups business and information.
incentive payments planning and internal control and operational processes.
to executive Directors leadership needs Ensures that all risk management Identifies, evaluates to ensure such of the Group.
and monitors the risks payments are announcements, the Keeps under review Reviews the facing the Group and justified.
annual report and the structure, size effectiveness of the decides how they are accounts and other Monitors the level and composition external and internal to be managed.
documents issued by and structure of of the Board and audit process.
the Company comply remuneration of its committees, with applicable the most senior recommending any requirements.
executives below changes to the Board.
Executive sub-committees The Executive Committees execution of the Groups strategy is supported by three sub-committees as shown below.
Executive Committee Lean Enterprise Sub-Committee Governance and Risk Sub-Committee Group Technology Strategy Board Drives operational best practice through the Monitors and reviews matters relating to Develops the Groups technology plan application of Lean business processes governance, compliance and risk management In addition, the Chief Executives Council assists in shaping the Groups strategy and operations.
Chaired by the Chief Executive, the Councils membership comprises members of the Executive Committee and 16 senior executives from divisional leadership teams involved in the day-to-day running of the businesses.
com 57 P t e n e r e v f m a o l r p u o a m l t e i a o v n n e D c e Corporate governance continued Effectiveness Diversity of skills, experience, knowledge Induction and personalities Ongoing development Commitment to fostering an open and constructively challenging Board dynamic Sufficient time commitment Individual and Board performance evaluations Accurate and clear information in advance to provide feedback and identify opportunities of meetings for improvement Access to the Company Secretary and independent advice when needed Composition and commitment The Board has considered the relationships and circumstances that may affect, or appear to affect, the independence of the non-executive Appointments and Board diversity Directors.
In particular, it considered the length of service of Richard The composition of our Board is kept under review by Parry-Jones who has been a non-executive Director since 1 March the Nominations Committee to ensure that it retains an 2008 and Senior Independent Director from May 2012 to February appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence, 2018.
Richards effectiveness as an independent non-executive diversity and knowledge of the Group to enable it to meet the needs Director was reviewed last year and his term was renewed for of the business.
Collectively we have many years of experience gained a further period of three years.
His independence was again across a variety of areas and industries, including finance, engineering reviewed carefully as part of the Board effectiveness evaluation and manufacturing.
Many Directors on the Board have strong see page 60 for further details.
Based on feedback received from international backgrounds having held executive positions in Asia and the other Directors, the evaluation concluded that Richard continues the Americas.
to play a fully independent role on the Board.
Board appointments are subject to the Group Diversity and Inclusion The Board is not aware of any matter that would be likely to affect Policy.
The objective of the policy is to ensure that we attract and retain the judgement of any Director.
After careful deliberation and taking the best possible people for any given role irrespective of their personal into account the output of the Board effectiveness review, the Board attributes.
The Policy is clear: all appointments must be based on ability, considers all the non-executive Directors, excluding the Chairman, qualifications, merit and suitability for work irrespective of where the to be independent.
candidate is from, and his or her sexual orientation, gender, religion, During the year the Board comprised four executive Directors age or nationality.
Pursuant to the Policy, all recruitment consultants reduced to three by the end of the year and six non-executive must be instructed to provide a long list of candidates that reflects Directors including the Chairman reduced to five by the end of an inclusive demographic so that a reasonable number of diverse the year.
Accordingly, at least half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, was Recommendations for appointment to the Board are made by the composed of independent non-executive Directors during the year.
The Committee follows Board-approved procedures available on our website that incorporate the requirements of the Group Diversity and Inclusion Policy and provide a framework All Directors are required to allocate sufficient time to the Company for different types of Board appointments.
The procedures require to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
The time commitment Board appointments to be based on merit against objective criteria with expected of each non-executive Director is set out in his or her letter due regard to diversity on the Board.
The Committee agrees a broad of appointment and non-executive appointees must demonstrate that role specification for non-executive roles and appoints head hunters they have sufficient time to devote to the role.
to produce a long list of diverse candidates for the Committees Recognising the benefits that experience on other boards can bring consideration.
The Chief Executive determines the role specification to the Company, executive Directors may accept one external nonand capabilities required for executive positions, and if the position is executive directorship, excluding the chairmanship of a FTSE 100 not to be filled internally, leads the external search to produce a short company.
Any proposed appointment is subject to review and takes list of candidates for the Committees review.
into account the Directors duty to avoid a conflict of interest.
We understand the importance of diversity and our aim is for the Board During the year, Nigel Stein and Adam Walker continued in their to consist of people with diverse experience who can add real value to respective roles as non-executive directors of FTSE companies.
Board debates and support the achievement of our strategic objectives.
This includes diversity of industry skills, knowledge and professional If the takeover bid mentioned in the Chairmans statement see page 4 background in addition to gender, age, education and ethnicity.
As at lapses or is withdrawn, Anne Stevens will step down from one of her 31 December 2017, just under 25% of the Board were women, and current two non-executive directorships.
from 1 January 2018, 25% of the Board were women.
The time commitment of each Director was reviewed in the Boards Following his appointment to the Board during the year, Jos Sclater individual performance evaluations and I can confirm that each Director will retire and offer himself for election at the 2018 annual general continues to devote sufficient time to his or her respective role.
All other Directors in post at the date of this annual report will retire and seek re-election at the AGM in accordance with the provisions of the Code.
Biographical details of all Directors seeking election or re-election are given on pages 52 and 53.
58 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 d t I n n n a a f e n n o d m o r s i t t m i u i s p m a o p t p i m o o r m t o n o c C STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Board and committee attendance Ongoing development Directors are continually updated on the Groups businesses, the Attendance at scheduled meetings of the Board and of the Audit & Risk, markets in which they operate and changes to the competitive and Remuneration and Nominations Committees held during 2017, with regulatory environment through briefings to the Board and meetings the number of meetings that the Director was eligible to attend shown with senior executives.
Non-executive Directors are encouraged to visit in brackets where relevant, is shown below.
In addition, a number of Group operations in addition to formal Board visits to increase their ad hoc Board and Committee meetings took place during the year.
I discuss training and development needs with each Director as part Audit & Risk Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee of our annual individual performance evaluation process.
The Company Director 8 meetings 5 meetings 5 meetings 5 meetings Secretary keeps under review the suitability of external courses so that Chairman any needs identified either through the evaluation process or on an Mike Turner 8 5 ad hoc basis can be addressed.
Executive Directors During the year, Directors received training and formal updates in the Nigel Stein 8 following areas: 1 Kevin Cummings 7 7 Governance Corporate governance reform proposals 2 Jos Sclater 1 1 General Data Protection Regulation Phil Swash 8 Modern Slavery Act statements 2 Adam Walker 7 7 New annual report disclosure requirements Non-executive Directors Gender pay gap reporting requirements Angus Cockburn 8 5 5 5 Strategy Long-term market and technological trends 3 Tufan Erginbilgic 6 2 4 4 Technology and innovation Shonaid Jemmett-Page 8 5 5 5 Industry 4.0 Richard Parry-Jones 8 5 5 5 Risk The impact of Brexit Anne Stevens 8 5 5 5 Cybersecurity 1 Kevin Cummings stepped down from the Board on 16 November 2017.
Insurance 2 Adam Walker stepped down from the Board and Jos Sclater was appointed to the Board on 10 November 2017.
3 Tufan Erginbilgic was unable to attend certain meetings due to prior business commitments.
Finance Tax strategy Capabilities Succession planning Development Induction Information and support On joining the Board, a Director receives a tailored induction to suit the individuals background and As Chairman, I am responsible for ensuring that Directors experience.
This includes: receive accurate, timely and clear information.
I set Board a comprehensive induction pack with background information agendas following consultation with the Chief Executive about GKN, details of Board meeting procedures, and Directors and with the assistance of the Company Secretary.
An duties and responsibilities in addition to a number of other annual programme of items for discussion is kept under review by the governance-related issues Company Secretary to ensure that all matters reserved to us and other key issues are considered at the appropriate time.
a briefing with the Company Secretary who is responsible for facilitating the induction of new Directors both into the Group and To ensure that adequate time is available for Board discussion and to as to their roles and responsibilities as Directors enable informed decision making, briefing papers are prepared and circulated to Directors one week prior to scheduled Board meetings.
meetings with the Chief Executive and with relevant senior All Directors have direct access to the advice and services of the executives to be briefed on the Group strategy and each individual Company Secretary who ensures that the Board is fully briefed on business portfolio legislative, regulatory and corporate governance developments.
plant visits Briefing papers are also circulated to committee members in advance external training where appropriate, particularly on matters of committee meetings and, in respect of the Audit & Risk Committee, relating to the role of a Director and the role and responsibilities are made available to all other Directors.
The Company Secretary of Board committees.
supports the committee chairmen by ensuring that agendas are appropriate and address all matters for which the committee has In relation to the appointment of Jos Sclater during the year, a formal specific responsibility.
In addition to the above, Directors may take induction programme was not necessary as he was already fully independent professional advice at the Companys expense in the familiar with the Groups structure, business and people, and as former furtherance of their duties.
company secretary to the Company, he is experienced in governance matters and the role of a director.
com 59 Corporate governance continued Performance evaluation Board evaluation Each year a performance evaluation of the Board is Progress against our key actions for 2017 and the 2018 key actions undertaken.
In accordance with the Code, an external agreed by the Board following discussion of the evaluation results are evaluation is carried out every three years.
the external evaluation conducted in 2016, we undertook an internal evaluation in 2017.
The evaluation process is described below.
Performance evaluation process Together with the Company Secretary, I agree areas of focus believed to be critical to the Boards effectiveness.
For 2017, the areas of focus included: strategy and process culture decision making and quality of debate succession planning Board composition risk management, governance and compliance.
Extensive one-to-one interviews conducted by the Company Secretary with each Director Summary of results presented to the Board for discussion Key actions agreed by the Board 2017 key actions 2018 key actions Area of focus Key action Progress Key action Strategy Conduct a deep dive on the bid The Audit & Risk Committee received presentations In light of the Groups lower process to enhance consistency on programme management risk which set out the trading margins, further reviews of approach across the divisions.
bid processes for GKN Driveline and GKN will be undertaken in this area Aerospace.
Risk Continue the programme of The Audit & Risk Committee received deep dive Deep dive reviews will continue in deep dive reviews to assess the reviews from divisions on areas within the principal 2018 taking into account the root robustness and consistency risks.
It continued to focus on quality and causes and improvement plans of key risk management programme management.
identified as part of the North programmes across the American Balance Sheet Review.
Succession Hold a Board discussion around The skills needed on the Board were considered Given the changes to Board planning the Board skills matrix.
as part of the Nominations Committee process to composition, this will be identify successors to the Chief Executive and considered further in 2018.
Board papers Review the format of the Board The format and content of Board papers was Work will continue to standardise pack to ensure it is standardised.
reviewed during the year and standardised papers and streamline the Board pack were developed for key areas.
60 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Director evaluation Committee evaluation The individual performance of the Directors was evaluated during the Committee evaluations were carried out as part of the Board evaluation Board evaluation process described opposite.
I provided feedback on process: details of these evaluations can be found in the relevant the performance of individual Board members during one-to-one Committee report.
Following the evaluation, I can confirm that each Director continues to make a valuable contribution to the Board and demonstrates commitment to their role.
Feedback on my performance was provided by the Senior Independent Director who took into account the results of the Board evaluation and the views of the other Directors.
Accountability Financial and business reporting When reporting externally, the Board aims to present a fair, balanced A statement of this responsibility, together with additional and understandable assessment of the Groups position and responsibilities of the Directors in respect of the preparation of the prospects.
During the year, the Board satisfied itself that appropriate annual report, is set out on page 96.
The auditors report on pages 97 assurance processes are in place to enable it to state that this annual to 107 includes a statement by Deloitte LLP about their reporting report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and responsibilities.
As set out on page 29, the Directors are of the opinion provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the that GKNs business is a going concern.
An explanation of how the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
Board has assessed the prospects of the Company, taking into account its current position and principal risks, can be found on the same page.
Risk management and internal control GKNs enterprise risk management ERM programme facilitates Our risk management and internal control systems and procedures a Group-wide approach to the identification and assessment of risk.
are designed to identify, manage and where practicable, reduce Each year all Group businesses are required formally to review their and mitigate the effects of the risks that could adversely affect our business risks and to report on whether there has been any material business objectives.
They are not designed to eliminate such risk, breakdown in their internal controls.
This formal review is supplemented recognising that any risk management system can only provide by an interim review conducted at the half year.
A description of the reasonable and not absolute assurance against material ERM programme can be found on page 30. misstatement or loss.
Risk management Oversight Policies and The Board Fourth line of defence Assurance procedures The Executive Committee The Audit & Risk Committee Independent assurance Internal audit Third line of defence Risk appetite External statutory audit Metrics and KPIs External assurance providers Monitoring and compliance Culture and values Second line of defence Self assessments Risk reporting Group functional reviews Business strategy Risk ownership and control Policies Organisation Delegated First line of defence Incident reporting authorities Risk assessments Procedures Training gkn.
com 61 Corporate governance continued Our four lines of defence approach to risk management helps us to delegate and coordinate risk management responsibilities and provides assurance that internal control systems and procedures are implemented and operating effectively across the Group.
First line of defence Risk ownership and control Our first line of defence comprises the day-to-day risk management our delegated authority levels, which set out the procedures and controls that are implemented and monitored by our businesses.
approval limits for matters requiring authorisation by the Board They ensure that appropriate risk management systems are in place and its committees to identify, evaluate and mitigate our business risks.
our enterprise risk management programme, which facilitates a Key elements of our first line of defence include: Group-wide approach to the identification and assessment of risk the GKN Code, which clearly defines the behaviours we expect the development and dissemination of training programmes to from our employees educate employees on relevant topics and reinforce the behaviours expected of them our Group and supporting divisional policies, which set out the minimum standards to be incorporated into our risk management the use of key performance indicators to evaluate and respond and internal control systems effectively to trends and key indicators of risk an independent disclosure hotline, which employees can use to report any instances of suspected wrongdoing.
Second line of defence Monitoring and compliance Our second line of defence encompasses central monitoring of the To ensure that the values in the GKN Code are embedded throughout control systems and processes implemented by the businesses to the Group, all managers are required to certify annually that they are ensure that they comply with the standards imposed by the Board aware of and understand the behaviours expected of them.
The output from these self-certifications is reviewed by the Executive Our self-certification processes provide guidance to the businesses Sub-Committee on Governance and Risk ESCGR with matters of on the application of our policies and enable them to assess their non-compliance reported to the Executive Committee.
compliance with defined policy requirements and address any issues Our second line of defence also includes ongoing reviews by our that are identified.
Areas in which the businesses are asked to certify health and safety audit team, Group IT, Group Risk and financial control their compliance include: function to check compliance with key requirements in their respective non-financial controls such as quality certifications, ethical fields.
Representatives from these functions report their findings to the standards and applicable laws and regulations ESCGR or directly to the Executive Committee with serious incidents and material non-compliance being reported to the Board.
internal financial controls, accounting judgements and representations of divisional financial results key HR controls and procedures mandated IT controls.
Third line of defence Independent assurance Our internal audit function provides independent assurance in relation to Deloitte, as our statutory auditors, provide independent assurance the Groups financial risk and the risk management and internal control to the Audit & Risk Committee that the financial statements are free systems relating to some of the Groups principal risks.
The function is from material misstatement.
Assurance is also provided through supported by  LLP, Ernst & Young LLP and other external sources, including customer, regulator and industry BDO UK LLP who provide co-sourced assistance where appropriate.
Fourth line of defence Oversight The Board is responsible for setting the risk appetite of the Group.
Our risk management and internal control processes are regularly We also retain responsibility for maintaining sound risk management reviewed and revised to ensure that they remain relevant to changes and internal control systems and for undertaking an annual review in the Groups internal and external risk profiles.
of the effectiveness of these systems.
As described in the governance framework on page 57, certain elements of this responsibility are overseen on our behalf by the Executive Committee and the Audit & Risk Committee.
62 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks Discussion facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business The Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Director of model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
A description of Investor Relations meet regularly with major shareholders to these risks, together with the details of how they are managed or discuss strategy, financial and operating performance.
mitigated, is set out on pages 32 to 39.
We also have specific controls in place to manage risk in respect Feedback of financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated accounts.
Feedback is sought by the Companys brokers to ensure that the These include: Groups strategy and performance is being communicated the implementation of Group accounting policies and procedures, effectively and to develop a better understanding of supported by regular bulletins from the central and divisional shareholders views.
finance teams on the application of accounting standards and reporting protocols Group and divisional policies governing the maintenance of accounting Report records, transaction reporting and key financial control procedures This feedback is included in a twice-yearly report to the Board, a proprietary internal control monitoring system, GKN Reporting and which also provides an update on investor relations activity, Integrity Procedures GRiP, to assess compliance with key financial highlights changes in holdings of substantial shareholders and controls on monthly, quarterly and annual cycles reports on share price movements.
monthly operational review meetings which include, as necessary, reviews of internal financial reporting issues and financial control I am responsible for ensuring that all Directors are aware of major monitoring shareholders views.
With support from the Company Secretary, I meet divisional certifications in relation to internal financial controls, with institutional shareholders and investor representatives to discuss accounting judgements and representations of divisional financial matters relating to governance and strategy, and feed back their views results to the Board.
The Senior Independent Director is also available to discuss issues with shareholders where concerns cannot be addressed ongoing training and development of financial reporting personnel.
through normal channels of communication.
The North American Balance Sheet Review improvement plan will Richard Parry-Jones, in his capacity as Remuneration Committee consider additional modified controls to be put in place during 2018.
Chairman, also engages in discussion with shareholders on significant matters relating to executive remuneration.
Process for review of effectiveness GKN hosted a number of events for institutional investors in 2017, which included site visits and presentations.
A recording of the The Audit & Risk Committee is responsible for reviewing the ongoing presentations and slide material shown is available on our website.
The actions undertaken by the Committee to discharge this responsibility are described in the Audit & Risk Committees Annual general meeting report on pages 66 to 72.
Information regarding the 2018 AGM is given on page 174.
Shareholders who attend the AGM are invited to ask questions during The Board receives an annual report from the Audit & Risk Committee the meeting and to meet with Directors after the formal AGM business concerning the operation of the key systems of internal control and risk has been completed.
Resolutions for consideration at the AGM are management.
This report is considered by the Board in forming its own voted on by way of a poll rather than by show of hands to allow the view on the effectiveness of the systems.
votes of all shareholders to be counted, including those cast by proxy.
The results of the poll vote are announced to the London Stock Exchange The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups systems and published on our website after the meeting.
of internal control and risk management during the period covered by this annual report.
It confirms that the processes described in this Compliance statement report, which accord with the FRC guidance on risk management, internal control and related financial and business reporting, have been in place throughout that period in relation to businesses outside This corporate governance statement, together with the Nominations of Aerospace North America and up to the date of approval of the Committee report on pages 64 and 65, the Audit & Risk Committee annual report.
Apart from the matters set out in the improvement report on pages 66 to 72 and the Directors remuneration report on plans relating to the North American Balance Sheet Review, the pages 73 to 92, provide a description of how the main principles of Board also confirms that no significant failings or weaknesses were the 2016 edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code identified in relation to the review.
have been applied within GKN during 2017.
The Code is published by the Financial Reporting Council and is available on its website at www.
Relations with investors It is the Boards view that, throughout the financial year ended The Board maintains a dialogue with investors with the aim of ensuring 31 December 2017, GKN was in compliance with the relevant a mutual understanding of objectives.
provisions set out in the Code.
Major shareholders This statement complies with sub-sections 2.1, 2.2 1, 2.3 1, 2.5, 2.7 Communication with major institutional shareholders is undertaken and 2.10 of Rule 7 of the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules as part of GKNs investor relations programme, in which non-executive of the Financial Conduct Authority.
The information required to be Directors are encouraged to participate.
disclosed by sub-section 2.6 of Rule 7 is shown on pages 93 to 95.
The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director have regular meetings with the Groups major shareholders and feedback from these meetings is reported to the Board.
