AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE REPORT During the year, in addition to the North American Balance Sheet Review and its routine business, the Committee continued to focus on risk management.
We: received reports on the quality risk management systems operated by the divisions discussed the programme management processes used by the divisions reviewed the methodology and approach to the creation of a total risk assurance map to further improve the Groups risk management processes considered IT risk management across the Group Dear Shareholder received an update on the financial governance structure in the Automotive division I am pleased to present the Audit & Risk Committee report for 2017.
The Committee provides independent oversight and plays a fundamental continued to be updated on the assessment of the impact of IFRS 15 role in protecting shareholders interests by monitoring management on the Groups financial reporting, to be implemented in the next and auditor conduct, reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial year controls and risk management systems and ensuring the integrity of monitored the transition of the Group Finance Director role from the Groups financial statements.
Adam Walker to Jos Sclater and received a report on the induction In October and November 2017, the Board announced a detailed activities that took place.
review of certain aspects of our operations in Aerospace North America Looking ahead to 2018, we will focus on the improvement plan to and further details are set out on page 26. address matters arising out of the North American Balance Sheet Review, particularly in relation to internal controls and risk management, and obtaining regular updates during the year.
We will also consider the governance and assurance requirements arising out of Project Boost.
Further details of our activities during the year and up to the date of this report are set out on the following pages.
66 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Activities Our activities during the year and up to the date of this report have principally related to financial reporting, the external audit and internal control and risk management.
Financial reporting We have: considered information presented by management on significant accounting judgements and policies adopted in respect of the Groups half-year and annual financial statements and agreed their appropriateness considered accounting matters relating to key areas including the adjustments arising out of the North American Balance Sheet Review, impairment testing, the clarity and completeness of reporting and preparation for the requirements of IFRS 15 from the 2018 financial year examined key points of disclosure and presentation to ensure the adequacy, clarity and completeness of the financial statements discussed audit reports with the external auditors which highlighted key accounting matters and significant judgements in respect of each set of financial statements reviewed documentation prepared to support the going concern judgement and the viability statement given on page 29.
Committee membership Role Shonaid Jemmett-Page Chairman The primary role of the Committee is to ensure the integrity of the financial reporting and audit processes and the maintenance of sound Angus Cockburn internal control and risk management systems in order to safeguard Tufan Erginbilgic shareholder interests.
Richard Parry-Jones This includes responsibility for monitoring and reviewing: The Committee comprises independent non-executive Directors with a wide range of skills, experiences, professional qualifications and the integrity of the Groups financial statements and the significant knowledge.
In the Boards view, the Committee has competence accounting judgements contained in them, ensuring that the relevant to GKNs sectors and operations: Richard Parry-Jones and judgements and policies taken by management are appropriate Anne Stevens have extensive engineering and automotive experience the appropriateness of the Groups relationship with the external and Tufan Erginbilgic has a significant amount of international auditors, including auditor independence, fees and provision of experience in a multinational corporation.
Additionally, and as required non-audit services by the UK Corporate Governance Code, both Angus Cockburn and I have recent and relevant financial experience.
the effectiveness of the external audit process, making recommendations to the Board on the appointment of the Anne Stevens stepped down from the Committee with effect external auditor from 1 January 2018 following her appointment as interim Chief Executive and subsequent appointment as new Chief Executive the activities and effectiveness of the internal audit function on 12 January 2018.
Corporate Audit The Secretary to the Committee is Kerry Watson, Company Secretary.
the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk management systems In order to maintain effective communication, we invite the Chairman, Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Head of Corporate Audit, the the effectiveness of the Groups whistleblowing policies.
external audit engagement partner and other members of senior Written terms of reference that outline the Committees authority and management to attend Committee meetings as necessary.
responsibilities are available on our website at www.
Members of the Committee meet separately at the start of each The Committee held five scheduled meetings in 2017, generally timed meeting to discuss matters in the absence of any invitees.
At the to coincide with the financial and reporting cycles of the Company.
conclusion of meetings, the Head of Corporate Audit and the external Attendance at these meetings is set out in the table on page 59. audit engagement partner are each given the opportunity to discuss Additional meetings were held on an ad hoc basis as required.
matters without executive management being present.
Both the Head of Corporate Audit and the external auditors have direct access I report formally to the Board on Committee proceedings after each to me should they wish to raise any concerns outside formal meeting and Committee meeting papers and minutes are made Committee meetings.
available to all members of the Board.
com 67 Audit & Risk Committee report continued Significant issues We identified the issues below as significant in the context of the 2017 financial statements.
We consider these areas to be significant taking into account the level of materiality and the degree of judgement exercised by management.
We debated the issues in detail to ensure that the approaches taken were appropriate.
Area of focus Committee action North American Balance Sheet Review In consultation with executive management, in November 2017, we agreed the scope of the review and that each element would be supported by independent experts.
We oversaw the In the final quarter of 2017, executive appointment of each expert and the scope and materiality applied to their work.
KPMG was management carried out an investigation appointed to lead the independent accountants review, while lawyers in the UK Slaughter into potential accounting adjustments in and May and US Kirkland & Ellis carried out the conduct review.
Aerospace North America see page 26.
Management and KPMG regularly reported to the Committee during the period November 2017 Many of the resulting accounting to February 2018.
We sought to ensure that the review had been thorough and balanced and adjustments required judgement and requested recommendations for addressing identified issues and future improvements.
Details estimation, including in the assessment of managements review are given in the Strategic Review on page 26.
Given the significance of the carrying value of inventory and of this review, as Chairman of the Committee, I also attended the weekly management Steering receivable balances, the recoverability Group meetings.
of specific items of property, plant and equipment, and the recognition of liabilities.
We spent considerable time discussing and challenging management on the key judgements, Additionally, judgement was necessary assumptions and estimates taken during the course of this review and on the outcomes.
when assessing the extent to which the We also sought to ensure that management was able to apply sufficient resource to enable identified accounting adjustments may the review to be completed on a timely basis.
relate to prior years and consequently A key element of our review focused on the judgement by management that the prior period whether there was a need to restate errors identified were not sufficiently material to warrant restatement of prior year accounts previously reported results and financial in accordance with IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors.
We reviewed a specific report from management on this matter and challenged the basis of The review also included an assessment their conclusions, in particular: of the root causes and potential failures whether adjustments arose as a result of the failure to use reliable information that was in GKNs internal control and risk available when the prior year accounts were authorised for issue and would reasonably have management systems.
been expected to have been taken into account, and hence represent prior period errors whether it was practicable to identify and appropriately measure amounts relating to prior years the extent to which adjustments arose as a result of changes in management estimates and judgements, rather than error, and hence should be recorded against 2017 profits.
We discussed these matters with the Groups external auditors, including the distinction between a prior period error and a change in accounting estimate and whether the prior period error was material in the context of the Group accounts.
Taking into account the reports made by management and external experts, we are satisfied that: the accounting adjustments made are appropriate and prudent, taking into account the potential range of outcomes the nature and impact of the errors were not material to the prior year results the conduct review concluded that the adjustments did not arise from fraudulent behaviours recording these adjustments in the current year, accompanied by comprehensive presentation and disclosures, is appropriate.
68 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Area of focus Committee action Impairment testing We considered the significant judgements, assumptions and estimates made by management in preparing the impairment review to ensure that they were appropriate.
We considered the An impairment review is carried out annually appropriateness of assumptions relating to: by management to identify business units in which the recoverable amount is less than the discount rates, which reflect the risk inherent in each unit taking into account factors the value of the assets carried in the Groups such as geography and sector, used to discount the expected future cash flows to their accounts.
Impairment results in a charge to present value the Group income statement.
the long-term growth rates for the regions in which the units were based Key judgements and assumptions need the forecast of operating cash flows, based on the most recent budget and strategic reviews to be made when valuing the assets of the and taking into account data such as sales profile and prices, market performance, volume, business units including the amount of raw material costs and capital expenditure potential future cash flows arising from them.
the period over which cash flows are forecast the disclosure of key estimates and judgements in the financial statements.
We also considered sensitivities that would impact the assumptions noted above.
We obtained the external auditors view in relation to the appropriateness of the approach and outcome of the review.
Taking this into account, together with the documentation presented and the explanations given by management, we were satisfied that the approach taken was thorough and the judgements were appropriate.
The review resulted in the impairment of seven units and a charge to the income statement of 131 million.
See Note 11 c to the financial statements Area of focus Committee action Clarity and completeness of reporting We considered the clarity and completeness of the accounts as a whole taking into account matters such as: The Board uses adjusted results as the measure of the ongoing performance of the the guidance issued by ESMA and the FRC Groups divisions and excludes items which the judgements management made in relation to the presentation and disclosure including the may be volatile and therefore distort the nature and consistency of items adjusted comparison of trading performance.
the updated disclosures and reconciliations.
Significant events during the year require judgement in determining which items We received updates from management explaining the basis of accounting for complex should be separately identified.
We sought Deloittes opinion on the proposed presentation and disclosure and concluded that it was appropriately transparent and complete.
We also reviewed the following areas due to their materiality and the application of judgement.
However, these do not include areas where management has made critical estimates or judgements and, as we considered them to be stable in nature, we did not classify them as significant issues in the context of the 2017 financial statements.
Area of focus Committee action Post-employment obligations Key matters reviewed included the appropriateness of valuation assumptions such as discount rates, mortality and inflation.
The Committee also reviewed the impact of certain pension Determining the current value of the Groups fide-risking activities on the financial statements.
future pension obligations requires a number of assumptions.
These assumptions relate Valuation assumptions, prepared by external actuaries and adopted by management, were principally to life expectancy, discount rates considered in the light of prevailing economic indicators and the view of the external auditors.
applied to future cash flows, rates of inflation The approach adopted by management was accepted as appropriate.
See Note 24 to the financial statements gkn.
com 69 Audit & Risk Committee report continued Area of focus Committee action Development costs on aerospace Impairment reviews of GKN Aerospaces programme development costs against associated programmes future cash flows are circulated to the Committee every six months.
On each occasion we reviewed the valuation and the assumptions made, including programme risk factors, and the Development costs for large aerospace most recent external forecasts of aircraft programme demand.
Actions and factors likely to programmes can be significant.
Assessing influence levels of headroom in impairment tests were noted and the view of the external the likelihood of future recoverability of auditors was sought in relation to the appropriateness of the approach and outcome.
costs involves various judgements and assumptions relating to anticipated volumes, Taking into account the documentation presented by management and the assessment from forecast cash flows and discount rates.
the external auditors, we were satisfied with the approach and judgements taken.
See Note 11 b to the financial statements Area of focus Committee action Tax matters We reviewed management updates and the external auditors assessments on certain tax matters, including: GKN is subject to tax audits globally which are often long and complex processes.
the increase in provisions for uncertain tax positions.
In particular, 2017 saw increases Provisions made for uncertain tax positions in provisions in certain countries where GKN has been subject to lengthy audits and involve judgement in their valuation and the challenging assessments likelihood of challenge to tax positions.
the release of tax provisions arising from resolution of previously uncertain tax positions, including releases following the successful resolution and finalisation of cases and audits in respect of specific subsidiaries.
Having considered updates from management and the external auditors views, the Committee was satisfied with the judgements taken by management.
See Note 6 to the financial statements External audit Our annual review processes included: receiving confirmation from Deloitte that they remained independent and objective within the context of applicable professional standards We have: ensuring that management confirmed compliance with the Groups approved Deloittes audit plan, terms of engagement and fee for policies on the employment of former employees of Deloitte and the the audit of the 2017 financial statements use of Deloitte for non-audit work reviewed the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of Deloitte considering Corporate Audits review of Deloittes objectivity, independence and effectiveness, and of the audit process.
recommended to the Board the reappointment of Deloitte for 2017 noted the non-audit fees payable to Deloitte, having regard to the As a result of this review, we concluded that Deloitte remained appropriately independent.
policy on the provision of non-audit services.
Non-audit services The Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the In order to safeguard independence further, we monitor compliance Board in relation to the appointment of the external auditors.
We also with the policy for the provision of non-audit services.
The policy approve the terms of engagement and fees of the external auditors, sets out a core list of permissible non-audit services which can be ensuring that they have appropriate audit plans in place and that an undertaken by the external auditors if there are compelling reasons appropriate relationship is maintained between the Group and the to do so.
It generally excludes the external auditors from undertaking external auditors.
consultancy work and tax services.
The use of Deloitte for non-audit services is subject to materiality thresholds based on the value of the 2017 audit plan proposed non-audit service engagements.
Any proposal to use Deloitte Deloittes audit plan sets out the scope and objectives of the audit for non-audit work with a value between 50,000 and 250,000 together with an overview of the planned approach, an assessment must be submitted to the Group Finance Director for approval before of the Groups risks and controls and proposed areas of audit focus.
All proposals above this amount must be approved Following the initiation of the North American Balance Sheet Review, by me as Chairman of the Committee.
In addition, the Group Finance the Committee agreed a revised audit plan to extend the scope of the Director will seek my authorisation for certain aspects of non-audit audit to perform additional procedures at the Aerospace North America services relating to acquisitions, disposals and investigative accounting sites, and at units outside GKN Aerospace.
The level of materiality was services, regardless of the fee value.
The use of contingent fees is adjusted both at Group level and for the businesses within Aerospace strictly prohibited under the policy.
There were no significant engagements, or categories of engagements, Independence and objectivity of the external auditors for non-audit services during 2017.
As a Committee, we are responsible for safeguarding the independence and objectivity of the external auditors in order to ensure the integrity Details of the fees paid to Deloitte in 2017 can be found in note 4 a of the external audit process.
As such, we are responsible for the to the financial statements.
Non-audit fees incurred during 2017 development, implementation and monitoring of the Companys amounted to 0.8 million which related principally to audit-related policies on external audit which regulate the appointment of former assurance services.
Non-audit fees as a percentage of audit fees employees of Deloitte and set out the approach to be taken when totalled 11% ratio of 0.11:1.
All such activities remained within the using the external auditors for non-audit work.
policy approved by the Board.
70 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Effectiveness and reappointment of Deloitte for 2018 Internal control and risk management The Committee assessed Deloittes performance throughout the year taking into consideration: In fulfilling our remit we: its feedback and insights on the Groups business and internal considered the annual Internal Control Review conducted by control systems Corporate Audit the quality of Deloittes reports to the Committee reviewed the results of audits undertaken by Corporate Audit its planning process and audit plan for the 2017 financial statements received reports on control issues of significance to the Group feedback from Deloitte on its own performance reviewed the status of the Groups internal financial control its performance in the 2017 half-year review process.
monitoring system Our assessment was supplemented by a survey to review the reported to the Board on our evaluation of the effectiveness of the effectiveness of Deloittes audit process in relation to the 2016 financial Groups systems of internal control and risk management, informed year.
During the survey, the views of senior management and finance by reports from Corporate Audit and Deloitte personnel were sought and the results considered by the Committee.
reviewed the methodology and approach to the creation of The survey confirmed that Deloittes audit approach was effective, and a total risk assurance map to further improve the Groups risk there were no questions around their objectivity and independence or management processes the strength of audit challenge.
carried out in-depth reviews of the quality risk management and Following our assessment, we consider both Deloitte and its audit programme management processes in GKNs key businesses processes to be effective.
It is our opinion that Deloitte has developed a good understanding of the Groups businesses and internal control in relation to the North American Balance Sheet Review, reviewed systems in the time since its appointment and has a strong the reports from management and the external experts regarding comprehension of the challenges that we face.
Deloitte has also the circumstances under which these issues arose and the remedial developed a good working relationship with management which steps taken.
We have considered the further remedial steps is supplemented by robust challenge of management judgements.
proposed to the Groups internal control and risk management systems to address identified issues and avoid any repetition of This is the second year Deloitte has been the Companys auditor these issues in the future.
These actions are summarised on page 26 following the competitive tender undertaken in 2015.
The current audit partner is Mr Ian Waller, who has been in position since Deloitte in light of the issues arising out of the North American Balance was appointed.
Given the recent tender, it is not anticipated that the Sheet Review, reviewed managements reassessment of the next tender will take place before 2025. principal risks set out on pages 32 to 39.
Taking these elements into account, we concluded that it was appropriate to recommend to the Board Deloittes reappointment In reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal as the Companys auditor for 2018. control and risk management, we considered the Internal Control Review conducted on an annual basis by Corporate Audit.
The review There are no contractual obligations restricting our choice of drew together and assessed the output and results of key sources of external auditor.
assurance for the Group and provided the Committee with assurance that the processes reviewed were continuing to operate effectively.
The Company confirms that it has complied with the provisions of the Competition and Markets Authoritys Statutory Audit Services for During the year, we considered feedback from Deloitte with regard to the Groups internal control systems and reviewed quarterly reports Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit & Risk Committee Responsibilities Order from Corporate Audit which detailed any internal control issues and identified any themes arising with regard to audit recommendations.
2014 for the financial year under review.
We received regular updates on progress in respect of the continued development and improvement of the Groups risk management FRC Audit Quality Review systems and independent assurance programmes.
In particular, we The FRCs Audit Quality Review team selected PwCs audit of the reviewed the quality risk management system within GKN Aerospace, Companys 2015 financial statements as part of their annual inspection GKN Driveline and GKN Powder Metallurgy and considered the of audit firms.
There were no significant findings and only one matter programme management processes used by GKN Aerospace and relating to the audit of the Groups SDS joint venture in China was GKN Driveline.
identified as requiring limited improvement.
In reviewing Deloittes audit approach, the Committee was mindful of the observations made Progress is being made on the development of a total risk assurance by the FRC in relation to SDS in respect of the PwC audit.
map for the Group, and we received an update on the methodology and approach being taken by Corporate Audit on this.
Where we identified areas requiring improvement, specific actions were delegated to management with progress against the actions tracked at subsequent meetings.
In relation to the North American Balance Sheet Review, we are satisfied that the actions taken by management are adequate and that appropriate improvement plans have been inititiated.
We will continue to monitor the implementation of these improvement plans during 2018.
Apart from the improvement plans identified under the North American Balance Sheet Review, no significant failings or weaknesses were identified during our review of the Groups systems of internal control and risk management and we concluded that, in relation to businesses outside Aerospace North America, the risk management and internal control processes in place during 2017 and up to the date of this report were effective.
com 71 Audit & Risk Committee report continued I reported the outcome of our review to the Board and confirmed Other matters that the Committee was satisfied that it was appropriate for the Board to make the statements required by the UK Corporate During the year we: Governance Code 2016 with regard to the Groups systems of internal control and risk management.
received an update on IT risk management and the control environment for the use of technology within the Group Internal audit received updates from divisional finance directors on matters relevant to their divisions In fulfilling our responsibilities, we: monitored the induction programme for Jos Sclater in relation to his appointment as Group Finance Director during the period.
reviewed progress against the 2017 Corporate Audit programme considered the 2018 Corporate Audit programme, including the Advice provided to the Committee proposed audit approach, coverage and allocation of resources, and approved variations to the programme to enable greater focus The Committee has independent access to the services of the Company on the North American Balance Sheet Review Secretary, Corporate Audit and to the external auditors, and may obtain reviewed the effectiveness of Corporate Audit.
outside professional advice as necessary in the performance of its duties.
To safeguard its independence, Corporate Audit reports directly to the Performance evaluation Committee and, as Chairman, I play a key role in setting the Head of Corporate Audits objectives and reviewing performance.
The Committees annual evaluation was carried out as part of the The Committee reviews and approves the annual audit programme Board evaluation process described on page 60.
A report on the before the start of each year to ensure that it is aligned to the key Committees performance was provided by the Company Secretary.
During the year the Committee is updated on: Feedback showed that the Board had confidence in the effectiveness of the Committee.
Corporate Audits charter and strategy On behalf of the Committee audit activities progress against the approved annual programme any control issues identified any themes arising in relation to audit recommendations the results of any unsatisfactory audits and the action plans to address them.
We considered the adequacy of managements response to matters Shonaid Jemmett-Page raised by Corporate Audit and monitored the implementation of all Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee recommendations made.
26 February 2018 The Groups risk profile is constantly changing.
As a crucial part of the Groups four lines of defence, we need to ensure that Corporate Audits remit remains fit for purpose and that it is operating at the highest levels of quality and effectiveness.
During 2017, the Committee reviewed and approved a revised strategy for the development of Corporate Audits activities.
Delivery of key strategic projects, including the total risk assurance map and greater use of data analytics, is a key focus for the function in 2018.
These projects will be undertaken alongide delivery of an internal audit plan that will consider both areas of principal risk to the Group and site-level processes and control, including a high degree of focus on our Aerospace North America businesses and Project Boost.
Employee disclosure GKN operates a Group-wide international employee disclosure hotline.
Run by an external and independent third party, the hotline enables employees to make anonymously if preferred confidential disclosures about suspected impropriety and wrongdoing.
Any matters reported are investigated and escalated to the Committee as appropriate, and statistics on the volume and general nature of all disclosures made are reported to the Board on a biannual basis.
72 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
