68 Corporate governance report In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code and the Listing A pack of briefing papers and an agenda are provided to each Rules issued by the Financial Conduct Authority, this section of the Director in advance of each Board, Committee or business Annual Report details the ways in which the Company has applied review meeting.
The Directors are able to seek further clarification and complied with the principles and provisions of the Code during and information on any matter from any other Director, the the year ended 31 December 2017.
Company Secretary or any other employee of the Group whenever necessary.
In April 2016, the Financial Reporting Council FRC amended the Code, a copy of which is available at www.
uk Our-Work Decisions are taken by the Board in conjunction with the Publications Corporate-Governance  of its Committees and advice from external .
pdf consultants, advisers and senior management.
The Audit Committee Report, Nomination Committee Report, The Board has a fully encrypted electronic board portal system, Directors Remuneration Report, Statement of Directors enabling Board, Committee and review papers to be delivered Responsibilities and the risk management and risks and securely and efficiently to Directors.
This facilitates a faster and uncertainties sections of the Strategic Report also form part more secure distribution of information, accessed using electronic of this Corporate Governance Report.
tablets and reduced resource usage.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising and supporting Statement of compliance the Chairman and the Board on corporate governance matters as Throughout the year ended 31 December 2017, the Company has well as ensuring a smooth flow of information to enable effective applied and complied with the main principles, the supporting decision making.
All Directors have access to the advice and principles and the respective related provisions of the Code, with services of the Company Secretary and, through him, have access the exception of the following: to independent professional advice in respect of their duties, at the D. 1.1 Schedule A of the Code recommends that grants under Companys expense.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to executive share options and other long-term investment the Board, the Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee and plans should normally be phased, rather than awarded in the Remuneration Committee.
Grants under the Incentive Plan 2012, details In accordance with its Articles and in compliance with the Act, the of which are set out on pages 85 to 86 of the Directors Company has granted a qualifying third party indemnity to each Remuneration Report in the Annual Report for the year Director.
This indemnity is provided both within the Companys ended 31 December 2015, were awarded in one block, Articles and through a separate deed of indemnity between the rather than phased.
The Incentive Plan 2012 was Company and each of the Directors.
The Company also maintains recommended as being in the best interests of Directors and Officers liability insurance.
shareholders as a whole by the Board and was approved by shareholders at a general meeting held on 11 April Chairman, Vice-Chairman and Chief Executive 2012.
The Incentive Plan 2012 crystallised in May 2017 The roles of Chairman and Vice-Chairman are, and will remain, and was finalised.
separate to that of the Chief Executive of the Company, in accordance with best practice and Board policy.
All other aspects of the executive Directors remuneration fully comply with Schedule A of the Code.
It is noted that grants under The Chairman, with the assistance of the Vice-Chairman, is the Incentive Plan 2017 will be phased rather than awarded in responsible for leadership of the Board.
The Chairman sets the one block.
Board agenda and ensures that adequate time is given to the discussion of issues, particularly those of a strategic nature.
Main Principle A: Leadership Responsibility for ensuring effective communications are made The Board to shareholders rests with the Chairman, Vice-Chairman and the Details of the structure of the Board and its key responsibilities two other executive Directors.
The Board notes, and confirms its satisfaction with, the choice There were four formally scheduled Board meetings held during of an Executive Chairman.
Christopher Miller, the current Executive the year and the attendance of each Director at these meetings is Chairman of the Group, is one of the founding members of shown on page 70.
In addition, a number of unscheduled Board Melrose, having been a Director since its incorporation in 2003. meetings were held during the year in connection with corporate Christophers long-standing involvement brings a wealth of transactions, for example in relation to the crystallisation of the experience to the Board and his oversight of corporate governance Incentive Plan 2012 and the creation and approval of the Incentive and compliance matters complements the work of the Groups Plan 2017. non-executive Directors.
Christopher continues to play an active In addition, business review meetings are held between scheduled role in identifying and evaluating new opportunities for the Group.
There were three business review meetings held The Chief Executive is responsible for strategic direction and during the year.
The attendance of each Director at these review decisions involving the day-to-day management of the Company.
meetings is set out on page 70.
These meetings are critical to providing the Directors with a comprehensive understanding of the Non-executive Directors current performance of, and the key issues affecting, the Groups The Companys non-executive Directors are encouraged to, businesses, without the formality or rigidity of a Board meeting.
and do, scrutinise the performance of the executive Directors in Chief executives and other senior management from the Melrose all areas, including on strategy, risks and financial information, businesses are periodically invited to attend and present to these through their roles on the Companys Committees, at the Boards meetings, providing the Directors with an opportunity to discuss scheduled meetings and review sessions and on an ad hoc basis.
each business directly and to develop relationships with their leadership teams.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 Governance 69 Main Principle B: Effectiveness invaluable experience in financial and other corporate matters.
Board composition On Mr Grants retirement the position of Senior Independent As at 20 February 2018, the Board comprised an Executive Director was taken up by Mr Dowley.
Chairman, three other executive Directors and four non-executive The non-executive Directors are not entitled to any cash bonus or Directors.
The Board believes that the Directors possess diverse shares under the Incentive Plan 2012 or the Incentive Plan 2017. business experience in areas complementary to the activities of the Company.
Biographies of the Directors are shown on Board induction, training and support pages 62 and 63 and on the Companys corporate website at An induction programme tailored to the needs of individual www.
net Directors is provided for new Directors joining the Board.
The primary aim of the induction programme is to introduce new These biographies identify any other significant appointments held Directors to, and educate new Directors about, the Groups by the Directors.
businesses, its operations and its governance arrangements.
The Board and the Nomination Committee undertake an annual Individual induction requirements are monitored by the Chairman review of the time commitment required from both the executive and the Company Secretary to ensure that new Directors gain and non-executive Directors.
The consensus view between the sufficient knowledge to enable them to contribute to the Boards Directors is that the current time commitment is appropriate.
deliberations as quickly as possible.
The Board notes that Mr John Grant retired as a non-executive Board evaluation Director at the conclusion of the 2017 AGM and was replaced as Evaluation approach and process Senior Independent Director by Mr Justin Dowley.
On the In accordance with its obligations under the Code to conduct recommendation of the Nomination Committee, the Board had an external Board evaluation at least once every three years, the decided to increase the number of independent Directors following Board engaged Lintstock Limited to undertake an independent Mr Grants retirement so that they comprised the majority of the evaluation of the Board, the Audit Committee, the Nomination members of the Board.
Therefore, external recruitment consultants Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Chairmans Stonehaven International were retained to identify suitable performance to identify areas where performance and procedures candidates for the Boards consideration.
Stonehaven International might be further improved.
Lintstock is a specialist corporate provided an initial list of potential candidates which the Nomination governance consultancy and, other than the Board, Committee Committee reviewed and produced a shortlist of candidates, from and Chairman evaluations, has no commercial dealings or other which several candidates were invited to interview with members connection with the Melrose Group.
Mr Archie G. Kane was identified as the Boards A range of topics were discussed including: Board mix, profile and preferred candidate and accepted the offer of appointment subject diversity, succession planning, risk and internal controls, strategy, to certain necessary approvals.
Those approvals were granted and Board processes, future investor strategy and the Groups Mr Kane was appointed to the Board on 5 July 2017. preparedness at managing the cyber risks facing the business.
Following Mr Kanes appointment, the Committee continued its The discussion also included a review of the actions agreed search for a fifth non-executive Director.
However, at the time following the 2016 Board evaluation, and the steps taken in 2017 the Companys approach to GKN plc was made public, the to address these needs: appropriate candidate had not been identified and it was decided to suspend the search for the fifth non-executive Director until the Actions agreed What we have delivered acquisition process has concluded.
Aside from their assistance from 2016 evaluation in 2017 with the recruitment process, Stonehaven International have no To continue to focus on Executive succession planning, talent other connection with the Company.
succession planning for management and senior executive career the executive Directors planning were considered by the Board Despite this appointment remaining outstanding, the Board is and senior management throughout the year, and the composition, satisfied that there will be sufficient challenge by non-executive and the Boards visibility expertise and diversity of the Board is Directors of executive management in meetings of the Board of potential successors subject to continuous review.
and that no individual or small group of individuals dominates within the Group, and It is intended that these issues remain its decision making.
to further scrutinise a core focus for the Board and that they the composition, be reviewed on at least an annual basis.
Non-executive Director independence expertise and diversity In accordance with the provisions of the Code, consideration of the Board.
has been given to the independence of all non-executive To continue to focus The Board and the Audit Committee Directors.
The Board considers all of the non-executive Directors on risk management monitored throughout the year the key to be independent.
and internal control and, elements of the Melrose risk management in particular, further framework and its application to the Group, Under the Code, the Board is required to state its reasons if it embedding a culture including the updated risk strategy, best determines that a Director is independent notwithstanding the of effective risk practice risk register with risk mapping existence of any circumstances which may appear relevant to management across and profiling application, education and its determination.
training programmes and audit and assurance processes.
The review of the Mr Grant retired from the Board and his role as the Boards Senior implementation of these elements across Independent Director at the conclusion of the 2017 AGM, having the Nortek business divisions was an area served three three-year terms as a non-executive Director.
Mr Grants role as a non-executive Director, and in particular the length of his time in office, was closely monitored by the Board.
Even though Mr Grant served as a non-executive Director for more than nine years since the date of his first election, the Board determined that he continued to maintain his independence.
In addition, the Board continued to benefit from Mr Grants Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 70 Corporate governance report Continued Outputs of the evaluation The table also shows attendance at business review meetings held Overall, the Board was satisfied with its performance, and agreed between scheduled Board meetings.
that the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director continued Attendance of Directors to be very effective.
Business Board Audit Nomination Remuneration review In order to continue and further enhance the Boards effectiveness, the following areas were designated as the subject of management Number of 1 focus during 2018: meetings 4 3 2 2 3 Christopher Miller 4 2 3 Executive and non-executive Director succession and senior management succession both in Melrose and its Group : David Roper 4 3 Simon Peckham 4 3 risk management and internal control and to delineate 2 accountabilities between the Board and the Audit Committee: Geoffrey Martin 4 3 3 and 3 John Grant 1 1 1 2 although considerable steps were taken to improve cyber Justin Dowley 4 3 2 2 3 security across all business units in 2017 it was recognised Liz Hewitt 4 3 2 2 3 that cyber security is an ongoing risk and will, therefore, be David Lis 4 3 2 2 3 focused on again in 2018.
4 Archie G. Kane 2 2 1 1 1 In accordance with the provisions of the Code, it is anticipated that externally facilitated Board evaluations will be carried out at 1 In addition, ad hoc meetings are held from time to time which are attended by a quorum of Directors and are convened to deal with specific items of business.
least once every three years.
The scope for each evaluation is 2 Geoffrey Martin attends by invitation.
3 John Grant retired with effect from the conclusion of the 2017 AGM on 11 May 2017, having designed to build upon the previous evaluation to ensure that the attended all meetings held to that date.
recommendations agreed are implemented and that year-on-year 4 Archie G. Kane was appointed as a non-executive Director with effect from 5 July 2017 and has attended all meetings since that date, plus the June Board and Nomination Committee progress is measured and reported upon.
meetings as an observer prior to his appointment being finalised.
Annual re-election of Directors Main Principle C: Accountability Pursuant to the Companys Articles and in accordance with the Objectives and policy provisions of the Code, all of the Directors with the exception of The objectives of the Directors and senior management are to Mr Kane who was appointed with effect from 5 July 2017 stood safeguard and increase the value of the business and assets of for re-election at the 2017 AGM.
With the exception of Mr Kane the Group for the benefit of its shareholders.
Achievement of their who is standing for election for the first time, all current Directors objectives requires the development of policies and appropriate of the Company will be standing for re-election by shareholders internal control frameworks to ensure the Groups resources are at this years AGM.
managed properly and any key risks are identified and mitigated Following performance evaluations of each of the Directors and where possible.
having carefully considered the commitments required and the The Board is ultimately responsible for the development of the contributions made by each Director, the Chairman is of the Groups overall risk management policies and system of internal opinion that each Directors performance continues to be effective control frameworks and for reviewing their respective effectiveness, and demonstrates commitment to the role.
Similarly, following while the role of senior management is to implement these policies performance evaluations of the Chairman, and having carefully and frameworks across the Groups business operations.
The considered the commitments required and the contributions made Directors recognise that the systems and processes established by by the Chairman, the non-executive Directors, led by the Senior the Board are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of Independent Director, are of the opinion that the Chairmans failing to achieve business objectives and cannot provide absolute performance continues to be effective and that he continues assurance against material financial misstatement or loss.
to demonstrate commitment to the role.
The Board is committed to satisfying the internal control guidance Attendance of Directors at meetings for Directors set out in the FRCs Guidance on Risk Management, The following table shows the attendance of each of the Directors Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
at the scheduled meetings of the Board and its Committees held In accordance with this guidance, the Board assumes ultimate during the year.
The quorum necessary for the transaction of responsibility for risk management and internal controls, including business by the Board and each of its Committees is two.
Briefing determining the nature and extent of the principal risks it is willing papers and meeting agendas are provided to each Director in to take to achieve its strategic objectives its risk appetite and advance of each meeting.
Decisions are taken by the Board in ensuring an appropriate culture has been embedded throughout conjunction with the recommendations of its Committees and the organisation.
The establishment of a revised risk management advice from external advisers and senior management as and internal control system has been complemented by ongoing appropriate.
The representations of any Director who is unable monitoring and review, to ensure the Company is able to adapt to attend a meeting of the Board or a standing Committee are to an evolving risk environment.
duly considered by those Directors in attendance.
A separate Audit Committee Report is set out on pages 72 to 77 and provides details of the role and activities of the Audit Committee and its relationship with the internal and external auditors.
Managing and controlling risk Since 2016, the Groups approach to risk management has been reviewed and enhanced.
The systems, processes and controls in place accord with the Code and the FRCs updated guidance.
Details on the Groups risk management strategy are set out on pages 42 to 43.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 Governance 71 Further information regarding the Groups financial risk objectives The Company produced its first Modern Slavery Statement in and policies can be found in the Finance Directors review on pages June 2017 which is available at http: www.
A summary of the principal risks and uncertainties that media 1412 msa-policy.
To support the Companys belief in could impact upon the Groups performance is set out on pages 44 the importance of this matter it also produced a Group-wide policy to 49. on the prevention of modern slavery and human trafficking which was rolled out to Nortek and Brush employees along with an online Internal financial controls and reporting compliance training module.
The Company also rolled out an The Group has a comprehensive system for assessing the online whistleblowing training module for all employees to promote effectiveness of the Groups internal controls, including strategic awareness of the importance of whistleblowing and the Companys business planning and regular monitoring and reporting of financial externally hosted whistleblowing portal.
A detailed annual budget is prepared by senior received reports which were identified as employee related management and thereafter is reviewed and formally adopted matters.
Each report was fully investigated by the Company and by the Board.
all reports were presented to the Audit Committee for their review.
The budget and other targets are regularly updated via a rolling Main Principle D: Remuneration forecast process and regular business review meetings are Details regarding Directors remuneration, both generally and in held with the involvement of senior management to assess relation to the requirements of the Code, are set out in the performance.
The results of these reviews are in turn reported Directors Remuneration Report, which is presented in the following to, and discussed by, the Board at each meeting.
As discussed three sections: in the Audit Committee Report on pages 76 to 77, the Group engages BM Howarth as internal auditor.
A total of 25 internal audit the annual statement from the Chairman of the Remuneration visits, 21 of which were Nortek sites, were completed during 2017.
Committee, which can be found on pages 80 to 82: the Annual Report on Remuneration, which can be found on The Directors are pleased to report that there were no material pages 83 to 90: and deficiencies at Brush and that the majority of the recommendations presented in the internal audit reports have now been, or are in the the Directors Remuneration Policy, which can be found in the process of being, implemented.
There were some deficiencies found circular dated 7 April 2017 on pages 19 to 27 available at in HVACs internal financial controls at two sites.
net media 1728 21347274- -1- immediate action by the Finance Director and the Melrose circular.
accounting function, including strengthening of the local accounting Main Principle E: Relations with shareholders functions, implementation of more comprehensive and robust Through regular meetings and presentations between the controls and a specific action plan to address the shortcomings executive Directors, analysts and institutional shareholders, identified.
The internal auditor has scheduled follow up visits at each including those following the announcements of the Companys site to review progress in the first half of 2018.
The Committee has annual and interim results, the Company seeks to build on a mutual already seen significant progress and is confident that the Nortek understanding of objectives with its shareholders.
During 2017, Global HVAC sites have already, and will continue to, improve their the Company continued its programme of engagement with internal financial controls under Melrose ownership.
major investors and the governance bodies in respect of its The Audit Committee also monitors the effectiveness of the internal Remuneration Policy and incentive arrangements.
In particular, control process implemented across the Group through a review the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and other of the key findings presented by the external and internal auditors.
members of the Board met with major shareholders prior to the Management is responsible for ensuring that the Audit implementation of the Incentive Plan 2017, which was well Committees recommendations in respect of internal controls supported by shareholders.
The Board is pleased with the support and risk management are implemented.
and constructive feedback throughout these discussions and it is the Companys intention to continue this programme for the Compliance and ethics foreseeable future.
Further engagement with key shareholders and The Company takes very seriously its responsibilities under the governance bodies has been a central part of the Companys bid laws and regulations in the countries and jurisdictions in which the for GKN plc and has continued in the lead up to the 2018 AGM.
Group operates and has in place appropriate measures to ensure compliance.
A compliance framework is in place comprising a suite The non-executive Directors are also available to meet institutional of policies governing anti-bribery and anti-corruption, anti-money shareholders should there be unresolved matters shareholders laundering, competition, trade compliance, data privacy, wish to bring to their attention.
The views of key analysts and whistleblowing, document retention and joint ventures.
These shareholders are generally reported to the Board directly by policies are in place within each business and apply to all Directors, individual Directors or via the Companys brokers.
This helps to employees whether permanent, fixed-term, or temporary, pension ensure that all members of the Board develop an understanding trustees, consultants and other business advisers, contractors, of the views and any concerns of shareholders.
trainees, volunteers, business agents, distributors, joint venture The Board welcomes the attendance of shareholders at the AGM, partners or any other person working for or performing a service the notice for which can be found on pages 156 to 161.
The AGM on behalf of the Company, its subsidiaries and or associated provides all shareholders with the opportunity to attend and vote companies in which the Company or any of its subsidiaries has on the matters put to shareholders, either in person or by proxy.
The results of the voting on each of the resolutions proposed will In addition, in conjunction with their internal audit function, be announced shortly after the AGM has concluded, via the BM Howarth conduct compliance audits across the Group Melrose corporate website at www.
net and its businesses to identify any areas for improvement.
Details of the deadlines for exercising voting rights in respect of During 2017, the Company completed its roll-out of its online the resolutions to be considered at the 2018 AGM are set out in compliance training platform to Nortek, covering topics such the AGM Notice on pages 156 to 161. as antitrust, trade compliance and export controls, data privacy, anti-bribery and anti-corruption and anti-money laundering.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017
