78 Nomination Committee report Melrose is a meritocracy and individual performance is the key determinant in any appointment, irrespective of ethnicity, gender or other characteristic, trait or orientation.
Discharge of responsibilities The Committee discharges its responsibilities through: regularly reviewing the size, structure and composition of the Davis Lis Board and by providing recommendations to the Board of Nomination Committee Chairman any adjustments that may be necessary from time to time: giving full consideration to succession planning in order to ensure an optimum balance of executive and non-executive Directors in terms of skills, experience and diversity: The Nomination Committee the Committee has keeping under review the leadership needs of the business: overall responsibility for making recommendations to the Board on allnew appointments to the Board giving full consideration to succession planning of senior executives of the Company and any of its subsidiaries: and for ensuring that the Board and its Committees have the appropriate balance of skills, experience, evaluating the skills, knowledge and experience of potential independence, diversity and knowledge of the Board candidates and making suitable nominations to the Board: and Company to enable them to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively.
keeping up-to-date and fully informed on strategic issues and commercial changes affecting the Company and the markets in which it operates.
of meetings David Lis Chairman 2 2 The Committee is expected to meet not less than twice a year and during 2017 the Committee met twice.
The attendance of its members Christopher Miller 2 2 at these Committee meetings is shown in the table opposite.
1 John Grant 0 0 The Committees terms of reference, which were last revised in Justin Dowley 2 2 June 2017, are available to view on the Companys website at: www.
net about-us governance nomination-committee 2 Archie G. Kane 1 1 Further details regarding the composition, diversity policy and the 1 Mr John Grant retired as a non-executive Director with effect from the conclusion of the 2017 2017 activities of the Committee are set out below and overleaf.
Mr Grant attended all Board and Committee meetings held during the period 1 January 2017 to 11 May 2017.
2 Mr Archie G. Kane was appointed as a non-executive Director with effect from 5 July 2017.
Composition Mr Kane attended all Board and Committee meetings held during the period 5 July 2017 to In compliance with the Code, the majority of the members of the 31 December 2017 and attended the meetings of the Board and Nomination Committee in June 2017 as an observer.
Committee were independent non-executive Directors throughout 2017, with Mr Christopher Miller, the Executive Chairman of the Board, being the only non-independent member.
Mr Grant served on the Committee until stepping down at the conclusion of the 2017 AGM in May.
At the time of his retirement, Mr Grant was the Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee.
His departure therefore led to a change in the composition of a number of the independent non-executive positions of the Board and Committees.
Mr Justin Dowley, who has served as a non-executive Director since 2011, was elected to the role of Senior Independent Director of the Board at the conclusion of the 2017 AGM, while continuing to perform his role as the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Ms Liz Hewitt stood down as Chairman of the Nomination Committee on conclusion of the 2017 AGM to take up the role of Chairman of the Audit Committee vacated by Mr Grant.
Ms Hewitt had served as a member of the Audit Committee since joining the Board as a non-executive Director in 2013 and brings extensive financial and accounting experience to the role, including as Chairman of the Audit Committee for Novo Nordisk A S, Savills plc.
and the House of Lords Commission.
Mr David Lis took up the role of Chairman of the Nomination Committee on conclusion of the 2017 AGM, having served on the Committee since joining the Melrose Board in 2016.
Mr Lis brings Directors remuneration report a wealth of experience to the role, including as non-executive p. 80 Director of Electra Private Equity PLC and BCA Marketplace plc.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 Governance 79 On the recommendation of the Nomination Committee, the Board Group.
Although not appropriate to set specific diversity targets decided to increase the number of independent Directors following at Board level and throughout the Groups workforce due to Mr Grants retirement so that they comprised the majority of the Melroses strategic business model and frequent turnover of members of the Board.
Therefore, external recruitment consultants businesses, Melrose is actively engaged in finding ways to Stonehaven International were retained to identify suitable increase the Groups diversity.
candidates for the Boards consideration.
Stonehaven International What the Committee did in 2017 provided an initial list of potential candidates which the Nomination The principal focus of the Committee during 2017 has been to Committee reviewed and produced a shortlist of candidates, from consider the items set out below: which several candidates were invited to interview with members of the Committee.
Mr Archie G. Kane was identified as the Boards the Committee considered the composition and balance of the preferred candidate and accepted the offer of appointment subject Board and the timing of future Board changes and reviewed to certain necessary approvals.
Those approvals were granted and the succession plans in place in respect of executive Directors Mr Kane was appointed to the Board on 5 July 2017. and non-executive Directors in conjunction with the provisions of the Code.
In particular, action was taken to replace Mr Grant Mr Kane brings significant financial and accounting experience to who, having served more than three, three-year terms as a the Board having begun his career as a Chartered Accountant at non-executive Director, stood down from the Board following Mann Judd Gordon and Company.
Mr Kane then moved into the the conclusion of the 2017 AGM.
The Committee determined financial services sector as Group Financial Controller of the that in securing a replacement for John Grant it would increase TSB subsidiary United Dominions Trust.
Mr Kane became Group the number of non-executive Directors to five, so there will Strategy Director responsible for strategic planning for all group be a majority of independents serving on the Board.
The businesses, mergers and acquisitions, disposals and long-term Committee recommended the appointment of Mr Kane whose business research.
Mr Kane continued to serve in senior roles for appointment was approved by the Board and Mr Kane was Lloyds Bank, including Retail Financial Services Director and appointed as a non-executive Director with effect from 5 July Group Director for IT & Operations before being appointed Group 2017.
The recruitment process for the fifth non-executive Executive Director Insurance Investments and Chief Executive Director has been postponed until the conclusion of the GKN Officer for the former mutual Scottish Widows in 2003.
In 2009 plc acquisition process: he moved to become Group Executive Director for all the groups the existing time commitment of the Companys non-executive insurance businesses and for Scotland, until his retirement in May Directors was reviewed and confirmed as appropriate: 2011.
Mr Kane continues to work as a non-executive Governor of the Bank of Ireland.
In accordance with the Articles, Mr Kane will the Committee membership was reviewed and a stand for election at the 2018 AGM.
recommendation made to the Board that, subject to the appointment of a new non-executive Director, no changes Following Mr Kanes appointment, the Committee continued would be required to be made in 2018: its search for a fifth non-executive Director.
However, at the time consideration was given to the reappointment of each of the the Companys approach to GKN plc was made public, the Directors with the exception of Mr Kane who is standing for appropriate candidate had not been identified and it was decided election for the first time since his appointment took effect on to suspend the search for the fifth non-executive Director until the 5 July 2017 before making a recommendation to the Board acquisition process has concluded.
regarding each Directors re-election at the 2018 AGM: The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
a review of the leadership requirements of Melrose, both On occasion, the Committee invites the Chief Executive, the executive and non-executive, was undertaken and this Executive Vice-Chairman and the Group Finance Director to confirmed that the existing management team is appropriate attend discussions where their input is required.
This review also demonstrated that appropriate Diversity and effective leadership is in place within the businesses and Melrose is a meritocracy and individual performance is the key that processes are in place to ensure that performance is determinant in any appointment, irrespective of ethnicity, gender or reviewed regularly against operational and financial criteria: other characteristic, trait or orientation.
The Board recognises the the Committee examined the career planning and talent importance of diversity throughout the workforce, be it geographical, management programmes in operation across the Group cultural or market-aligned and encompassing gender, race, sexual and concluded that these were appropriate for the needs orientation and disability, and the Board is committed to equality of the business: of opportunity for all employees.
For example, Melrose is proud to the Committee reviewed and re-affirmed the principles support the Business Disability Forum, a body committed to underlying the Companys diversity policy: understanding the changes required in the workplace so that the Committees terms of reference were reviewed and disabled people are treated fairly and they can contribute to business updated in line with best practice: and success, to society and to economic growth.
the Committee participated in an externally facilitated The Committee currently takes into account a variety of factors before independent evaluation of itself carried out by Lintstock Limited recommending any new appointments to the Board, including to identify areas where performance and procedures might be relevant skills to perform the role, experience and knowledge.
most important priority of the Committee, however, has been, and will continue to be, to ensure that the best candidate is selected to join the Board and this approach will remain in place going forward.
The Committee will endeavour to pursue diversity, including gender David Lis and ethnic diversity, throughout the Melrose Group and notes the Chairman, Nomination Committee recommendations of Lord Davies review, Women on Boards 20 February 2018 and Sir John Parkers review Report into Ethnic Diversity of UK Boards and continues to encourage diversity throughout the Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017
