Governance The Audit committee report THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Committee membership As reported previously, Ian Springett was appointed to the board and as chair of the Audit Committee with effect from 1 January 2017.
Unfortunately, in January 2017 Ian had to take an extended leave of absence in order to undergo treatment for a medical condition.
Accordingly with effect from 20 January 2017, Paul Spence was appointed as chairman of the Audit Committee and Winnie Fok became a member.
Paul was already a member of the committee and Winnie brought an accounting and audit background.
John Ramsay The board was satisfied that Paul and Winnie together Audit Committee Chairman with the other members of the committee brought significant and relevant experience gained at seniorAs announced in December 2017, I joined the board on management level and that the committees composition 1 January 2018 and succeeded Paul Spence as chairman met the requirements of DTR7.1 during the year.
Their of the Audit Committee from the same date.
Paul, who skills and experience are set out on pages 68 and 69. remains a member of the committee, was very However the Audit Committee did not have a member supportive during the transition process and I am very grateful for his continued support.
Mindful of the need to ensure continued application of main principle C. 1 During the year, the Audit Committees work continued to focus on enhancing the Groups control of the code, additional steps were taken, including environment, the quality of our group financial further support and training provided to the chair as reporting and the effectiveness of the external and well as the promotion of greater interaction with the internal audit processes.
Committee membership during 2017 In June, due to continued ill health Mr Springett stepped Member since down from the Audit Committee and the board.
Paul Spence Chairman January 2013 Following a search for a new non-executive director John Daly May 2015 qualified to act as chairman of the committee, a Winnie Fok January 2017 John Ramsay was appointed to the board and as chair of the Audit Committee on 1 January 2018.
Steve Mogford May 2016 b Ian Springett January 2017 Responsibilities a. Winnie Fok was previously a member of the committee The committee ensures that there is effective governance between October 2010 and December 2012.
She stepped of the Groups financial reporting and internal controls to down from the Audit Committee on 1 January 2018. safeguard the integrity of its financial statements and the b.
Due to continued ill health, Ian Springett retired from the adequacy of related disclosures, and assists the board in Audit Committee and the board on 20 June 2017. relation to its consideration of whether or not the annual On 1 January 2018, John Ramsay joined the board and took report of the Group is fair, balanced and understandable.
over the role of chair of the Audit Committee.
The committee also has oversight of the performance of Regular attendees include the chief financial officer, the group both the internal audit function and the external auditor.
financial controller, the company secretary, the group director of risk and internal audit and representatives of the Groups During the year, the terms of reference of the Audit external auditor.
The chief executive officer also attends Committee were reviewed, following which a minor meetings from time to time when invited by the chairman.
The terms are available at During 2017, the chairman of the board, a chartered g4s.
accountant who spent his executive career with Deloitte, alsoattended most meetings.
The committee has an annual agenda, which includes There were four scheduled meetings held during the year standing items that the committee considers regularly, ended 31 December 2017.
Members attendance is shown aswell as specific matters that require the onpage 74. committees attention.
At the end of each meeting, a private session is held Main activities of the Audit Committee during by the Audit Committee with representatives of the the year % Groups external auditor or with the Group director of risk and internal audit, without members of the Effectiveness of financial executive management team being present.
controls and risk management procedures 30% After each meeting, the chairman of the committee reports to the board on the matters which have been discussed.
Financial reporting 30% Internal audit 20% External audit and non-audit services 15% Whistleblowing fraud allegations 5% Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 G4S plc 85 The Audit committee report continued Significant judgments and issues considered by the Audit Committee The primary judgments and issues considered by the committee in the 2017 financial statements, and how these were addressed, were: ONEROUS CONTRACT PROVISIONS Description Action taken The Group delivers certain long-term outsourcing The committee reviewed in respect of each onerous services that are complex in nature.
Some of those contract, the critical assumptions provided by contracts may evolve to become loss-making, such that management and enquired about the judgments made, net unavoidable losses are expected over their life.
This the robustness of the assumptions, the sensitivities to requires determining the net present value of estimated changes in the assumptions and the disclosure provided future losses in order to calculate an appropriate in relation to the key material judgments.
The identification and The committee also reviewed the disclosure provided measurement of such provisions require significant in relation to these contracts, and in particular in relation judgment, given the extended time periods often to a dispute with a subcontractor in respect of one of involved and the number of variables that are not all these onerous contracts.
Conclusion In particular, judgment is required in assessing the future expected revenue and costs, including: determining the The Audit Committee was satisfied that the level expected impact of any profit improvement plans PIPs, ofprovisions and the related disclosures as at the level of any related lifecycle funds and the estimated 31 December 2017 were appropriate.
costs for the remaining life of the contract, and an appropriate discount rate to apply to material future cash flows.
Details of the outcome of the assessment of contract provisions are set out in the Chief Financial Officers Review on page 37.
COMPLIANCE WITH FOREIGN-OWNERSHIP RESTRICTIONS AND CONSOLIDATION OF UNDERTAKINGS Description Action taken In markets where foreign ownership restrictions FORs The committee reviewed the Groups portfolio of apply, the Group seeks to ensure that it complies with investments in countries where FORs apply.
foreign ownership laws and regulations and meets the In addition, the board reviewed the monitoring process relevant accounting standards IFRS10.
Professional in place for key markets, discussed relevant changes in advisors are typically retained to establish and maintain law and regulations, their potential impact on the contractual ownership structures, which comply with Group, and, where relevant, reviewed mitigation plans.
local laws and regulations relating to foreign ownership.
The committee also received specific reports in relation When restrictions apply to direct share ownership, the to a number of countries.
Group also exercises influence or control through arrangements, including shareholder agreements.
Conclusion FORs can limit the Groups ability to do business or The committee was satisfied with the Groups invest in certain markets and could result in a loss of processes and approach to foreign ownership and management control.
Consolidation of any of these entities would be at risk if This will remain an area of focus to ensure that the the Groups ability to enforce its rights of control were committee remains abreast of changes in laws, to be undermined by FORs.
86 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 Governance ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES performance measures APMs and specific items.
Description The committee observed that the Groups accounting The Group uses Adjusted PBITA as a consistent internal policies were being applied consistently from year to and external reporting measure of its financial year, and considered whether specific items were being performance, given that management views it as being identified in line with Group policies and that these more representative of the normal course of business items included both debits and credits as appropriate.
and more comparable period to period.
Adjusted PBITA excludes strategic restructuring costs, amortisation of The committee also reviewed information from acquisition-related intangible assets and specific and management to satisfy itself that changes in estimates other separately disclosed items which the Group related to items that were classified as specific items believes should be disclosed separately by virtue of their were treated equally and consistently as specific size, nature or incidence see page 35 for further details.
items, in particular for both increases and decreases Judgment is required when defining those items to be of provisions.
disclosed separately and when applying the classification criteria to each periods results.
Further details on Conclusion separately disclosed items are set out in note 8.
The committee was satisfied that the Groups definition of APMs, and in particular in relation to specific and Action taken other separately disclosed items, had been applied The Audit Committee reviewed and challenged, in light correctly and that the designation of specific items of the guidance issued by the FRC in December 2013, wassubject to objective and balanced criteria.
The October 2016 and November 2017, and the results of committee noted the enhanced disclosure and the FRC review of the 2016 Integrated Report and explanation on APMs and considered that these give Accounts, the enhanced disclosures prepared by a meaningful and balanced view of the operations of management in the 2017 Integrated Report and the Group.
Accounts pages 35 and 36 in relation to alternative GOODWILL IMPAIRMENT TESTING Description Action taken The total value of the Groups goodwill as at The Audit Committee reviewed the methodology and 31 December 2017 was 1.9bn, a significant proportion results of the impairment tests prepared by management.
of which was generated by the merger of the security The Audit Committee reviewed the assumptions used services businesses of Group 4 Falck and Securicor in in relation to long-term growth, the resulting headroom 2004, which was accounted for as an acquisition of and the sensitivities applied by management.
In addition, Securicor by Group 4 Falck.
these results were considered against alternative The Group tests tangible and intangible assets, including valuation bases such as reference to transactions for goodwill, for impairment on an annual basis or more similar assets in similar locations, both within the Group frequently if there are indications that an impairment and external to the Group.
The impairment analysis consists of the For those businesses that are expected to be sold as estimation of the recoverable amount of goodwill part of the strategic portfolio management programme, supported by the Groups cash generating units, which the Audit Committee reviewed the recoverable value requires significant judgment, primarily in relation to the on the basis of expected sale price less costs to sell.
achievability of long-term business plans and future cash flows.
Such achievability is dependent on circumstances Finally, the Audit Committee considered the adequacy both within and outside managements control, in of the disclosures provided, particularly in respect of relation to the discount rates adjusted to reflect risks cash generating units where changes in key assumptions specific to individual assets used, and in relation to the could give rise to an impairment.
macro-economic assumptions and related modelling Conclusion assumptions underlying the valuation process.
The committee was satisfied with the carrying value of As a result of the annual review of the carrying value goodwill and related disclosures as at 31 December 2017. of goodwill, no impairment charge to goodwill was required see notes 4 and 18 tothe consolidated financial statements.
The full methodology and results of the Groups impairment testing, including an analysis of the sensitivity of goodwill to the key assumptions, are provided in note 18.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 G4S plc 87 The Audit committee report continued TAXATION Description Action taken The Group operates in around 90 countries and is The Audit Committee reviewed the Groups tax therefore subject to numerous reviews by individual tax strategy, including the tax report and tax risk authorities in the ordinary course of business.
In some management processes and the board approved the countries, tax legislation is not consistently applied and tax policy, which complies with the UK Confederation under some complex contractual structures, the of British Industrys seven tax principles.
responsibility for tax arising is not always clear.
The committee also reviewed information prepared Judgmentsand estimates are required to determine by management in relation to existing or potential tax the appropriate amount of tax to provide for and any exposures, the adequacy of the provisions recorded, required disclosure around contingent tax liabilities at their treatment and disclosure in the financial statements each period end.
and emerging matters arising from the OECDs Base Provisions for tax liabilities are estimated for existing Erosion and Profit Shifting framework.
matters under dispute with local tax authorities, as well The committee reviewed information prepared by as for matters which it is considered may be disputed by management supporting the recoverability of deferred them, where it is probable that a future liability will arise.
tax assets, considered the period of time under which In some instances, tax reviews may result in claims being these assets would be recovered and made enquiries raised by tax authorities.
Any claims are handled by the of the external auditor on the appropriateness of the local legal entity in the first instance.
More complex Groups tax position.
The committee reviewed the cases are reviewed by the Group tax function and impact of the US tax reform and in particular to the provisions, where necessary, are made based on the recognition and re-measurement of US deferred tax best estimate of the likely outcome.
assets, and reviewed the disclosure provided in this area.
The Group recognises deferred tax assets in respect Conclusion of temporary timing differences, mainly in relation to pension arrangements, fixed assets and carried forward The committee was satisfied with the Groups losses.
At 31 December 2017, total deferred tax assets approach to tax, with the assessment of recoverability were 240m 2016: 285m.
Recognising such assets of deferred tax assets and with the accounting requires an assessment of their likely recovery through treatment and disclosure of tax exposures.
utilisation, which includes an assessment of the taxable The committee was satisfied that the disclosure profits expected to be made in each of the relevant provided in connection with the US tax reform was jurisdictions in the future.
Deferred tax assets can be clear and appropriate affected by changes in legislation and in tax rates.
LAWS AND REGULATIONS Description Action taken The Group operates in many jurisdictions globally, with During the year the committee received a report from complex and diverse regulatory frameworks.
Due to the Group General Counsel, analysing significant areas such operations, the Group faces many associated risks, of exposure to claims and areas where in particular including increasing litigation and class actions: bribery labour laws and regulations are complex and there and corruption: obtaining operating licences: complying is therefore an inherent risk to the judgment made with local tax regulations: changes to and application of when applying those laws and regulations.
For the employment and employee remuneration legislation: most material items, the committee was provided complying with human rights legislation: and new or with regular updates throughout the year.
changed restrictions on foreign ownership.
Furthermore, Conclusion the Group may face new or changing regulations which may require modification of its processes and staff The committee was satisfied that the provisions training.
Not being compliant with applicable laws and bookedat 31 December 2017 were appropriate.
regulations can have far-reaching consequences, Thecommittee was satisfied that the disclosure for the including higher costs from claims and litigation: inability judgments made in relation to contingent liabilities was to operate in certain jurisdictions: loss of management clear and appropriate.
control: and damage to the Groups reputation.
88 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 Governance RISK OF ACCOUNTING ERRORS AND MANAGEMENT OVERRIDE OF INTERNAL CONTROLS regular updates on the overall control environment Description of the Group, including results of internal audits, training The Group operates in around 90 countries and has and up-skilling of capabilities across the Group, as well around 600 legal entities, with a significant number of as the regular reports from the external auditor and the local financial systems and processes.
This leads to an output of the whistleblowing process.
inherently-diverse set of processes and controls that rely on local capabilities for implementation and execution of The committee confirmed in particular that controls had the controls.
As set out on page 61, the Group has been strengthened to minimise the risk of re-occurrence adopted a  model to control and of control failures that required the restatement of the manage risks across the Group.
2014 annual results and balance sheet in the 2015 Integrated Report and Accounts.
The committee also Over the course of the last four years the Group has considered progress made to reduce reliance on manual made significant investment in strengthening capability in controls, by developing and integrating financial and finance, internal audit and risk, and has introduced operational systems across the Group.
additional internal controls and enhanced Group oversight to mitigate these risks.
These include monthly Conclusion reviews of the quality of earnings, a comprehensive The committee acknowledged the progress made in internal audit plan and a regular cycle of reviews of local relation to the strengthening of controls and the plans business unit or country balance sheets and controls.
in place to reduce the number of systems and reliance on manual controls across the Group, but noted that, Action taken although good progress has been made to date, The committee oversaw the progress made over significant work remains to be done.
embedding minimum financial controls and received Markets Authority ESMA and have been applicable Viability statement since July 2016.
In addition, the FRC issued a Frequently At the March 2018 meeting, the committee reviewed Asked Questions guidance document and published a paper prepared by management which examined the the results of its thematic review on this matter in longer-term solvency and viability of the Group.
The committee considered each of committee tested the underlying assumptions and the above in assessing whether the Groups annual analysis performed by management, reviewed assurance report was fair, balanced and understandable.
work carried out and considered the appropriateness of the timeframe of the assessment.
The committee was The committee reviewed a paper setting out the satisfied that the three-year period covered by the approach taken by management in the preparation viability statement remains appropriate in that it aligns of the annual report to ensure it met the requirements with the Groups regular business planning period, over of the FRCs Code and the ESMA guidance, including which management has a reasonable level of confidence the reasons for and clear explanation of the non-GAAP in its projections reflecting the life cycle of the majority measures used by the Group in reporting its results of the Groups contracts, and takes account of the for the year.
The paper described the process and limited visibility on material bidding opportunities in procedures followed and detailed the steps taken in the pipeline beyond that period.
The committee also each of the sections of the annual report to ensure that reviewed and challenged the outcome of the stressthe information presented was complete and accurate.
testing of projections by management.
This paper also described the review processes carried out internally to ensure that the annual report is fair, The committee recommended to the board that the balanced and understandable.
In addition, an external directors confirm that they have a reasonable verification exercise was carried out to confirm that expectation that the Group will be able to continue in the information contained in the annual report is operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over supported either by factual evidence, or by confirmation the three-year period of the assessment, as set out from management where such information is a on page92.
statement of belief or intent.
Fair, balanced and understandable The committee was satisfied with the work performed One of the key compliance requirements of a groups and advised the board that the annual report, taken as a whole, presents a fair, balanced and understandable financial statements is for the annual report, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable.
view of the business and its performance for the year under review.
Guidelines on Alternative Performance Measures APMs were issued by the European Securities and Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 G4S plc 89 The Audit committee report continued During the year, the committee reviewed PwCs Group Internal control audit plan including the scope to be undertaken as well Since 2013, the Group has had a heightened focus as their reports on external audit findings, with particular on improving systems of internal control and risk focus on the areas set out above.
The committee also management for financial reporting.
The main features had private sessions with the external auditor both during of these control systems include clearly-defined reporting the year and at the end of a number of Audit Committee lines and authorisation procedures, a comprehensive meetings, and approved the fee for the external audit.
budgeting and monthly reporting system, written policies The committee also considered and approved the and procedures and the use of a single global representation letter to be issued to the auditor.
consolidation system for internal management reporting, budgeting and planning as well as for external reporting.
In addition, in March 2017, the committee reviewed the report of the FRC on its review of PwCs audit of the The system is designed to ensure the integrity of 2015 Integrated Report and Accounts.
financial reporting and the committees responsibility is to ensure that these internal controls remain effective.
Non-audit services The committee does this primarily through receiving To ensure that the independence of the audit is not reports from management, from the internal audit compromised, the committee has put a policy in place function and from the external auditor.
covering the non-audit services that can be provided by The committee reviewed progress on the strengthening the external auditor, the relevant approval process for of internal controls, and on plans to continue progress, certain services, and detailing those services which the which included a targeted audit plan for 2017 from auditor is prohibited from providing.
Group Internal Audit for those areas where issues In essence, the external auditor is prohibited from have been identified.
providing services that could create a conflict of interest, The committee also considered the plans being result in the audit firm auditing its own work, or result in implemented by management to reduce reliance on the performance of management functions.
Examples manual controls, through the gradual implementation of non-permitted services are actuarial services, bookand integration of new financial systems.
keeping services, internal audit outsourcing services and legal services.
Further details on internal controls are set out on page 61.
The Audit Committee confirmed to the board that The committee has pre-approved certain services which although it is satisfied that the Groups risk management can be provided by the auditor subject to specified fee and internal control processes and procedures are limits, above which further approval is required.
All other appropriate and effective, the need for continued focus services would require prior approval by the committee.
on enhancing the internal control environment remains.
Every year, the Audit Committee reviews its policy on the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor.
Internal audit The auditor, PwC, has written to the Audit Committee During 2017, the internal audit function focused on confirming that, in its opinion, it was independent for assessing the effectiveness of a broader set of mandated the period through to 8 March 2018. controls including Minimum Financial Controls, HR Core Standards, Driver and Firearms Controls, Human Rights Details of the fees paid for audit services, audit-related and Anti-Bribery and Corruption, with the goal of services and non-audit services can be found in note 10 focusing local management on the most material control to the consolidated financial statements.
issues specific to their local environment.
Effectiveness of the external auditor The Group finance function and Regional Audit A combination of formal and informal processes is used Committees also provided support to assist in driving in the assessment of the effectiveness of the external improvements where appropriate.
The internal audit function continued to provide support A formal questionnaire is completed at the end of the and guidance to business units to improve awareness audit by members of the Audit Committee, by the ofand compliance with Minimum Financial Controls.
Group finance department and by the finance directors In 2018, internal audits will continue to test the of significant operations across the Group, and the operational effectiveness of the Groups standards and results of those questionnaires are reviewed by the controls.
Precise coverage in each country will be Audit Committee.
The assessment of the external audit determined through risk assessment.
for 2017 concluded that it remained effective and that the external auditor is independent.
External audit Following an audit tender process during 2014 FRC review of the 2016 Integrated Report and  LLP PwC was appointed as Accounts the Groups new external auditor for the 2015 financial During the year, the Group received a letter from the year.
PwC was subsequently re-appointed for the 2016 FRC confirming that the Annual Report for the year financial year and at the 2017 AGM to hold office until ended 31 December 2016 had been subject to a limited the next AGM.
Richard Hughes has been lead audit review by its Conduct Committee, which is responsible partner since the beginning of 2015. for reviewing and investigating the annual accounts, directors and strategic reports of UK public companies.
90 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 Governance The key areas of focus were in relation to the use of Committee performance alternative performance measures and compliance with The assessment of the committees performance, the ESMA Guidelines and the commentary provided on conducted with assistance from Lintstock, concluded IFRS measures in the strategic report.
that the committee had performed well during 2017, in particular in reviewing the quality of the Groups As a result of on-going discussions with the FRC as part financial reporting.
of its enquiry, we have considered the labelling of the alternative performance measures used and provided In 2018, the committee will support the induction of its enhanced disclosure and explanations on page 44.
We new chair, review internal and external audit coverage have also provided further and clearer narrative on in light of the changing shape of the Group and in financial performance based on statutory measures, conjunction with the CSR Committee, refine the on pages 38 to 43. whistleblowing process further.
CMA Order Compliance The G4S Group audit was put out to tender in 2014, John Ramsay following which PwC were appointed with effect Audit Committee Chairman from 2015.
The committee confirms that the company has complied with the Audit Services for Large Companies Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2004.
Corporate governance report RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL The directors acknowledge their responsibility for the During the year, the Risk Committee reviewed the Groups systems of risk management and internal Groups risk appetite, which was considered and control and for reviewing their effectiveness each year.
Further information on the The main features of these control systems include work of the Risk Committee in relation to the risk clearly-defined reporting lines and authorisation management framework, including the Groups risk procedures, a comprehensive budgeting and monthly appetite, can be found in the report of the Risk reporting system, written policies and procedures and Committee on page 84. the use of a single global consolidation system for Whilst further improvement has been made in the internal management reporting, budgeting and planning effective performance of internal controls during as well as external reporting.
While the Audit the year, given the number of countries in which the Committee has primary responsibility on the boards Group operates and the variety of systems used there behalf, a separate committee of the board, the Risk is still opportunity for improvement in the operational s Committee, was set up in 2013 as part of the Group effectiveness of mandated controls and this will heightened focus on improving systems of internal continue to be a focus during 2018. control and risk management.
The Audit Committee has confirmed that, although The board, through the Risk Committee, has carried it is satisfied that the Groups risk management and out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the internal control processes are appropriate and company and of how those risks might affect the effective, the need for continued focus on enhancing prospects of the company.
The principal risks and their the internal control environment remains.
Further possible impact on the company and the mitigations information on the work of the Audit Committee in taken, are set out on pages 62 to 65.
Through the Audit this respect can be found in the Audit Committee Committee, the board conducted a review of the report on page 85.
The board has reviewed the effectiveness of the systems of internal control during Groups risk management and internal control systems the year.
The systems are designed to manage rather for the year to 31 December 2017 by considering than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business reports from the Audit Committee and the Risk objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not Committee and has also taken account of events since absolute assurance against material misstatement or 31 December 2017. loss.
The enterprise risk management governance model, described on page 61 sets out some of the key features of the Groups risk-management process which was in place throughout the year under review.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 G4S plc 91 Corporate governance report continued FAIR BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE The preparation of the Integrated Report and Accounts The board has separately considered the disclosures is co-ordinated by the finance, investor relations and in the Integrated Report and Accounts and has company secretariat teams with group-wide support concluded that they are fair, balanced and and input from other areas of the business.
Comprehensive reviews were undertaken at regular The statement required to be given by the directors intervals throughout the process by senior by Code provision C. 1.1 can be found on page 119. management and other contributing personnel within the Group.
The process was reviewed by the Audit Committee and the board has reviewed a paper setting out the governance relating to the preparation of the report prepared by management.
VIABILITY STATEMENT In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK capital needs of the business, as well as the principal Corporate Governance Code 2016, the directors have residual risks.
assessed the viability of the Group over a three year The vast majority of the Groups risks exist at an period, aligned with that of the Groups rolling planning individual country level and are individually immaterial.
cycle, taking into account the Groups current position The principal residual risks described on pages 62 to and the potential impact of the principal risks 65 are an aggregate view of individual risks captured in documented on pages 62 to 65.
Extension of viability country, region and Group functional risk registers.
testing beyond three years is seen by the Group as These wide-ranging risks are highly unlikely to being of limited value because of the following factors: crystallise simultaneously and it is therefore unlikely The majority of the Groups contracts are less than that such risks would have a material impact on the three years in duration: Groups financial position.
Nevertheless, the Group has sensitised its three-year financial projections for The correlation of demand for security services the following risks: with the global economy: and a Potential loss of certain of the Groups top The impact of the Groups on-going productivity programme.
customers: b Potential adverse changes in foreign ownership The Groups prospects are assessed primarily through its bottom-up strategic planning process.
The overall legislation resulting in cessation of material business lines: strategy for the Group was refreshed comprehensively in November 2013 and the board has monitored c Potential claims from major contracts resulting in progress closely against this strategy as well as the risks material settlement payments: and to its success.
The 2017 process commenced in June d Litigation or Class Action claims resulting in material with each country and business unit updating its rolling three-year strategic plan and considering the risks to legal costs and settlement payments.
These plans were reviewed The directors consider that this stress-test assessment and refined by regional management and then by the of the Groups prospects is reasonable in the Group Executive Committee before being reviewed circumstances.
The directors have also considered the by the board in October 2017.
The key assumptions debt maturities in 2019 and 2020 as indicated on page in the financial forecasts, reflecting the overall 31 under the stress test scenarios and concluded that strategy, include: the Group would be able to meet its maturities as A continued demand for security services, as set they fall due with the existing facilities currently in place, without the need to access the financial markets.
out on page 8 of the strategic report: An ability to continue to drive through our Based on this assessment, the directors have productivity programmes and to flex the cost base, a reasonable expectation that the Group will be as set out on pages 28 to 29: and able tocontinue in operation and meet its liabilities as theyfall due over the three financial years to Continuing to deliver good operating cash flow 31 December2020.
performance as set out on pages 30 and 31.
The output of this plan is used as the baseline for stress-testing covenant and headroom analysis.
This analysis includes sensitivity analysis to changes in trading conditions affecting profit growth and the 92 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2017
