62 Board of Directors Executives Christopher Miller David Roper Simon Peckham Geoffrey Martin Executive Chairman Executive Vice-Chairman Chief Executive Group Finance Director Year appointed Year appointed Year appointed Year appointed Appointed as Executive Chairman Appointed as Executive Appointed as Chief Executive Appointed as Group Finance on 29 May 2003.
Vice-Chairman on 9 May 2012, on 9 May 2012, having previously Director on 7 July 2005. having previously served as served as Chief Operating Officer Skills and experience Skills and experience Chief Executive from May 2003. from May 2003.
Christophers long-standing Geoffrey provides considerable involvement in manufacturing Skills and experience Skills and experience public company experience and industries and private investment From a wide range of roles in Simon provides widespread expertise in corporate finance, brings a wealth of experience corporate finance, private expertise in corporate finance, raising equity finance and financial to the Board.
investment and management in mergers and acquisitions, strategy strategy.
A chartered accountant, manufacturing industries, David and operations.
Simon qualified as Geoffrey qualified with Coopers & A Chartered Accountant, brings significant investment, a solicitor in 1986, before moving Lybrand, where he worked within Christopher qualified with Coopers financial and operational expertise.
to Wassall PLC in 1990, where he the corporate finance and audit & Lybrand, following which he was became an executive Director in departments.
In 1996, Geoffrey an Associate Director of Hanson A Chartered Accountant, David 1999.
Between October 2000 joined Royal Doulton PLC, serving plc.
In September 1988, qualified with Peat Marwick Mitchell, and May 2003, Simon worked as Group Finance Director from Christopher joined the board of following which he worked in the for the equity finance division of October 2000 until June 2005.
Wassall PLC as its Chief Executive.
corporate finance divisions of S. G. The Royal Bank of Scotland where During this time, Geoffrey was Between October 2000 and May Warburg, BZW and Dillon Read.
he was involved in several high involved in a number of projects, 2003, Christopher was involved in In September 1988, David was profile transactions.
including raising public equity, debt private investment activities.
appointed to the board of Wassall refinancing and the restructuring PLC, before becoming its deputy Board meetings attended 4 Board meetings attended 4 and outsourcing of the Chief Executive in 1993.
Between manufacturing and supply chain.
Business reviews attended 3 2000 and 2003, David was involved Business reviews attended 3 in private investment activities and Board meetings attended 4 Other significant appointments Other significant appointments served as a non-executive Director Non-executive Director of Business reviews attended 3 Trustee of the Prostate Cancer on the boards of two companies Greensphere Capital PLC Research Centre in France.
Independent Independent Committee membership Board meetings attended 4 Not applicable Not applicable Nomination Business reviews attended 3 Independent Independent Not applicable Not applicable Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 Governance 63 Non-executive Justin Dowley Liz Hewitt David Lis Archie G. Kane Senior Independent Independent Independent Independent Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Year appointed Year appointed Year appointed Year appointed Appointed as a non-executive Appointed as a non-executive Appointed as a non-executive Appointed as a non-executive Director on 1 September 2011 Director on 8 October 2013.
Director on 5 July 2017. and took up the role of Senior Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Independent Director on the Liz has extensive business, David has held several senior Archie qualified as a Chartered retirement of John Grant at the financial and investment experience roles in investment and fund Accountant with Mann Judd conclusion of the 2017 AGM.
gained from a number of senior management and brings extensive Gordon and Company.
After a Skills and experience roles in international companies.
financial experience to the Board.
move into the financial services Appointed as Senior Independent A Chartered Accountant, Liz David commenced his career at sector as Group Financial Controller Director on 11 May 2017.
Justin qualified with Arthur Andersen & NatWest, and held positions at of the TSB subsidiary United has extensive experience with over Co. following which she held a J Rothschild Investment Dominions Trust, Archie became 35 years spent within the banking, variety of positions within Gartmore Management and Morgan Grenfell Group Strategy Director.
Archie investment and asset management Investment Management, CVC and after which David founded Windsor later served in senior roles for sector.
David Lloyds Bank and was CEO of the Justin qualified with Price 2011, Liz was the Group Director joined Norwich Union Investment former mutual Scottish Widows Waterhouse and was latterly Vice of Corporate Affairs for Smith Management in 1997 later merging in 2003.
In 2009 he moved to Chairman of EMEA Investment & Nephew plc, following a to form Aviva Investors, before become Group Executive Director Banking, a division of Nomura secondment to the Department becoming Head of Equities in for all the groups insurance International plc.
He was also a for Business, Innovation and Skills 2012 and latterly Chief Investment businesses and for Scotland, founder partner of Tricorn Partners, and the HM Treasury, where Liz Officer, Equities and Multi Assets, until his retirement in May 2011.
Head of Investment Banking at worked to establish The Enterprise until his retirement in March 2016.
Archie continues to serve as a Merrill Lynch Europe and a Director Capital Fund.
non-executive Governor of the Board meetings attended 4 of Morgan Grenfell.
Board meetings attended 4 Business reviews attended 3 Board meetings attended 4 Board meetings attended 2 Business reviews attended 3 Other significant appointments Business reviews attended 3 Business reviews attended 1 Other significant appointments Non-executive Director of Electra Other significant appointments Other significant appointments Non-executive Director of Private Equity PLC and BCA Non-executive Director of Novo Nordisk A S, Savills plc, Marketplace plc Non-executive Governor of the Scottish Mortgage Investment Silverwood Property Ltd, Board of Bank of Ireland Committee membership Trust PLC St Georges Fields Ltd and Committee membership Audit Director of a number of St Georges Fields No2 Ltd 1 Nomination Chairman Audit private companies Independent Member of the Remuneration Nomination Steward of the Jockey Club House of Lords Commission Remuneration Deputy Chairman of The Panel Independent Committee membership on Takeovers and Mergers Independent 1 Yes Audit Chairman with effect from 1 May 2018 Yes Nomination Committee membership Remuneration Audit Independent Nomination Yes Remuneration Chairman Independent Yes 1 From conclusion of the 2017 AGM.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017
