Corporate governance report The board oversees the Groups governance framework, reviews and approves the strategy, monitors managements performance against agreed targets and ensures appropriate controls are in place and operating effectively.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE The board ensures leadership through effective oversight and review.
Role and responsibilities Executive decisions, and development Review board composition and implementation of strategy are Lead the process for new board and committee appointments delegated to management.
Review board succession-planning processes The board fulfils a number of its responsibilities directly see the list of See page 80. matters reserved to the board overleaf and others through its committees.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE Role and responsibilities Review and approve the companys CSR strategy or recommend policies to ensure these remain an integral part of the Groups strategy Monitor compliance with CSR policies throughout the Group and the integration of CSR processes within the Groups risk management and approval processes See page 82.
BOARD RISK COMMITTEE Role and responsibilities Role and responsibilities Review and approve the Advise the board on the Groups overall risk appetite and companys strategy tolerance Monitor managements Oversee the companys risk management framework and performance against agreed targets review its effectiveness Review, approve and promote the Review major contracts and projects companys values and standards GROUP RISK See page 84. Review its own performance on AND INTERNAL a yearly basis AUDIT AUDIT COMMITTEE FUNCTION Role and responsibilities CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Oversee the financial reporting process and ensure the integrity of the companys financial statements Monitor internal audit Approve external audit scope and fee, review and monitor GROUP EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE external auditors independence See page 85.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Role and responsibilities Approve remuneration of chairman of the board, the executive directors, other members of the executive committee and the company secretary of the board Monitor level and structure of remuneration of other senior management of the Group See page 93.
72 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 OUR GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK Governance MATTERS RESERVED TO THE BOARD The board is responsible for a number of specific matters in the following areas: Strategy and management Communication Corporate governance matters Structure and capital Board membership and other Policies appointments Financial reporting and controls Other matters such as settling Remuneration material litigation Risk and internal controls Delegation of authority Material contracts The work of the boards committees is described below in this report and the terms of reference of each of the committees are available on the companys website at g4s.
KEY ROLES IN OUR GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK To ensure a clear division of responsibilities Chairman of the board Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Responsible for promoting good Responsible for developing and Manages financial risks in accordance corporate governance and ensuring implementing the Groups strategy with the risk appetite set by the board compliance with regulatory and plans board and implements effective requirements internal financial control processes Responsible for the overall across the Group Ensures board effectiveness on all management and promotion of aspects of its role the Group Responsible for financial planning to support the companys strategic Promotes a culture of challenge, Manages the Groups risk profile in objectives debate, openness and support accordance with the risk appetite set by the board Leads the Groups finance, internal Ensures NEDs receive a audit, procurement, information comprehensive induction and Ensures effective communication technology, tax and treasury functions on-going training to support the between the board and the business performance of their duties Provides regular financial reporting to the board Maintains regular contact with major shareholders and conveys their views to the board Senior Independent Director Independent nonexecutive Company Secretary directors NEDs Acts as a sounding board for the Challenge constructively Secretary to the board and its chairman and as intermediary for the committees Monitor managements performance other directors when needed against agreed targets Responsible for advising the Maintains a balanced understanding of board through the chairman on Satisfy themselves on the integrity of the views of major shareholders all governance, regulatory and financial information and that financial legislative matters Maintains regular and effective controls and systems of risk communication with other directors management are effective Ensures all directors have access to the advice and services of the Leads the yearly appraisal of the Determine appropriate levels of company secretariat and external chairmans performance remuneration of executive directors advice if necessary Chairs the Nomination Committee Prime role in appointing directors and Responsible for ensuring compliance when it is considering issues directly in board succession planning with board procedures and processes affecting the chairman Supports the chairman and chief executive officer in preparing and organising induction programmes for NEDs Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 G4S plc 73 Corporate governance report continued Board composition, roles and attendance as at 31 December 2017 Meetings attended Chairman Board Nomination CSR Risk Audit Remuneration John Connolly 7 7 4 4 4 4 Executive Directors Chief Executive Officer Ashley Almanza 7 7 4 4 Chief Financial Officer Tim Weller 7 7 4 4 NonExecutive Directors John Daly 7 7 4 4 4 4 1 Winnie Fok 7 7 4 4 3 4 4 4 2 Steve Mogford Senior Independent Director 6 7 4 4 3 4 Paul Spence 7 7 4 4 4 4 4 4 3 Ian Springett n a n a n a Clare Spottiswoode 7 7 4 4 4 4 Barbara Thoralfsson 7 7 4 4 4 4 Three meetings of the Remuneration Committee and the CSR Committee were scheduled during the year and one additional meeting for each committee took place in January 2017.
Ms Fok was unable to attend one meeting of the Audit Committee due to a clash with another engagement.
Mr Mogford was unable to attend one board meeting and one meeting of the Audit Committee due to a commitment made prior to his appointment to the board.
Mr Springett was appointed to the board with effect from 1 January 2017 and shortly thereafter had to take an extended leave of absence to undergo treatment for a medical condition, therefore he was not expected to attend board meetings during this time.
Due to continued ill health, Mr Springett retired from the board on 20 June 2017.
BOARD BALANCE AND DIVERSITY Although the board has not adopted a Diversity Board balance formal board diversity policy, nor has it The Groups workforce reflects the Non- % set any specific targets in this respect, wide range of countries, cultures and Executive 80 diversity is a key consideration for the environments in which the Group directors board.
Recruitment of any new member operates.
The Group has long recognised Executive % to the board is always based on merit, that diversity can enhance decision making 20 directors against objective criteria, which take and performance and promotes diversity account of the diversity benefits each within the organisation.
The result is a candidate can bring to the board.
Further Gender diverse mix of gender, age, race, religion, information in this regard is set out in the Male nationality, language, background and % report of the Nomination Committee on 70 experience across the workforce.
Diversity, including gender diversity, in the Female % senior management population remains The board also considers diversity as part 30 an area of particular focus for the board.
of its annual review of talent management and succession plans for the board and boards approach to diversity and setting As well as being diverse in terms of gender senior management team.
As part of this out the principles it follows in considering and nationality, the board also includes review gender diversity, as well as board appointments, board composition, members with diverse skills, personal initiatives in place or being developed to and succession planning.
While most promote greater representation of members have international assignment However, the board is committed to women and an increase in cultural and experience, others bring extensive ensuring that any such policy is informed ethnic diversity across the Groups global experience of a variety of industries.
by the results of the Groups diversity and leaders are also discussed.
In addition, the board has a mix of both inclusion strategy review taking place in long-serving and new members.
These The board is mindful of its obligations 2018.
Therefore the board will keep this differences greatly enrich debate in the under both DTR7.2.
8 and Code Provision matter under review during the year.
2.4 and is considering adopting a formal and understanding.
board diversity policy to capture the 74 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Board composition Director reelection As at the date of this report, the board comprises 10 The companys articles of association require that all members: the non-executive chairman John Connolly, continuing directors are subject to election by seven other non-executive directors and two shareholders at the next annual general meeting following executive directors.
their appointment and that they submit themselves for re-election at least every three years and that at least The names of the directors serving as at 31 December one-third of the directors not standing for election for 2017 and their biographical details are set out on pages the first time stand for re-election at each annual general 68 and 69.
All these directors served throughout the meeting.
However, in accordance with the Codes year under review, apart from Ian Springett, a nonprovision on re-election of directors, all continuing executive director who retired from the board on directors stand for re-election every year.
With the 20 June 2017, and John Ramsay, who was appointed exception of Clare Spottiswoode who will step down at to the board on 1 January 2018. the end of the 2018 AGM, all continuing directors intend Clare Spottiswoode, having completed nearly eight to stand for election or re-election, as the case may be, years as a non-executive director of the company, will at the companys upcoming AGM.
retire from the board after the companys AGM in Potential conflicts 2018.
The process of seeking a candidate for a new non-executive director role is on-going.
Each of the directors has disclosed to the board any situations which apply to them as a result of which they Independence have or may have an interest which conflicts or may The board considers all the non-executive directors conflict with the interests of the company.
In accordance to be independent and to bring objective oversight with the companys articles of association, the board has and challenge.
Should a director become aware that they may have an interest in an existing transaction The board acknowledges the recommended term with G4S, they should notify the board in writing or within the Code and is mindful of the need for planned declare it at the next meeting.
The company has and orderly succession whenever possible.
Therefore procedures in place for managing such situations.
The clear records of the tenure and skill set for each affected director will not vote on a matter in which they non-executive director are maintained.
have an interest and the board may impose additional conditions if deemed appropriate.
The board reviews such matters on a regular basis.
Industry experience Geographical experience Board tenure 2017 Business services Africa 2 years % or less 30 Energy utilities Asia Pacific 2 yrs % 10 4 yrs Finance Europe 4yrs % 6 yrs 40 FMCG Latin America 6 yrs % 20 8 yrs Logistics Middle East & India Manufacturing North America operations Technology UK & Ireland Pharmaceutical biotechnology Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 G4S plc 75 Corporate governance report continued Board meetings 2017 BOARD ACTIVITIES IN FOCUS Seven scheduled board meetings were held during the year ended 31 December 2017.
Each year, one of these Appointed one new non-executive director meetings is an extended two-day meeting at which, in Reviewed results of employee engagement survey addition to normal board business, the board and underpinned by group values executive committee review the Group strategy.
Held a two-day strategy forum with Group Prior to each board meeting, comprehensive papers executive, in October are circulated to the directors addressing not only the Discussed succession plans for board members regular agenda items on which the executives will and reviewed succession planning and senior report, but also details of any matters requiring approval management development or decisions, such as significant transactions or other matters reserved to the board.
Oversaw the review of organisational structure At each meeting, the board receives regular reports and Received regular reports from the chair of the in-depth presentations from line and functional nomination, risk, CSR, audit and remuneration executives and the board makes visits to business sites committees from time to time.
Approved half-year results and year-end results After meetings of the board committees, the respective Monitored and reviewed developments chairs report to the board on the matters considered by ingovernance each committee.
Reviewed and approved Group treasury policy After each board meeting the chairman holds a meeting and Group tax policy attended solely by the non-executive directors.
Approved Slavery and Human trafficking There are seven board meetings scheduled for 2018 statement including a two-day board and strategy meeting.
Conducted visits to two customer sites in the US, for further details see page 78, as well as business sites in the US and the UK Took part in various engagements with shareholders and investors during the year seepage 79 Reviewed the 2017 AGM proxy voting figures INDUCTION, INFORMATION AND DEVELOPMENT A tailored induction is provided to new directors Tailored induction Audit Committee chair joining the board.
The induction is designed to ensure Upon joining the board on 1 January 2018, a directors joining the board have the necessary tailored induction programme was prepared for understanding of their role and how they can John Ramsay who took on the role of chair of the maximise their effectiveness.
It is therefore tailored Audit Committee.
to the needs of each director and those of the role A four-step programme was devised.
Step 1 focused they will fulfil on theboard.
on promoting a good understanding of the business To build on the induction programme, directors by providing access to information about the receive further briefings both to help in their own company, group structure, management team, board development and also to enhance their awareness governance, minutes of board and committee of the different elements of the business.
Step 2 developed an understanding of the companys business, markets Briefings are provided to board members on legal, and main relationships.
Over a day, Mr Ramsay had governance, compliance and reporting developments individual sessions with members of the group and to members of board committees from time executive team and senior managers.
Areas covered to time on matters relevant to their work on included strategy and investor relations, governance those committees.
and corporate social responsibility as well as legal, In addition, non-executive directors learn about human resources and health and safety.
Step 3 had the Groups business and meet employees and a strong financial focus and consisted of a day management through site visits.
dedicated to meetings with the group chief financial officer, group financial controller, chief information Information about the interactions between members officer, director of risk and internal audit as well as of the board, in particular non-executive directors, and the external auditor.
Step 4 will consist of site visits the business during the year, are set out on pages 78 due to be arranged during the course of H1 2018. and 79.
76 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 Governance BOARD AND COMMITTEES PERFORMANCE REVIEW In accordance with guidance from the Code, the board Stage 2 and its committees are assessed yearly with the support The Linstock team compiled a report based on of an external facilitator.
During 2017, a fully  and views gathered through replies to the facilitated exercise was carried out by Oliver Ziehn and questionnaires and follow-up interviews.
Lintstock also Merlin Underwood of Lintstock.
Oliver Ziehn, Merlin reported on the performance of each of the directors Underwood and Lintstock have no other connection and separately on that of the chairman.
Stage 3 Stage 1 The reports, conclusions and recommendations were A thorough brief was provided by the chairman and considered and discussed by the board and each of the company secretary in July 2017.
Lintstock was given boards committees when reviewing their performance access to information about the board and particular and informed the planning for the board and areas of focus.
Tailored questionnaires were then committees priorities in 2018. developed for the board and each committee.
As part of this process, the individual director reviews In early October, each of the directors, company were used as the basis for the chairmans individual secretary, Group HRD, Group Corporate Affairs discussion with each of the directors about their Director, Director of Risk and Internal Audit, performance and any training and development needs.
Group Financial Controller, Director of Compensation The results of the board review were considered as part and Benefits, other regular board committee of the review of the committees composition by the attendees, audit partners from PwC and Deloitte Nomination Committee in December.
remuneration consultant was invited to complete The report on the chairman was used to inform the .
discussion amongst the non-executive directors In late October andearly November, the Lintstock team conducted by the Senior Independent Director about conducted detailed interviews with each board director the chairmans performance, without the chairman and the company secretary.
BOARD REVIEW OUTCOME Board BOARD ACTION PLAN 2018 The conclusions of this years review were positive and confirmed that the board operates effectively, with the The board action plan for 2018 was informed among board dynamics notably enhanced by recent additions other things by the results of the board evaluation to the board and by good information flow.
Other areas process and will include: which received positive feedback included the boards Annual review of Group strategy and execution relationship with senior management, time management of the strategy and board support.
Monitoring the effectiveness and performance A number of areas for further focus were also identified.
of the organisation These included greater focus on succession planning, monitoring the implementation of strategy and the use Application of security technology in the business of technology, gaining a better understanding of certain stakeholders views, particularly those of customers, Induction and integration of new board members continued focus on corporate culture and fostering an environment conducive to the reporting of serious Board and management succession planning concerns through the available channels.
Maintaining understanding of the Groups Committees stakeholders, including customers, employees and The committees of the board were also reviewed and shareholders the results of the evaluation were also positive with committees perceived to be running efficiently and Continued focus on corporate culture making effective decisions.
Further information about the results of each committee review and how these results inform the following years plan can be found in each of the board committee reports.
Chairman The chairmans performance was highly rated and his relationship with all board members identified as a particular strength.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 G4S plc 77 Corporate governance report continued STAKEHOLDERS SOCIETY The CSR Committee received sport initiatives and in particular a presentation on CSR activities rugby.
The project runs in several With about 570,000 employees in developing countries and countries where G4S partners operating in a variety of sectors discussed these activities in light with Bhubesi Pride Foundation in over 90 countries, often in of the results of the materiality to carry out annual rugby challenging environments, the exercise undertaken during coaching events, providing Group has a large and rich theyear.
support including delivering talks on topics such as health and stakeholders network.
The board received an update on safety, career, life-skills and Africas pan-regional project, the environment.
The boards engagement with focusing on development through the Groups stakeholders takes a variety of forms and CUSTOMERS Two customer-site visits were The board sought to understand provides invaluable feedback organised during the year and customer constraints and that informs the boards members of the board were requirements as part of able to meet and receive consideration of large contracts decisionmaking process.
The CEO and other senior The CEO, CFO and chairman executives provided customer attended a number of meetings feedback and information to the with customers.
EMPLOYEES The board met employees boards trip to the Americas during visits to other parts of businesses are set out below.
the business, such as the board A number of board members visit to the Americas at which attended the Global Leadership the board met the senior forum in London in March 2017. management team as well as line The board received regular health management and operational and safety reports.
employees both at the regional The results of the biennial office and during customer site employee survey were presented visits.
Further details of the to the board.
SUPPLIERS During the year, the Supplier and reinforced to ensure greater code of conduct was reviewed alignment with our values.
BOARD TRIP TO NORTH AMERICA Values: Integrity and Respect Safety, Security and Service Excellence In April 2017, the board meeting was held at the Groups North America headquarters located in Jupiter, Florida.
The board met with the North America senior management team as well as the Latin America management team.
The board received in-depth presentations from both management teams and had the opportunity of meeting the senior team informally as well.
During the trip, the board saw a demonstration of the retail cash solutions suite of products offered by the business and visited a customer facility at which such solutions are deployed.
In addition, the board visited a customer location at which integrated security solutions are provided, meeting both G4S personnel and customers.
NEWEST DIAGRAMS - FULL OUTLINE 78 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 Governance SHAREHOLDERS In addition, during the year, the chairman, director The primary means used by the board for communicating with all company shareholders are of investor relations and company secretary met with major shareholders as part of an annual round of the annual report, annual results, half-year results and the AGM.
The chairman reported on those meetings to The section of the website dedicated to investor relations is also a useful tool, facilitating theboard.
communication with institutional and private The chair of the CSR Committee, Clare investors.
com investors and Spottiswoode, and relevant senior executives includes material shared with institutional organised a meeting with a group of Socially shareholders and analysts at company meetings.
Responsible Investors in June 2017, updating them on the Groups corporate responsibility programme.
Analyst and investor meetings and presentations She reported feedback received to the board.
Presentations as well as analyst and investor meetings are held following the release of the companys Annual general meeting annual results and half-year results announcements.
The companys annual general meeting is an important These are also streamed via live webcast for those opportunity for communication between the board unable to attend in person.
and shareholders, particularly private shareholders.
After each such event, the presentation is made The next annual general meeting is due to take place available in the Investor Relations section of on 15 May 2018, at the Holiday Inn in Sutton, and the website.
details of the meeting and the resolutions to be proposed are set out in the Notice of Meeting Other shareholder meetings available to download from the website.
It is intended The company actively seeks to engage with that all the directors will attend and be available to shareholders and during 2017 the chief executive answer questions from shareholders.
officer and the chief financial officer had contact via The meeting will be informed of the number of one-on-one meetings, group meetings and telephone proxyvotes cast and the final results of votes on conference calls with current and potential the resolutions will be published subsequently on shareholders as well as with analysts.
The shareholders covered represented around 65% of the total share register which includes passive funds and over 205 institutions.
The number of meetings is driven by demand.
These meetings tend to be focused primarily on the Groups trading operations and the implementation of its strategy.
STRATEGY SESSION AT UK TECHNOLOGY CENTRE Values: Safety, Security and Service Excellence Innovation and Teamwork In October 2017, the board and group executive team held a two-day strategy session at the G4S Technology Centre in Tewkesbury, England.
The business had just exhibited at ASIS, the largest tradeshow in North America and launched a number of new products, including RISK360 version 7 and a number of AMAG products.
Senior management at the technology centre provided demonstrations of these products, which enabled the board to gain a deeper understanding of the Groups technology solutions.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 G4S plc 79 NEWEST DIAGRAMS - FULL OUTLINE Corporate governance report continued THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE Board composition In January 2017, the Nomination Committee met to discuss the adjustments that should be made to the composition of the Audit Committee following the sudden onset of a medical condition, which prevented Ian Springett from taking on his role as chair of the Audit Committee.
Based on the information available at the time, the Nomination Committee considered the interim steps that should be taken to ensure the Audit Committee carried on operating effectively.
Mindful of the Code and John Connolly DTR 7.1 requirements with regard to the composition Nomination Committee Chairman of the Audit Committee, the committee reviewed the skills and experience of the board members and 2017 was again a busy year for the Nomination identified Paul Spence, who had strong and effective Committee.
Adjustments to committee composition leadership and communication skills, and was already a were required after a sudden onset of ill-health forced a member of the Audit Committee as well as chair of the newly appointed non-executive director to take a leave Risk Committee, and Winnie Fok, who had accounting of absence before retiring from the board.
Subsequently a new non-executive director qualified to act as qualifications and audit experience and who was chairman of the Audit Committee was recruited.
previously a member of the Audit Committee.
The committee also focused on identifying and planning The Nomination Committee went on to recommend to for the long-term needs of the company.
the board Pauls appointment as interim chair of the Audit Committee and that of Winnie as an additional member.
Committee membership during 2017 Member since On 20 June 2017, due to continued ill-health, Ian John Connolly Chairman June 2012 Springett retired from the board.
The Zygos Partnership Steve Mogford May 2016 Zygos was appointed to assist with the search for a Barbara Thoralfsson July 2016 new non-executive director qualified to act as the chairman of the Audit Committee.
Zygos, who has no The Nomination Committee meets on an ad hoc basis, when the connection with the company other than as provider need arises.
In 2017, the committee met four times.
of recruitment consultancy services to the Nomination Members attendance at committee meetings is shown on Committee, was provided with a brief, setting out the page74.
requirements for the role to be filled and preferred attributes of potential candidates.
In selecting candidates, consideration was given to the skills and competence Main activities of the Nomination Committee required to fill the role, the need to maintain and during the year % enhance diversity of relevant skills and experience on the board, as well as corporate culture and fit.
Recruitment of NEDs 55% Shortlisted candidates were then interviewed by the Succession planning 20% chairman, the members of the committee as well as Reviewing board committee the chief executive officer and the chief financial officer.
membership 20% The recruitment process initiated by the Nomination Independence and extending terms Committee led to the appointment on 1 January 2018 of appointment 5% of John Ramsay.
Succession planning Succession planning is very much a matter for the board as a whole and is considered by the board at least once Responsibilities a year.
This year, as in previous years, the entire board The Nomination Committees remit covers broadly five reviewed succession plans as well as talent management areas, namely, board composition, making and development for the senior management team.
recommendations to the board on appointments with In addition, at its December meeting, the Nomination a view to maintaining a balance of skills and experience Committee reviewed and discussed the results of the on the board and its committees, succession planning, board evaluation, current skills and experience available board performance evaluation and annual reporting.
Discussing what further skills or The committees terms of reference are available experience may be useful to enable the board to atg4s.
support the developing needs of the Group helps inform future board recruitments.
The committee also gave further consideration to board succession plans.
Clare Spottiswoode having indicated that she would not seek re-election at the companys 2018 AGM, the committee initiated a search for a new 80 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 Governance non-executive director to join the board in due course Independence and re-election to the board and Zygos was appointed to assist with the search.
A John Dalys term of appointment, which was due to tailored brief, setting out the particular requirements for expire in June 2017, was considered by the Nomination the role was developed and provided to Zygos.
The committee was satisfied that Consideration was given to the need for potential John continues to remain independent and committed candidates to possess a range of skills and experience to his role as a director and as chairman of the allowing them to make a meaningful and broad Remuneration Committee.
In coming to this conclusion, the committee took into account his experience, qualities and skills, as well as his Diversity other commitments.
The committee recommended to Diversity is a matter for the board as a whole and is an the board that his appointment be extended.
integral part of succession planning and recruitment for the board and senior management team.
The boards Committees composition approach to diversity is set out on page 74.
In December, the committee reviewed the composition The Nomination Committee seeks assistance from of the committees of the board.
Taking into account the executive search agencies which are signatories of the balance of skills and experience on each committee, it Voluntary Code of Conduct to help ensure the most was felt that Steve Mogford, as a current serving CEO diverse talent pools are reached and an approach in line with experience of delivery of complex programmes, with best practice is adopted.
would bring additional relevant expertise to the Risk Committee and that John Ramsays extensive Consideration is also given to diversity when reviewing experience in emerging markets would enable him to board composition and the result of the annual board make a valuable contribution to the CSR Committee.
Committee performance Directors length of service The performance of the Nomination Committee was As part of its annual review of the board composition, reviewed as part of the process undertaken by each of the Nomination Committee reviews the directors the board committees, with assistance from Lintstock.
In line with our Remuneration Policy, executive directors have a rolling service contract, Although the committee was considered to be effective, whereas non-executive directors are appointed for an greater emphasis on succession planning was identified initial term of two years.
Further information about the as an area for increased focus, and is included as a key key feature of the executive directors service contracts area for the committees work in 2018.
The committee and non-executive directors letters of appointment can will also continue to ensure that it has appropriate plans be found on page 112. for board and executive succession, which promote diversity of gender and social and ethnic backgrounds.
The table below sets out the date of appointment and where applicable unexpired term remaining for current members of the board.
Director Date of appointment Unexpired term Executive directors a Ashley Almanza 1 May 2013 n a b Tim Weller 1 April 2013 n a Non-executive directors John Connolly 8 June 2012 3 months John Daly 5 June 2015 15 months Winnie Fok 1 October 2010 7 months Steve Mogford 27 May 2016 3 months John Ramsay 1 January 2018 22 months Paul Spence 1 January 2013 10 months c Clare Spottiswoode 14 June 2010 3 months Barbara Thoralfsson 1 July 2016 4 months a. Ashley Almanza was appointed to the board on 1 May 2013 as chief financial officer and took on the role of chief executive officer on1June 2013. b. Tim Weller joined the board on 1 April 2013 as a non-executive director until 24 October 2016, when he became chief financial officer.
c. Clare Spottiswoode will retire from the board at the conclusion of the companys AGM on 15 May 2018.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 G4S plc 81 Corporate governance report continued THE CSR COMMITTEE Responsibilities The Group takes a holistic approach to corporate and social responsibility.
The scale of the Group, geographic spread of its activities and the complex environments our employees operate in creates a variety of challenges.
The CSR Committee was established in 2011 to review and monitor the Groups CSR approach, which includes developing policies on various CSR-related matters for consideration by the board and to review and monitor how the Group performs against relevant policies.
Itoversees reporting on CSR matters and progress made during the year.
Further details of the committees Clare Spottiswoode responsibilities can be found in the committees terms CSR Committee Chair ofreference which are available at g4s.
Our people and values underpin everything we do.
Specific issues Our updated values are the standards which we have set for ourselves, the organisation as a whole and our The CSR Committee receives regular updates on current stakeholders.
In 2016 they were re-launched across the issues from the human resources and CSR teams.
Group supported by a targeted communications programme, awareness building and training materials.
In late August 2017, G4S became aware of allegations The committee will continue to work to ensure that the regarding the conduct and behaviour of a number of values are embedded firmly throughout the entire staff at Brook House Immigration Removal Centre.
This is my last statement as chairman of the CSR Committee.
After almost eight years as a In response to these allegations, G4S took immediate non-executive director, I will step down from the board action to strengthen the safeguarding of detainees at and its committees at the conclusion of the companys annual general meeting in May.
I am pleased that since Brook House.
Together with the UK Home Office, an joining G4S in 2010, CSR has become firmly embedded action plan was agreed and a joint working party created in the Groups processes and forms an integral part of to oversee its implementation.
The actions outlined in our overall strategy.
the plan are well underway and many have been Despite a distinct improvement in work-related fatalities completed.
The key objective throughout has been in 2017, the committees focus on health and safety will to ensure that detainees are safe at Brook House.
continue to remain a key part of its activity during 2018, as we re-affirm our goal of zero-harm.
Investigations into staff conduct resulted in the dismissal of six members of staff.
The committee has received Committee membership during 2017 regular updates on the measures that have been taken Member Since to address the issues raised, and on progress of Clare Spottiswoode Chair January 2012 investigations and operational improvement plans.
I Winnie Kin Wah Fok March 2012 visited the centre personally in December to discuss the Paul Spence January 2013 issues with managers, staff and detainees on site and to see the progress first hand.
John Ramsay joined the board and the CSR Committee on 1 January 2018.
We have commissioned Verita, a specialist consultancy, Other regular attendees include the chief executive officer for to carry out an independent review to understand the care & justice services, the regional president for the Africa extent and root causes of the issues at Brook House.
The region, the group corporate affairs director and the group review is examining G4S management, operational and HR director.
staffing arrangements and the practices and behaviour of There were three scheduled meetings and one unscheduled G4S staff.
It is also assessing how G4S oversees the care meeting of the CSR Committee during 2017.
Members and welfare of detainees, including in relation to attendance at committee meetings is shown on page 74. mental-health issues, self-harm, violence prevention, use of force and proper reporting of incidents.
Main activities of the CSR Committee during The review is led by Kate Lampard CBE, a former the year % barrister and vice chair of the South of England Strategic Health Authority and of the Financial Ombudsman Current issues 30% Services Limited.
The findings will be presented directly Health and Safety 25% to the Home Office and the CSR Committee.
CSR reporting 20% Culture and values Values Culture Ethics As a principal risk for the Group, culture and values Whistleblowing 15% as well as ethical compliance were reviewed by the Materiality board as a whole during the year.
In addition, the CSR assessment 10% Committee oversees the programme supporting the embedding of the values across the Group including in all HR processes, from recruitment through to evaluation and performance management.
The committee also reviewed and discussed the various 82 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 Governance initiatives that supported the launch of the values, The results, which inform future reporting and strategy, including training for management and front-line confirmed three core priority ethical and sustainability employees and enhanced communication of the areas for the Group during 2018 and 2019: whistleblowing arrangements to all employees.
1 Health and safety Health and safety 2 Human rights As part of the CSR Committees focus on health and 3 Anti-bribery and corruption safety during the year, the committee oversaw an The assessment reinforced the importance of G4S initiative to refresh health and safety induction training ethics, culture and values, as well as employee standards for front-line employees and the re-issue of a simplified and behaviour in preventing issues and poor firearms policy across the Group.
performance across the Groups core priorities and As part of its normal cycle of work, the committee other CSR matters.
received regular health and safety reports including Further information can be found at g4s.
updates on on-going initiatives and details of future plans and summaries of incidents.
Integrated CSR reporting Sadly, in 2017, 25 employees lost their lives in workThe Groups approach to corporate and social related incidents.
Although this is a significant reduction responsibility is now firmly embedded in the Groups over previous years, in part, as a result of a reduction in business processes, from employee recruitment and road traffic accident fatalities, the focus and work of supplier management to bidding and contract delivery.
As health and safety professionals and management teams a result, during the year the CSR Committee considered in this area will continue.
We will build on this progress whether the CSR approach and activities should continue and re-affirm our goal of zero harm.
To further this to be reported on a standalone basis in a separate report endeavour and as mentioned last year, in 2017 the CSR or whether it was more appropriate to integrate CSR Committee reviewed and supported the adoption of a activities fully with the companys annual report and new and consistent definition of High Potential Incidents accounts.
It was decided that a fully-integrated report was HPIs and the embedding of HPIs reporting across more representative of the Groups approach.
Work to ensure consistent reporting of HPIs is on-going, so as to ensure valuable insight is captured Committee performance and efforts are focused preventatively.
The assessment of the committees performance, conducted as part of the overall board review process Materiality Assessment with assistance from Lintstock, concluded that the In order to ensure that G4S approach to CSR remains committee continued to provide good oversight and focused on the areas that are most relevant to the challenge over the Groups CSR strategy.
business and its stakeholders, a wide-ranging materiality assessment of ethical and sustainability issues is carried For 2018, the committee will review the scope of its out.
The committees work also included overseeing this remit and activities, and continue to support the process, which is conducted with the support of an communication of the Groups values and whistleblowing external facilitator every two years.
In addition, informed by the result of the materiality assessment, the committee will continue to focus its work on issues that are material for the Group.
CSR Materiality Matrix Health, safety and protection of employees Human rights Ethics and people under G4S care Environment Ethics & values Economic Anti-bribery & corruption Geopolitical Labour relations Governance & Employment compliance Employee standards & behaviours Valuing & developing employees Secure & stable Diversity & inclusion Employee recruitment & communities screening Government relationships Data protection & information security Customer trust & delivery Risk management Promoting industry standards Economic & tax contribution Technology & innovation Responsible supply chain Climate Change Environmental Management LOW IMPACT ON G4S HIGH Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 G4S plc 83 IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS HIGH Corporate governance report continued RISK COMMITTEE REPORT Risk governance As part of its continued focus on risk governance, the committee reviewed and discussed proposed amendments to Group risk management policies.
The committee also reviewed both the process and results of control self-assessments CSAs completed by business units across the Group on a regular basis.
The CSAs, which cover many of the control standards addressing the Groups high inherent risks, are seen as a positive way in which to ensure that key controls specified by the Group to reduce such risks are embedded and compliance enhanced.
During the Paul Spence process, regional functional leaders review and challenge Risk Committee Chairman the results of the business units.
The internal audit function also performs tests to identify and correct any The creation of sustainable value for our stakeholders potential discrepancy between the results of CSAs and requires effective risk management.
The committee also reviewed the Groups The Risk Committees oversight of the Groups risk risk appetite and recommended its approval by management framework seeks to balance a robust the board.
approach to risk management, in particular risk mitigation, with the need to encourage and support The committee also reported to the Audit Committee the entrepreneurial spirit that drives growth.
to confirm that it was satisfied that the Groups risk Committee membership during 2017 management processes were appropriate.
Member since Principal risks Paul Spence Chairman January 2013 Ashley Almanza May 2013 During the year, the Risk Committee received regular John Connolly January 2013 updates on the progress of and in mitigating the Groups principal risks set out on pages 62 to 65.
Tim Weller April 2013 Presentations on information security, laws and Steve Mogford joined the Risk Committee on 1 January 2018. regulations, cash losses and culture and values covering Other regular attendees include the group director of risk and the inherent risk, mitigations in place and management internal audit.
of the residual risk, were also received.
Further details of There were four scheduled meetings held during the year the significant risks and uncertainties facing the business ended 31 December 2017.
Members attendance at committee are set out on pages 60 to 65. meetings is shown on page 74.
Major contracts and projects Main activities of the Risk Committee during Contract-risk management continues to remain a key the year % area of focus for the company and the committee, which undertakes a review of a major contract at each of its meetings.
In depth review of speci c high risk In addition, the committee has particular oversight for contracts projects 30% the project developing lean-order-to-cash processes Risk Governance Internal Control 30% through the development and implementation of a standard IT system for the manned-security operations, Contract Risk Management 25% Project Javelin.
The committee receives regular reports Committee governance on this project and oversaw the launch of the pilot and reporting 15% project in Ireland in the last quarter of 2017.
Further information about this project is set out on page 29.
Responsibilities Committee performance Formed in 2013, the Risk Committee advises the board The committees performance is assessed every year.
In 2017, the result of the assessment performed by on the Groups overall risk appetite, reviews and approves the Groups risk management strategy, advises Lintstock showed that the committee continued to be effective and to provide valuable oversight of the risk the Audit Committee and the board on risk exposures and reviews the level of risk within the Group.
Committee also assesses the effectiveness of the In 2018, the committee will continue its focus on major Groups risk management systems and reports thereon contracts and projects as well as principal residual risks.
The committee also plans to increase its focus on operational risk and to reinforce its oversight of The committees composition ensures that a broad set of skills and experience comes together to look at how technology and innovation as well as cyber-risk.
the Group manages risk in the business.
Further details can be found in the committees terms of reference available at g4s.
84 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2017
