72 Audit Committee report reviewing the Companys procedures for detecting fraud: assessing annually the external auditors independence and objectivity, taking into account relevant UK law, regulation, the Ethical Standards and other professional requirements and the relationship with the auditor as a whole, including the provision of any non-audit services: developing, implementing and monitoring the Groups policy on external audit and for overseeing the objectivity and effectiveness of the external auditor: reviewing and challenging the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor: and Liz Hewitt reviewing and considering the Annual Report and financial Audit Committee Chairman statements to ensure that it is fair, balanced and understandable and advising the Board on whether it can state that this is the case.
The responsibilities of the Audit Committee the Composition Committee include overseeing financial reporting, On the retirement of Mr John Grant as Chairman of the Audit Committee at the conclusion of the 2017 AGM, existing Audit risk management and internal controls, in addition Committee member Ms Liz Hewitt took up the role of Chairman.
to making recommendations to the Board regarding Ms Hewitt brings a wealth of expertise to the role as Audit the appointment of the Companys internal and Chairman of Novo Nordisk A S, Savills plc and the House of Lords external auditors.
The Audit Committee briefly had three members on Mr Grants retirement, until Mr Archie G. Kanes appointment on Member No.
Each member of the Committee is deemed to be Liz Hewitt Chairman 3 3 independent by the Company and brings recent and relevant 1 financial experience from senior executive and non-executive John Grant 1 1 positions as described in their biographies on page 63.
David Lis 3 3 The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
Justin Dowley 3 3 2 Archie G. Kane 2 2 The Committee invites the Group Finance Director, the Head of Financial Reporting and senior representatives of the external and 1 Retired from the Audit Committee with effect from the conclusion of the AGM on 11 May 2017.
2 Appointed to the Audit Committee with effect from 5 July 2017. internal auditors to attend meetings where appropriate to the business being considered.
The Committee has the right to invite any other Directors and or employees to attend meetings where Role and responsibilities this is considered appropriate.
In addition, the Committee meets The Committees role and responsibilities are set out in its terms at least once per year with both the external and internal auditors of reference.
These were updated in August 2017 in line with best without management present.
practice and are available on the Companys website and from Summary of meetings in the year the Company Secretary at the Companys registered office.
The Committee is expected to meet not less than three times a In discharging its duties, the Committee embraces its role of year.
In 2017, the Committee met in March, August and November.
protecting the interests of shareholders with respect to the The scheduling of these meetings is designed to be aligned with integrity of financial information published by the Company the financial reporting timetable, thereby enabling the Committee and the effectiveness of the audit.
The responsibilities of the to review the Annual Report and financial statements, the interim Committee include: financial report and the audit plan ahead of the year-end audit reviewing and monitoring the integrity of the financial and to maintain a view of the internal controls and processes statements of the Group, including the Annual Report and throughout the year.
interim report, and reviewing and reporting to the Board on The attendance of its members at these meetings is shown in the significant financial reporting issues and judgements which table at the start of this section.
they contain: keeping under review the effectiveness of the Groups financial Significant activities related to the financial statements reporting, risk management and internal control systems and In discharging its duties under its terms of reference, the compliance controls: Committee undertook the following recurring activities that receive annual scrutiny: monitoring and evaluating the effectiveness of the internal audit function: reviewed the Annual Report and financial statements reviewing and challenging the going concern assumption and interim financial report, including the going concern and the assessment forming the basis of the longer-term assumption and the assessment forming the basis of the viability statement: longer-term viability statement.
As part of this review, the Committee received reports from the external auditor on focusing and challenging the consistency of accounting their audit of the Annual Report and financial statements policies, methods used to account for significant or unusual and their review of the interim financial report: transactions and compliance with accounting standards: considered the Annual Report and financial statements in reviewing the Groups arrangements for its employees to raise the context of being fair, balanced and understandable and concerns in confidence in accordance with the Companys reviewed the content of a paper prepared by management whistleblowing policy: Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 Governance 73 in relation to the 2017 Annual Report and financial statements.
reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups risk management The Committee advised the Board that, in its view, the 2017 and internal controls and disclosures made in the Annual Annual Report and financial statements when taken as a Report and financial statements on this matter: whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups internal and external information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups auditors: and performance, business model and strategy: reviewed and agreed the scope of work to be undertaken considered the processes in place to generate forecasts of in respect of the 2017 annual accounts by the external auditor cash flows and accounting valuation information, including and the scope of work to be undertaken in 2018 by the the reasonableness and consistent use of assumptions: internal auditor.
In addition to these matters, the Committee considered the following significant issues in relation to the financial statements during the year: The Audit Committees activities during 2017 Significant issue considered by the Audit Committee How the issue was addressed by the Audit Committee The Committee challenged the outcome of the impairment review in respect Impairment of goodwill, intangible assets and other of Brush performed by management and in doing so considered the following: fixed assets of the Energy CGU The judgements in relation to goodwill impairment testing the Committee reviewed a paper, which included the key outputs of the include the assumptions applied in calculating the impairment model, prepared by management: recoverable amount of the cash-generating units being the appropriateness of the inclusion of restructuring in the fair value less costs to tested for impairment.
sell approach, on the basis that a market participant would restructure the Brush business.
In particular, with regard to the structural changes in the markets in In the 2016 Annual Report the headroom in respect of the which Brush operates and following the recent announcements from key carrying amount of the Energy CGUs was 95.4 million participants in these markets: 23%, which was a tightening of headroom from that shown the trading assumptions that have been applied in the model, in particular in the previous year.
As a result of this reduced headroom, the assumptions that were key to the model, being revenue growth and enhanced sensitivity disclosures were provided in the 2016 operating margin: Annual Report in respect of this group of CGUs.
the timing and the impact of the restructuring for the fair value in use less costs At the date of the 2017 interim results announcement, it was to sell approach: evident that trading conditions had worsened and were in the market assumptions for the long-term growth rates applied and the discount fact the toughest conditions experienced since Melrose rate used, taking into account third party valuations of the company: acquired Brush in 2008. risk adjustments that have been applied to the model, in particular the fair value less costs to sell model which includes the impact of future restructuring: and Subsequently, it was announced, in a trading statement in the appropriateness of the full disclosures in the financial statements in respect November 2017, that since the interim announcement the of the impairment review performed and the impact, along with sensitivities that market conditions had worsened such that a full review of could cause a future impairment.
Brush was underway to improve its performance.
The closure of Brush China was announced in November 2017, resulting in an impairment loss on assets of 31.1 million, and at 31 December a review of property, plant and equipment was performed that identified a write down of 18.2 million.
The key estimates used to derive the discounted cash flow valuations of the property, plant and equipment were revenue changes, operating margins and market conditions that impact long-term growth rates and discount rates.
Furthermore, an assessment of the future cash flows of the Brush businesses under a value in use basis, which does not allow for the benefits of any restructuring programme that has not been committed to, and under a fair value less costs to sell basis, which does allow future restructuring to be considered if it is viewed that a market participant would restructure, was made.
In accordance with IAS 36, the higher valuation, being the fair value less cost to sell basis, was used to value the Brush business at 300 million, resulting in an impairment to goodwill of 95.4 million.
In considering the valuation that has been used for Brush using a fair value less cost to sell basis, the key estimates that were used were the timing and impact of restructuring, the possibility of a further reduction of future sales, operating margins and market conditions that impact long-term growth rates and discount rates.
Refer to notes 3 and 11 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 74 Audit Committee report Continued The Audit Committees activities during 2017 Significant issue considered by the Audit Committee How the issue was addressed by the Audit Committee The Committee has considered the nature, classification and consistency of Classification of non-underlying items and use non-underlying items, whilst addressing the guidance given by ESMA.
These of Alternative Performance Measures APMs items were detailed in the external auditors paper to the Committee and are The reporting, classification and consistency of nonclearly defined and discussed in the Finance Directors review, along with the underlying items continue to be an area of focus for the glossary to this Annual Report.
In particular, given the guidance on Alternative Performance Measures APMs given by the European The Committee has considered the Companys accounting policy and reporting Securities and Markets Authority ESMA.
practice as to non-underlying items and determines it to be clear, transparent and appropriate, thereby assisting shareholders in measuring the underlying The Committee considers this to be a key consideration performance of the Company.
The Committee therefore concluded that these when considering whether the financial statements give non-underlying items were appropriately captured and disclosed.
a fair, balanced and understandable view of events.
The Committee also considered the disclosure of the Companys APMs with Refer to note 6 and the glossary to this Annual Report respect to applicable guidelines and noted that these are set out in detail in the glossary to this Annual Report and found them to be clear and transparent.
The Committee has considered the application of the new rules to the Group, Non-audit fees noting in particular the cap on permitted non-audit services of 70% of average Under EU and Competition Commission rules, effective audit fees over a three-year period, to be first applied in December 2020.
Audit from 17 June 2016, new restrictions on non-audit services fees in 2017, 2018 and 2019 will be relevant and the average of these three years now apply.
will be compared to the non-audit fees in 2020.
The Companys non-audit fee represents 62% of the audit fees for 2017.
The Committee completed its annual review of the Groups Non-Audit Services Policy, whereby the Committee reviewed the services provided by the audit firm, considered the impact of the services and threats and safeguards to ensure that the auditor remained independent and the services provided were in line with the Groups non-audit services policy.
The non-audit fees were also reviewed and services provided approved.
The Committee received updates during the year from senior management Risk management and internal control on the Companys risk management framework and internal control systems.
Monitored the risk management and the internal control systems and conducted a review of their effectiveness.
The Committee received a presentation from senior management on the risk management framework and on the financial, operational and compliance controls in place.
In addition, the Committee were presented with the findings of the internal audit visits on a bi-annual basis to assist them with determining the effectiveness of internal controls within the Group.
The Committee considered the risk management and internal control systems and concluded that they were effective and reported this to the Board.
The Committee considered managements proposed provisioning in respect Provisions for legal and environmental claims, of these legal and environmental claims and other provisions including the key other provisions and contingent liabilities judgements made and relevant legal advice.
The level of provisioning for legal and environmental claims and other provisions requires judgement.
The external auditor also reported on all material provisions to the Committee.
Although provisions are reviewed on a regular basis and Having considered the matter and sought guidance from the external auditor, adjusted for managements best current estimates, the the Committee concluded that managements proposed provisioning and the judgemental nature of these items means that future associated disclosures in the Annual Report were appropriate and consistent amounts settled may be different from those provided.
Refer to note 19 The Committee reviewed and supported managements recommendation to Going concern and viability prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis.
Assessment of the going concern assumptions and the basis of the viability statement.
The Committee also considered papers prepared by management detailing the qualifications, assumptions, scenario modelling, sensitivity analysis and judgements which underpinned the longer-term viability statement to be included in the 2017 Annual Report.
The Committee concurred with the assumptions and judgements made by management and concluded that the longer-term viability statement was appropriate.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 Governance 75 The Audit Committees activities during 2017 Significant issue considered by the Audit Committee How the issue was addressed by the Audit Committee The Committee reviewed and approved the new Internal Audit Charter Internal audit and committed to annually reviewing the Internal Audit Charter.
Monitoring and evaluating the effectiveness of the internal audit function.
The Committee reviewed and assessed the effectiveness of the internal audit process, by use of a questionnaire completed by each member and key representatives of the Company and deemed it to be thorough and effective.
The Committee reviewed the reappointment of BM Howarth as internal auditor and, following an assessment of the services delivered to the Company by BM Howarth in 2017, approved their reappointment.
The Committee reviewed the independence of the external auditor, whilst External audit considering fees in respect of the audit and non-audit services, and deemed Monitoring and evaluating the effectiveness of the external the external auditor to be independent.
The Committee reviewed the remuneration paid to the external auditor in 2017 in light of the services provided to the Company during 2017 and deemed it fair and reasonable.
The Committee reviewed and assessed the effectiveness of the external audit process.
In doing so the Committee consulted the views of its members, the Finance Director, the Chief Executive, the divisional finance directors and the internal auditor.
Following the assessment, the Committee reviewed and approved the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as external auditor.
The Committee participated in an externally facilitated independent evaluation Committee evaluation of itself carried out by Lintstock Limited to identify areas where performance Monitoring and evaluating the effectiveness and procedures might be further improved.
Risk management and internal control External audit During 2017, the Committee monitored the effectiveness of the Assessment of effectiveness and reappointment Groups risk management and internal control systems through The Committee reviews and makes recommendations with regard regular updates from management and a review of the key findings to the reappointment of the external auditor.
In making these presented by the external and internal auditors.
recommendations, the Committee considers auditor effectiveness and independence, partner rotation and any other factors which In accordance with provision C. 2.3 of the Code, the Board may impact the external auditors reappointment.
instructed the Committee to undertake a review of the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control The Committee has reviewed the external auditors performance systems, covering all material controls including financial, and effectiveness.
For 2017, a series of questions covering the key operational and compliance controls.
areas of the audit process that the Committee is expected to have an opinion over were put to the Committee, including: This review took the form of management presentations followed by a Committee discussion.
The Company Secretary briefed the the calibre, continuity, experience, resources and technical Committee on the key elements of the Melrose risk management and industry knowledge of the engagement partner and of framework including an updated risk strategy, a best practice risk the wider external audit team: register with risk mapping and profiling application, an education the planning and execution of the audit process: and training programme and an audit and assurance process, the quality and timeliness of communications from the as well as a confirmation to the Committee that this has been external auditor: implemented across the Nortek business units.
the quality of support provided to the Committee by the Management then reported on the Groups internal control systems external audit partner: supported by the internal audit review.
Samples of both Group the degree to which the external auditor and the audit process and business unit controls, including financial, operational and have contributed to improvements in financial reporting to compliance controls, were presented and examined.
The Groups Melroses shareholders: and risk management and internal control systems were reviewed the external auditors independence and objectivity.
and the Committee concluded that these systems were effective.
The Committee reported its conclusions to the Board at the next The Committee, along with the Finance Director and the divisional scheduled Board meeting.
finance directors, were requested to complete a questionnaire containing these questions.
The Chairman also sought feedback from the Chief Executive and the internal auditor.
The Company Secretary subsequently produced a report summarising the responses.
Based on this report, the Committee concluded that the quality of the external audit team remains very high, the external audit process is operating effectively and Deloitte LLP continues to prove effective in its role as external auditor.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 76 Audit Committee report Continued As detailed below, the Committee regularly monitors the objectivity The Committee closely monitors the amount of non-audit work and independence of the external auditor.
Deloitte LLP was undertaken by the external auditor and considers using other firms appointed in 2003 when the Company commenced trading and for transaction-related work.
However, there are occasions when the external audit has not been formally tendered since then.
The it is appropriate, because of background knowledge, to use our Committee is satisfied that the effectiveness and independence auditor for non-audit work, for example on certain advisory and of the external auditor is not impaired in any way.
There are no compliance projects.
legal or contractual obligations that restrict the Groups capacity Despite being well within the CMA guidance, the Committee has to recommend a particular firm for appointment as auditor and taken into account feedback from institutional shareholder services therefore a resolution proposing the reappointment of Deloitte LLP and has been actively migrating non-audit work to other firms and as external auditor will be put to the shareholders at the 2018 AGM.
has recently worked with Ernst & Young and KPMG in respect of corporate finance affairs and obtained tax advice from Audit tendering .
The Committee has considered the audit tendering provisions outlined in the Code.
The Committee has also reviewed the An analysis of the fees earned by the external auditor for audit guidance provided by the European Commission and the and non-audit services can be found in note 7 to the consolidated Competition and Markets Authority CMA.
It is the Committees financial statements.
understanding that, under the CMA and the EU rules, rotation of As in previous years, the Audit Committee specifically considered the external audit firm is required by 2024.
It is the Committees the potential threats that each of these limited non-audit intention to put the external audit out to tender in accordance engagements may present to the objectivity and independence with the CMA and the EU timeframes.
In each case, the Committee was satisfied The current audit engagement partner was appointed in 2015 and with the safeguards in place to ensure that the external auditor is not due to rotate until after the year ending 31 December 2019. remained independent from the Company and its objectivity was The Committee remains satisfied with the quality, integrity and the not, and is not, compromised.
effectiveness of the work undertaken by Deloitte LLP on behalf of the Melrose shareholders.
Accordingly, it is not proposed to put the Auditor objectivity and independence audit out to tender at the present time but the matter will be kept The Committee carries out regular reviews to ensure that auditor under review.
objectivity and independence are maintained at all times.
No fees were paid to Deloitte LLP on a contingent basis.
Based Non-audit services on these strict procedures, the Committee remains confident that Under EU and Competition Commission rules, effective from auditor objectivity and independence have been maintained but 17 June 2016, restrictions on non-audit services now apply, which accepts that non-audit work should be controlled to ensure that it cap the level of permissible non-audit services awarded to the does not compromise the auditors position.
external auditor at 70% of the average audit fee for the previous three years.
The cap applies prospectively and so will first apply At each year end, Deloitte LLP submits a letter setting out how it in respect of the Companys 2020 financial year, audit fees in 2017, believes its independence and objectivity have been maintained.
As noted above, Deloitte LLP is also required to rotate the audit partner responsible for the Group audit every five years and A policy on the engagement of the external auditor for the supply significant subsidiary audits every five years.
of non-audit services is in place to ensure that the provision of non-audit services does not impair the external auditors Internal audit independence or objectivity.
In accordance with best practice Due to the size and complexity of the Group, it is appropriate for FRC guidelines, the Company policy in relation to non-audit an internal audit programme to be used within the business.
BM services is kept under regular review it was revised in 2016.
Howarth Ltd, an external firm, provides internal audit services to The policy outlines which non-audit services are pre-approved the Group in accordance with an annually agreed Internal Audit being those which are routine in nature, with a fee that is not Charter and internal audit plan.
A rotation programme is in place, significant in the context of the audit or audit-related services, such that every business unit site will have an internal audit at least which services require the prior approval of the Committee and once every three years, with the largest sites being reviewed at which services the auditor is excluded from providing.
The general least once every two years.
Upon acquisition, each site of any new principle is that the audit firm should not be requested to carry business is promptly visited as part of the acquisition accounting out non-audit services on any activity of the Company where the exercise, which better informs the external audit rotation process.
audit firm may, in the future, be required to give an audit opinion.
The rotation programme allows divisional managements actions During 2017, the main non-audit services provided by Deloitte LLP and responses to be followed up on a timely basis.
The internal were in relation to the reporting accountants role for the step audit programme of planned visits is discussed and agreed with up to the premium segment of the Official List following the the Committee during the year.
acquisition of Nortek Inc. an aborted acquisition, tax compliance in non-EU subsidiaries and the audit of non-statutory accounts.
The Company did not use Deloitte for any taxation advice in 2017 and does not intend to during 2018.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 Governance 77 The internal auditors remit includes assessment of the effectiveness of internal control systems, compliance with the Groups Policies and Procedures Manual and a review of the businesses balance sheets.
A report of key findings and recommendations is presented to the Group Finance Director and the Head of Financial Reporting, followed by a meeting to discuss these key findings and to agree on resulting actions.
Site visits were conducted by BM Howarth across a total of 25 sites, 21 of which were Nortek sites.
The Directors are pleased to report that there were no material deficiencies at Brush and that the majority of the recommendations presented in the internal audit reports have now been, or are in the process of being, implemented.
There were some deficiencies found in Nortek Global HVACs internal financial controls at two sites.
This prompted immediate action by the Finance Director and the Melrose accounting function, and resulted in the strengthening of the local accounting functions, implementation of more comprehensive and robust controls and a specific action plan to address the shortcomings identified.
The internal auditor has scheduled follow-up visits at each site to review progress in the first half of 2018.
The Committee has already seen significant progress and is confident that the Nortek Global HVAC sites have already, and will continue to, improve their internal financial controls under Melrose ownership.
A review of the internal audit process and scope of work covered by the internal auditor is the responsibility of the Committee, to ensure their objectives, level of authority and resources are appropriate for the nature of the businesses under review.
A report of significant findings is presented by the internal auditor to the Committee at each meeting and implementation of recommendations by the Board is followed up at the subsequent Committee meeting.
The Committee also reviews BM Howarths performance against the agreed internal audit programme.
Liz Hewitt Chairman, Audit Committee 20 February 2018 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017
