Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Resources and Relationships Our business model and strategy are underpinned by key resources and relationships Introduction With over 100 million customer visits Gender Breakdown The Groups key relationships are ayear and over 10,000 employees, the Board of Directors withour customers, our people, our Group seeks to maintain the highest commercial partners and our wider standards in the effective management communities.
How we behave and of our health and safety obligations, interact with each of these parties andour duty of care to our customers reflects on our reputation, which is a and staff.
keyasset underpinning the successful Each year, every cinema in the Group is delivery of our strategy.
subject to health and safety assessments Our Group policy on ethics seeks to including aspects of fire, food and guide the behaviour of our people by occupational.
Results are compared specifying 12 principles which establish year on year and any significant issues Male 8 common values through which we do are followed up with the assistance of business.
We strive to ensure that we specialist external consultants where Female 2 actin appropriate ways to maintain needed.
Overall, the results have shown andenhance our reputation.
The Group that standards remain high.
All incidents Gender Breakdown seeks to act with honesty and integrity are logged, investigated and action 1 Senior Managers inits dealings with customers, taken, where appropriate, to ensure employees, shareholders, regulators, thatthe chances of a reoccurrence are suppliers and our wider community.
reduced as far as reasonably possible.
Health and safety is of major importance Anti-Bribery and corruption to us when considering the day-to-day The Group has in place a range of health, safety and welfare of our governance related policies which are customers, employees and contractors.
regularly reviewed and communicated Male 7 Our 12 Ethical Principles Female 5 Gender Breakdown 1 Total Employees We will act truthfully 12 2 We will seek We will act tocontribute withintegrity tothe community 11 3 We will We will respectthe respect our environment customers Male 5,295 10 4 Our We will maintain We will Female 4,937 high standards Ethical treat individuals of health and properly safety Principles 9 We will comply with the rules oninside 5 information and We compete share dealing fairly 8 We will maintain 6 high standards 7 We will treat of financial We will oursuppliers record keeping manage properly and reporting relations with shareholders 1 Senior managers are those people who report effectively directly to an Executive Director at a Group level.
Data is based on the average headcount for 2017.
23 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Resources and Relationships continued toemployees.
These include ensure that we provide good nutrition free of charge.
All new cinemas are Whistleblowing, Gifts and Hospitality, and allergen advice to enable our designed to exceed current statutory and Health and Safety.
The Group fully customers to make informed choices, requirements and to provide buildings supports the requirements of the UK with the latter also being available on our which are technically advanced, Bribery Act as well as similar legislation in website.
At our Picturehouse circuit, the accessible and safe.
The company has food and drink proposition is more akin When cinemas undergo major implemented policies and procedures to that found in restaurants and closely refurbishment as part of an ongoing toensure it is prepared, to the extent tailored to the audience to which it programme of improvements and possible, to prevent and deter corrupt caters.
A wide range of snacks and renovations, the opportunity is taken to practices across our business meals are available, many of which enhance access within cinemas where relationships including an Anti-Fraud include ingredients sourced from local practicable to do so.
Policy, a Whistleblowing Policy, an Ethics producers and suppliers.
Policy, and a Policy for the Acceptance of Our People Event cinema screenings bring a wider Gifts.
The Group maintains such policies Once again, 2017 saw considerable range of content to our customers, and procedures which assist its investment and focus in a number of enabling our audiences to see live businesses in monitoring and preventing people related areas.
showstaking place around the world.
potential Bribery and Corruption and in Operating in this way supports such We continued to focus on the whole dealing with such practices appropriately productions, making them more areaof reward and, yet again, we made if they are discovered.
The Group commercially viable, accessible to more considerable investment in pay and endeavours to conduct its business with people and, in turn, brings more people bonus schemes meaning our rates of pay integrity, and aims to be a responsible to the cinema and, frequently, a different are among the highest in the industry employer and adopt values and standards type of customer.
and above all statutory minimums.
designed to help guide our staff in their conduct and business relationships.
The Group actively encourages our We restructured our cinema leadership future film-going audience by teams which enabled us to further Our Customers specifically tailoring film schedules increase our customer focus, while Our customers are fundamental to our toattract families and young people.
alsoensuring our people have more success.
We focus on providing them Where necessary, these performances meaningful roles and increased rewards.
with a wide variety of movie genres, as are dubbed into the native language to These changes allowed over 500 well as a choice of how to watch the ensure that all customers can enjoy the employees to move from zero hours movie in modern state-of-the-art full cinema experience.
Concessionary contracts to fully contracted hours.
cinemas with the latest technology and a rates are offered for senior citizens and variety of retail offerings, allunderpinned We rolled out a new Human Resources students at certain times of the day.
system which has amongst its features Throughout the Group, all national aself-serve facility.
Each one of our We also have initiatives which aim to regulators film classification guidelines Cineworld UK employees now has more extend the relationship with the customer are followed, unless the local regulators control over their personal details and beyond a single visit.
In the UK, we have require otherwise.
In some of our quicker access to key information such the long established Unlimited territories, there are no classification as hours and pay.
The implementation membership service for a fixed monthly guidelines, and in such cases we provide included a mobile platform to ensure or annual subscription enabling information to customers about films so thesystem was accessible to our ever customers to watch as many 2D films as they can make informed choices about more tech savvy workforce.
This scheme was successfully the type of film being shown.
We also continuing to develop this platform to extended to Poland at the end of 2015. ensure that all trailers are complementary enable managers and employees across We also have a number of other in terms of suitability to the main feature.
the Group to have a one-stop shop for membership schemes across the UK and The Group promotes a philosophy of HR related matters.
other territories which offer discounts access for all by offering accessible and allow us to interact frequently with Learning, development and employee cinemas for the disabled that show a our customer base.
engagement are areas of which we are wide range of films and event cinema.
We are committed As many of our customers still associate Employees receive disability awareness toensuring our people have the going to the cinema as a treat or special training and specific advice on opportunity to develop themselves and occasion, they expect traditional cinema welcoming disabled customers.
Many reach their full potential.
Through our snacks as part of their experience.
ofour cinemas offer audio-descriptive, succession related development However, we offer a range of products autism-friendly and subtitled programme, BeMore, internal candidates toour customers, and we work closely performances, and in some territories, are well placed to secure advancement with our partners to provide healthier the Group allows customers with when vacancies arise and this also alternatives where appropriate.
We disabilities to be accompanied by a carer, The BeReady programme The BeGreat programme The BeMore programme trains people who are New supports people with their supports the top talent toRole to enable them to performance and capability: displaying potential and fulfils feelpart of our family and to employees are up-skilled in the our internal succession develop their competence technical and soft skill aspects requirements.
and confidence, whilst they of their role.
All training is learn on the job.
Zoe Simpson, one of our apprentices was shortlisted for the Retail Week Rising Stars Awards where she achieved runner-up, winning the Mark of Excellence 24 Award in the Above & Beyond category.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 The skills I gained from the apprenticeship gave me the confidence to apply for a supervisor position and progress within the Company.
After being a Supervisor for over a year Iwas then put on the BeMore programme at Wembley.
At the start of 2017 I transferred over to Hemel Hempstead where I worked closely with the Deputy General Manager and General Manager in developing my skills to become a Cinema Manager.
By constantly pushing myself and using the skills I had gained fromthe apprenticeship and my experience as a supervisor.
Iwas promoted to a Cinema Manager I firmly believe theapprenticeship was successful in helping forge my Cineworld career.
Ranjeet Nanrah In 2017, for the second year, we partnered with BBCs Children inNeed initiative, where as a team we raised 450,000. means that Cineworld retains its most wide range of movies has resulted in Our Communities talented people.
In 2017, we saw 21 many opportunities for us to work with Our work with charities, schools and BeMore candidates promoted or film studios on simplifying the film community groups across all our transferred to more complex cinemas.
buying process and on promoting territories is very important to us.
We are smaller films to a wider audience.
We involved with a wide range of activities Our 24 month apprenticeship programme also work closely with industry bodies, including working with distributors on has gone from strength to strength since including the Film Content Protection charity screenings, providing free shows its introduction in 2013.
It aims to Agency FCPA, to combat film piracy.
for organisations and working closely promote the cinema industry as a viable During 2017 the Group awarded a total with local schools and organisations.
career option and it attracts school of 19 out of a possible 35 awards from the leavers who are not in full-time education In 2017, for the second year, Cineworld FCPA, demonstrating our dedication to and are looking for an alternative route to partnered with BBCs Children in Need the UKs theatrical protection programme.
In 2017, we saw one of initiative, where as a team we raised our apprentices, Zoe Simpson, shortlisted The Group is committed to protecting 450,000. for the Retail Week Rising Stars Awards the intellectual property rights of films Examples of the programmes we run where she achieved runner-up, winning and event cinema.
Policies and are: Saturday morning Kids Club the Mark of Excellence Award in the procedures are constantly reviewed Screenings, Toddler Time, Autism Above & Beyond category.
anddeveloped to ensure cinema Friendly Screenings, Dementia Friendly management are able to effectively We are also very proud of Ranjeet Screenings, Adult Education and our monitor and prevent film piracy.
Nanrah and Raymond Prkye who were Schools Programme.
Night-vision technology is utilised and part of the first apprentice cohort in 2013 there is an increased vigilance around The Group also works as a venue partner and are the first apprentices to become high profile titles which are particularly for numerous film festivals.
While many Cinema Managers in 2017. vulnerable.
The Group will continue to are well known and high profile, in certain In summary, we strive for excellence in work closely with relevant industry and territories the Group sponsors festivals our approach to attracting, retaining and law enforcement organisations in order showcasing local film producers work developing our people because we to help reduce and prevent film piracy.
and runs short film competitions for recognise they are vital to ongoing students encouraging the development Building relationships with developers, business success.
This involvement once landlords and local planners is very again helps to promote the Groups Diversity and Human Rights important to be able to ensure we can brands through the wider film industry.
The Group is an equal opportunity maintain an appropriate pipeline of new employer and seeks to recruit, retain sites for the future and undertake our We seek to comply with all relevant andpromote staff on the basis of refurbishment programme.
environmental legislation and to operate theirqualifications, skills, aptitude and in an environmentally sensitive manner.
We also work very closely with suppliers attitude.
A wide range of applicants The Directors acknowledge the impact of technological enhancements, for areencouraged to apply for all roles.
that the business has on the environment instance IMAX and 4DX, which enables Inemployment related decisions, the and seek to mitigate it.
Often changes us to ensure that we are delivering the business complies with all relevant which help to mitigate our environmental best possible experience to our legislation, including that specifically impact also reduce our operating costs.
customers, as well as looking to targeted at preventing discrimination, maximise box office revenues.
Being a multisite business, the Group is andsuch principles are embedded conscious of its total energy consumption through the business by requisite policies.
Strong relationships with our principal and amount of waste materials retail suppliers enable us to work Our Commercial Relationships generated and is actively working on together on promotions that help drive As well as our customers, having strong reducing both.
The Groups mandatory retail sales.
We seek to manage commercial relationships is key to greenhouse gas report can be found in relationships with our suppliers fairly, operating our business successfully.
the Directors Report on pages 68 to 72. andto work in accordance with our With years of experience in the cinema aspirations as set out in our ethical policy.
Our cinema websites enable e-tickets industry our teams have worked hard to tobe purchased and used, avoiding During the year we worked with a variety develop strong working relationships theneed to print tickets.
In new and of partners to deliver a wide range of with a range of film studios and refurbished cinemas, poster cases are educational screenings and talks for distributors, both major and independent.
now digital reducing the need to deliver, primary and secondary schools and install, and ultimately throw away large Our focus on driving cinema admissions community groups which are further paper posters.
All these efforts help and on providing our customers with a detailed below.
toreduce our use of resources and carbon footprint.
