Governance Report of the Audit Committee This Report gives an overview of the responsibilities of the Audit Committee and how it discharged its duties during 2017, together with information on its membership and governance.
Jane Aikman Committee Chairman Continued to closely monitor our internal controls and received a Chairmans introduction presentation from each Division including, in December, from each I am pleased to present my first Report of the Audit Committee for Morgan of the three separate business units within the Carbon and Technical Advanced Materials plc, having joined the Company on 31 July 2017 when Ceramics Division on their internal controls and risk management.
Rob Rowley stepped down from the Board.
During the year the Committee The presentations were delivered by Divisional and business unit has carried out its primary function of ensuring the integrity of the financial management, as appropriate, which gave the Committee the reporting and audit processes and the maintenance of sound internal control opportunity to ask questions face to face and gain a real insight into and risk management processes.
The Committee continues to address the internal control environment and risk management approach of changes in governance and reporting requirements and to respond to the our businesses.
Where issues were reported, the Committee gave ongoing challenges of ensuring consistent and robust financial controls across full consideration to the cause, potential or actual impact and response a global business which is going through a process of change as it executes its by management.
Approved the appointment of a new Director of Ethics & Compliance, I would like to highlight a number of key areas of focus for the Committee to develop and implement a strategy to drive forward our approach in 2017: to ethical business conduct, as well as to provide strategic oversight, management and regulatory guidance to ensure the Groups Continued to oversee the internal audit function, including the scope, operations are conducted in compliance with global and local purpose and resource of the function, its programme of work and the regulations see page 40 of the Strategic Report for further status of actions arising from audit findings, including their relative risk information.
and progress in resolving them.
At its meeting in June, the Committee approved a new Audit Charter which sets out the scope and role of Reviewed the Groups tax strategy prior to approval by the Board, the function, the implementation of which has led to greater clarity as published on the Companys website from December 2017. over the sources of assurance available to the Board and Committee.
Reviewed preparations and the action plan for the implementation of We also endorsed a further improvement to the internal audit a number of the OECDs proposed action points on Base Erosion and functions processes in the year, in the implementation of a revised Profit Shifting BEPS, noting in particular key impact items and potential audit methodology, which has led to more consistent and effective impact items see page 29 for further information on tax risk reviewed delivery of audits.
the key accounting judgements made by executive management, taking into account the views of the external auditor.
The key areas of significant judgement in relation to the 2017 financial statements were in respect of specific adjusting items, intangible asset impairment testing, provisions Committee members and contingent liabilities and tax balances and these are set out in detail on page 66 within this Committee Report.
1 Jane Aikman Chairman Reviewed and updated the Audit Committees terms of reference to 2 Rob Rowley Chairman bring them up to date with recent changes in legislation and best practice.
Helen Bunch Douglas Caster From my first impressions including meetings with management and the Laurence Mulliez external auditor, and with additional insight from the recent Board and Committee performance review, I am satisfied that the Committee is 1.
From appointment as a Director on 31 July 2017. continuing to work well, is contributing effectively to the governance 2.
Until resignation as a Director on 31 July 2017. framework and is fully discharging its responsibilities.
All members of the Committee are independent non-executive Directors and Rob Rowley Committee Chairman until 31 July 2017 and Jane Aikman Committee Chairman from 31 July 2017, have Jane Aikman the requisite financial experience and competence in accounting and Committee Chairman auditing.
Biographies of the current Committee members, including details of relevant sector experience, are set out on pages 56 and 57.
64 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2017 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Carrying out, at least annually, a review of the Groups internal controls Meetings and risk management systems, including procedures for identifying and At the end of most meetings, the non-executive Directors who are assessing principal risks to the Groups business and the management members of the Committee also meet the external auditor, the Head and mitigation of those risks.
of Internal Audit and the Director of Ethics & Compliance, without the executive Directors or other members of management present.
Between Reviewing and monitoring the Groups whistleblowing arrangements meetings, the Chairman of the Audit Committee keeps in contact with and systems and controls for the prevention of bribery.
the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit Officer, the Group Financial Controller, the external auditor, the Head function, approving the remit of the function and ensuring it has of Internal Audit and the Director of Ethics & Compliance as necessary.
adequate standing and is free from management or other restrictions.
Making recommendations to the Board, for it to put to shareholders Information and support for their approval at the AGM, in relation to the appointment, The Committee may request the attendance at meetings of any Director reappointment and removal of the external auditor and the approval or employee as may be considered appropriate by the Committee.
The of the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditor.
Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Subject to the current transitional provisions, ensuring that the audit Officer, the Head of Internal Audit, the Group Financial Controller, the services contract is put out to competitive tender every 10 years, Group General Counsel and the Director of Ethics & Compliance and supervising any such process and overseeing the selection process senior representatives of the external auditor attend meetings by invitation.
Reviewing the effectiveness of the process for the statutory audit of The Committee identifies and ensures that it receives the information the annual consolidated accounts, taking into consideration relevant it needs to enable it to fulfil its responsibilities.
Training and development UK professional and regulatory requirements.
information is made available to the members of the Audit Committee as appropriate.
Reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence and objectivity.
Developing, implementing and monitoring the policy on Audit Committee terms of reference the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant ethical guidance regarding the provision The Audit Committee has a clear set of responsibilities and these are of non-audit services by the external auditor.
set out in its terms of reference and agreed by the Board.
These terms of reference were reviewed and updated during the year to ensure they Reporting to the Board, identifying any matters in respect of which are wholly compliant with the April 2016 version of the UK Corporate the Committee considers that action or improvement is needed Governance Code which applied to the 2017 financial year and consistent and making recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
with the FRCs revised Guidance on Audit Committees, also published in April 2016, as well as with the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency The Committee has the authority, in accordance with its terms of reference, Rules.
The terms of reference are available on the Companys website to investigate any matters and may obtain external advice at the cost of the and the responsibilities of the Audit Committee are summarised below: Company, but did not seek or require any such advice during the year.
Monitoring and making appropriate recommendations to the Board with regard to the financial reporting process, the integrity of the Main areas of work in 2017 financial statements of the Group, preliminary announcements of During 2017, in addition to the areas of work outlined in the Chairmans results, half-year reports and any formal announcements relating to letter above, the Committee: the Groups financial performance, and reviewing significant financial Reviewed the Groups half-year and full-year statements prior to Board reporting judgements contained in them.
Reviewing accounting policies used by the Group and their consistent Made a recommendation to the Board that it is appropriate to prepare application across the Group.
the accounts for the year on a going concern basis.
Reviewing whether the Group has followed appropriate accounting Reviewed the methodology for preparation of the Companys viability standards and made appropriate estimates and judgements, taking statement see page 40 of the Strategic Report, agreed an appropriate into account the views of the external auditor.
time period for that statement, and a reasonable financial base case Reviewing, prior to approval by the Board, the assessment of whether for that period, together with an in-depth evaluation of the risks it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in affecting the financial viability of the Company over that timeframe, preparing the financial statements and the identification of any material all for recommendation to the Board.
uncertainties to the ability to do so over a period of at least 12 months Reviewed the results of the detailed impact assessment in relation to from the date of approval.
IFRS 15 Revenue Recognition, including specific tests to ascertain where Reviewing, prior to approval by the Board, the assessment of whether differences in accounting treatment will be required, concluding that there is a reasonable expectation, taking the Groups position and there will not be a significant impact.
principal risks into account, that the Group will be able to continue Reviewed the scope of the external audit, and confirmed the external in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period auditors terms of engagement and fee structure.
Assessed the findings of the external audit, including any potential major Reviewing the content of the Annual Report and Accounts and issues and noting the key audit risks.
advising the Board on whether, taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced Assessed the effectiveness of the external audit process, including all and understandable and provides the information necessary for aspects of the service provided by the external auditor, whilst noting shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, the auditors view of interactions with senior management.
Monitored the level of non-audit work of the external auditor, which in Agreeing the processes to enable the ongoing monitoring and review 2017 included services amounting to 0.2 million mainly in connection of the scope, adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups internal with tax services, equating to 8% of the audit fees.
controls and risk management systems.
Annual Report 2017 Morgan Advanced Materials 65 Governance Report of the Audit Committee continued Reviewed the controls and assurance processes that are in place to Intangible asset impairment testing mitigate the Groups key risks.
The latest financial projections and other assumptions support the valuation of the intangible assets of the Group.
Further information Reviewed the effectiveness of, and received reports from management on the goodwill generally and the sensitivities associated with the on, the Groups internal audit and risk management systems.
impairment calculations are given in note 11 to the financial statements.
Reviewed and approved the plan, work and overall effectiveness of Provisions and contingent liabilities the internal audit function, monitored its progress against the plan and The level of provisioning for known and contingent liabilities, including ensured that the appropriate resource was deployed within the function.
those arising from trading, environmental issues and litigation, is an Reviewed the systems of internal controls of, and risks managed in, issue where management and third-party judgements are important.
the Divisions, see Risk management section on pages 26 to 29.
These are addressed by the Committee and the Board discussing with Reviewed the Groups whistleblowing process and related procedures various members of senior management the key judgements made, and policies.
supported, where appropriate, by relevant external advice.
KPMG LLP also reports regularly on all material provisions and contingent liabilities.
During the year the Group recorded redundancy and restructuring Reviewed compliance with, and implementation of, the Groups provisions in the ordinary course of business totalling 9.5 million, policies, noting that the implementation of the new, strengthened which are disclosed separately in note 22 to the financial statements financial control framework in 2016 had led to an improvement to provide investors with additional information to assist in their in controls and further improvements were anticipated.
assessment of the Groups performance.
Reviewed the status of the Groups export controls compliance Tax balances programme.
Accounting for current and deferred tax involves a range of judgements.
Reviewed the status of the Groups risk from third-party The Committee and the Board address these issues through reporting representatives agents and distributors.
from the Chief Financial Officer and the Director of Group Tax, supported as necessary by external professional advice.
Public reporting The Committee, as requested by the Board, considered the Code The Committee reviewed the content of the Annual Report and Accounts requirement for the Board to make a statement on whether the and advised the Board that, taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced and Annual Report and Accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to understandable.
The Committee approached this as follows, and: assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
Considered the questions which need to be answered in order to Internal financial control and risk management systems evaluate whether the Annual Report and Accounts meets the fair, balanced and understandable test.
The Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities relating to the adequacy and effectiveness of the control environment and risk Reviewed the methodology used to construct the narrative sections management systems.
The Groups system of internal control has been of the Annual Report.
in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Reviewed the disclosure judgements made by the authors of each Annual Report.
section and considered the overall balance and consistency in the Annual Report.
Through the Audit Committee, the Board reviews the effectiveness Received confirmation from external advisers that all regulatory of the internal control system annually and did so during the year under requirements are satisfied.
This system is consistent with the FRCs guidance on the internal control requirements of the Code.
This review covered all material Received confirmation of verification of content from the authors controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls, and of each section.
The Audit Committee and Board receive Received confirmation from the Chief Financial Officer that the regular risk management reports and together they ensure that there are narrative reports and financial statements are consistent.
adequate internal controls in place and that they are functioning effectively.
Made a recommendation to the Board to assist it in determining whether it is able to make the statement that the Annual Report The Directors believe that the Groups system of internal financial controls and Accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable.
provides reasonable, but not absolute, assurance in the following areas: that the assets of the Group are safeguarded: that transactions are The significant areas of judgement considered by the Committee in authorised and recorded in a correct and timely manner: and that such relation to the 2017 financial statements, and how these were addressed, controls would prevent and detect, within a timely period, material errors were as follows: or irregularities.
The system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, Specific adjusting items risk and to address key business and financial risks.
In the consolidated income statement, the Group has presented specific adjusting items separately in order to provide the best indication of the The main features of the Groups systems for internal control and for underlying performance of the Group, and details of the nature and assessing the potential risks to which the Group is exposed are quantum of the individual items are provided in note 6 to the financial summarised as follows: statements.
These comprise the disposal on 31 March 2017 of the Control environment UK Electro-ceramics business and the global Rotary Transfer Systems The Groups control environment is underpinned by the Groups business, together with the partial disposal on 30 June 2017 of the policy set.
This covers financial procedures, environmental, health and Diamond Crucible Company Limited to Morgan Crucible India Limited safety practice, compliance eg anti-bribery and corruption, and trade in relation to the consolidation of two sites.
The Committee fully compliance and other areas such as IT and HR.
There is a Limit of considered the principle of disclosure for specific adjusting items and Authorities Policy which describes the matters reserved for the Board the individual items.
Taking into account guidelines issued by the FRC and the delegations granted to the Chief Executive Officer and other and peer group disclosure of similar items, the Committee concluded executives.
The Group operates various programmes to continuously that it is the best way to present the Groups results.
improve the control environment and management of risk.
These 66 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2017 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements include the Groups Responsible Business Programme, which includes External auditor, including non-audit services policy relevant training, the provision of systems to help businesses manage The external auditor, KPMG LLP, has processes in place to safeguard risk consistently, and reporting processes.
The external ethics hotline its independence and objectivity, including specific safeguards where it is available to employees to raise concerns and all reports made to the is providing permissible non-audit services, and has confirmed in writing to ethics hotline are investigated by senior management.
The Divisional the Audit Committee that, in its opinion, it is independent.
After considering and business unit Presidents and other senior operational and functional such procedures, the opinion of the Audit Committee was that the auditors management make an annual statement of compliance to the Board objectivity and independence were safeguarded despite the provision of a confirming that, for each of the businesses for which they are responsible, limited number of non-audit services by KPMG LLP see below.
the financial statements are fairly presented in all material respects, appropriate systems of internal controls have been developed and In 2016, following the implementation of the EU Audit Regulation and maintained, and the businesses comply with Group policies and Directive, the Committee approved a revised policy on the provision of procedures or have escalated known exceptions to an appropriate level non-audit services which applied for the 2017 financial year onwards.
In addition, the Audit Committee receives an annual changes to the policy further reduced the scope of non-audit services the presentation on business risk and internal controls from both Divisions.
external auditor may provide, for example in relation to certain tax matters and internal accounting and risk management control reviews relating to Financial reporting the preparation and control of financial information.
The changes also Risk management systems and internal controls are in place in relation enhanced the process for approval of other permissible services provided to the Groups financial reporting processes and the process for preparing by the external auditor.
These include policies and procedures which require the maintenance of records which accurately and fairly reflect The revised policy on the provision of non-audit services by the external transactions and disposal of assets, provide reasonable assurance that auditor is summarised below: transactions are recorded as necessary to allow the preparation of financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Certain non-audit services may not be provided.
The external auditor Standards IFRS, and the review and reconciliation of reported data.
may not: review their own work: make any management decisions: Representatives of the businesses are required to certify that their create a mutuality of interest: and or put themselves in the position reported information gives a true and fair view of the state of affairs of advocate.
of the business and its results for the period.
The Audit Committee Any permissible non-audit work proposed to be placed with the external is responsible for monitoring these risk management systems and auditor with a total fee between 50,000 and 200,000 must be internal controls.
approved in advance by the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Projects Performance monitoring in excess of 200,000 must be approved in advance by the Audit There are regular meetings of the Board and of the Executive Committee.
All permissible non-audit work, regardless of value, must Committee.
A comparison of forecast and actual results is considered, be approved by the Group Financial Controller.
Work which includes including cash flows and comparisons against budget and the prior year.
multiple phases is treated as a single project for approval purposes.
Divisional management teams also meet regularly to review performance.
The prior approval of the Audit Committee is required for any non-audit The members of the Executive Committee also visit sites regularly.
work which, when added to the fees paid for other non-audit work, Risk management would total more than 60% previously 80% of the audit fee.
The Board has undertaken a robust annual assessment of the Groups The value of non-audit fees must not under any circumstances exceed principal risks.
The identification, assessment and reporting of risks 70% of the average Group statutory audit fee incurred in the last three is an ongoing process carried out in conjunction with operational consecutive financial years.
management and steps are taken to mitigate and manage all material risks including those relating to the Groups business model, solvency In 2017, the proportion of the auditors fees for non-audit work relative and liquidity.
The Board, either directly or through the Audit to the audit fee was 8% 2016: 8.0%.
Committee, receives updates on risks, internal controls and future actions from both Divisional and Group perspectives.
The Executive The Committees policy is to undertake an annual review of the effectiveness Committee collectively reviews risk management and internal controls of the audit process and of all aspects of the external auditors performance for all principal Group risks.
The Groups risk management system, and independence before determining whether to undertake a formal as set out in the Risk management section on pages 26 to 29, supports review of the auditor, including a re-tender presentation, or whether the going concern statement and the viability statement on page 40. to put the Groups audit work out to full third-party tender.
Risk factors The Groups businesses are affected by a number of factors, many The Group last changed its auditor in late 2001.
The external auditor of which are influenced by macro-economic trends and are therefore rotated the partner responsible for the Groups audit work in 2008 and outside the Companys immediate control, although, as described 2013 and the audit for the 2017 financial year is the last for the current above and in the Strategic Report, the identification and management partner.
Having reviewed the effectiveness of the audit process, and all of such risks is carried out systematically.
These are further discussed aspects of the service provided by the external auditor, and taking account in the Risk management section on pages 26 to 29. of the assurance given by the external auditor as to its independence, the Committee recommended to the Board that a third-party tender Internal audit of the external audit work in 2018 was not desirable.
The position would The Groups internal audit function reviews internal control and risk be reviewed at least annually, and the Committee anticipated that the management processes.
The Audit Committee approves the annual retender would take place from 2020 onwards, noting that the financial internal audit plan and receives regular reports showing the results of year ending 2023 was the last audit KPMG LLP would be permitted to the audits.
Actions arising from internal audit reviews are agreed with perform under the Companies Act 2006.
The Company has complied management and the Audit Committee monitors progress of any with the provisions of the Competition and Markets Authoritys Order outstanding actions.
The Head of Internal Audit has direct access to on statutory audit services.
the Chairman of the Audit Committee and meets separately with the Audit Committee without executive management at least twice a year.
Annual Report 2017 Morgan Advanced Materials 67
