Regulators External Audit provided by KPMG Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Accountability Accountability, Audit and Financial The Board confirms that, in accordance with the Code: The Board is responsible for the preparation of the Annual Report and ensuring that the financial statements present a there is an ongoing and robust process for identifying, fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by the financial position and prospects.
The detailed work to ensure Group for more details please see Principal Risks and this, and to substantiate the fair, balanced and understandable Uncertainties on pages 18 to 22 : statement, is undertaken by the Audit Committee.
the Companys systems of risk management and internal control have been in place for the year under review, are Risk Management and Internal Control regularly reviewed by the Executive Directors and the The Board has overall responsibility for establishing, Board, and are deemed to be effective with no significant monitoring and maintaining an effective system of risk weaknesses identified: and management and internal control.
These systems provide reasonable assurance that the Groups assets are safeguarded the systems comply with the FRC guidance on risk and that material financial errors and irregularities are management, internal control and related financial prevented or detected with a minimum of delay.
approach is implemented using the principles of the Three Lines of Defence model, as illustrated in the diagram below.
Risk Management The Board, supported by the Audit Committee and the During the year, the Board has directly, and through Executive Management Team, has overall responsibility for delegatedauthority to the Executive Management Team implementing an effective risk management approach.
andthe Audit Committee, overseen and reviewed the TheGroup approach is governed by its Risk Management performance and evolution of the approach to risk Framework that sets out the policy, oversight structure, management and internal control.
accountability and processes for monitoring and reporting The ongoing review and evaluation of risk management and of risk within the Group, and facilitates the following objectives internal control is undertaken by the Risk and Assurance team for risk management: whose key responsibilities are: to identify, measure, control and report on business risk that Risk Management would potentially undermine the achievement of the Group strategic objectives, both strategically and operationally, Internal Audit through appropriate analysis and assessment criteria: Fraud Detection and Loss Prevention to better allocate effort and resources for the management Insurance ofkey and emerging risks: to drive business improvements and improve intelligence forkey decision-making: and to support and develop the Companys reputation as a well governed and trusted organisation.
Our Three Lines of Defence Board and Committees Executive Directors Operations Support functions Cineworld Picturehouse Cinema City Yes Planet First Line Second Line Third Line Process and control Group and territory Independent challenge to the implementation and oversight monitoring and levels of assurance provided by development at cinemas strategy policy setting management on the effectiveness of governance, risk management Operationalise: Support and review: and internal controls Cinema operating manuals Operational performance policies and processes reviews Challenge and assure: Risk-based audits Regional district manager Executive Directors oversight providedby PwC oversight and challenge Cinema compliance Training and development Group Board and Committee auditprogramme oversight and challenge Regulation and compliance Cinema selfassessments Financial oversight and review Annual health and Risk Management Framework safetyaudits design and implementation Insurance inspections Assistance in process and control development Fraud and loss prevention monitoring M anagement self-assessments Mystery shopper visits Customer satisfaction surveys 42 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 The application of the key components of the Risk Cinema compliance The Cinema Compliance Plan is a Management Framework have been as follows: combination of one and three day reviews that are delivered across the Group.
Each cinema in the Group is risk assessed Oversight structure and accountability The risk management based on financial, operational and management information oversight and accountability structure has ensured that risk to determine which cinemas would be included in the audit consideration is from both a top-down and bottom-up programme for the year.
The Group maintains a Principal Risk Register aswell as operational risk registers for support functions, Quarterly management reporting of key themes and trends cinema operations and specific projects.
help support the Group to make continued improvements.
Ongoing process At each level the risk assessment process In addition to the programme of on-site reviews conducted by isbased on five key steps: the Risk and Assurance team, an annual self-assessment audit is undertaken by each cinema.
Risk identification using cause and effect analysis Fraud detection and loss prevention To support the Group in 2.
Assessment of inherent risk severity fraud detection and loss prevention a software tool is used for 3.
Identification of existing controls and assessment ongoing analysis of our key data sources to swiftly identify any ofeffectiveness irregular transaction activity that could indicate instances of fraud, loss or failure of procedural compliance.
Assessment of residual risk severity anonymous site visits are undertaken to review the customer 5.
Development and implementation of risk mitigation journey from ticket purchase to cinema departure.
Details of the Groups principal risks and how they are being External audit The External Auditor provides a supplementary, managed or mitigated are provided on pages 18 to 22. independent and autonomous perspective on those areas of the internal control system which it assesses inthe course of As part of this process, risk appetite is considered by the its work.
Its findings are reported to the Audit Committee.
Board annually for each of the principal risks, allowing them toclearly set out the nature and extent of the risk the Group Operational controls The Executive Directors, on a day-toiswilling to accept, and the level of investment in control in day basis, are involved in reviewing the key operations pursuit of the Groups strategic objectives.
ofthebusiness through their interaction with their Senior Management teams across the Group and their discussions Escalation, monitoring and reporting A clear escalation policy onoperational performance and delivery.
is in place to ensure changes to risk exposure are notified up through the governance structure as required.
Risk leads are Financial control The Group has internal control and risk identified for all risks and have the responsibility for ongoing management arrangements in relation to the Groups financial monitoring of the effectiveness of current controls and the reporting processes and the preparation of its consolidated progress against the implementation of further mitigating actions.
The arrangements include procedures to ensure the maintenance of records which accurately and fairly reflect There is a cycle of ongoing monitoring and reporting activities transactions, to enable the preparation of financial statements in place with risk information being presented to the Board in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards andAudit Committee.
During the year an executive Risk as adopted by the EU or FRS 101, as appropriate, with reasonable Committee was introduced to provide quarterly checks and assurance, and that require reported data to be reviewed and challenge for the principal and operational risks.
reconciled, with appropriate monitoring internally and by the Culture To support embedding the application of the Risk Audit Committee.
Management Framework into the culture and behaviours of Ongoing financial performance is monitored through regular the Group, ongoing training and communication have been reporting to the Executive Directors and monthly reporting delivered by the Risk and Assurance team.
Capital investment and all revenue expenditure Internal Control isregulated by a budgetary process and authorisation levels, Whilst the Board has overall responsibility for the Groups with post-investment and period end reviews as required.
system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, Acomprehensive budgeting system allows managers to submit ithas delegated responsibility for the operation of the system detailed budgets which are reviewed and amended by the of internal control to the Executive Management Team.
The Executive Directors prior to submission to the Board for approval.
detailed review of internal control has been delegated to Across all territories, a financial controls checklist is in place for theAudit Committee.
Senior Management within each part all Finance Directors.
On an annual basis a programme of ofthe Group are responsible for internal control and risk internal audit reviews is undertaken for compliance validation.
management within their own area and for ensuring compliance with the Groups policies and procedures.
Other assurance activities A programme of health and safety audits delivered by outsourced providers takes place for each The Audit Committee has oversight of the programme of cinema throughout the year as well as an annual self-assessment.
assurance activities to allow for its ongoing review of the effectiveness of internal control.
The delivery of this assurance Customer surveys and mystery shopper visits also take place to programme is undertaken by the Risk and Assurance team, ensure customers are receiving the optimum viewer experience.
which is supported by specialist advisors as required.
Due to the upcoming changes in data protection under the Details of the activities the Audit Committee during 2017 are GDPR in 2018, additional assurance activity has also been set out on pages 44 to 46. undertaken in the form of a readiness assessment, data audit and data mapping exercises.
Internal audit The internal audit plan is a combination of Group-wide risk-based reviews providing assurance over Policies and procedures The Group has in place a range of the key controls relied upon for the principal risks as well as governance related policies which are regularly reviewed and additional specific reviews requested by management.
The Risk communicated to employees.
These include Whistleblowing, Gifts and Assurance team is supported by PwC to deliver the plan.
and Hospitality, and Health and Safety.
For more details of the Groups policies see Anti-bribery and Corruption on page 23.
