Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Nomination Committee Report Composition During the year, the Committee comprised three NonExecutive Directors namely Scott Rosenblum, Arni Samuelsson and Rick Senat.
While Rick Senat and Arni Samuelsson are considered to be independent, Scott Rosenblum is not.
The majority of the Committee are independent as required by the Code.
The Role, Responsibilities and Activities of the NominationCommittee The Committee assists the Board in discharging its responsibilities relating to the composition of the Board.
It is responsible for evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board, the size, structure and composition of the Board, retirements and appointments of additional and replacement Chair Rick Senat Directors, the independence of Directors, and it makes Committee members Scott Rosenblum appropriate recommendations to the Board on such matters.
It is Arni Samuelsson also responsible for ensuring that Directors have sufficient time to discharge their duties on appointment, and thereafter, with such Number of meetings held in 2017 2 matters being specifically addressed in the letters of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors.
Theterms of reference of The Company Secretary acts the Committee are available on the Companys website asSecretary to the Committee www.
Chairs Introduction The Committee met for two scheduled meetings during the Dear Shareholders financial year and for other meetings as required on an ad hoc I am pleased to present our report on the Nomination basis.
Due to the important role that the Directors play in Committee and its activities during the year.
thesuccess of the Group, the Chairman is invited to attend One of the key roles of the Committee is to assist the Board meetings, and does so, except when his own position or his in discharging its responsibilities relating to the composition successor is being discussed.
We spend time as a Committee considering and During the year, the Committee reviewed its own performance, evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on reviewed the structure of the Board and the three Committees, the Board and its size, structure and composition.
We made a and discussed succession and diversity issues.
number of changes to membership of the Board in early 2017, announcing the appointment of Nisan Cohen as the new Chief Board Diversity Policy Financial Officer CFO in January.
The Committee played a While the Committee considers diversity to be important key role in the planning process for this nomination, working at whenreviewing the composition of the Board and possible the time in conjunction with the Chair of the Audit Committee.
new appointees, it believes that the single most important factor is to identify, recruit and retain the people it considers, Also, in January 2017, we considered and recommended the on merit, to be the best candidates for each particular role.
It appointment of Dean Moore as an independent Non-Executive isnot currently in favour of setting specific targets for Board Director, in place of Martina King, who stepped down from the representation to be achieved by particular dates.
As part Board at that time.
Dean Moore brings with him a wealth of ofthe process of recruiting new Directors, it has agreed that financial and commercial experience and skills, which the candidates from a wide variety of backgrounds, including Committee felt would be of tremendous benefit to the Board different ethnic backgrounds, should be considered and, and the Group, something that we have already seen in action where reasonably possible, shortlists should comprise since his appointment.
At the start of the year, there Further details of the Committees work in relation to the was over 30% female representation on the Board.
However, appointments of Dean Moore and Nisan Cohen are set out this percentage lowered following Martina Kings stepping inthe report below.
down in January 2017, and the appointments of NisanCohen and Dean Moore.
Recruitment Process for Board Directors It was announced on 11 January 2017 that Nisan Cohen Rick Senat hadbeen appointed to the position of CFO, and that he Chairman of the Nomination Committee wouldjoin the Board as an Executive Director.
It was also announced that Dean Moore had been appointed to the Boardas an independent Non-Executive Director, and would become Chair of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit Committee.
Given the process undertaken at thetime of Deans appointment as interim CFO, an external search consultancy was not engaged in connection with his appointment as an independent Non-Executive Director.
The Board is satisfied that Mr Moore meets the requisite criteria to be considered independent, notwithstanding his previous interim employment within the Group, given the nature of the role he performed in the ten month period fromMarch 2016, where his mandate was to focus on the CFOsuccession planning process.
Norman Broadbent, the external search consultancy used for the search conducted in 2016, has no connections with the Group or any of its Directors, and was chosen following a consideration of a number of prospective search consultancies.
