Governance Report of the Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee leads the process for Board appointments and, having considered Board balance to ensure its continued effectiveness, makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment of new Directors.
Andrew Shilston Committee Chairman The Nomination Committee reviews annually the Boards size and Chairmans introduction composition in terms of the balance of skills, experience, independence, We announced on 28 April 2017 that Jane Aikman would be joining as diversity and knowledge considered desirable to oversee the Companys a non-executive Director on 31 July 2017 when Rob Rowley would step long-term strategy, and remains mindful of the need for proactive and down from the Board.
During the year, the Board discussed the Groups approach to talent management and succession planning at senior In relation to this Board change, the Committee evaluated the Boards levels as part of its review of progress on the execution priorities.
succession needs, noting Rob Rowley was Chairman of the Audit Committee, and also taking into account the challenges and opportunities There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for appointments facing the Company as it continues to implement its strategic priorities.
to the Board, which is described in more detail below.
Appointments The Committee worked closely with executive search agents to evaluate are made on merit and against objective criteria, having due regard for the skills and experience required to balance the Board and to meet the diversity, including gender.
As a Board we value a diversity of outlook, needs of the Company, and additionally noted the requirements of the approach and style and believe that a balanced Board is better equipped Code and Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules in terms of the to consider matters from a broader perspective.
We regard the Board competence in accounting or auditing and the recent financial experience performance review as an important means of monitoring our progress required by at least one member of the Audit Committee.
in the areas covered by this Report and discussed relevant matters highlighted during the 2017 evaluation process see page 62 for full details.
Following the creation of a candidate specification, the Committee reviewed a list of candidates proposed by the external search agents and subsequently conducted a number of interviews with shortlisted candidates.
Andrew Shilston Committee Chairman Committee members Andrew Shilston Chairman 1 Jane Aikman Helen Bunch Douglas Caster Laurence Mulliez 2 Pete Raby 3 Rob Rowley 1.
From appointment as a Director on 31 July 2017.
Until 5 May 2017 when the Chief Executive Officer stepped down as a member of the Committee.
Until resignation as a Director on 31 July 2017.
A majority of members of the Committee are independent non-executive Directors.
68 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2017 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive Directors are Meetings available for inspection.
Non-executive Directors, including the Chairman, The Committee met formally twice during 2017.
In addition, members are asked to confirm that they will allocate sufficient time to meet their of the Committee met between scheduled meetings to progress the commitments to the Company and that their other appointments and recruitment of the new non-executive Director.
significant time obligations are disclosed to the Board prior to appointment, with an indication of the level of time commitment involved.
The Board is Information and support informed of any subsequent changes with additional commitments The Committee may request the attendance of any other Director or disclosed before they are accepted.
member of management, for all or part of any meeting, as it considers appropriate.
Senior leadership and succession planning One of the Companys strategic execution priorities, which remains Nomination Committee terms of reference a key area of focus, is to increase investment in people management The Committees terms of reference were reviewed during the year with and development.
The Board discussed the Groups approach to talent no changes proposed.
The terms of reference are available to view on the management and succession planning at senior levels in September 2017 Companys website.
as part of its review of progress on the strategic execution priorities.
The rollout of a new leadership framework in 2017 aimed to ensure the Main areas of work during 2017 right talent and associated processes were in place to execute the strategy The Nomination Committee regularly reviews the balance of skills, successfully and to further the development of current and future potential knowledge and experience on the Board, succession planning and the leaders see the Increasing investment in people management and leadership needs of the Group.
The work of the Committee in discharging development section of the Strategic Report on pages 24 to 25 and pages those responsibilities in respect of 2017 included: 52 to 53.
The Board noted a number of actions and initiatives introduced to help build stronger and more capable leaders, including defining Reviewing the executive and non-executive leadership needs of behavioural expectations through identified leadership behaviours, the Company.
modifying the approach to senior recruitment and improving linkage of Instigating and overseeing the search and selection process in relation reward and performance.
The Board also noted progress to date in to the appointment of Jane Aikman as a non-executive Director and creating an enhanced performance culture and addressing the succession Chairman of the Audit Committee, including recommending her pipeline, including the promotion of diversity.
Recommending for approval by the Board, the appointment of Board Diversity Policy Laurence Mulliez as Senior Independent Director to replace Douglas The Board recognises the importance of diversity at all levels of the Caster who stepped down from this role in December 2017.
As reflected in recent appointments, a considerable number Ensuring, by means of talent discussions at Board meetings, further of factors are taken into consideration in the recruitment process for development of management succession and development plans for the Board, including international, industrial and professional experience, the Executive Committee and senior executives.
diversity of perspective, including background, nationality, outlook, Considering the Directors annual re-election at the 2017 AGM.
approach and gender, and the blend of skills around the Board table.
During the selection process for new non-executive Directors, the Reviewing, for recommendation to the Board, the Boards policy Committee uses a search agent who has signed up to the voluntary on diversity see below.
code of conduct for executive search firms, which ensures that diversity is considered when developing a candidate pool.
In 2018, the Committee will continue to review succession plans for the Board and keep under review relevant development initiatives for the Directors.
The Board monitors closely whether it is taking diversity in its broadest sense into account when planning executive succession and appointing Appointments to the Board new Board members, and the Board performance review process Spencer Stuart was retained for the external search for the non-executive considers diversity.
Spencer Stuart has signed up to the voluntary code of conduct for executive search firms, which includes provisions on diversity.
Spencer Stuart When monitoring the development of leadership and considering the has no other connection with the Company, other than in the search for and succession planning for executive management, the Board will take into assessment of candidates for a limited number of senior roles in 2017. account diversity as well as the need for talented leaders with the skills to both lead a global company with a presence in the key world economies The process for appointing Jane Aikman as a non-executive Director is and manage the associated macro-economic challenges.
described below: The Committee formulated a candidate specification for the role taking In terms of progress in promoting diversity in the year, and without setting into account the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity any targets, three of the seven Board Directors are female up from two on the Board, and noting that it required a suitable successor to Rob in 2016 equating to 43% female representation on the Board and over Rowley with the requisite skills, experience and background to chair half of the non-executive Directors.
Of these, one is Senior Independent the Audit Committee, as well as bring an appropriate level of support Director and one is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
These appointments and challenge to the Board.
demonstrate the Boards commitment to greater diversity.
At the The external search agents produced a long-list of candidates for the role.
graduate recruitment level, the Group successfully attracts a diverse group of Interviews with members of the Nomination Committee were held good candidates.
In 2017, 32% 2016: 37% and 2015: 41% of the graduate with shortlisted candidates.
intake were female and the 2017 cohort was represented by 10 nationalities The Committee subsequently selected Jane Aikman as its preferred 2016: 8 and 2015: 5. candidate based on objective criteria and recommended her appointment to the Board.
The Board approved the appointment of The Committee takes diversity into account in broader discussions on Jane Aikman and confirmed a commencement date of 31 July 2017. succession planning and talent development and supports management Rob Rowley stepped down from the Board on the same day.
in their wider commitment to promoting diversity.
Annual Report 2017 Morgan Advanced Materials 69
