Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Audit Committee Report audit team at PwC, which focuses specifically on risk-based audits, and the Committee continued to review the effectiveness of the Groups system of risk management and internal controls.
More details of our work in these areas may be found on page 45 and also in the Accountability section starting on page 42.
Indeed, the Committee will need to carefully consider this key area of risk management and internal control going forward, in light of the acquisition of Regal, and the Risk and Assurance team has already instigated this process.
As for Committee membership, we made some changes inearly 2017, welcoming Dean Moore as a member following the stepping down of Martina King.
The Committee is already benefitting from Deans extensive commercial and financial Chair Julie Southern experience.
Lastly, I would like to extend my thanks to Martina, Committee members Alicja Kornasiewicz for her significant contribution to the Committee during Dean Moore her membership.
Number of meetings held in 2017 4 The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee Julie Southern Chair of the Audit Committee Chairs Introduction Dear Shareholders I am pleased to present this report on the activities of the Audit Committee for 2017.
Composition The Committee supports the Board in its oversight and For the duration of the year, the Committee comprised three monitoring of the robustness and integrity of financial independent Non-Executive Directors.
At the start of the year, reporting, and the supervision of the External Auditor.
The Committee members were Julie Southern Chair, Martina Committee is also tasked with providing assurance to the King, and Alicja Kornasiewicz.
On 11 January 2017, independent Board in respect of the effectiveness of the Groups risk Non-Executive Director Dean Moore took up a place on the management and internal control systems.
The report below Committee, following the stepping down of Martina King.
Both describes the work that we have undertaken as a Committee Julie and Dean are Chartered Accountants, and are considered during the reporting year, in order to achieve these objectives.
by the Board to have recent and relevant financial experience.
An area of focus for the Committee in 2017 was the The Committee as a whole is considered to have competence consideration of the significant risks, issues and areas of relevant to the sector in which the Company operates.
judgement in relation to the financial statements.
As you The Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the Deputy Chief willsee in the report on page 45, the number of areas which Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, other senior we consider to be of significant risk has reduced for the executives, other Directors, the Head of Risk and Assurance, reporting year, with only Property, Plant and Equipment the Internal Auditor and the External Auditor may be invited being identified.
We spent time as a Committee analysing the toattend meetings, but are not members.
reports from management and the External Auditor in relation to significant risks, to ensure that we have understood the Roles and Responsibilities issues involved, and in order to form our own view on how The Committee has a clear set of responsibilities that are set these should be addressed.
out in its terms of reference, which are available on the Companys website www.
com about-us In addition, the Committee engaged during the year with corporate-governance.
The Committee assists the Board in theFRC in relation to its thematic review of significant discharging its responsibility with regard to financial reporting, accounting judgements and sources of estimation uncertainty the control environment, the work of the External and Internal which was conducted in respect of our 2016 accounts.
More Auditors, and the Risk and Assurance team, including: details of the outcome of the review are set out in the report on page 45, but there were no material financial reporting monitoring the financial reporting process: changes required as a result of the review.
reviewing the integrity of the Annual and Interim Reports, including reviewing significant financial judgements therein: In 2017, the Committee received reports from management inrespect of planning for the implementation of various reviewing the Groups risk assessment process, the output upcoming changes to accounting standards, in particular in of that assessment and the associated risk management relation to IFRS 15 revenue recognition and IFRS 16 lease systems: accounting.
This project, led by management and supported reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls: by external advisors, will continue to be monitored by the considering the scope of the Internal and External Auditors Committee, to ensure a smooth transition process to the new activities, and the work of the Risk and Assurance team, standards.
We also reviewed and assessed managements their reports and their effectiveness: proposals in relation to the Going Concern and Viability reviewing and monitoring the extent of the non-audit work Statements.
undertaken by the External Auditor: and A significant portion of the Committees time was dedicated advising on the appointment of the External Auditor.
tothe area of risk management.
Supported by the Risk and Assurance team, we have reviewed our principal risks and The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the uncertainties, and considered the potential impact of these Annual and Interim Reports remains with the Board.
risks on our business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity.
Details of our principal risks and uncertainties may be found on pages 18 to 22, including details of how we consider these risks in the context of our strategic objectives.
The work of the Risk and Assurance team is supported by the internal 44 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 What the Committee did in 2017 made recommendations to the Board with regard to The Committee met four times during the year, during continuing the appointment and remuneration of the which time it: External Auditor, oversaw the Groups relations with the External Auditor, determined its independence and monitored the financial reporting process and reviewed monitored the effectiveness of the audit process: theinterim and annual financial statements including discussed the requirements for a longer-term viability thepreliminary announcement with particular reference statement and the related assessment work to enable the toaccounting policies, principal risks and uncertainties, Board to make such a statement: together with significant estimates and financial reporting judgements and the disclosures made therein: continued to monitor the ongoing requirements regarding audit tender: and considered the interim results and the Annual Report and Accounts in the context of the requirement that they are reviewed the Committees terms of reference and carried fair, balanced and understandable, by reviewing papers out a performance evaluation as required by the Code.
prepared by management with regard to this principle.
Theresults of the evaluation confirmed that the Committee Thisincluded reviewing the documents to ensure that is performing satisfactorily and providing strong support to thedescription of the business agrees with the Committees the Board.
own understanding, the risks reflect the issues that concern Going Concern theGroup, the discussion of performance properly reflects In recommending the adoption of the going concern basis the relevant period, and there is a clear link between all forpreparing the financial statements, the Committee the areas of disclosure: considered the business activities, as well as the Groups received and discussed in the absence of management, principal risks and uncertainties, as set out on pages 18 to 22, where appropriate reports from the External Auditor in the financial position of the Group as enlarged by the Regal respect of its review of the interim results, the internal audit acquisition, its cash flows, liquidity position, and borrowing plan for the year and the results of the annual audit.
These facilities, as well as the Groups objectives, policies and reports included the scope for the interim review and processes for managing capital, as described on pages 26 to annual audit, the approach to be adopted by the External 29 and the financial risk management objectives, details of Auditor to evaluate and conclude on key areas of the audit, financial instruments and hedging activities, and exposures its assessment of materiality, the terms of engagement and tocredit risk and liquidity risk as set out in Note 21 to the raising awareness to the Committee of the likely impact of financial statements.
future changes to regulation and accounting standards: Viability monitored the performance of the Risk and Assurance team Part of the Committees work in the year has been to discuss including input from PwC, reviewed the effectiveness of and consider the requirement under the Code for a longerthe Groups internal financial controls together with its term viability statement, and the related assessment work broader internal control and Risk Management Framework, needed in order to enable the Directors to make such to ensure consistent and appropriate financial controls astatement.
The Directors Viability Statement, together with across the Group: details of the assessment work, is set out on page 22 with communicated with the FRC regarding the Companys asummary on page 34, Board Statements.
Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2016, in Significant Issues Considered in Relation to the relation to their thematic review of significant accounting FinancialStatements judgements and sources of estimation uncertainty.
The During the year the Committee, management and the letter from the FRC and the Groups responses were ExternalAuditor considered and concluded what the reviewed by the Committee.
There were no major financial significant risks and issues were in relation to the financial reporting changes arising from this communication.
statements and how these would be addressed.
In relation However, some areas previously reported as significant tothe 2017 Group financial statements, only one significant accounting judgements or sources of estimation uncertainty riskhas been identified, being the Valuation of Property, have been removed in the 2017 Annual Report, and for Plant and Equipment PPE.
other areas further clarity has been provided to explain why items are deemed to be significant.
The FRCs review only Valuation of Property, Plant and Equipment covered the specific disclosures relating to this thematic As detailed in Note 9 to the financial statements, there review and provides no assurance that the Annual Report isasignificant inherent risk that elements of the Groups and Accounts are correct in all material respects: the FRCs considerable PPE balances may prove to be irrecoverable, role is not to verify the information provided but to consider dueto fluctuations in the underlying performance of cinemas compliance with reporting requirements: or one-off events.
Given the number of factors involved in considered the combined Prospectus and Circular in predicting the performance of cinema sites operated by the relation to the acquisition of Regal: Group, in multiple territories, this gives rise to an element of judgement being applied to the potential level of impairments reviewed the accounting papers provided by management to be recognised on a cash generating unit CGU basis, on the upcoming changes to IFRS accounting standards predominantly at cinema site level.
and their potential impact on the Groups financial statements: At each Balance Sheet date, management prepares an monitored the implementation of the Groups internal assessment which estimates the value in use of the CGUs audit plan for 2017, including further embedding the Risk to which the tangible fixed assets are allocated.
Where Management Framework, the risk-based assurance plan for individual sites cash flows are not considered independent the financial control environment, and the Group-wide from one another, mainly due to strategic or managerial cinema compliance programme: decisions being made across more than one site, they may be combined into a single CGU.
reviewed the results of non-financial audits including food hygiene and fire safety and where applicable The resulting calculation is sensitive to the assumptions in agreed enhancements to procedures and reviewed respect of future cash flows and the discount rate applied.
remedial actions: The main assumptions over growth rates, the impact of one-off events, expected cost increases and discount rates are updated to reflect managements best estimate.
When considering the appropriateness of the discount rate, management assess the territory specific discount rates, 45 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Audit Committee Report continued and ensure that they are updated for current market Independence, Appointment and Tender information and the Groups current leverage.
The Committee last conducted a tender process inFebruary 2016 and, following that process, decided to recommend to At the year end management prepared their valuation the Board that KPMG be reappointed as External Auditor.
modelsfor the Committees consideration, together with theirproposed site impairments, and drew the Committees The Company will continue to comply with the relevant attention to any specific judgements taken within the tendering and auditor rotation requirements applicable under models, including focusing particularly on one site in Israel UK and EU regulations, which require the next external audit witha large carrying value, which is expected to mature over tender to occur by 2026.
In addition, the External Auditor will alonger period than most of the Groups sites.
Management be required to rotate the audit partner responsible for the confirmed to the Committee that they have applied a Group audit every five years and, as a result, the current consistent Group-wide methodology in the preparation of lead audit partner will be required to change in 2021.
The Committee satisfied itself that the Committee continues to review the auditor appointment approach was appropriate, the assumptions reasonable and and the need to tender the audit.
the impairments proposed were complete and accurate.
The The External Auditor is also required to periodically assess Committee also satisfied itself through enquiry of management whether, in its professional opinion, it is independent and and review of the Board papers that all significant events confirm this to the Committee.
KPMG has provided this which may have impacted on the valuation of PPE had been confirmation.
In addition, the Company considers it has appropriately captured in managements assumptions and complied with the Competition and Markets Authoritys reflected in the valuation models and that appropriate Statutory Audit Services Order.
disclosures, including in relation to sensitivities, had been included in the financial statements.
Non-Audit Services The Committee considers the independence of the External External Audit Auditor on an ongoing basis and has established policies to The Committee reviews the appointment of the External consider the appropriateness or otherwise of appointing the Auditor each year before the cycle of audit commences and External Auditor to perform non-audit services.
In particular, indeciding whether to renew the appointment takes note of under its terms of reference, all non-audit work and the the quality of the service received, the proposed fees and the associated fees need to be approved by the Committee if Auditors independence.
Management and all members of the the value of such work is likely to be greater than 30,000.
Committee are consulted during the process.
Further details ofthese processes are set out below.
During 2017 the Group initiated the process which led to its recent Rights Issue and its acquisition of Regal on 28 February Effectiveness 2018.
This process involved a significant amount of regulatory During the year, the Committee evaluated the performance and other reporting that the Committee considered that KPMG and objectivity of KPMG and reviewed its effectiveness as in its role as the Groups auditor was in the best position to External Auditor.
The effectiveness of the 2016 audit was provide.
KPMGs fees for its non-audit work in respect of capital assessed by reference to the following: markets assurance services and corporate finance services in the effectiveness of the lead audit, engagement partner, connection with this process were 1.30m, reflecting the including the support provided to the Committee: unusually large scale of this transaction.
The Committee determined that work in relation to tax advice and synergistic the planning and scope of the audit including identification benefits arising from the acquisition should best be performed of areas of audit risk and communication of any changes by advisors another than KPMG.
KPMGs work on this project tothe plan, and changes in perceived audit risks: was performed between October 2017 and February 2018. the quality of communication with the Committee, 0.4m of the above fees have been reflected in the Groups 2017 including the regular reports on accounting matters, financial statements and the balance will be included in 2018. governance and control: The only other non-audit service provided by KPMG to the the competence with which the External Auditor handled Group during 2017 related to its review of the Groups interim key accounting and audit judgements and communication statement, for which fees of 0.04m were agreed.
of those to management and the Committee: KPMGs reputation and standing, including its independence The Committee is satisfied that the above work was best and objectivity and its internal quality procedures: and undertaken by KPMG and that its objectivity as auditor has not been impaired by reason of this further work.
An analysis the quality of the formal report to shareholders.
of audit and non-audit fees may be found in Note 4 to the Further, at the conclusion of each years audit, the Committee financial statements.
discusses the performance of the External Auditor with the Insurance Executive Directors and relevant senior finance managers It is not practical or possible to insure against every risk to the considering areas such as the quality of the audit team, fullest extent.
The Group has in place an insurance programme business understanding, audit approach and management.
to help protect it against certain insurable risks.
The portfolio Where appropriate, actions are agreed against points raised of insurance policies is kept under regular review with the and subsequently monitored for progress.
There were no Companys insurance broker to ensure that the policies are significant findings from the evaluation this year.
appropriate to the Groups activities and exposures taking After taking into account all of the above factors, the intoaccount cost, and the likelihood and magnitude of the Committee concluded that the External Auditor was effective.
In addition, the Committee is satisfied that it has sufficient oversight of the External Auditor and its independence and objectivity is not compromised due to the safeguards in place.
46 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Remuneration Committee Composition The terms of engagement with both Willis Towers Watson and For the duration of the year, the Companys Remuneration PwC are available on request from the Company Secretary.
Committee comprised three independent Non-Executive The Chief Executive Officer is consulted on the remuneration Directors.
At the start of the year, the Committee members packages of the other senior executives and attends discussions were Martina King Chair, Rick Senat, and Julie Southern.
by invitation except when his own position is being discussed.
On 11 January 2017, Martina King stepped down from her role Given the essential part remuneration plays in the success of as a Non-Executive Director and as Chair of the Remuneration the Group, the Chairman of the Board is also invited to attend Committee, and Dean Moore was appointed in her place and meetings of the Committee and does so except when his is the Chair of the Committee.
The Committee met four times own remuneration is being considered.
The Committee does during the year and, in addition, held a number of ad hoc not deal with the fees paid to the Non-Executive Directors.
meetings to deal with specific issues.
The report of the Remuneration Committee is set out on Roles and Responsibilities pages 48 to 67.
The activities of the Committee are covered inthe Directors The terms of reference of the Committee are available on the Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 67, andare incorporated Companys website www.
com about-us into this Corporate Governance Statement by reference.
The Committee assists the Board in determining its responsibilities By order of the Board in relation to remuneration, including making recommendations to the Board on the Groups policy on executive remuneration, determining the individual remuneration and benefits package of each of the Executive Directors, and monitoring and approving the remuneration of Senior Management below Board level.
Anthony Bloom Chairman The Committee appointed Willis Towers Watson as external 15 March 2018 advisors in November 2008 and took advice from it during the year until September 2017.
In September 2017, the Committee appointed PwC as advisors to the Committee following a competitive selection process, replacing Willis Towers Watson.
Willis Towers Watson had no other connection with the Group except as the actuary to the pension schemes of AdelphiCarlton Limited, the Groups operating company in Ireland.
PwC has no other connections with Cineworld except the provision internal audit support to the Risk and Assurance team.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice provided by PwC is objective and independent.
The Committee is comfortable that the PwC engagement partner and team that provide remuneration advice to the Committee do not have connections with the Company that may impair their independence.
On appointment as advisors, the Committee reviewed the potential for conflicts of interest and judged that there were no conflicts or potential conflicts arising.
The Company receives advice in relation to the Remuneration Policy and its implementation in respect of the Chairman, Executive Directors, Company Secretary and Senior Management.
