Governance Board of Directors Andrew Shilston Pete Raby Peter Turner Non-executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Douglas Caster CBE Jane Aikman Helen Bunch Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Laurence Mulliez Senior Independent Director 56 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2017 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Andrew Shilston Douglas Caster CBE Helen Bunch Non-executive Chairman aged 62 Non-executive Director aged 64 Non-executive Director aged 52 Appointed: May 2012 Chairman Designate: from Appointed: February 2014.
Skills, career and experience: Douglas is a highly Skills, career and experience: Helen has significant Skills, career and experience: Andrew has extensive experienced electronic systems engineer with a strong experience of driving business performance and board-level experience and governance and industry track record of managing and driving growth within building businesses in new markets.
Having joined Rolls-Royce Holdings plc in electronics businesses.
Douglas began his career to the Board a valuable perspective as a serving 2002, Andrew was Finance Director from 2003 until with the Racal Electronics Group in 1975, before executive.
At the start of her career, Helen spent his retirement in 2011 and prior to this he was the moving to Schlumberger in 1986 and then to Dowty 17 years working in global businesses serving a wide Finance Director at Enterprise Oil plc.
Until 2017, as Engineering Director of Sonar & Communication variety of industries from automotive to household Andrew was Senior Independent Director of BP p. l. c. Systems in 1988.
In 1992, he became Managing products: 11 years with ICI and the remainder with a and non-executive Director and Chairman of the Director of that business and, after participating in the successor company, Lucite International Ltd.
In 2006, Audit and Risk Committee of Circle Holdings plc.
He management buy-out that formed Ultra Electronics, Helen joined Wates Group, the privately-owned was also previously a non-executive Director of Cairn joined the Board in October 1993.
In April 2000, construction and property services company, as Energy plc, where he chaired the Audit Committee.
he became Managing Director of Ultras Information Group Strategy Director and became Managing & Power Systems division.
In April 2004 he was Director of Wates Retail Limited in January 2011.
appointed Chief Operating Officer and became Chief Since 2015, Helen has been Managing Director of Committees: N R Executive in April 2005.
He was appointed Deputy Wates Smartspace Limited, the enlarged business Chairman in April 2010 and became Chairman of following a merger with another Wates company Ultra in April 2011.
He is currently temporarily and the acquisition of a facilities management business.
assuming the role of Executive Chairman at Ultra until Pete Raby Additional appointments: Managing Director of Wates a chief executive is appointed.
Douglas was Morgan Chief Executive Officer aged 50 Smartspace Limited, Governor of The Westminster Advanced Materials plcs Senior Independent Director Academy Westbourne Green.
Appointed: August 2015. from January 2015 until December 2017.
Committees: A N R Skills, career and experience: Pete has a strong Additional appointments: Chairman of Ultra Electronics technical background and extensive prior experience Holdings plc and Chairman of Metalysis Limited.
in planning and executing business strategy across Committees: A N R global technology and manufacturing operations.
Laurence Mulliez Pete joined Morgan Advanced Materials in August Senior Independent Director aged 52 2015 as Chief Executive Officer.
Morgan Advanced Materials, Pete was President of the Jane Aikman Communications and Connectivity sector of Cobham Skills, career and experience: Through wide-ranging Non-executive Director aged 52 plc.
Pete demonstrated strong leadership across a roles both in the UK and internationally, Laurence Appointed: July 2017. range of senior strategy, technology and operational brings valuable knowledge of the technology and positions at Cobham over a nine-year period.
Prior to Skills, career and experience: Jane brings to the Board energy industries and insight into some of Morgans Cobham, Pete was a partner at McKinsey & Company significant financial experience and knowledge of key markets.
Laurence has significant experience in in London, specialising in strategy and operations growing manufacturing and technology businesses.
growing, simplifying and unifying complex international in the aerospace, defence and power and gas sectors.
She also brings to the Board a valuable external industrial manufacturing businesses.
Laurence started He has a PhD in satellite navigation and an M. Eng.
Since 2016, Jane her career with Banque Nationale fide Paris in 1988 from the Department of Electronic and Electrical has been Chief Financial Officer of KCOM Group plc, before moving to M&M Mars Inc. in 1992 and then Engineering at the University of Leeds.
a listed communications services and IT solutions Amoco Chemical Inc. in 1993, which was acquired by provider.
She was previously Chief Financial Officer BP p. l. c. in 1998.
She spent a further 11 years at BP in Additional appointments: None.
and Chief Operating Officer of Phoenix IT Group plc a variety of roles including Chief Executive of Castrol Committees: None.
until its acquisition by Daisy Group in 2015.
Jane has Industrial Lubricants and Services.
Following BP, also held Chief Financial Officer positions at Infinis plc, Laurence became Chief Executive of independent Wilson Bowden plc and Pressac plc and a senior power producer Eoxis UK Limited from 2010 to 2013.
Peter Turner finance position at Asia Pulp and Paper in south-east Laurence was appointed Senior Independent Director Chief Financial Officer aged 47 Asia.
Jane was a non-executive Director of Halma plc of Morgan Advanced Materials in December 2017.
Appointed: April 2016. from 2007 and chaired its audit committee from 2009 Additional appointments: Chairman of Voltalia S. A.
Skills, career and experience: Peter has significant until her departure in July 2016.
Jane holds a civil non-executive Director of Aperam S. A. nonfinancial experience combined with a strong track engineering degree and qualified as a Chartered executive Director of SBM Offshore N. V. and record of driving improved business performance Accountant with Ernst & Young.
member of the supervisory board of Arcus in multiple large-scale and complex organisations.
Additional appointments: Chief Financial Officer Infrastructure Partners LLP.
Peter joined Morgan Advanced Materials in April 2016 of KCOM Group plc.
Committees: A N R as Chief Financial Officer.
Before joining Morgan Committees: A N R Advanced Materials, Peter was Finance Director at Smiths Group plc from 2010 to 2015.
During this time he was responsible for driving restructuring programmes across the Group to enhance operating margins with a strong focus on improving operating Committees cash flow.
Prior to Smiths, Peter was Finance Director from 2007 to 2009 at Venture Production plc, before it was acquired by Centrica plc in 2009.
From 1995 to Committee Chairman 2006, Peter held several senior positions at The BOC Group plc, including Finance Director of the Industrial A Audit & Special Products division.
Peter started his career as an auditor at Price Waterhouse.
He holds a degree N Nomination in chemistry from Oxford University.
Annual Report 2017 Morgan Advanced Materials 57
