Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Effectiveness Directors and Directors Independence Rick Senat, the Senior Independent Director, is available to At the start of the year, the Board was composed of nine shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the members, five of whom were considered independent.
On normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Deputy 11January 2017, Martina King stepped down from the Board, Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer has failed and Dean Moore and Nisan Cohen were appointed to the toresolve or for which contact is inappropriate.
Board as Independent Non-Executive Director and Chief The Company Secretary is responsible for advising and Financial Officer respectively.
At the end of the year, the supporting the Chairman and the Board on corporate Board was therefore composed of ten members, five of governance matters, ensuring Board procedures are whomwere considered independent.
followedand facilitating the good information flow The Board is satisfied that Mr Moore meetsthe requisite withintheBoard and the Board-appointed Committees.
criteria to be considered independent, notwithstanding his Performance Evaluation previous interim employment within theGroup, given the Towards the end of the year, a performance evaluation was nature of the role he performed in thetenmonth period carried out in respect of the Board, the Audit, Remuneration fromMarch 2016, where his mandate was to focus on the and Nomination Committees and each individual Director, ChiefFinancial Officer succession planningprocess.
As an external facilitator had been Scott Rosenblum is not viewed as independent because engaged for the 2016 performance evaluation, the Board ofhisprevious business dealings with the Greidinger family decided to carry out the exercise without external assistance and its interests, and as he is the GCT appointee under the in2017.
The process adopted involved the completion of Relationship Agreement as described on page 69 of the assessment questionnaires by each of the Directors and Directors Report.
The names of the Directors at the year end, Committee members.
The results were then collated by the together with their biographical details, are set out on pages Company Secretary, and a summary presented to the relevant 32 to 33.
The process was constructive andconfirmed that the Board and its Committees are For a FTSE 350 company, the Code recommends that a operating effectively.
majority of non-executive members of the Board of Directors excluding the Chairman should be independent in character Re-election and judgement, and free from relationships or circumstances All the Directors will be retiring and will be offering themselves which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, their for re-election at this years AGM, reflecting current best judgement.
The Board considers that Martina King, Alicja practice under the Code.
Biographical details of all the current Kornasiewicz, Dean Moore, Arni Samuelsson, Rick Senat and Directors are set out on pages 32 and 33.
In view of the Julie Southern were, for the year or the portion of the year in performance evaluation, the Board is satisfied that each which they served as Non-Executive Directors, independent Director standing for re-election continues to show the Non-Executive Directors.
necessary commitment and continues to be an effective member of the Board due to his or her skills, expertise and The terms and conditions of appointment of the Nonbusiness acumen.
Executive Directors are set out in letters of appointment andare made available for inspection by any person at the The Board believes that the re-election of Anthony Bloom as Companys registered office during normal business hours, Chairman of the Board is in the best interests of shareholders.
andwill be available at the AGM.
Further details of the letters Anthony has a comprehensive understanding of the Groups of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors and the service business and operations and played a key role in the Companys contracts of the Executive Directors can be found in the combination with Cinema City in 2014 and the recently Directors Remuneration Policy.
He also brings to the role extensive board-level and chairman experience in a range The independent Non-Executive Directors bring an objective ofcompanies, sectors and jurisdictions.
viewpoint and range of experience to the Group and ensure that no individual or group of individuals is able to dominate Chairmans Commitments the Boards decision-making.
They play a key role in reviewing The Chairman performs a limited number of external roles, but proposals and providing constructive challenge generally and the Board is satisfied that these are not such as to interfere in particular in respect of strategy.
They also ensure that with the performance of the Chairmans duties to the Group.
All the Non-Executive Directors have access to independent legal advice subject to consulting with the Board and following the agreed procedure.
39 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Effectiveness continued Engaging with our stakeholders and shareholders Nurturing talent isakey part of our people strategy and, insupport of our growth strategy, we are proud that over thelast 12 months more than 50% of cinema management positions were filled Our work with byinternal applicants.
charities, schools, Our customers are andcommunity fundamental to our groups across all our Employees success.
We focus territories is very onensuring that important to us.
We theyhave a positive Wider are involved with a experience every wide range of activities community timeto increase including working with thelikelihood of distributors on charity repeatvisits.
screenings, providing free shows for organisations and working closely with local schools.
Customers The Chief Executive Officer, Deputy Chief Executive Officer, and Chief Financial Officer provide focal points Investors for shareholders Key enquiries and dialogue stakeholders throughout the year.
The Board uses the AGM to communicate with private and institutional investors.
Industry bodies We work hard at We work closely Suppliers developing good withindustry bodies, relationships with a including the Film range of film studios Content Protection and distributors.
Agency FCPA, to Strong relationships combat film piracy.
Environment with our principal retail Being a multisite suppliers enable us business, the Group is towork together on conscious of its total promotions that help energy consumption drive retail sales.
and amount of waste materials generated, and is actively working on reducing both.
Stakeholder Engagement enquiries and dialogue throughout the year.
Thewhole Board The Directors value contact with the Companys institutional is kept up-to-date at its regular meetings with the views of and private investors.
An Annual Report is sent to all new shareholders and analysts and it receives reports on changes shareholders and is otherwise made available to shareholders in the Companys share register and market movements.
via the Companys website unless they have specifically The Board uses the AGM to communicate with private requested that a copy is sent to them.
Presentations are given andinstitutional investors and welcomes their participation.
to shareholders and analysts following the announcement The Chairman aims to ensure that the Chairs of the Audit ofthe interim results and the preliminary announcement of Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nomination thefull year results.
Trading updates are typically issued in Committee are available at the AGM to answer questions, advance of the full year end results in March and the interim andthat all Directors attend.
Separate announcements of all material events are made as necessary.
com provides anoverview of the business.
Major Group announcements In addition to the Chief Executive Officer, Deputy Chief areavailable on the website and new announcements are Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, who have published without delay.
All major announcements are regular contact with investors over such matters, the Chairman approved by the Chairman and Executive Directors and and the Senior Independent Director are available to meet with circulated to the Board prior to issue.
The Group also has shareholders as and when required.
Additionally, the Chief internal and external checks to guard against unauthorised Executive Officer, Deputy Chief Executive Officer and Chief release of information.
Financial Officer provide focal points for shareholders 40
