Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Leadership Board Statements Requirement Board statement Compliance with the UK The principal governance rules applying to companies with a premium listing for the year Corporate Governance Code covered by this statement are contained in the Code published by the UK Financial Reporting Council in April 2016, and a copy is available on its website www.
For the year ended 31 December 2017, the Board considers that the Company was compliant with the provisions ofthe Code.
Going Concern The Directors consider that the Group as enlarged by the Regal acquisition has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for at least 12 months from the date of signing these accounts.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual financial statements.
In adopting the going concern basis for preparing the financial statements, the Directors have considered the business activities as set out on pages 1 to 29 and the Principal Risks and Uncertainties on pages 18 to 22.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities, as well as the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing capital, are described on pages 26 to 29.
Financial risk management objectives, details of financial instruments and hedging activities, and exposure to credit risk andliquidity risk are described in Note 21 to the financial statements.
Viability The Directors have assessed the viability of the Group over a three year period, taking into account the Groups current position, the Regal acquisition, and the potential impact of the principal risks and uncertainties set out on pages 18 to 22.
Based on this assessment, and having considered the established controls for the risks, and the available mitigating actions, theDirectors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the enlarged Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three year period to 2020.
For more information on the viability assessment, please see page 22.
Robust Assessment The Directors consider they have undertaken a robust assessment of the principal risks facing ofPrincipal Risks the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity.
Please refer to pages 18 to 22 for further information on the Companys principal risks and uncertainties, and their impact on the prospects of the Group.
Review of Internal Control The Directors have carried out a review of internal control and risk management.
Please refer and Risk Management topages 42 to 43 for further information.
Fair, Balanced and The Directors consider the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and Understandable understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
34 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Application of Code Principles C. Accountability The information below explains how the Company has applied C. 1 Financial and Business Reporting the main principles of the Code.
The information required to The Strategic Report is set out on pages 1 to 29 and provides bedisclosed by Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rule information about the performance of the Group, the business DTR 7.2.
6 is set out in the Directors Report on pages 68 model, strategy, principal risks and uncertainties relating to the to72 and is incorporated into this statement by reference.
Leadership C. 2 Risk Management and Internal Control A.
1 The Role of the Board The Board decides the Groups risk appetite and annually The Board met formally seven times during the year including reviews the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and a strategy session and held other meetings on an ad hoc basis internal control systems.
The activities of the Audit Committee, as required.
There is a clear schedule of matters reserved for which assists the Board withits responsibilities in relation to the Board, together with delegated authorities throughout themanagement of risk, are summarised on page 44. theGroup.
C. 3 Audit Committee and Auditors A.
2 Division of Responsibilities The Board has delegated a number of responsibilities to the The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are Audit Committee, which is responsible for overseeing the clearly defined.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership Groups financial reporting processes, internal control and Risk and effectiveness of the Board and for overseeing the Boards Management Framework, the work undertaken by the External setting of strategy.
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible Auditor, and the internal audit work of the Risk and Assurance for leading the day-to-day management of the Group and team including with support from PwC.
The Chair of the theimplementation of the strategy.
Audit Committee provides regular updates to the Board.
3 The Chairman D. Remuneration The Chairman sets the agendas for themeetings, manages D. 1 Level and Components ofRemuneration themeeting timetable in conjunction with the Company The Remuneration Committee sets levelsof remuneration Secretary and facilitates openand constructive dialogue appropriately witha view to ensuring the long-term success during the meetings.
ofthe Company, and structures remuneration so as to link it to both corporate and individual performance, thereby aligning A.
4 The Role of the Non-Executive Directors managements interestswith those of the shareholders.
The Chairman promotes an open and constructive Benchmarking exercises are carried out as appropriate by environment in Board meetings and actively invites the external advisors to ensure remuneration levels are appropriate.
The Non-Executive Directors provide objective, rigorous and constructive challenge to D. 2 Procedure for Development ofRemuneration Policy management and meet during the year in the absence of  Packages theExecutive Directors.
Details of the work of the Remuneration Committee and the approach to setting the remuneration policy and packages can B.
Effectiveness be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 48 B.
1 The Composition of the Board to 67.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for regularly reviewing the composition of the Board.
In making appointments to the E. Relations with Shareholders Board, the Nomination Committee considers thewide range E. 1 Shareholder Engagement and Dialogue ofskills, knowledge, independence and experience required to The Board takes an active role in engaging with shareholders.
The Board particularly values opportunities to meet with shareholders and the Chairman ensures that the Board is B.
2 Appointments to the Board keptinformed of shareholder views.
The appointment of new Directors totheBoard is led by theNomination Committee.
Further details of the activities E. 2 Constructive Use of the Annual General Meeting ofthe Nomination Committee can be found on page 41.
The AGM provides the Board with animportant opportunity tomeet withshareholders, who are invited tomeet the B.
3 Time Commitment members of the Board informally following the formal On appointment, Directors are notified of the time businessof the meeting.
commitment expected from them and details are set out in their letters of appointment.
External directorships of Executive Directors, which may impact existing time commitments, are discussed and cleared by the Chairman.
4 Development All Directors receive induction training on joining the Board and, as part of the annual effectiveness evaluation, the development needs of each Director arechecked.
5 Information and Support The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, ensures that all Board members receive accurate and timely information.
6 Board and Committee Performance Evaluation The Board and its Committees have this year undertaken aninternal evaluation oftheir respective performances.
Detailsofthe evaluation can be found onpage39.
7 Re-election of Directors All Directors are subject to shareholder election or re-election at the Annual General Meeting AGM.
35 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Leadership continued Membership of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees At the start of the financial year, membership of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees was as follows: Chair Member Member Audit Committee Julie Southern Martina King Alicja Kornasiewicz Nomination Committee Rick Senat Scott Rosenblum Arni Samuelsson Remuneration Committee Martina King Rick Senat Julie Southern On 11 January 2017, Martina King stepped down as a Director on the Board, including as Chair of the Remuneration Committee and as a member of the Audit Committee.
Dean Moore, who was appointed to the Board as an independent Non-Executive Director on 11 January 2017, took over as Chair of the Remuneration Committee and also became a member of the Audit Committee.
The revised Committee Membership, as set out below, remained the same through to the end of the financial year.
Chair Member Member Audit Committee Julie Southern Alicja Kornasiewicz Dean Moore Nomination Committee Rick Senat Scott Rosenblum Arni Samuelsson Remuneration Committee Dean Moore Rick Senat Julie Southern All the Committees remained compliant with the Code as regards their membership during the year.
The Board Directors receive notice of such meetings and are given the The Group is ultimately controlled by the Board of Directors opportunity to comment on the issues being discussed if ofthe Company.
The Board is responsible for the overall they are unable to attend the meeting.
leadership of the Group and for determining its long-term A schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the objectives and commercial strategy to create and deliver Board has been agreed and adopted.
These matters include: strong and sustainable financial performance to enhance setting Group strategy: approving an annual budget and shareholder value.
In fulfilling its role, the Board ensures that medium-term forecasts: reviewing operational and financial necessary financial and other resources are available to enable performance: approving major acquisitions, divestments and the Groups objectives to be met.
The basis on which the Board capital expenditure: approval of site selection: succession seeks to preserve value over the longer term and the strategy planning: approving appointments to the Board and of the for delivering the objectives is set out in the Strategic Report Company Secretary and approving policies relating to on pages 1 to 29.
The Board meets regularly at least six times a year and also The Board is supplied on a monthly basis with detailed once for a strategy session.
Ad hoc meetings of the Board take management accounts and an overview of Group financial place as required.
The meetings follow a formal agenda, which andoperational information.
Regular briefings by the includes matters specifically reserved for decision by the Executive Management team are given to the Board, to Board.
The Board also meets, as and when necessary, to deepen the collective understanding of the business, discuss and approve, if appropriate, specific issues.
All leading in turn tomore effective debate.
Governance Framework The Board Implementation of the Groups long-term strategy Audit Nomination Remuneration Committee Committee Committee The Committee assists the Board in The Committee is responsible for The Committee makes discharging its responsibility with evaluating the balance of skills, recommendations to the Board for regard to financial reporting, the knowledge and experience on the approval of the Groups broad policy control environment, the work of the Board, the size, structure and for the remuneration of the Chairman, External and Internal Auditors, and composition of the Board, the Executive Directors, the Company the Risk and Assurance team.
retirements and appointments Secretary and Senior Management, ofadditional and replacement and for the design of performance Chair Julie Southern Directors.
related pay schemes and long-term incentive plans LTIPs.
Chair Rick Senat Chair Dean Moore p44 p41 p48 Audit Committee Report Nomination Committee Report Remuneration Committee Report 36 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 The Roles of the Chairman and ChiefExecutive Officer The posts of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate.
The division of responsibility between the Chairman of the Board, Anthony Bloom, and the Chief Executive Officer, Moshe Greidinger, is clearly defined in writing.
Further details of the respective responsibilities are set out on page 38.
Board Committees In accordance with best practice, the Board has appointed three Committees, an Audit Committee, a Nomination Committee, and a Remuneration Committee, to which certainBoard functions have been delegated.
Each of theseCommittees has formal written terms of reference whichclearly define their responsibilities.
The terms of reference of each of the Boards three Committees are available on the Companys website www.
37 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Leadership continued Roles and Responsibilities of the Directors Role Name Responsibilities Chairman Anthony Bloom The Chairman, together with the Chief Executive Officer, leadsthe Board in determination of its strategy having regard to the Groups responsibilities to its shareholders, customers, employees and other stakeholders.
He is responsible for organising the business of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
The Chairman also facilitates the effective contribution of Non-Executive Directors and overseesthe performance evaluation of the Board and when appropriate, discusses matters with the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors being present.
Chief Executive Officer Moshe Mooky Greidinger The Chief Executive Officer has direct charge of the Group onaday-to-day basis and is accountable to the Board for the financial and operational performance of the Group.
He holds regular meetings with his Executive Management Team.
Non-Executive Directors Alicja Kornasiewicz, Scott S. The Non-Executive Directors provide objective, rigorous and Rosenblum, Arni Samuelsson, constructive challenge to management and meet during the Eric Rick Senat, Julie year in the absence of the Executive Directors.
They play a key Southern, Dean Moore role in reviewing proposals, in particular in respect of strategy.
Senior Independent Director Eric Rick Senat The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Deputy Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer has failed to resolve or for which contact is inappropriate.
Company Secretary Fiona Smith The Company Secretary is responsible for advising and supporting the Chairman and the Board on corporate governance matters, ensuring Board procedures are followed and facilitating the good information flow within the Board and the Board-appointed Committees.
Attendance at Meetings The number of scheduled Board meetings and Committee meetings attended by each Director during the year was as follows: Board including strategy Audit Remuneration Nomination session Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings in year 7 4 4 2 Independent Attended Attended Attended Attended Directors for the whole year 1 2 2 2 Anthony Bloom No 7 7 4 4 4 4 2 2 Nisan Cohen No 7 7 N A N A N A Israel Greidinger No 7 7 N A N A N A Moshe Greidinger No 7 7 N A N A N A Alicja Kornasiewicz Yes 7 7 4 4 N A N A Scott Rosenblum No 7 7 N A N A 2 2 1 Dean Moore Yes 7 7 4 4 4 4 N A Arni Samuelsson Yes 7 7 N A N A 2 2 1 Rick Senat Yes 7 7 N A 4 4 2 2 1 Julie Southern Yes 7 7 4 4 4 4 N A 1 Chairman of Board Board Committee.
2 Anthony Bloom, the Chairman of the Company, attended these meetings by invitation.
