Governance Corporate governance Statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Delegation of authority Governance Code The Board has delegated authority for specific matters to three principal Committees, namely the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration The main principles of the Code focus on Leadership, Effectiveness, Committees.
The memberships, roles and activities of the principal Accountability, Remuneration and Relations with Shareholders.
This Committees are described in their respective reports: the Report of statement describes how the Company has applied the main principles the Audit Committee is set out on pages 64 to 67: the Report of the Code.
It should be read in conjunction with the Strategic Report of the Nomination Committee is set out on pages 68 and 69: and on pages 10 to 53 and the other sections of the Directors Report the Report of the Remuneration Committee is set out on pages 70 to 89. on pages 54 to 93.
The full terms of reference of these principal Committees are available on the Companys website.
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2017 the Company has been in compliance with the relevant provisions of the April 2016 edition of the The Board delegates the day-to-day management of the Group and UK Corporate Governance Code the Code which applies to the 2017 operational matters to the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial financial year.
The two executive Directors together with the Group Human Resources Director, the Group General Counsel, the Chief Technology The Code is published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC and Officer, and the Divisional or global business unit Presidents, form the is available on its website www.
Leadership The Board has delegated authority for certain other matters including The role of the Board routine approvals to a General Purposes Committee at which a nonThe Board is collectively responsible to the Companys shareholders executive Director must be present.
The Committee meets as required.
for the long-term success of the Company.
The Board is satisfied it has met the Codes requirements for its effective operation.
Following the The Disclosure Committee met on an ad-hoc basis during the year to conclusion of the strategic review and the setting of execution priorities in assess whether information which directly concerns the Group is inside 2016, the Board has reviewed delivery against these priorities during the information and to discharge other responsibilities relating to the control year.
The Board ensures that there is a robust framework of prudent and and disclosure of inside information.
The membership of the Disclosure effective controls, which enables risks to be assessed and managed.
The Committee comprises all the Directors and the Company Secretary.
Board sets the Companys values and standards, which are contained in the Core Values Statement and Ethics Policy, and which are referred to on Board meetings pages 45 to 53 of the Corporate responsibility section of this Report.
In 2017, the Board met formally on eight occasions.
A summary of the matters addressed at these meetings is set out below.
Matters reserved There is a schedule of matters specifically reserved for the Board, which During the year, there have been several dedicated agenda items on was updated during the year to reflect the latest Code and other legislative implementation of the Group strategy, with the Board monitoring the changes, which includes: setting the Groups strategic aims and objectives: progress made by the Company in delivering the agreed execution approving significant contractual commitments including the acquisition or priorities.
The Board reviewed the pace of change and noted the key disposal of companies businesses, and treasury and intellectual property actions required to overcome the capacity and capability barriers transactions : and the review of the effectiveness of risk management identified, such as the streamlining of organisation structures and increasing processes, major capital expenditure and corporate responsibility.
the resources committed to key priorities, with all actions being under the The schedule of matters reserved for the Board is available to view close and regular scrutiny of the Executive Committee.
The Board on the Companys website.
The Board also regularly reviews the received presentations on the strategic plan for each of the Divisions limitations of authority within the Group to ensure they remain including the global business units and separate reviews on talent, appropriate.
58 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2017 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Attendance at meetings The attendance of each Director at Board, and Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committee meetings based on membership of those Committees, rather than attendance as an invitee is set out in the table below.
Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Eligible Eligible Eligible Eligible Director to attend Attended to attend Attended to attend Attended to attend Attended 1 Andrew Shilston 8 8 4 4 2 2 2 Pete Raby 8 8 1 1 Peter Turner 8 8 1,3 Jane Aikman 3 3 1 1 2 2 1 1 1, 4 Helen Bunch 8 8 4 3 4 4 2 2 1 Douglas Caster 8 8 4 4 4 4 2 2 1 Laurence Mulliez 8 8 4 4 4 4 2 2 1, 5 Rob Rowley 5 5 3 3 2 2 1 1 1.
Indicates a Director deemed by the Board to be independent or, in the case of the Chairman, independent on appointment.
Pete Raby, Chief Executive Officer, stepped down as a member of the Nomination Committee on 5 May 2017.
Appointed to the Board on 31 July 2017.
Helen Bunch was unable to attend the December Audit Committee meeting due to a long-standing business commitment, connected to her full-time executive position.
Helen reviewed the papers and relayed any resultant comments to the Committee Chairman prior to the meeting.
Stepped down from the Board on 31 July 2017.
Should a Director have concerns about the running of the Company Review and approval of the Groups half-year results, trading or a proposed action, which are not resolved, their concerns would be statements and preliminary announcement of final results.
recorded in the Board minutes.
An appropriate Directors and Officers Approval of the 2018 budget.
liability insurance policy is in place.
Approval of major capital expenditure and review of major capital investment projects.
Summary of the Boards work during the year: Review of the Groups principal risks, following a significant review Monitoring of environmental, health and safety performance with by the Executive Committee, which led to an update of some of detailed update and review of performance presented to the Board the previous risk categories, enabling a better focus on the risk in December.
management activities and identification of any new actions.
Approval of the sale of the global Rotary Transfer Systems and UK Approval of matters in relation to pensions valuations, funding Electro-ceramics business, both divestments were completed in arrangements and the pensions strategy, in the UK and US, including April 2017.
Further information on the two divestments is available the closure of the Morgan Pension Scheme in the UK to the future on page 31. accrual of benefits from April 2018 and replacement pension Continued focus on the delivery of the strategic execution priorities arrangements see note 21 for more information.
including receipt of in-depth business and strategy briefings from the Consideration of major shareholders views on the Groups Divisions and global business units.
Review of potential new product development opportunities.
Review of the Groups IT strategy and performance, focusing on four Received an update on the talent strategy and potential future key elements to align IT requirements with the Companys ongoing leadership capability, another execution priority, looking at how best strategy.
to train and build the optimum talent pool for the future development Review of the Groups treasury arrangements, including risk.
Review of outcomes of the Board performance evaluation and Approval of the appointments of Jane Aikman as a non-executive agreement on actions for further improvement, as well as monitoring Director, Laurence Mulliez as Senior Independent Director and of progress against actions arising from the 2016 performance review.
Stephanie Mackie as Company Secretary.
Review of the Modern Slavery Act Transparency Statement required to be published on the Companys website by 30 June 2017 and endorsement of associated actions.
Annual Report 2017 Morgan Advanced Materials 59 Governance Corporate governance continued Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Non-executive Directors The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate, Non-executive Directors are appointed for a term of three years, subject clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
to annual re-election in accordance with the Code.
The independence, commitment and effectiveness of any non-executive Director who has The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and effectiveness of served for two three-year terms is subject to rigorous review prior to the Board, in order to ensure effective stewardship is exercised over reappointment for a final three-year term.
Further information on the the Groups activities, including: setting the Boards agenda and ensuring non-executive Directors can be found in their biographies on pages 56 sufficient time is available for all agenda items, particularly regarding and 57 and on how the Board monitors its own performance on pages 62 strategic issues: promoting a culture of open debate and constructive and 63. challenge resulting in sound decision-making: facilitating effective contributions by the non-executive Directors: and ensuring constructive Jane Aikman was appointed to the Board on 31 July 2017 and became relationships between executive and non-executive Directors.
The Chief Chairman of the Audit Committee replacing Rob Rowley, who stepped Executive Officer is responsible for the management of the Group, down from the Board on the same date following three years service.
including the delivery of the Groups business plan, the formulation and implementation of strategy, chairing the meetings of the Executive On 8 December 2017, Laurence Mulliez was appointed Senior Independent Committee and ensuring the implementation of the Groups policies, Director in place of Douglas Caster who continues to serve as a nonall within the authorities delegated by the Board.
The Chairman and executive Director and as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Chief Executive Officer maintain a strong working relationship and open dialogue, thus ensuring coherent leadership of the Group.
The Chairman and the non-executive Directors met without the executive Directors present on a number of occasions during the year.
In addition, the Senior Independent Director and the other non-executive Directors Chairman met without the Chairman present.
On appointment as Chairman on 1 August 2012, Andrew Shilston met the independence criteria set out in the Code.
Effectiveness Board balance and independence Following the appointment of Jane Aikman and the resignation of Rob Rowley, the Board continued to comprise five non-executive Directors and two executive Directors.
This is considered to be the appropriate number of members of the Board, given the scale of the Groups Non-executive Director tenure operations at this time.
Biographies of the Directors in post at the date of this Report, including details of their skills, career and experience and other main commitments, are set out on pages 56 and 57.
2017 The size, structure and composition of the Board were reviewed during the year, taking into account succession planning and the need to 40% progressively refresh the membership and update the knowledge and 20% range of skills and experience of the Board, which are continuously Serving first three-year monitored.
The Board wishes to ensure that it maintains a good blend term of views and skills as well as a cohesive and informed decision-making Serving second process.
The Board comprises members with a breadth and depth of three-year term professional and sector experience with varied and relevant backgrounds: it has Directors with skills in strategy, finance and technology, as well as Not yet elected global commercial experience, and working knowledge of other Boards by shareholders or executive roles.
Our new non-executive Director, Jane Aikman, has recent and relevant experience for her position as Chairman of the Audit 40% Committee as she is currently the Chief Financial Officer of another listed entity and previously held several senior financial executive roles during which she has gained significant knowledge of growing manufacturing and technology businesses.
2016 Further information on the recruitment process to appoint Jane Aikman is included in the Report of the Nomination Committee on pages 68 and 69.
60% 20% Serving first three-year Throughout the year, the Company complied with the requirement of term the Code that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise non-executive Directors determined by the Board to be Serving second independent.
In addition to considering the factors set out in the Code, three-year term the Boards assessment of a non-executive Directors independence and effectiveness covers their total number of commitments, and any Not yet elected relationships with major suppliers or with charities receiving material by shareholders support from the Company.
20% 60 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2017 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Board balance Board diversity 2017 2017 29% 57% 14% 43% Executive Directors Male Directors incl.
Chairman Independent nonexecutive Directors Female Directors Chairman 57% 2016 2016 29% 71% 14% 29% Executive Directors Male Directors incl.
Chairman Independent nonexecutive Directors Female Directors Chairman 57% Commitment Induction and professional development Prior to undertaking an additional external role or appointment, the New Directors receive a full, formal and tailored induction on joining the Chairman and the non-executive Directors are asked to confirm that they will Board.
A new Directors experience and background is taken into account continue to have sufficient time to fulfil their commitments to the Company.
in developing a tailored induction programme.
Jane Aikman received a structured and detailed induction which included an information pack of pertinent documents and a meeting with the external auditor with the Information and support departing Chairman of the Audit Committee in attendance.
Jane also met The Company Secretary, with the Chairman, is responsible for ensuring with relevant external advisers and other senior executives and functional the Board has full and timely access to all appropriate information to heads on governance, responsible business, key risks, human resources and enable it to fully discharge its duties.
Board papers are generally made environment, health and safety.
She attended planned visits to operational available electronically five working days prior to each meeting.
Nonsites in the UK and overseas and held meetings with Divisional, business executive Directors also receive updates and information between unit and operational management and personnel during those site visits.
All non-executive Directors have access to management and employees The Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company at all levels and are encouraged to visit operational sites.
Each year at least Secretary who, with the Chairman, is responsible for ensuring that Board one Board meeting is held at an operating facility.
In 2017, Board visits procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are were made to the Thermal Ceramics site in Casalpusterlengo, Italy, observed.
A procedure is in place to enable the Directors to seek and to the Electrical Carbon site in Swansea, Wales.
independent professional advice at the Companys expense in fulfilling their duties as Directors.
The Chairman considers the individual training and development needs of each Director.
The Company Secretary keeps the suitability of external courses under review and facilitates the ongoing training and development of all Directors as necessary.
Annual Report 2017 Morgan Advanced Materials 61 Governance Corporate governance continued oversight, enabling it to carry out its duties effectively.
The Board believes Performance evaluation that there is scope for further development and improvement to oversee Following the externally facilitated review conducted in 2015, the Board the delivery of the Groups strategy and to ensure that the Board operates conducted an internal Board performance evaluation in 2016 and again effectively and in a timely manner during a period of change.
Proposed in 2017, both led by the Chairman, with the aim of identifying ways to actions include the following: improve effectiveness.
Consider the skills mix on the Board, and specifically geographical In 2017, the process for the evaluation of the Board and its Committees representation, should the need arise to recruit an additional was as follows: non-executive Director.
All Board members completed questionnaires, similar to those Continued focus on succession planning and the development of undertaken in 2016. leaders, building on the work of the two previous years, and monitoring initiatives implemented by executive management.
A report was produced summarising the results of the questionnaires and highlighting any significant changes from last year.
Recognising the amount of organisational change within the business, provide more opportunities for interaction with the senior The findings were presented to the Chairman.
The Chairman met with each Board member to discuss the outputs Continue to review the information provided to the Board to assess from the report.
The report was circulated to the Board, which had a full discussion on Communicate the views of the major shareholders to the Board.
the results and comments at its November meeting and subsequently agreed an action plan.
Actions were taken during the year to implement the recommendations made following the 2016 internal Board performance review and in the The Board continuously monitors its own performance to ensure that case of execution of the strategic priorities and focus on business leadership, it provides the Group with the right blend of leadership and strategic the work is ongoing.
The next independent external review is due in 2018.
Recommendations from the 2016 Board performance review and actions implemented during 2017 Recommendations from 2016 Action taken progress made during 2017 Quality of Board papers and Group financial reporting.
Noting Improvements have been made to Board papers, for example the three progress made in this area, further work to be undertaken to ensure year strategic plans for each global business unit, presented to the Board inputs to the Board are suitably succinct and clearly focused.
in June 2017, followed a standard format, including market and competitive environment, selection of growth building blocks and the strategy and resourcing required to pursue them.
Succession planning and business leadership.
Continued focus on The Board reviewed the Groups leadership capability and succession talent management and development, one of the Groups strategic planning arrangements in September 2017, including key initiatives priorities.
designed to develop leadership and manage future talent.
A number of senior appointments were made in 2017.
Morgans leadership framework, including the Leadership behaviours, was rolled out in the year.
Non-executive Director time together and induction of those Site visits in September and November 2017 increased the time that recently appointed non-executive Directors spent together and their knowledge of Morgans businesses, products, operations, risks and environment, health and safety performance.
The induction pack for new Directors is continuously reviewed to ensure it remains relevant.
62 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2017 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The non-executive Directors, led by Douglas Caster, the Senior Internal control Independent Director at the time, met without the Chairman present to The Board has overall responsibility for establishing and maintaining a evaluate the Chairmans performance during the year, taking into account sound system of internal control to safeguard shareholders investment the views of the executive Directors.
and the Groups assets and for reviewing the effectiveness of this system.
The system of internal control, and the role of the Audit Committee in Conflicts of interest ensuring its effectiveness, are set out in the Report of the Audit Committee on pages 64 to 67.
The Board has procedures in place to address the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 concerning the duty of the Directors to avoid conflicts of interest.
Accordingly, the Directors are required to: Relations with shareholders During 2017, the Chairman and other non-executive Directors attended Disclose proposed outside commitments before they are accepted in order to enable a prior assessment of any actual or potential conflict.
the full and half-year results presentations so that they were available to respond to any specific shareholder queries.
Disclose without delay any situation which gives rise to an actual or potential conflict.
Following the announcement of the Groups results and after other significant statements and presentations, investor opinion is canvassed The Board reviews the outside interests of the Directors annually, and any feedback is made available to the Board.
In addition, the Board including any disclosed conflicts and authorisations.
Should an actual or is provided with brokers reports and feedback from any shareholder potential conflict be identified, the Board considers whether to authorise meetings on a regular basis.
the situation in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and, if so, the terms of any authorisation.
In the event of an actual conflict To help facilitate dialogue with shareholders, the Investors section of arising, the Director concerned is to notify the Chairman the Chairman the Companys website includes details of Regulatory News Service would notify the Senior Independent Director and the Director would announcements, press releases, presentations, webcasts and other be denied access to the relevant information and excluded from any relevant Company and shareholder information.
Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting Following the 2017 review of any conflicts, no potential or actual conflicts were confirmed as having taken place during the year under review.
The Annual General Meeting AGM is usually attended by all members Neither of the current executive Directors holds any external nonof the Board and by a representative of the external auditor.
At the AGM executive directorships of other publicly-quoted companies.
held in May 2017, the Chief Executive Officer made a short business presentation.
Shareholders were invited to ask questions during the meeting and had the opportunity to meet the Directors and other Accountability members of senior management before and after the formal meeting.
Financial reporting The results of the proxy voting on all resolutions were released to the A summary of the statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of London Stock Exchange and published on the Groups website as soon the Annual Report and the financial statements is set out on pages 100 as practicable after the meeting.
to 104 and the going concern and viability statements are set out in the Strategic Report on page 40.
Information on share capital and other matters The information about share capital required to be included in this statement Business model and strategy can be found on pages 90 to 93 in the Other disclosures section.
Details of the Groups business model, how it is working to generate and sustain long-term value and details of the Boards strategy for ensuring the Group meets its objectives are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 12 to 13.
Annual Report 2017 Morgan Advanced Materials 63
