AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Introduction The Committee plays I am pleased to introduce the report of the Audit Committee for 2017. an important part in The Committee plays an important part in the governance of the Company with its principal the governance of activities focused on the integrity of financial reporting, quality and effectiveness of internal and external audit, risk management and the system the Company of internal control.
I have set out below the main matters considered by the Committee during the year and the conclusions drawn.
We meet formally at key times within our reporting calendar and the agendas for our meetings are designed to cover all significant areas of risk over the course of the year and to provide oversight and challenge to the key financial judgements, controls and processes that operate within the Company.
The Committee continues to keep its activities under review in the light of regulatory developments and the emergence of best practice.
Key topics for consideration in 2018 will be the Companys ongoing supply chain investment programme and the associated exceptional charges, together with the new General Data Protection Regulation which comes into effect during the year.
Cyber security matters continue to be a priority for the Committee, as do the Companys preparations for the implementation of IFRS 16 Leasing at the start of 2019.
Overall I am satisfied that the activities of the Committee enable it to gain a good understanding of the key matters impacting the Company during the year, along with oversight of the governance and operation of its key controls and ultimately to draw the conclusions set out in the report below.
Allison Kirkby Chair of the Audit Committee 27 February 2018 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 48 Directors Report Composition The Audit Committee is comprised of the following: Allison Kirkby Chair Helena Ganczakowski Peter McPhillips Sandra Turner It is the practice of the Company for all independent Non-Executive Directors to serve as members of the Audit Committee.
There have been no changes in the composition of the Committee during 2017.
Training is provided for any new members of the Audit Committee by way of a thorough induction process which includes access to the external auditor, the Head of Business Assurance and relevant members of management.
The Directors biographies on pages 38 and 39 detail the Committee members previous experience and demonstrate that they have experience individually in a range of disciplines relevant to Greggs business.
The Board considers that Allison Kirkby has recent and relevant financial experience.
Role and responsibilities The Terms of Reference of the Committee can be accessed at: http: corporate.
co. uk investor-centre corporate-governance company-documents.
The key responsibilities of the Audit Committee are: ensuring that the accounting and financial policies of the Company are proper and effective: assisting the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities by monitoring the integrity of the accounts and information published by the Company and reviewing significant financial judgements contained in them: advising the Board on whether it believes the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy: reviewing the internal financial controls and the Groups approach to risk management: oversight of whistle-blowing arrangements: monitoring compliance with the Listing Rules and the recommendations of the Governance Code: oversight of the Companys external and internal auditors and reviewing the effectiveness and objectivity of the audit process: and reporting to the Board on how it has discharged its responsibilities.
Meetings during the year The Audit Committee met four times during the year.
Details of Committee members attendance is given on page 41.
The Committee normally invites the Company Chairman, the Executive Directors, the Head of Business Assurance and the external auditor to attend its meetings.
Time is set aside bi-annually for discussion with the external auditor and with the Head of Business Assurance, in each case in the absence of all Executive Directors.
The Committee also has access to the Companys management team and to its auditor and can seek further professional advice, at the Companys cost, if required.
The Chair has regular contact with the Finance Director and internal and external auditors, in addition to scheduled Committee meetings to ensure that emerging issues are addressed.
She also has access to, and in 2017 made contact several times with, an audit partner independent of the partner responsible for the audit.
Financial reporting In 2017 the Audit Committee reviewed the 2016 annual report, interim results, preliminary results announcement and reports from the external auditor on the outcome of their reviews and audits.
During the year, and up to the date of this report, the Committee considered key accounting issues and judgements and related disclosures in the Groups accounts.
The significant areas of judgement considered by the Committee in relation to the accounts for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2017 are as follows: Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 49 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Area of focus Action taken Understanding and treatment of exceptional items The accounts include exceptional items in the current year.
The Committee considered the accounting requirements of IAS1 relating to the separate disclosure of material items of income or expense together with the FRCs Costs of 9,862,000 were incurred in 2017 2016: 5,177,000 guidance on the subject, with reference to the costs arising from the decision, relating to the restructuring of supply chain operations.
announced in March 2016, to invest in and reshape the Companys supply chain 7,458,000 of this is in respect of redundancy costs 2016: in order to support future growth.
3,961,000 with the balance relating to asset-related costs and The Committee ensured that consistent principles were established and agreed with other contractual obligations.
the external auditor early in the process and that reporting was suitably clear.
The Asset-related costs comprise acceleration of depreciation for Committee gave careful consideration to the judgements made in the separate assets with an expected reduction in useful life as a result of the disclosure of non-underlying items, both in respect of events occurring in 2017 and restructuring and the cost of disposing of assets which are no also changes in circumstance in respect of provisions relating to events from prior longer required.
years, ensuring that the annual report as a whole presents a balanced view, including the presentation of GAAP and non-GAAP measures.
It concluded that separate disclosure should be made of items of expenditure incurred in 2017 related to the supply chain investment programme.
Dilapidations Dilapidation provisions have been made based on the future The Committee reviewed managements assessment of the need for dilapidation expected repair costs required to restore the Groups leased provisions, together with the movement in the provision during the year, and buildings to their fair condition at the end of their respective lease concluded that the principles applied were appropriate.
terms, where it is considered a reliable estimate can be made.
The balance held in respect of dilapidation provisions at the end of the year was 2,956,000 2016: 3,243,000.
Accounting for defined benefit pension schemes The determination of the defined benefit obligation depends on the Pension scheme liabilities are assessed on behalf of the Company by independent selection of certain assumptions including the discount rate, inflation actuaries.
The Committee assessed the underlying assumptions and concluded that rates and mortality rates.
they were appropriate and also discussed the appropriateness of the assumptions with the external auditor.
There was a change in one of the assumptions used during the year in order to more closely align them with those used by the scheme actuary when conducting the triennial valuation.
Allowance has now been made for the commutation of pensions by members on retirement based on the actual scheme experience.
The net liability held in relation to defined benefit pension schemes at the end of 2017 was 7,506,000 2016: 22,851,000.
Fair, balanced and understandable The Committee is responsible for advising the Board on whether The Committee received a report from the Head of Business Assurance who is not it believes the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, involved in the preparation of the annual report and accounts and who conducted an balanced and understandable.
The following factors were considered during the course of this review: ensuring that all the statements are consistent with one another: verifying that figures in the narrative sections are consistent with the relevant financial detail: identifying any duplication of information: ensuring that the disclosure of non-underlying items is balanced: confirming that bad news is included, as well as good news: and highlighting any inappropriate use of technical language or jargon.
The Audit Committee considered the feedback from this report alongside its own review of the annual report and accounts when making its recommendation to the Board regarding fair, balanced and understandable.
Going concern The accounts continue to be prepared on a going concern basis.
Information provided by the Finance Director regarding future financial plans, risks and liquidity is presented to the Committee to enable it to determine whether the going concern basis of accounting remained appropriate.
The Committee reviewed and challenged the assumptions used and concluded that the Board is able to make the going concern statement on page 45 of the Directors report.
Viability Revisions to the UK Corporate Governance Code in 2015 introduced The Committee reviewed the process undertaken by management to support and a new requirement for the Board to consider the period over which allow the Directors to assess the Groups long-term prospects and make its viability they are able to conclude that the Company will remain viable, statement.
The Committee considered and provided input into the determination of having taken into account severe but plausible risks and risk which of the Groups principal risks and combinations thereof might have an impact combinations.
On account of this being a relatively new on the Groups liquidity and solvency.
The Committee reviewed the results of requirement, the Committee considered this to be a significant managements scenario modelling and the stress testing of these models.
Committee reviewed and challenged the assumptions used and concluded that the Board is able to make the viability statement on page 35 of the strategic report.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 50 Directors Report The Committee also considered other key accounting issues and related disclosures in the Groups accounts as follows: whether any changes in accounting policy were required following changes in the business or in legislation: whether the Companys tax policy remains appropriate: the impact of changes in accounting standards and their relevance, if any, to the Company: and reports from the Company Secretary and Finance Director which assess the Companys compliance with the Listing Rules.
Two areas which were previously considered to be significant accounting for onerous leases and shop asset impairment are no longer included above as the amounts provided have been utilised to such an extent that they are no longer material.
As a result the Committee does not consider the judgements required to be significant to the accounts.
External audit Assessing external audit effectiveness The Audit Committee discussed and agreed the scope of the audit with the external auditor and agreed their fees in respect of the audit.
The Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the external audit in line with the Financial Reporting Councils Practice aid for audit committees May 2015.
It considered the results of external quality inspections by the Audit Quality Inspection Team on other KPMG clients.
It sought feedback from senior management, by way of a detailed questionnaire, in respect of the effectiveness of the audit process with particular reference to audit planning and design and audit execution.
The Committee also considered the effectiveness of the audit through the reporting from and communications with the auditor and an assessment of the auditors approach to key areas of judgement and any errors identified during the course of the audit.
The Committee concluded that the audit was effective and that the relationship and effectiveness of the external auditor be kept under review.
Appointing the auditor and safeguards on non-audit services KPMG has been the Companys auditor for more than 20 years and the transitional rules in the EU Directive require an initial change of audit firms no later than 2020.
Having reappointed KPMG in 2014 following a competitive tender, the Committee expects to change audit firms in accordance with the requirements of the EU directive.
The Committee will continue to consider annually whether to conduct an audit tender for audit quality or independence reasons.
The current audit partner is Mick Thompson who has held the role since 2013.
He retires by rotation after the conclusion of the 2017 audit and will be replaced by Nick Plumb.
The Audit Committee confirms that the Company complies with the Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory use of Competitive Tender Process and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014.
It is the responsibility of the Committee to monitor the independence and objectivity of the external auditor including the impact of any non-audit work undertaken by it and its suitability for re-appointment.
The Company has a formal policy to ensure that the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor for non-audit work does not compromise the auditors independence or objectivity.
It monitors the level and type of non-audit fees on an annual basis and ensures that the overall level of non-audit fees remains in line with current ethical guidance governing the accounting profession.
The Audit Committee favours a presumption that non-audit work will be awarded to a firm other than the audit firm unless there is a good reason to use the auditor.
An annual base plan for non-audit fees paid to the external auditor is agreed in advance by the Audit Committee.
Expenditure in accordance with this plan can then be committed without further referral to the Audit Committee.
Expenditure that is not included in the agreed plan is subject to strict authority limits and is reviewed by the Committee.
During 2017, in response to the implementation of the EC Audit Directive and Regulation in the UK, new providers were appointed in respect of taxation services that had previously been provided by KPMG.
All use of the external auditor for non-audit work must be reported to and approved by the Committee.
In circumstances where non-audit fees are significant relative to the audit fee an explanation would be provided in the subsequent Audit Committee Report.
In addition, the Audit Committee ensures that the external auditor has its own policies and is subject to professional standards designed to safeguard their independence as auditor.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 51 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED The Audit Committee has reviewed whether, and is satisfied that, the Companys auditor, KPMG LLP, continues to be objective and independent of the Company.
KPMG LLP did perform non-audit services during 2017 for the Group but the Audit Committee is satisfied that its objectivity was not impaired by such work.
In 2017, the charge to the income statement in respect of non-audit fees paid to KPMG LLP and related KPMG operations amounted to 17,000 which is 11 per cent of the audit fee for the year and related to audit of turnover statements required by shop landlords and pension scheme audits.
Reappointment of auditor In accordance with Section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, a resolution for the reappointment of KPMG LLP will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Risk management and internal control Internal control The Committee reviewed the Companys internal control environment to satisfy itself that procedures are in place to ensure that assets are well protected, authority levels for expenditure are clear, segregation of duties exists and performance is regularly monitored.
Processes are in place to ensure that key controls are being operated and compliance with these processes is the subject of inspection by the Internal Audit team and subsequent review by the Audit Committee.
Whistle-blowing The Companys whistle-blowing policy is made available to all employees through the intranet, as well as via posters displayed across the business.
This gives information regarding how to raise a concern in strict confidence.
Two reports were made during the year, relating to inappropriate management behaviour and product theft.
Both events were reported directly to the Chair of the Audit Committee by telephone or email.
The case of low level theft related to our franchise operation, and this was referred to the relevant franchise partner for action.
The issue concerning management behaviour was investigated internally, and appropriate action taken by senior management to address the matter.
The outcome of both matters was reported to the Board during the year.
The Companys whistle-blowing policy was last subject to a detailed review in 2016 and updated to align with best practice.
The Audit Committee is confident that it remains appropriate and fit for purpose.
Risk management process The Audit Committee undertakes a review of the risk management process in the Group at least annually, as set out in its terms of reference.
The process is detailed on page 33, and has been reviewed by the Committee to confirm its appropriateness in light of the risks identified.
The key areas that the Committee has specifically considered are as follows: Area of focus Action taken The Audit Committee considers areas of new and emerging risk which have been identified by the New and emerging risks business via the Risk Committee.
It assesses these for completeness, and raises any other areas which it believes should be documented within the Companys risk register.
The Companys approach to cyber risk and information security is considered at every Audit Committee Cyber risk and information security meeting, by receiving a regular update on activity.
During the year, this has included consideration of the Companys preparation for the General Data Protection Regulation GDPR.
The Committee received a training session from the external auditor to enhance their understanding of the new requirements.
The Committee has received reports on progress with the Companys transformation programme, Business transformation including supply chain investment and SAP implementation.
The proposed disclosure of principal risks and uncertainties was prepared by the Risk Committee, Review of principal risks based on its discussions during the year.
The statement was then considered and approved by the and uncertainties Audit Committee.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 52 Directors Report Internal audit The work of the internal audit function is set out in more detail within the principal risks and uncertainties statement on pages 33 to 37 of this annual report.
The team is led by the Head of Business Assurance, supported by the Risk Manager, the Information Security & Compliance Manager and 14 auditors.
The majority of the audit team work across the retail estate to provide assurance over the Companys retail operations.
We have strengthened our resource allocated to information security with a temporary appointment, to assist with GDPR preparation.
The Audit Committee approves the annual plan for the team and monitors progress against that plan.
The effectiveness of the internal audit team and its level of resource are reviewed by the Committee at least annually.
This review includes assessing the delivery of the audit plan, considering the functions output across the year, and evaluating customer feedback received by the team.
Committee effectiveness Each year the Committee reviews critically its own performance, assisted by consideration of a series of questions, and considers where improvements can be made.
Allison Kirkby Chair of the Audit Committee 27 February 2018 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 53
