GOVERNANCE REPORT CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION Following our Board evaluation at the beginning of the We have enjoyed year, and in anticipation of the planned consultation, we decided that we would take the opportunity to find new ways of engaging with our people and listening to a period of stability their views during a time of significant change.
on the Board As a first step, in the Autumn Peter McPhillips and I attended a meeting with the Greggs Negotiating Committee, which is made up of elected union officials from supply chain and retail.
Having explained our role as Non-Executive Directors, we were asked questions about Board decision-making and the application of Greggs values, the independence of Non-Executive Directors and potential conflicts of interest, and the importance of ensuring that the impact of decisions on peoples lives is always given proper consideration.
Dear Shareholder, As part of our Board deliberations, we always apply I am pleased to introduce our governance report, the Companys values in making strategic decisions which follows on pages 41 to 47. whilst recognising the necessity for judgement calls to protect our competitiveness and future growth.
In 2017, the executive team undertook an extensive At a time when the Government is consulting on consultation exercise to explain to our people in more changes to the Corporate Governance Code, our detail what impact our 100 million investment in our experience is that there is great value to be had from supply chain could have on their working lives.
This ensuring that people most affected by Board decisions included shift changes, new contractual terms in some have the opportunity to make their views known instances, different and reduced product ranges as we directly to Non-Executive Directors.
move to create centres of excellence and, regrettably, some job losses by reason of redundancy, as we come The corporate governance statement, together to the end of our programme in 2019. with the reports of the Audit and Remuneration Committees on pages 48 to 69, explain how our governance framework operates and how we oversee both the performance of the Company and also the general understanding and application of the values for which Greggs is known.
Leadership and culture are central to this, supported by the programme to improve systems and processes, together with regular discussion regarding risks and risk management.
The Board is accountable to shareholders for governance and I have continued to meet with some of our largest shareholders.
In 2017, I was accompanied by Helena Ganczakowski at those sessions, ensuring that our shareholders have access to a broader range of our Non-Executive Directors.
All of our Directors will be seeking re-election at our AGM to be held on 9 May 2018.
We have enjoyed a period of stability on the Board and this reflects the continued enthusiasm of a high-performing management team working well with Non-Executive Directors who bring a balance of relevant backgrounds and gender to Board discussions.
We were delighted to have been recognised in the Hampton-Alexander Review, published in November 2017, as a top ten FTSE 250 Company for Women on Boards and in Leadership.
I look forward to welcoming as many shareholders as possible to our AGM.
Ian Durant Chairman 27 February 2018 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 40 Directors Report GOVERNANCE REPORT The Company is subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
Did you The edition of the Code issued in April 2016 applied throughout the 2017 financial year.
This governance know report, together with information contained elsewhere within the Directors report, describes how the relevant principles and provisions of the Governance Code were applied in 2017 and will be relevant to We were the Company for the 2018 financial year.
recognised in the Hampton-Alexander The Company has been a constituent of the FTSE 250 Index throughout 2017, and maintains a Premium Review, published listing on the London Stock Exchange.
in November 2017, as a top ten FTSE The Board confirms that it was compliant with the Governance Code throughout the year, and all of 250 company for the policies and terms of reference referred to in this report are available on the corporate website women on Boards at http: corporate.
The Board Effectiveness The Chairman chairs the Nominations Committee whose primary function is to consider the blend of skills and experience that the Directors bring to the Board.
This includes independent and objective experience of food retailing and manufacturing, finance, marketing, property and corporate finance to complement the existing skills and experience of the Executive Directors.
The Board meets regularly to discharge its duties.
At these meetings it reviews strategy, financial performance against key indicators, resources, risk management and other matters reserved for the Board.
Whilst executive responsibility for running the Companys business rests ultimately with the Chief Executive, the Non-Executive Directors ensure that the strategies proposed by the Chief Executive are fully discussed and critically examined prior to adoption.
During the year, the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors individually undertook a number of visits and meetings as part of the day-to-day running of the business, in order to ensure that they were sufficiently well-versed in operations to facilitate strong support and challenge.
Such visits included meetings with key suppliers, production centre visits and getting out into our own shops and those of our competitors, accompanied by members of the Operating Board and senior management.
Additionally, the Board met in Northern Ireland during the year and was able to experience first hand the directly-run and franchised shops that have been operating since we first entered the province in 2016.
The Board schedules six meetings per year and meets on an ad hoc basis as required.
Attendance at scheduled meetings held during the year is recorded in the table below, where the number of meetings actually attended are shown with the number of meetings that the individual could have attended.
Meeting attendance Audit Remuneration Nominations Main Board Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings held 6 4 2 1 Ian Durant Roger Whiteside Richard Hutton Helena Ganczakowski Allison Kirkby Peter McPhillips Sandra Turner Raymond Reynolds Raymond Reynolds stepped down from the Board following the AGM in May 2017.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 41 GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED All Directors are invited to attend the Audit Committee and the Chief Executive attends the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
The business conducted at Committee meetings is reported by the respective Chair at subsequent Board meetings.
In addition, the Non-Executive Directors meet formally twice each year and from time to time, as required.
Board modus operandi The Board has a policy on the separation of the roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The Chairman sets the agenda for Board meetings in accordance with a specific Schedule of Matters Reserved policy which is reviewed and approved annually, and ensures that the Board is supplied, in a timely manner, with information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
The Board considers that it effectively leads and controls the Company.
All Directors take decisions objectively and in the interests of the Company.
The Non-Executive Directors scrutinise the performance of management in meeting agreed goals and objectives and monitor the reporting of performance.
All Directors receive induction training on joining the Board and regularly update and refresh their knowledge through reading, attendance on relevant courses and or activities outside the Company.
In a change from previous practice, and following Raymond Reynolds stepping down from the Board, it was agreed that additional operating information would be made available to Non-Executive Directors in the expectation that this would add further colour to the debate and discussion at Board meetings.
Consequently, Board papers now include a summary of activity by each Operating Board director, together with a fuller and more detailed report attached should Non-Executive Directors wish to explore further any matter being reported.
Members of the Operating Board are invited to attend Board meetings on a rolling rota in order to participate in the Boards discussion on business performance and key issues.
This process also affords senior managers the opportunity to bring matters to the attention of the Board.
During the year, the Board received regular updates including: Developments on the two main strategic projects, being the implementation of SAP, and the 100 million investment in our supply chain.
Business performance in Northern Ireland.
The Gender Pay Gap report.
Sentencing Council guidelines in relation to regulatory convictions.
Customer insight, competitor activity, marketing and category plans.
Wage negotiations and people issues.
Food safety and health and safety.
The Board sets itself a Rolling Agenda, which facilitates agenda planning for scheduled meetings across the year.
In this way the Board monitors its activities and ensures that it is operating effectively.
Diversity The Board believes it is in the best interests of the Company to bring more women through to the top levels of the organisation and, as a result of this belief, a programme launched in 2012 to encourage women to strive for the most senior positions in the business.
Our gender reporting is now contained on page 32 of the strategic report.
The progress that the Board has made in its diversity policy was recognised by the Hampton-Alexander Review published in November 2017, when we were recognised as a top ten FTSE 250 Company for Women on Boards and in Leadership.
Succession, and development The Board is satisfied that a process is in place for orderly succession to the Board and to positions of senior management, so as to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience within the Company and on the Board.
The Chief Executive meets with the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors on a regular basis in order that succession and development plans can be drawn up for Executive Directors and members of the Operating Board.
All Directors are able to receive training and to take independent professional advice at the expense of the Company.
They also have direct access to the Company Secretary, who is responsible for advising the Board on all governance matters.
Evaluation The performance of the Board, its Committees and of all Directors is evaluated annually by a formal and rigorous process.
Later in 2018, the Board will be conducting its second  evaluation.
In anticipation of this more detailed review, for 2017 the Board conducted its own evaluation which consisted of a question-based review which resulted in a series of themes that were debated at a Board meeting.
The emerging themes included a review of our risk disclosures, looking forward on Board Succession planning, harvesting best practice from Non-Executive Director experience on other boards, and considering how to engage better with stakeholders in meeting Companies Act S172 obligations.
Consequently, it was agreed that specific actions should include a Non-Executive Director attending a Risk Committee meeting and the creation of a stakeholder engagement data map for subsequent review by the Board.
As a key part of the ongoing evaluation process, the Chairman also meets with the Non-Executive Directors at least annually without the Executive Directors present, and also has one-to-one sessions with every member of the Board.
The Senior Independent Director meets the Non-Executive Directors annually without the Chairman present to appraise the Chairmans performance.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 42 Directors Report Election and re-election of Directors The Board has resolved that, in line with Governance Code provision B.
7.1, all Directors will be subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
Following recommendation by the Nominations Committee, all of the Non-Executive Directors who will offer themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting are considered by the Board to be independent in character and judgement and to be free from any business or other relationship or circumstance which is likely to affect or to interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The Non-Executive Directors, chaired by the Senior Independent Director, have also specifically considered the Chairmans commitment to the Company in light of his Chairmanships of two other FTSE 250 Companies.
The Non-Executive Directors had noted that the Chairman had stepped down from the Boards of two other FTSE 250 companies in September 2016.
The review included an assessment of his ongoing engagement with the business, evidenced by his numerous shop, manufacturing and distribution centre visits and meeting with the Greggs Negotiating Committee see page 40, his one off meetings with members of the Operating Board and his ongoing dialogue with ex-employees, key stakeholders, industry experts and face-to-face meetings with shareholders.
The Non-Executive Directors also considered the potential risk and mitigants of the Chairman not being available to the Greggs Board in a situation which might demand more of his time and attention.
The conclusion drawn was that the Chairman evidences a very high level of commitment to Greggs plc which is not affected by his roles with other companies, and the Non-Executive Directors would encourage all shareholders to support his re-appointment as Chairman.
Board Committees The Board delegates some of its activities to the following committees, each of which has written terms of reference, which are available on the Companys website.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to and is generally in attendance at each of these committees, and each of the committees is provided with sufficient resources to undertake its duties.
The Audit Committee currently consists of four independent Non-Executive Directors: Allison Kirkby Chair, Helena Ganczakowski, Peter McPhillips and Sandra Turner.
The Committee met four times in the year, and a fuller report on its activities is set out on pages 48 to 53.
The Remuneration Committee currently consists of four independent Non-Executive Directors: Sandra Turner Chair, Helena Ganczakowski, Allison Kirkby and Peter McPhillips.
The Committees main duties which it discharged during the year are detailed within the Directors remuneration report which is set out on pages 54 to 69 of this annual report.
Shareholders approved the current Remuneration Policy at the AGM held on 19 May 2017, and this is included on pages 56 and 57 for the sake of expediency.
The Chairmans fees are reviewed annually and set by the Executive Directors, following the general policy of everyone in the Company receiving the same basic level of pay award.
The Nominations Committee currently comprises Ian Durant Chairman and all of the Non-Executive Directors.
The Committees main functions which it discharged during the year are to review the balance and constitution of the Board: to advise the Board as to whether Directors should be nominated for re-election by the members: and to approve and manage the process for setting the specification for all Board appointments, identifying candidates who meet that specification and making recommendations to the Board on the basis of merit and compliance with objective criteria in respect of all new Board appointments.
In recruiting additional Directors the Nominations Committee defines the role and uses external consultants to assist in identifying suitable candidates from which the Committee selects a short list and conducts interviews.
The final candidate is then subject to formal recommendation by the Committee and approval by the Board.
The Nominations Committee did not seek external consultancy support during 2017.
Following appointment, new Directors are subject to an in-depth tailored induction process.
In the case of Non-Executive Directors, this includes meeting with members of the Operating Board, visiting bakeries, shops and offices, and being provided with an extensive Board Handbook which contains key information and policies that are relevant to the position.
For new Executive Directors, and Non-Executive Directors for whom the appointment is their first to a UK-listed company, the induction includes details of the legal duties and obligations of being a Director of the Company.
New Non-Executive Directors are also encouraged to provide formal feedback of their first months on the Greggs Board during a Board meeting.
Risk management Details of the Companys principal risks and the management of them are set out within the Strategic Report, and given on pages 33 to 37.
The Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control covering all material controls, including financial, operational, compliance and risk management systems during the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 43 GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Relations with shareholders The Board ensures that there is effective communication with individual and institutional shareholders through the announcement of regular trading updates, as well as general presentations after announcement of the interim and preliminary results and the posting of results on the Companys website.
The Board receives reports on any comments received from shareholders and market analysts following these presentations.
The Chief Executive and the Finance Director carry out extensive engagement with institutional shareholders and market analysts, either meeting them as part of Company presentations and briefings, individual meetings, or on telephone calls.
During the year the Chairman met with two institutional shareholders with significant shareholdings, Standard Life Aberdeen plc, and MFS Investment Management, currently the largest shareholder.
On both occasions the Chairman was accompanied by Helena Ganczakowski.
The Chairman adopts an ongoing policy of arranging to meet with major shareholders, and the Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to attend meetings and events which provide them with the opportunity to engage generally with the investment community.
During the last quarter of 2016, the Remuneration Committee chair had engaged with institutional shareholders representing over 50 per cent of the issued share capital, as part of the consultation on the proposed Remuneration Policy which was put to shareholders at the AGM in May 2017.
Following that engagement, the Board was pleased to receive the support of 94% of voting shareholders for the revised Remuneration Policy.
The Company Secretary and the Companys Brokers draw the attention of the Board to all relevant shareholder communications.
The Board also reviews briefings and comments by analysts and shareholders in order to maintain an understanding of market perceptions of the Company.
The Board reviews at each meeting an analysis of the share register, noting all significant changes.
The Annual General Meeting AGM is well attended, and a short presentation of business performance is given to attendees by the Chief Executive although no non-public sensitive information is shared.
The Chairman and the Chairs of the Board Committees are available to answer any issues raised and any newly-appointed Directors being available to meet shareholders.
During informal sessions both before and after the meeting, the Chairman, and all Directors are available to meet with any of the 60 or so individual private shareholders who are in attendance.
This is in addition to the opportunity given to shareholders to ask questions of the Board during the formal meeting, which session is always welcomed by those in attendance.
In 2017, information stalls were set up at the entrance to the meeting informing shareholders of the Companys progress on key social responsibility topics.
At each AGM, the balance of proxy votes cast for and against each resolution and the number of abstentions is displayed.
All substantial issues, including the receipt of the annual report and accounts, are proposed at the AGM as separate resolutions.
All resolutions were strongly supported by shareholders, and were determined by poll, in accordance with best practice.
The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if they have concerns which they have not been able to resolve through the normal channels of the Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director, or for circumstances where such contact would not be appropriate.
The Company provides on its website www.
co. uk a significant amount of information both about its customer offerings in the bakery food-on-the-go market, as well as detailed information on the governance arrangements.
Substantial shareholdings At 27 February 2018 the only notified holdings of substantial voting rights in respect of the issued share capital of the Company which may have altered since the date of such notification, without any requirement for the Company to have been informed were: Percentage Number of of issued shares held share capital MFS Investment Management 5,314,697 5.25% Standard Life Aberdeen plc 5,036,488 4.98% BlackRock Inc. not notified 5% Accountability, audit and going concern The Board acknowledges its responsibility to present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
In order to assist the Board to comply with the requirements within the Governance Code, the Audit Committee was requested to undertake an assessment of the annual report and to make a recommendation to the Board.
This request has been enshrined within the Audit Committees terms of reference, which are available at corporate.
The actions undertaken by the Audit Committee in confirming its advice to the Board included the consideration of a detailed review that has been undertaken by the Head of Business Assurance and reviewing the annual report as a whole to confirm that it presents a fair, balanced and understandable assessment.
In considering the advice of the Audit Committee, and having reviewed the annual report including the contents of the strategic report on pages 03 to 37, together with the statutory accounts themselves, the Board duly considers the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the necessary information for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model, and strategy.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 44 Directors Report A statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the preparation of accounts is given on page 70.
A statement of auditors responsibilities is given in the report of the auditor on page 75.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts see basis of preparation on page 81.
The Boards viability statement made in accordance with Code provision C. 2.2: can be found on page 35.
Policies Freedom of association At Greggs, we recognise the right of all employees to freedom of association and collective bargaining.
Whilst we do not have a formal Freedom of Association policy, the Company encourages all its employees in bakeries, shops and offices to become, and remain, members of a union.
Bribery and corruption Greggs has an Anti-Bribery and Corruption policy which applies to all employees and prohibits the offering, giving, seeking or acceptance of any bribe in any form to any person or company by acting on its behalf, in order to gain an advantage in an unethical way.
Business conduct We have a specific policy that sets out the standards of ethical behaviour that are expected of all employees.
All graded managers, and members of the procurement department, are required to make an annual confirmation of their compliance with the policy.
Whistle-blowing Our whistle-blowing policy creates an environment where employees are able to raise concerns without fears of disciplinary action being taken against them as a result of any disclosure.
Any matters raised are treated in confidence and an independent review will be undertaken where it is appropriate.
The Chair of the Audit Committee is the designated first point of contact for any concerns which cannot be addressed through normal management processes.
Political donations Greggs has a clear policy forbidding political donations or contributions.
This includes financial and in-kind contributions made by the Company.
Disclosure of information to the auditor Each of the Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors report confirms that, so far as they are individually aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and that they have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 45
