Overview 01 03 Strategic Report 04 43 Governance 44 74 Financial Statements 75 129 Other Information 130 132 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 | 53 Audit Committee report The Audit Committee continues to address its key responsibilities and to respond effectively to changes in the Groups business environment.
David Blackwood Chairman of the Audit Committee Dear Shareholder, Key Responsibilities On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present my third report The Committee works with the full Board to full its oversight as the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Its primary functions are to: Membership and Process Monitor the integrity of the financial statements and other The following Directors served on the Audit Committee information provided to shareholders to ensure they represent the Committee during 2017: me as Chairman, Alan McWalter a clear and accurate assessment of the Groups position, Senior Independent Director until the end of 2017, Jane Ashcroft performance, strategy and prospects: and Mary McNamara each of whom are independent NonConsider the financial statements and recommend to the Executive Directors.
Mary McNamara who was appointed to Board on whether the Annual Report and Accounts, taken the Board and this Committee on 1 March 2017.
Martin Pexton as a whole, are fair, balanced, understandable and provides resigned from the Board and this Committee on 3 February 2017 information necessary for shareholders to assess the so did not attend any meetings in 2017. performance, business model and strategy of the Group, recognising the changes to the strategy of the business and Alan McWalter retired from the Board and this Committee on accounting changes such as the amortisation of trade names: 31 January 2018 and I would like to record my thanks to him for Review significant financial reporting issues and judgements his support and guidance whilst serving on the Audit Committee.
contained in the financial statements: All other Committee members served through to the date of this report.
Review the systems of accounting, internal control and risk management: The Board is satisfied that I have, as Chairman of the Monitor and review the significant risks identied by the Group Committee, recent and relevant financial experience together as well as the management and mitigation of those risks: with competence in accounting and auditing that can be appropriately and successfully applied at Dignity.
In addition, Oversee and maintain an appropriate relationship with the the Committee has a broad range of experience across a Groups external auditors and review the effectiveness, number of sectors that are relevant to Dignity.
The Company independence and objectivity of the external audit process: Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
I report the Monitor and review the effectiveness of the internal audit Committees deliberations at the next Board meeting and the function: review the internal audit plan: all internal audit minutes of each meeting are made available to all members reports: review and monitor managements responses to the of the Board.
findings and recommendations of the internal audit function: and maintain an effective relationship with the Head of The Committee met three times during 2017: in March prior to Internal Audit: and the release of the Preliminary Announcement for 2016: prior to Monitor and review the arrangements by which employees can, the release of the Interim Announcement for 2017 in July: and in confidence, raise concerns about any possible improprieties again in December 2017 immediately prior to the end of the in financial and other matters such as compliance with the financial period.
The Committee also met in March 2018 prior Bribery Act.
to the release of the Preliminary Announcement for 2017.
The attendance records of the members are shown on page 50.
The terms of reference of the Committee are available on the The external auditors EY, the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Groups corporate website at www.
Finance Director, the Operations Director, the Corporate Services Director, the Head of Internal Audit and the Financial Controller Activities in the period have all attended meetings by invitation.
The key activities of the Committee during the period were: The Committee holds a private session with the Lead Partner It completed a comprehensive review of the 2016 and 2017 from our external auditors without management present at least Annual Report and Accounts and the 2017 Interim Report.
In addition, I, as Chairman of the Audit Committee, This review was to ensure that the Committee were completely met with the Lead Partner a total of two times through the year satisfied that the information was fair, balanced and to provide the opportunity for open communication and the free understandable.
As part of this review the Committee received ow of any concerns relating both to the openness, transparency reports from the external auditors on their audit of that Annual and general engagement of management with the audit process Report and their review of the interim results.
The Committee as well as to understand EYs assessment of key judgements also reviewed the Preliminary and Interim Announcements as they arise.
made to the London Stock Exchange: Member Since Experience At all meetings it reviewed reports made by Internal Audit which included the review of progress against the plan for the period, David Blackwood 2015 Previously CFO of Synthomer plc, Chartered Accountant and Fellow the results of principal audits and other significant findings, of the Association of Corporate adequacy of managements responses and the timeliness Treasurers.
of resolution of actions arising: Jane Ashcroft 2012 Currently CEO of Anchor, Fellow Review and agreement of the three year rolling plan for of ICSA and Member of CIPD.
Internal Audit: Mary McNamara 2017 Previously CEO of the Commercial Division of Close Brothers Bank, and held a number of leadership roles within GE Capital.
54 | Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Audit Committee report continued A six month review and recommendation of formal adoption External audit to the full Board of the Risk Register.
This is part of a formal The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, ongoing process of identifying, evaluating and managing the implementation and monitoring of the Groups policy on external significant risks faced by the Group.
An additional review of the audit.
This policy assigns responsibility for monitoring objectivity, Risk Register was also completed in March 2018.
The principal independence and compliance with ethical and regulatory risks facing the Group are considered on pages 34 to 36 of requirements to the Audit Committee with day to day the Annual Report: responsibility assigned to the Finance Director, Steve Whittern.
The Committee also retains responsibility for the appointment Formally review the going concern assumptions adopted in and removal of the external auditors, who are currently EY.
the preparation of the 2016 and 2017 financial statements: The Audit Committee, on an annual basis, formally considers the Completion of a comprehensive review of Dignitys risk control performance and independence of the external auditors.
The framework and its linkage to the Risk Register and Viability formal annual review was completed in the first quarter of 2018.
Statement included in the Strategic Report on page 36: This review took the form of a detailed questionnaire that was The Committee discussed the annual external audit plan in sent to all Committee members and attendees at the Committee advance of the period end with the external auditors, which meetings.
The respondents were asked to grade all aspects of addressed the planned audit approach to key accounting areas: the service provided.
The Committee was, based on that review, and which indicated a strong level of confidence in the external auditors, fully satisfied with EYs performance in 2017 and a The Committee discussed the auditors views on key judgement resolution to re-appoint them as external auditors will be tabled areas and audit findings relating to key accounting matters at at the AGM on 7 June 2018. the conclusion of the audit.
The Committee confirms that during the year the Group has Areas that have been discussed and considered by the complied with the provisions of the Statutory Audit Services Committee in relation to the 2017 Annual Report are: for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Trade names we examined the judgement made that the Responsibilities Order 2014, as published by the UK useful life was no longer indefinite and the estimate that a Competition and Markets Authority.
35 year life should be ascribed, ensuring that the assessments made, and conclusions reached, were consistent with the Audit Policy on non-audit fees Committees collective understanding of the funeral business.
The Group has a rigorous and comprehensive policy on the use Impairment we considered the results of the impairment test of the external auditors for non-audit work.
The policy states that performed, ensuring that the assessment made and non-audit fees are limited to no more than 50 per cent of the conclusions reached were consistent with the analysis and annual audit fee unless there are exceptional circumstances, reected the changes in the funeral business.
which are dened as: Pensions we examined the assumptions used in the actuarial The work necessitates the use of the auditor for regulatory valuation for the dened benefit pension scheme considering reasons: and the consistency of approach with the prior year and compliance with the requirements of IAS 19.
Their use represents a material time cost benefit to the Group in conducting a transaction.
Risk a comprehensive review of the principal risks and uncertainties disclosed in the 2017 Annual Report based on the The policy also precludes the use of the external auditors for changing competitive environment in which the Group certain types of work.
All such work will be fully analysed in operates.
the Annual Report between tax compliance and advisory, non statutory acquisition related services and statutory services.
Pre-arranged funeral plans trusts the Committee considered Audit Committee approval is required prior to the work being the on-going treatment of the Trusts under IFRS 10 along with commenced and further disclosure of the works and the reasons the additional disclosure requirements of IFRS 12. for it being performed by the external auditors will be included A comprehensive review and ratication of the Viability in the following Annual Report.
The Audit Committee does not Statement for Dignity included in 2017 Annual Report.
envisage that non-audit fees payable to the external auditors will exceed 50 per cent other than in exceptional circumstances.
In the period, EY undertook no non-audit work on behalf of the Group except for their review of the Interim Report for 2017, completion of turnover certicates, a financial covenants compliance certicate and certications required as part of the Groups membership renewal of the FPA.
Total fees of 42,000 were charged for the non-audit services compared to 304,000 for audit services.
Overview 01 03 Strategic Report 04 43 Governance 44 74 Financial Statements 75 129 Other Information 130 132 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 | 55 The Committee is confident that the objectivity and Whistleblowing independence of the external auditors is not compromised A formal policy and procedure, established via the Committee, by reason of non-audit work, not least because such work will exists by which employees of the Group may, in confidence, raise generally be undertaken by other professional rms.
A formal concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting or statement of independence from EY has been received in other matters.
This ensures arrangements are in place for the respect of 2017. proportionate and independent investigation of such matters and appropriate follow-up action.
Whistleblowing reports are Audit partner rotation formally reviewed on an annual basis by the Committee or more Consistent with the requirements of the FRCs Ethical Standard, frequently should the need arise.
EY audit partners serve for a maximum of five years on listed clients.
This is the fourth year that Simon ONeill has been This Audit Committee report was reviewed and approved by Dignitys audit partner and EY have been the Groups auditors.
Work has begun to identify Simons successor.
The Audit Committee considers that the relationship with the David Blackwood auditors is working well and is satisfied with their effectiveness Chairman ofthe Audit Committee and there are no current plans to put the external audit out to tender although the Committee remains mindful of the UK 14 March 2018 Competition and Markets Authority requirement regarding tendering I have discussed above.
The Audit Committee has also kept under review the independence of EY and has been satisfied at all times that any threats arising to their independence have been subject to appropriate safeguards.
Internal Audit The Group has a dedicated Internal Audit team, which reports to the Corporate Services Director and the Audit Committee.
It coordinates the completion of self-assessment reports by operational management that assists in highlighting areas of control weakness or exposure.
Internal audit reviews are completed on such areas together with selected areas of the head oce function and any area where a Director or the Audit Committee requests a review.
During 2017 as in 2016, there were quarterly meetings between the Head of Internal Audit and the Executive Directors formally to review and discuss Internal Audits work programme and findings.
In addition, regular meetings between Internal Audit and the external auditors, EY, were held during the year to discuss and plan audit work and to ensure a complementary approach.
The Head of Internal Audit provides reports to the Audit Committee at every full meeting and met on a one to one basis with me, as the Chairman of the Audit Committee on three occasions in the period.
This process allows the Committee to monitor the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function as the Head of Internal Audit is available at all Committee meetings and all reports and their conclusions are comprehensively reviewed.
