48 | Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Executive Management Team The Executive Management Team consists of the Executive Directors and Senior Managers.
The role of the Executive Management Team The Executive Management Team is responsible for managing the detailed day to day tasks required to implement the strategy set by the Board.
Mike McCollum Steve Whittern Richard Portman Chief Executive Finance Director Corporate Services Director Full biography on page 46 Full biography on page 46 Full biography on page 46 Steve Wallis Alan Lathbury Andrew Judd Steve Gant Commercial Director Business Development Director of Funeral Operations Crematoria Director Director Steve joined what is now Dignity Alan joined what is now Dignity Andrew joined what is now Dignity Steve joined what is now in 1999.
He is responsible for all Dignity in 1988.
His key areas responsibility include Group Chartered Institute of aspects of the Groups day to day of responsibility are Dignitys Management Accountants and digital, pricing and proposition, provision of funeral services Crematoria and Cemetery marketing and external aairs.
holds an MBA in Business and through a nationwide network of Business.
He began his career in Finance.
His principle areas of Steve is also responsible for the employees, funeral locations and the crematoria industry in 1983 Groups pre-need business and responsibility are Business associated facilities.
and assumed management of Development of Crematoria, contact centre operations.
Steve is the crematorium division in Andrew has progressed through a Fellow of the Institute of Direct through acquisition of existing 2003.
Steve currently sits on the a variety of roles within both crematoria, building of new and Digital Marketing.
Executive for the Federation of the Co-operative Group and greeneld location crematoria and Burial and Cremation Authorities independent sectors.
He holds through partnerships with local FBCA and is part of the National a degree from Wolverhampton authorities to manage existing Cremation Working Group for the University in Economics and bereavement services.
Ministry of Justice, consulting on Business and holds additional the revision and update of the professional qualications in both Cremation Acts.
Funeral Service Management and Funeral Directing.
He has held oce in both the British Institute of Funeral Directors and National Association of Funeral Directors.
He is President for NAFD Western Counties Area Federation.
