MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC 61 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Financial reporting made.
The Viability Statement can be found on I can confirm that the Committee advised the page 39.
The going concern statement is on Board that we were satisfied the Annual Report page 88. and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced We noted that the FRCs Corporate Reporting and understandable.
Review team raised no significant issues in their Two elements of the financial statements are compliance review of our 2016 Annual Report potentially complex or higher risk, so required and Accounts.
Their specific comments were in the Committees careful attention: relation to certain technical disclosures within the financial statements section which the Asset valuation and impairment testing: we Group has considered when completing this reviewed managements estimates of future years Annual Report and Accounts.
trading and the calculations performed, together with the disclosures in the financial Internal and external audit statements, especially with regard to Independent and effective auditors are key sensitivity analysis.
elements of our internal control framework.
Revenue recognition: we considered the Dear Shareholder Weassessed both the internal and external Groups current accounting processes and On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present audit functions in the year and found both to the new accesso ticketing system, bearing in the Audit Committee the Committee Report beeffective.
mind the Groups predominantly cash-based for the financial year ended 30 December 2017.
The internal audit plan is risk based and business model.
Our work is organised around a standing agenda provides appropriate coverage of the We also monitored the Companys preparations of matters to be examined through the annual Groups operations.
We are satisfied with for new accounting standards: cycle supplemented by focused reviews on the content and quality of both reporting selected topics.
During the year these reviews For many businesses, IFRS 15 Revenue, bythe team and management responses.
covered financial and IT risks, including the which became effective at the start of 2018, We are satisfied with KPMGs ongoing steps being taken with regard to EU GDPR, as will have a noticeable impact.
At Merlin, the performance and their approach to the well as discussions on certain operational areas Groups relatively simple business model audit.
Their work makes an important highlighted through the work of internal audit.
means this area is less complex, so we do contribution to the integrity of the Groups not believe it will significantly change either reporting and again this year we have In performing these reviews we considered the our accounting processes or the way revenue received a clean audit opinion.
Given the controls by which the related risks were is reported.
requirement to retender the audit no managed to ensure they were appropriately IFRS 9 Financial instruments is also effective laterthan for the 2023 financial year, the addressed in the Groups processes.
Given the nature of the Groups Committee is mindful that the next regular Committee appreciated the open engagement financial instruments and having reviewed in KPMG partner rotation is after the 2019 of management.
particular its investments, we do not audit.
The Committee concentrated on the following envisage significant change arising from areas which are covered in more detail in this Looking forward implementing this new standard.
I have decided to retire from the Board so will IFRS 16 Leases becomes effective in 2019. not be standing for re-election: therefore this Merlins business model means the Group Committee membership and effectiveness is my final report as your Audit Committee has numerous leases, renting substantially all The external effectiveness review confirmed Chairman.
I have enjoyed my time at Merlin of its Midway properties, as well as land, that the Committee is effective, underpinned by and as Chair of the Audit Committee, buildings and infrastructure at certain of its the Committees deep financial and international and am grateful for the enthusiastic and theme parks.
The new standard therefore business experience, particularly in customer diligent support of the Committee.
has a significant impact and accordingly a facing and consumer businesses.
project to manage its implementation has I am delighted Trudy Rautio has agreed to take been ongoing for some time.
The conclusions over from me as Trudy has brought a lot to the Risk management and internal control drawn are that, given the lease portfolio is Committee since joining it two years ago, and I The Committee is satisfied that the Company relatively low volume, high value, we would wish her well.
has appropriate systems and procedures to expect the fully retrospective approach to identify, evaluate and manage material risks to be adopted.
In reaching this conclusion the Ken Hydon Committee has reviewed the Groups principal When providing the Board with reassurance on Chairman of the Audit Committee risks and uncertainties as set out on pages 37 the financial statements, the Audit Committee 28 February 2018 to 39 and is satisfied the Company is addressing also reviews the going concern and Viability them appropriately within its operating model, Statements, including how the Group assesses delivered through its three Committees: Health, its longer term solvency and liquidity within its Safety and Security: Commercial and Strategic business plans.
For the Viability Statement, we Risk Management: and Audit.
agreed the stress testing parameters together with the period over which the assessment was 62 MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT C ON T INUED 2.
Overseeing the overall risk management The role of the Audit Committee matters discussed provided to the Board at the process following meeting.
During the year the Committee reviewed In 2017 Effectiveness review Merlins overall risk management framework.
An external effectiveness review confirmed During the year an external effectiveness review At the end of the year the Companys risk the Committee continues to be effective.
of the Committee took place.
This was based management structure and processes, on a questionnaire sent to Committee together with the methodology by which The Committees responsibilities are as set out members, all other attendees and the Board on in its terms of reference, available on the riskmatters raised are brought to the a broad range of matters including the Companys website and summarised below.
attention of the Board, were examined Committees scope: organisation and meetings: anditwas concluded that risks were being Risk management and internal control quality of debate and challenge: and leadership.
The Groups risk To review and report on the effectiveness of The results showed the Committee to be management structure and principal risks the Companys internal financial controls and effective, with a small number of procedural areshown on pages 34 to 39. the overall risk management framework.
improvements that could be made which the To review the Companys arrangements for Committee will address in 2018.
Internal audit reviews the Groups risk its employees to raise concerns through its management and internal controls with the Risk management and internal control whistleblowing and fraud policies.
support of specialist experts as appropriate.
The annual risk based internal audit plan is Financial reporting In 2017 developed in conjunction with management, To monitor the integrity of the financial The Committee concluded that Merlin and approved by the Committee.
Internal audit statements of the Company and report to operates appropriate processes to assess results and management responses are then the Board on significant financial reporting theinternal control environment and that discussed and challenged at each Committee issues and judgements.
controls are in place to mitigate financial meeting.
The Committee reviews management To consider whether the Companys financial process risk.
actions in response to significant findings and statements are fair, balanced and looks at the root cause of consistent themes understandable.
The Board retains overall responsibility for the emerging across the Company.
Deep dive To consider the processes supporting the Companys internal controls and has delegated assessments are performed where necessary assessments that underpin the Viability responsibility to the Committee in two specific and in 2017 these related to future finance Statement.
systems, tax and treasury matters.
Monitoring the management of financial To monitor and review the effectiveness of External audit reviews the control process risk the Companys internal audit function.
KPMG The internal control and risk management To propose and select the external auditors present their view of Merlins control section on pages 34 and 35 shows how and then to oversee their performance and environment at the December meeting, Merlin separates its oversight of risk independence.
following their audit of such processes in the management into three risk areas: health, fourth quarter.
KPMG contribute to all the These responsibilities form the basis of an safety and security: commercial and strategic: regular Audit Committee meetings.
Whilst performing and financial process.
their work, the Committee is kept abreast of Whistleblowing systems and fraud bribery For financial process risks, management any changes in governance, legislation and mitigation remain responsible for establishing and guidance.
The Company has a good culture of maintaining adequate internal controls that encouraging its staff to report incidents of poor Membership and meetings are designed to manage, rather than practice.
This is reinforced through the work of Details of the Committees membership and eliminate, such risks.
Management, the Audit internal audit and local profit protection teams, meetings are outlined on pages 52 to 57.
Of the Committee and the Board monitor the a summary of whose work is reviewed by current Committee members, Ken Hydon and outcomes of the three levels of risk theCommittee.
Trudy Rautio both have recent and relevant management activity and assurance as set financial experience.
All of the Committee out below.
The Committee also receives regular updates members have relevant experience in relation on whistleblowing, including the quantity, source Level 1 documented delegated to the sector or markets the Group operates in and nature of incidents reported and how authority limits and purchasing and sale and all bring a variety of commercial experience.
price approval levels in place across the The CFO and other key members of Company.
management routinely attend meetings, as Level 2 frequent and regular review doother members of senior management processes of trading performance depending on the matter under discussion.
The together with detailed capital investment Chairman and the CEO attended most of the and strategic planning processes.
Private meetings are routinely held with internal audit and KPMG.
Level 3 self-assessment including The Committee also meets privately after each quarterly self-certification by business meeting.
Committee meetings usually take place unit finance heads.
ahead of Board meetings with a summary of MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC 63 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 the value of assets, and the disclosures The new system is being used to transact Financial reporting proposed for the Annual Report and anincreasing proportion of the Groups Accounts.
admissions revenues with completion In 2017 targeted for 2018.
During the year the We concluded that the financial statements The papers considered the valuation of Committee received regular updates on the appropriately address amounts reported and goodwill at an Operating Group level, disclosures, together with any significant progress of the project together with the individual brands and specific property, judgements and estimates.
identification and subsequent resolution of plantand equipment.
For each item, value issues that arose.
inuseand fair value calculations using an The two significant areas for review, asset appropriate EBITDA multiple were Going concern and viability review valuation and revenue, were appropriately provided.
Specific focus was given to Resort In reviewing and approving the going concern scrutinised by the Committee throughout Theme Parks Operating Group goodwill, and Viability Statements see pages 88 and 39 thereporting cycle.
where the risk is significant.
For this asset, respectively, we focused especially on the the Committee focused on how the value appropriateness of the key judgements, The Committee considered and approved inuse of assets is calculated, which involves assumptions and estimates underlying the the Groups going concern review and judgements of forecast cash flows, discount Companys plans together with a review of viability assessment.
rates used and the calculation of an assets compliance with key financial covenants.
For the viability assessment we considered the We reviewed the Groups impact In reviewing these valuations we considered outlook period in the context of the Groups assessments and implementation plans for the range of potential future trading business plan, its planned capital investment forthcoming new accounting standards, outcomes, taking into account managements cycles, new business development plans and notably those for revenue accounting, growth forecasts together with appropriate potential uncommitted capital projects and leasing, and financial instruments.
sensitivity analysis which reflect the risks acquisitions.
Accordingly we concluded that the inherent in these forecasts.
In appraising the four year outlook period adopted in our 2017 significant focus areas sensitivity analysis performed, the strategic planning processes is appropriate.
The two significant areas for review, asset Committee considered recent trading results valuation and revenue, were appropriately We considered the key risks identified by the which have particularly been affected by scrutinised by the Committee throughout Group as set out in the Principal Risks section adverse weather and terrorism and the thereporting cycle.
on pages 34 to 39 and any mitigating controls.
reflection of the possible continuation of This process enabled the Committee to assess 1.
The valuation of assets and impairment these factors in the downside sensitivities whether any material residual risks remained The Committee is satisfied that no and related mitigations presented.
that could pose a significant threat to the impairment is required and that the 2.
Revenue recognition viability of the business as a whole.
The risks presentation and disclosures in the financial The Committee has considered the roll out identified were those relating to safety incidents statements are appropriate and adequate.
of the accesso and the impact of acts of terrorism or sabotage.
admissions system together This follows detailed reviews of the basis of The Committee then reviewed appropriate with existing revenue recording systems.
In managements calculations and the findings sensitivity analyses in severe yet plausible both areas the Committee considered the ofthe external audit.
internal controls in place and concluded that scenarios that were performed to assess the Merlin operates in geographically and they remain effective.
possible impact of these risks and the Groups politically diverse areas, and the Groups resilience to them through controls and Revenue is generated by high volumes of low acquisitions have resulted in significant mitigating actions that could be taken.
value transactions in numerous jurisdictions balances of goodwill and intangible assets.
Although Merlins revenue New accounting standards Inaddition, the Groups ongoing strategy accounting policies require limited judgement The Committee reviewed the impact and includes opening attractions under both compared to some other sectors, the disclosures in the Annual Report of new existing and new brands, often in locations accuracy of financial reporting relies on accounting standards that are yet to become that are new to the Group and therefore, to robust internal controls over cash effective.
The most significant of these are as some degree, unproven.
While the Group reconciliations and accurate cut-off at the follows: has accumulated experience of opening reporting date in respect of advanced sales many attractions around the world, the IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with or payments in arrears by trade customers.
performance of additional attractions, customers is effective from the 2018 particularly in new markets, can be difficult During the year the Company continued its accounting period.
The Committee has to predict.
roll out of the accesso considered the potential impact in the admissions system context of the Companys primarily across the Group under the guidance of a As set out in note 3.3 to the financial cash-based business model and the nature senior steering group.
This group is chaired statements, valuations are performed by the Groups Chief Information Officer, of the Companys revenue transactions and basedon forward looking discounted cash and includes the CFO and other members of has concluded that the impact of IFRS 15 on flow forecasts and other market data the Groups senior finance team.
The project the Groups financial results will be low.
whichare inherently judgemental in nature.
roll out team includes finance resource that Managements detailed papers to the is responsible for designing and implementing Committee set out the methodology, appropriate financial processes and controls.
judgements and estimations adopted to test 64 MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT C ON T INUED During the year, audits were undertaken to IFRS 9 Financial instruments is effective Those areas of the Groups financial obtain an appropriate level of coverage across from the 2018 accounting period.
The new reporting considered to have required most the business which we measure on a rolling standard is not expected to materially judgement or the use of estimates, where change reported balances due to the the disclosures in this years financial twoyear basis.
In line with the plan approved by natureand quantum of the balances held statements have been expanded in line with the Committee, internal audits conducted over bythe Group.
the last two years have been at operations IFRS 16, the new standard on leasing, is The tax position of the Group, in particular representing approximately 95% of the Groups effective from 2019.
This will bring on the effective tax rate and the recognition annual revenue streams.
balance sheet substantially all of the Groups ofdeferred tax assets.
In addition to revenue generating locations, property leases and will have a significant Key assumptions in relation to defined work was performed over other areas including impact on the Groups financial procedures benefit pension schemes.
retail buying, Merlins UK customer call centre, and reporting.
Accordingly, a specific Technical updates, in particular in relation cyber risk and treasury.
transition project is in progress.
The initial tothe requirements of and changes to A review of the effectiveness of internal audit focus has been to consider the Groups theCode.
was undertaken during the year.
Members and approach to transition and we expect to The Audit Committees report in the attendees of the Audit Committee meetings, adopt the fully retrospective approach context of the Codes requirement for fair, along with the senior finance community of allowed by the standard.
Substantially all of balanced and understandable reporting.
theCompany, were questioned on a range Merlins lease commitments are in respect of Recoverability of the parent Companys ofsubjects including the governance and property and infrastructure at its attractions investment in and inter-group receivable organisation of the internal audit function, their and the lease portfolio is therefore of a balances with subsidiaries.
audit approach and the effectiveness of their relatively high value, small volume nature.
The results showed This means that the more onerous historical Internal and external audit that the internal audit function is considered to analysis required by this transition approach remain effective.
In 2017 Following extensive review processes, the External audit FRC review Committee considered that the internal and The Companys external auditors are KPMG During the year the FRCs Corporate Reporting external audit functions were both effective.
As set out in more detail below, the Review team reviewed the 2016 Annual Report, Committee has considered their appointment, noting certain technical disclosure areas The internal and external audit functions are governance, fees and independence, together withinthe financial statements section.
The important parts of the third line of defence in with the work performed.
Committee discussed the findings with KPMG terms of maintaining an effective internal control and concluded that they were not significant.
Appointment and governance environment within the Company.
The The Group has considered these findings In recommending the reappointment of external Committee oversees both functions to ensure whencompleting this years Annual Report.
auditors at the AGM, the Committee has taken they are independent and effective.
into account EU guidance and the Competition The FRCs review provides no assurance that Internal audit and Markets Authority CMA Order on the report and accounts are correct in all The Companys internal audit function, which mandatory audit tendering.
Merlin will be material respects: the FRCs role is not to verify has dual reporting lines to both the Chairman of required to retender its audit no later than for the information provided but to consider the Audit Committee and the CFO, comprises the 2023 financial year.
The Committee will compliance with reporting requirements.
in-house auditors and is led by an appropriately bear in mind the next regular KPMG partner Other matters qualified Group Internal Audit and Risk rotation after the 2019 audit.
The Committee also reviewed other matters in Management Director.
When necessary, The Committee considered whether a retender relation to the Companys financial statements.
external support is used in specialist areas.
In during 2017 would be appropriate as part of its In doing so they took into account recent 2017  PwC provided annual recommendation on the appointment of developments in corporate reporting and specialist support to the audit of treasury the external auditors.
The Committee decided particular topical matters.
The reviews covered: activities and cyber risks, as well as providing to recommend retaining KPMG for 2018. in-territory support to Merlins internal audit The half year and full year financial function for certain overseas audits.
Disclosures in the Annual Report and The Committee approved the internal audit Accounts in relation to internal control, plan before the start of the year which included therisk management process and the an assessment of the risk approach taken in workof the Committee.
Factors such as size The Groups use and description of and location of business, history of audit alternative performance measures within findings, competence and stability of local itsfinancial reporting.
management, material changes to a business and relevance to the Groups strategy were factored into this assessment.
MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC 65 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 In accordance with the FRCs recent Ethical Remuneration and independence of external Standard for the audit profession, KPMG resigned auditors from their tax appointments and completed a Non-audit services are subject to market tenders or tests and are awarded to the most review of their non-audit services.
The external auditors may ongoing compliance with these rules and to provide non-audit services only when their skills ensure that auditor objectivity and independence and experience make them a competitive and is not impaired, the Committee regularly reviews most appropriate supplier of these services.
reports on audit, audit-related and non-audit Non-audit services that are awarded to the expenditure, together with proposals of any auditors are normally limited to assignments material non-audit related assignments.
that are closely related to the annual audit The Committee is satisfied that the overall orwhere the work requires a detailed levels of audit-related and non-audit fees, and understanding of the Group.
In 2017 the more the nature of services provided, are not such significant matters were: that would compromise the objectivity and The review of the Groups half year independence of the external auditors.
Assessment of the performance of the external Assurance procedures required for the debt auditors issuance.
The Committee has evaluated the performance, Other routine statutory services required independence and objectivity of KPMG.
This under local regulatory legislation.
included an internally facilitated, questionnairebased, effectiveness assessment with feedback The external auditors may not provide a service provided by Audit Committee members, other which: attendees, and senior finance personnel both at Places them in a position to audit their Merlins attractions and at its head office.
survey covered KPMGs mindset and culture, Impacts their independence by creating a skills and knowledge, judgement and quality shared interest.
Results in the auditors developing close The survey indicated widespread satisfaction personal relationships with Merlin with the quality of the KPMG audit and the employees.
Committee accepted KPMGs responses to Results in the auditors functioning as a points raised in the survey.
manager or employee of Merlin.
The effectiveness of KPMGs 2017 audit was Puts the auditors in the role of advocate assessed over the year by reference to the forMerlin.
following factors, in line with the FRCs Practice The Committee has adopted the guidance and Aid on Audit Quality: related definitions from the Department for The performance of Hugh Green in his third Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy and year as Audit Partner, including his determined that non-audit fees should be no understanding of our business and the higher than 70% of audit fees from 2019 impact on the Annual Report and Accounts.
We will continue to monitor this ratio.
The robustness and perceptiveness of In 2017 fees for non-audit services were 0.3 KPMGs handling of key accounting and audit million 2016: 0.7 million : a ratio of 19% 2016: judgements.
Details of KPMG fees can be found in The quality of communication with the note 2.1 to the financial statements.
Committee, including the regular reports on All non-audit services are approved by the accounting and governance matters.
Committee, although they have granted the The skills and experience of the wider audit CFO authority to pre-approve the following team and their execution of the audit, non-audit services: including the way they handled the key Work which a third party requires to be accounting and audit judgements and carried out by the Companys auditors.
communication of the same with Any other work up to a value of 50,000 management and the Committee.
where the external auditors are best placed The quality of the formal report to to undertake the work.
Their reputation and standing, including their independence and objectivity, their internal quality procedures, and reports published by the FRC.
