50 MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Governance priorities in 2017 Dear Shareholder Succession planning, talent and diversity It has been another busy year for the Board I am delighted to introduce Merlins 2017 The Board recognises that it is Merlins andits Committees and the key governance Corporate Governance Report.
extraordinary employees around the world activities undertaken are explained in detail who deliver our results.
As the Group Your Board believes that effective corporate throughout the Corporate Governance Report.
continues to grow, it is increasingly important governance is the foundation of a well run to ensure that we are developing the next company.
It is committed to maintaining the The Board has focused on a number of key generation of talented managers to deliver highest standards of governance throughout the governance priorities in 2017 and these are our growth strategy.
Overseeing Merlins Company in line with the five core principles summarised below.
talent management and succession planning setout in the UK Corporate Governance Health, safety and security processes has therefore been an important Code.
The Board recognises that a strong Health, safety and security are the Boards priority for the Board this year through the governance framework is fundamental number one priority.
It is intrinsic to our work of the Nomination Committee.
The to the execution of Merlins strategic corporate values and culture, and is reflected Committee also focused this year on both objectives, underpinned by a clear purpose in the training our people receive and dayshort and long term succession planning at and well understood culture and values.
Underpinning Board level as well as on the size, composition Merlins overriding purpose is to create truly this are systems and procedures to assess and range of skills that the Board requires to memorable experiences for visitors and value and mitigate the risks which are overseen by discharge its responsibilities effectively.
Our corporate governance the Health, Safety and Security Committee Board evaluation process in 2016 identified framework is designed to safeguard these.
In2016, the Committee a number of areas where the proceedings of TheBoard is committed to ensuring that commissioned two independent reviews the Nomination Committee would benefit theprocedures, policies and practices of the on ride safety and safety governance, from further formality and the Committee has business continue to be effective and compliant respectively, and one of the Committees implemented these improvements this year.
with the Code and I am pleased to confirm that priorities this year has been ensuring the Your Board is committed to ensuring we have during the period under review we complied recommendations from these reviews are being the best person for every role regardless of with its provisions.
fully implemented throughout the organisation.
gender, race, disability, sexual orientation or After four years of service, Ken Hydon has Reflecting the importance of food safety in any other factor.
In terms of gender diversity, informed the Board that he will stand down Merlin, especially as our food and beverage in 2017 the Nomination Committee has asaDirector and as Chairman of the Audit offering grows, a new Group Safety Manager actively overseen the Women at Merlin Committee at the 2018 AGM.
On behalf of was appointed during the year, and the W@M programme which aims to give theBoard, I would like to thank Ken for the Committee commissioned an independent women the support and opportunities they significant contribution he has made to Merlin review of food safety across the Group.
The need to achieve their ambitions and develop over the years.
I am very pleased that Trudy results of the review were reassuring.
It is worthy of note that in Rautio, who has a wealth of relevant financial of recommendations for further improvement the Hampton Alexander Report, the Merlin experience, will replace Ken as Chairman of are being implemented and this work has been Board ranked highly on gender diversity, theAudit Committee.
overseen by the Committee during the year.
with four women Directors out of nine.
We welcome this years McGregor Smith Report Acting on feedback from the Board evaluation and Parker Review concerning ethnic diversity review in 2016, we also appointed a new safety and the Board will be debating further how the adviser to the Committee this year.
He has held ethnic diversity agenda can most effectively a number of senior safety roles in the airline be advanced in Merlin in early 2018. industry and his insights into Merlins approach to safety and best practice are proving invaluable to the Committee.
The need for robust attraction security has been underlined by the increase in terrorism in recent years in a number of cities where Merlin A STRONG GOVERNANCE operates attractions, in particular London.
As FRAMEWORK IS the nature of the threat has evolved, we have adapted and further strengthened attraction FUNDAMENTAL TO THE security and overseeing these arrangements has EXECUTION OF MERLINS been an important part of the Committees work this year.
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES, UNDERPINNED BY A CLEAR PURPOSE AND WELL UNDERSTOOD CULTURE AND VALUES Risk and compliance Stakeholder engagement Productivity The Board reviewed the Groups principal risks The Merlin Board recognises that effective At our trading and strategy update in October, as well as the risk management framework in engagement with all our major stakeholders is we announced that Merlin would be investing place to mitigate these risks during 2017, a key component of long term success.
These approximately 30 million in our Productivity concluding that the risk management framework stakeholders include our investors, employees, Agenda to drive operational and back office remains fit for purpose.
One emerging area of suppliers and customers.
We need to balance efficiencies.
By investing in systems we risk is cyber security and during the year the the interests of these various stakeholders will generate back office efficiencies and Board carefully considered the potential impact when making decisions and have engagement procurement savings as the Company continues of this threat to Merlin.
The Board is focused on processes in place with each.
Oversight of these transformational IT ensuring that adequate security measures are in engagement processes include frequent investment projects, in particular the upgrading place to prevent data loss and damage to our IT roadshows and shareholder meetings with of our finance systems, a project which we call systems.
In 2017, we commissioned an external investors.
The Company Secretary and I met Finance 21 has been a key Board governance review of Merlins cyber security readiness and with a number of our leading shareholders in activity in 2017 and will continue to be so next recommendations to further strengthen our 2017 to encourage constructive dialogue.
We year as the programmes are rolled out across the Group.
resilience to an attack are being implemented.
once again launched the annual The Wizard The Audit Committee has also been monitoring Wants to Know employee survey this year and I hope this report clearly sets out how your the steps being taken within the Company to I am pleased to report that the engagement Company is run, and how we align governance ensure compliance with the new EU GDPR of our staff remains very high.
Our customers and our Board agenda with the strategic when it comes into force in May 2018. around the world provide real time feedback direction of Merlin.
As ever, the views of on their experiences at our attractions.
This shareholders on the content of this report A number of the territories in which Merlin now information, as well as external indicators aremost welcome.
operates have greater propensity for incidents including TripAdvisor scores, were reviewed of bribery, and corruption.
Merlin has a well and debated by the Board during the year.
established culture of zero tolerance to fraud Sir John Sunderland and bribery and during the year the Board The UK Government has announced plans to Chairman reviewed and approved improvements to the strengthen engagement further: firstly, a 28 February 2018 Groups anti-bribery and anti-corruption requirement for companies to explain how their policies, procedures and training, all of which directors have regard to stakeholder interests: have now been rolled out across the Group.
secondly, proposals for strengthening stakeholder voices at Board level: and thirdly, new disclosure requirements on the ratio of CEO pay to average employee pay.
The Board will be following these developments closely in 2018 with a view to strengthening stakeholder engagement still further.
