46 | Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Board of Directors A strong, balanced and experienced Board.
Our Board members provide a strong and complementary mix of skills and experience and together are committed to building the long-term success of the Group.
Peter Hindley Non-Executive Chairman Peter Hindley N Mike McCollum NonExecutive Chairman Chief Executive Appointed to the Board: 2004 Appointed to the Board: 2004 Background and experience: Background and experience: Peter has extensive experience of the Mike joined Dignitys former parent, SCI, industry having been appointed Chief in 1995 from KPMG Corporate Finance in Executive of Plantsbrook Group plc in 1991.
As Finance Director he was part He subsequently led a management buy out of the management team that guided the of Dignity in 2002.
The Company was then Group through the leveraged buy out in 2002 oated on the Stock Exchange in 2004.
He was appointed Chief became Non-Executive Chairman in January Executive in 2009.
Before entering the funeral service Birmingham University, is a solicitor and also industry, Peter held a number of senior holds an MBA from Warwick University.
Peter was appointed External appointments: Chairman of the Steering Committee Non-Executive Director of CVS Group plc.
of the French funerals group OGF, SA in January 2014.
Steve Whittern Richard Portman Corporate Services Director Finance Director Appointed to the Board: 2009 Appointed to the Board: 2006 Background and experience: Background and experience: Richard joined SCI from HSBC to be Chief Steve joined the Group in 1999 from KPMG.
He was appointed Finance Director at the Accountant in 1999.
Following the IPO, Richard was appointed as Company beginning of 2009, having spent the previous two years as Financial Controller, being Secretary and became Corporate Services responsible for the Groups finance function.
Richard is a Fellow of the Steve has led the three renancings and Institute of Chartered Accountants in England Returns of Cash since 2010, and the debt and Wales, holds a geography degree from and equity funding for the Yew Acquisition Birmingham University, is a Companion of in 2013.
Steve is a Fellow of the Institute of the Chartered Management Institute and is Chartered Accountants in England and Wales a Member of the Investor Relations Society.
and holds a mathematics degree from He is also one of the Trustees of the Dignity Warwick University.
External appointments: External appointments: Senior Non-Executive Director of Medica None.
Overview 01 03 Strategic Report 04 43 Governance 44 74 Financial Statements 75 129 Other Information 130 132 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 | 47 Jane Ashcroft CBE A N R David Blackwood A N R NonExecutive Director Senior NonExecutive Director Appointed to the Board: 2012 Appointed to the Board: 2015 Background and experience: Background and experience: Jane is Chief Executive of Anchor, a leading David is a Non-Executive Director, and Audit provider of services to older people and Chair of Scapa Group plc, and has previously has held a number of senior positions served as a member of the Cabinet Office since joining them in 1999.
She is also Audit and Risk Committee and the Board for Non-Executive Director of Care England Actuarial Standards.
He was Chief Financial and of the National Housing Federation, Officer of Synthomer plc for seven years, Vice Chair of the Associated Retirement stepping down in 2015, prior to which he Community Operators and was previously held a number of senior roles with ICI plc.
a Non-Executive Director of Stroud & He is a member of the Institute of Chartered Swindon Building Society.
A graduate Accountants in England and Wales and a of Stirling University, she is a Fellow of Fellow of the Association of Corporate the Institute of Chartered Secretaries & Treasurers FCT.
David became Senior Administrators, a Member of the Chartered Non-Executive Director of Dignity on Institute of Personnel and Development, 31 January 2018. a Trustee of Silver Line and was created a CBE in the 2014 New Years honours list.
Executive and Non-Executive Non-Executive Tenure Board composition, balance Directors and tenure The Board now comprises, after the recent retirements, six Directors and the Non- 3 2 Executive Chairman.
There are the same number of independent Non-Executive 3 1 Directors and Executive Directors which the 1 Board considers to be an appropriate and effective combination and also complies 0 3 years Executive Directors with the Code in respect of FTSE 250 listed 3 6 years Non-Executive Directors companies.
Non-Executive Chairman Key to Committee membership Links Mary McNamara A N R NonExecutive Director See Audit Committee report: A Audit Committee p. 53 to p. 55 Appointed to the Board: 2017 N Nomination Committee See Nomination Committee report: p. 56 and p. 57 Background and experience: R Remuneration Committee Mary McNamara is a Non-Executive Director See Report on Directors remuneration: and Chairman of the Remuneration Green background denotes R p. 58 to p. 71 Committee of One Savings Bank plc.
also Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee for Motorpoint Group plc.
Previously she was the Chief Executive of the Commercial Division for Close Brothers Bank.
Prior to this Mary worked for GE for 17 years with leadership roles across the Consumer and Commercial Finance business.
