Overview 01 03 Strategic Report 04 43 Governance 44 74 Financial Statements 75 129 Other Information 130 132 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 | 49 Directors statement on corporate governance How the Board Functions The Group is controlled through the Board of Directors that meets regularly throughout the year.
The structure of the Board, together with explanations of responsibilities, is shown on page 45.
Informal meetings are held between individual Directors as required.
The management of the Group on a day to day basis is delegated, via the Executive Directors, to an experienced and generally long serving senior and middle management team whose size and structure is commensurate with the complexity of the Groups activities.
Managers have the necessary skills and knowledge relevant to their areas of responsibility.
The remainder of the responsibilities rest with the Board however, certain capital expenditures and acquisition projects are delegated under a formally adopted Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board and the Expenditure Authorisation Policy.
All Directors are provided with the necessary papers in advance of the meetings to permit them to make informed decisions at those meetings.
The Board also considers employee issues and key management appointments, including the role of Company Secretary.
The Board now comprises six Directors and the Non-Executive Chairman.
During the period the total number of directors who served was nine plus the Non-Executive Chairman however Andrew Davies the Operations Director retired from the Board on 5 January 2018 and Alan McWalter retired from the Board on 31 January 2018.
There are the same number of independent Non-Executive Directors and Executive Directors which the Board consider to be an appropriate and effective combination and also complies with the Code in respect of FTSE 250 listed companies.
The Board also considers that three Executive Directors, supported by the wider Executive Management Team, details of which are on page 48, are sufficient to manage a Group of this size, complexity and organisational structure.
There were five independent Non-Executive Directors who served for the period: Jane Ashcroft, Alan McWalter, Martin Pexton, David Blackwood and Mary McNamara.
Martin Pexton resigned from the Board on 3 February 2017 and after a comprehensive and rigorous search conducted by an external recruitment agency Mary McNamara was appointed as Non-Executive Director on 1 March 2017.
Alan McWalter retired from the Board on 31 January 2018 after completing the maximum of nine years service as an Independent Non-Executive Director.
Given the retirement of Andrew Davies as Operations Director and the appointment of his replacement as part of the wider Executive Management Team Alan McWalter will not be replaced.
Biographical details for the serving Non-Executive Directors appear on page 47.
Their role is to challenge constructively the management of the Group and help develop proposals on strategy.
The Non-Executive Directors are chosen for their diversity of skills and experience.
Each Non-Executive Director is appointed for a fixed term of two years, subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
This term may then be renewed by mutual consent up to a maximum of nine years in accordance with the Code.
Appointments beyond six years are also subject to rigorous review prior to approval.
The Non-Executive letters of appointment are available, upon request, from the Company Secretary.
David Blackwood is the Senior Independent Director of the Group.
He succeeded Alan McWalter who fulfilled that role during the period.
His role is to provide a sounding board for the Chairman and act as an intermediary for other Directors if needed and to be available to shareholders if so required.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors are required to, and have, confirmed formally to the Board that, mindful of their other commitments they have, and will have, sufficient time to devote to their responsibilities as Directors of the Company.
Jane Ashcroft, David Blackwood and Mary McNamara are independent of management, as defined by the Code.
All Directors are able to take independent professional advice on the furtherance of their duties if necessary at the Groups expense.
They also have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is also the Corporate Services Director and, where it is considered appropriate and necessary, training is made available to Directors.
All Directors receive annual training and updates on the duties and responsibilities of being a Director of a listed company.
This covers legal, accounting, security and tax matters as required or as requested by any director.
In addition any newly appointed director receives appropriate induction training.
Mary McNamara is receiving such training following her appointment.
The Company maintains appropriate insurance cover in respect of any legal action against its Directors including in respect of prospectuses issued in connection with the issue of additional Secured Notes and Returns of Value to Shareholders.
The level of cover is currently 100 million.
The Directors have, during the period, formally reminded themselves of their duties as Directors under the Companies Act 2006 Section 171-177.
These duties include the need to avoid conflicts of interest Section 175.
No such conflicts of interest exist.
In accordance with the Code, all Directors will submit themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
50 | Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Directors statement on corporate governance continued Board Appraisal In accordance with the requirements of the Code an external evaluation of the Board and its Committees was completed in 2016, following on from the previous evaluation in 2013.
Both were completed by Independent Audit Ltd, a specialist company, entirely independent of the Group.
This meets the requirements of the Code that an external evaluation takes place on at least a three yearly basis and it is planned that a further external evaluation be undertaken in 2019.
During period, the Board undertook a formal and rigorous evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committees and Directors by way of the issue of a detailed questionnaire to all Directors.
This was then followed by a detailed review of the responses, by the Directors, and identification of any actions arising.
The Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, are responsible for the performance evaluation of the Chairman taking in to account the views of the other Executive Directors.
The Board was satisfied that its performance and that of its Chairman, individual Directors and Committees was of the appropriate standard.
Board and Board Committee Attendance Those attending and the frequency of Board and Committee meetings held during the period was as follows: Audit Remuneration Nomination i Main Board Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings 8 3 4 3 Jane Ashcroft 7 2 4 3 David Blackwood 8 3 4 3 ii Andrew Davies 8 3 ii ii Peter Hindley 8 3 4 3 ii ii ii Mike McCollum 8 3 2 2 Alan McWalter 8 3 3 3 iv Mary McNamara 6 3 4 3 ii iii iii Richard Portman 8 3 4 1 ii Steve Whittern 8 3 i Only full Board meetings, of which there were eight in the period, have been included in the attendance analysis.
Sixteen further meetings were held with a quorum of Directors to approve announcements, documents or the issue of shares under the LTIP and SAYE schemes.
ii In attendance by invitation of the respective Committee.
iii Richard Portman attended certain Committee meetings in his capacity as Company Secretary.
iv Mary McNamara was appointed to the Board on 1 March 2017.
She attended all except one Board meeting after that date.
The one missed was due to a commitment made prior to her appointment.
The Board had eight full Board meetings per annum spread broadly equally across the year, one more than in 2016 as a further meeting was arranged during the year.
After careful consideration it was decided that seven is the appropriate number required to exercise effective governance and control although that is kept under review.
Further meetings are arranged if required.
When Directors are unable to attend a meeting, they are advised of the matters to be discussed and given an opportunity to make their views known to the Chairman prior to the meeting.
A process exists whereby such views will be included in the minutes of the meeting if necessary.
Three meetings between the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors, without the Executive Directors being present were held during 2017.
These are usually scheduled to occur before full Board meetings.
The Non-Executive Directors also met once during 2017 without the Chairman present.
The Company Secretary The Company Secretary, Richard Portman, is responsible for overseeing the preparation and distribution of all agendas, minutes and related Board and Committee papers.
As Corporate Services Director, he attends the Board meetings in his capacity as a Director of the Company but as Company Secretary provides corporate governance advice if required.
The minutes of the meeting are taken by an experienced Administrator from the Corporate Services function.
Richard Portman also attends the Committee meetings when requested to do so by the Chairman of that Committee to provide corporate governance advice as Company Secretary with the minutes being taken by the Administrator.
The Board is happy that the role of Company Secretary is undertaken by the Corporate Services Director as, whilst traditionally it might be considered more appropriate to have the roles separate, the Board believes in Dignitys case it is the most cost effective and sensible way of filling the role particularly given the skills and knowledge of the Corporate Services Director.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
Internal Control and Risk Management The Board has responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and risk management, which is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
A formal and ongoing process of identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group was in place throughout the period and in place up to the date the Governance Report was signed and approved for the Annual Report and Accounts 2017.
Overview 01 03 Strategic Report 04 43 Governance 44 74 Financial Statements 75 129 Other Information 130 132 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 | 51 The Executive Directors and the wider executive management group are responsible for designing, implementing, maintaining and evaluating the necessary systems of internal controls.
Such controls are reviewed on an ongoing basis and formally reviewed on an annual basis in accordance with the requirements of the Code.
This annual review confirmed that the Groups risk management and internal control systems were appropriate and suitable for a Group of this size and complexity.
Internal Audit completes a programme of work each year that provides assurance that the internal controls have been operated as designed and also proposes improvements where appropriate and necessary.
Coupled with this, the formal six monthly review of the Risk Register provides a further review mechanism for considering and reviewing internal controls.
All such work is reported to and monitored by the Audit Committee who recommends approval to the full Board and is discussed in the Audit Committee Report on pages 53 to 55.
The Audit Committee on behalf of the Board, as part of an ongoing process, formally reviews and continues to keep under review the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
The Audit Committee formally reviews risk management annually and receives reports from Executive Management and Internal Audit regarding weaknesses in internal control, any losses arising out of weaknesses in internal control and progress in implementing revised procedures to improve and enhance internal control.
It also identifies the significant controls upon which reliance will be placed.
Any significant control weaknesses would be reported to the full Board at their next meeting.
There have been no reports of weaknesses that have resulted or would have resulted in a material misstatement or loss in the period, nor in the period up to the date this Annual Report was published.
The key procedures, which operated throughout the period, are as follows: Financial Reporting The Group has a comprehensive system of internal budgeting and forecasting.
The Groups monthly actual results analysed by operating division are reported to the Board and significant variances to budget are investigated with revised forecasts prepared as necessary: Financial Controls The Executive Directors have defined appropriate and necessary financial controls and procedures to be employed by operational management.
Key controls over major business risks include reviews against budgets and forecasts, review against key performance indicators and exception reporting: Quality and Integrity of Personnel One of the Groups core values is integrity.
This is regarded as vital to the maintenance of the Groups system of internal financial control.
The Directors have put in place an organisation structure appropriate to the size and complexity of the Group with defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority where the Board considers it necessary and appropriate.
There is also a Code of Conduct applicable to all employees of the Group as well as specific policies such as Anti Bribery and Corruption, Slavery and Human Trafficking and Money Laundering: and Internal Audit The Group has a dedicated Internal Audit team, which reports to the Corporate Services Director and the Audit Committee.
The latter reviews and approves the annual work plan of the Internal Audit function which tests the effectiveness of many controls.
Any significant weaknesses are reported to management and the Audit Committee on a timely basis.
It coordinates the completion of self-assessment reports by operational management that assists in highlighting areas of control weakness or exposure.
Internal audit reviews are completed on such areas together with selected areas of the head office function and any area where an Executive Director requests a review.
During 2017 as in 2016, there were quarterly meetings between the Head of Internal Audit and the Executive Directors to formally review and discuss Internal Audits work programme and findings.
In addition, regular meetings between the Head of Internal Audit and the external auditors, Ernst & Young LLP EY, were held during the year to discuss and plan audit work and to ensure a complementary approach.
The Head of Internal Audit formally reports to the Audit Committee at every meeting and also held three private meetings with the Chairman of the Audit Committee during 2017: Procedures The Group has established and documented processes and procedures covering most parts of its operations, both client facing and in support departments.
These provide clear guidance on the correct or most appropriate course of action in various circumstances.
Procedures are supplemented by training where needs have been identified.
Both Internal Audit and the comprehensive management structure monitor the adherence to such processes and procedures: and Risk assessment The Executive Directors and the wider executive management group have responsibility for the identification and evaluation of significant risks that might arise in their areas of responsibility, together with the design of suitable internal controls.
This was in place throughout the accounting period and at the date of approval of the Annual Report.
They also regularly assess the risks facing the Group.
A Risk Register is maintained which is presented to and reviewed by the Audit Committee twice a year and then formally adopted by the Board of Dignity plc.
Risks and any changes to those risks are discussed at every Board meeting.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group, which are documented in the Risk Register, are discussed on pages 34 to 36 of the Annual Report.
These risks have also been formally considered when the Directors prepared their Viability Statement on page 36 of this Annual Report in accordance with provision C2.2 of the Code.
These procedures are designed to, amongst other things, help to provide assurance around the process of preparing consolidated financial statements and the financial reporting system.
An explanation of how the Group aims to create and preserve value and the strategy for delivering its objectives is included in the Operating Review on pages 20 to 26.
52 | Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Directors statement on corporate governance continued Relationship with Shareholders The Group recognises the importance of clear communication with shareholders.
Regular contact with institutional investors, fund managers and analysts is maintained by the Chief Executive and the Finance Director to discuss information made public by the Group.
The Board receives reports of these meetings and any significant issues raised are discussed by the Board.
Where appropriate or if requested, such meetings could include either or both the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director.
The Chairman, Senior Independent Director and the Non-Executive Directors are also available to meet separately with shareholders if necessary or requested to discuss any issues that they may have.
The Chairman is also available to discuss governance and strategy matters with the major shareholders.
The Corporate Services Director generally deals with queries or enquiries from private shareholders.
The Board is as interested in their concerns as it is of institutional and corporate shareholders.
The AGM provides an opportunity to meet the Board and the Executive Management Team.
All shareholders are free to attend and put questions to any Director and in particular the Chairman of each of the Board Committees at the AGM on 7 June 2018.
At least 20 days notice will be given ahead of that meeting.
Questions asked in person at the AGM will receive an oral response whenever possible, otherwise a written response will be provided as soon as practicable after the AGM.
Questions raised at any other time will normally receive a written response.
Shareholders attending the AGM will also have the opportunity to meet informally with all the Directors and the Executive Management Team after the meeting has concluded.
The Directors consider that this Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model, risks and strategy.
In order to assess whether the Annual Report and Accounts were fair, balanced and understandable, the Board received an early draft to enable time for review and comment.
The Audit Committee then met to consider the criteria for a fair, balanced and understandable Annual Report and to review the process underpinning the compilation and assurance of the report, in relation to financial and non-financial management information.
At that meeting they considered the Annual Report and Accounts as a whole and discussed the tone, balance and language of the document, being mindful of the UK reporting requirements and consistency between narrative sections and the financial statements.
As part of this process the Board considered the Groups reporting governance framework and the views of the external auditor as reported to the Audit Committee.
Pages 4 to 36 provide an assessment of the Groups affairs.
The Annual Report and Accounts is made available to all shareholders at least 20 working days before the AGM.
Registered shareholders receive a Notice of Meeting and Form of Proxy, the latter document allowing a shareholder to vote in favour, or against or indicate an abstention on each separate resolution tabled at the AGM.
Particulars of aggregate proxies lodged are also announced to the London Stock Exchange LSE and placed on the Groups investor website, www.
co. uk, as soon as practicable after the conclusion of the AGM.
The Interim Report is no longer published as a paper document but is available on the Groups investor website upon which users can also access the latest financial and corporate news.
All information reported to the market via regulatory information services also appears as soon as practicable on that website.
The Group is happy to arrange visits to its funeral locations and crematoria, if requested by a shareholder, where and when it will not disrupt services we are providing to our clients.
Substantial shareholdings The Group has been notified of the following interests of three per cent or more of the issued share capital of the Company: As at 9 March 2018 As at 29 December 2017 Number of Percentage Number of Percentage Ordinary of issued Ordinary of issued Holder Shares share capital Shares share capital BAM & Oppenheimer Funds 4,968,414 9.95% Kames Capital 1,601,573 3.21% Aberdeen Asset Management 3,328,395 6.67% Montanaro Group 2,269,000 4.54% 1,970,050 3.95% Franklin Templeton Investment Management Limited 2,448,905 4.90% 2,448,905 4.90% MFS Investment Management 2,460,953 4.93% 2,460,953 4.93% Standard Life Aberdeen plc 3,500,076 7.01% John Stewart Jakes 2,000,000 4.01% Klarus Capital Limited 2,606,669 5.22% Harris Associates 2,572,900 5.15% Phoenix Asset Management Limited 2,540,000 5.09% By order of the Board Richard Portman Company Secretary 14 March 2018
