54 MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Function of the Board The Board has overall responsibility for REPORT overseeing the management of the Company inthe following areas: THE BOARD BOARD COMMITTEES Overseeing strategy, management and approval of major policies Nomination Committee Assists the Board in discharging its responsibilities in relation to Determining capital structure the composition of the Board Maintaining the system of internal Further details can be found on page 58 controls and risk management Approval of the annual capital expenditure budget, major capital Health, Safety and Security Committee projects and strategic transactions Ensures that health, safety and security matters are managed effectively and proactively Effective communication with Further details can be found on page 59 shareholders and managing investor relations Reviewing recommendations from Audit Committee Committees including: Assists the Board in discharging its responsibilities in relation to financial reporting controls, risk management and external and Board membership internal audit Board and senior management Further details can be found on page 61 remuneration Succession planning Remuneration Committee Assists the Board in discharging its responsibilities in relation to remuneration Further details can be found on page 66 EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE NON-BOARD OPERATIONAL COMMITTEES Chaired by the Chief Executive Officer COMMERCIAL AND STRATEGIC RISK Responsible for day-to-day operations MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE and the development of strategic plans for consideration by the Board Oversight and guidance on management of commercial and strategic risk Comprises the Chief Executive Officer and senior management DEVELOPMENT BOARD Appraisal of significant capital expenditure and development projects MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC 55 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Health, Safety Nomination and Security Audit Remuneration The Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings held 7 2 4 5 3 Sir John Sunderland 7 2 4 N A 3 Nick Varney 7 N A 4 N A N A Anne-Francoise Nesmes 7 N A 4 N A N A Charles Gurassa 7 2 4 5 3 Ken Hydon 7 2 N A 5 3 1 Fru Hazlitt 7 2 3 N A 3 Trudy Rautio 7 N A N A 5 3 Rachel Chiang 7 N A 4 5 N A Sren Thorup Srensen 7 N A N A N A N A 1 Adverse weather conditions prevented Fru Hazlitt from travelling to the UK to attend the December 2017 meeting and there was no opportunity for her to join the meeting by telephone.
Board composition and meeting Accordingly, the Board considers that, In addition to the above, investor relations attendance throughout 2017, the Company was in full quarterly and post-investment appraisals halfDuring the year the Board membership compliance with the recommendation of the yearly are considered by the Board.
Updates by remained unchanged, which enabled us to Code concerning the balance of independent each of the divisional Managing Directors and further consolidate best working practices, Non-executive Directors on the Board.
heads of function are presented once a year.
The Board also holds a strategy day once a year.
How we run the Board A full list of the Board and Committee Between Board meetings, Directors are The Board oversees the management of the Directors who served during the year provided with information on important Groups activities, including the implementation and their attendance is set out in the developments and issues such as: of the Groups commercial strategy and long table above.
It also shows the number of term plans.
In addition, the Board provides Reports on safety and serious incidents.
meetings individual Directors could have leadership to Merlin, setting the key values by Important developments regarding projects attended and their actual attendance.
The Board has a or transactions.
Directors are provided with all the papers formal schedule of matters reserved for its Directors have the right to raise concerns at and information relevant to the meeting approval which includes major expenditure, Board meetings and can ask for those concerns even if they are unable to attend and are investments and key policies.
The schedule of to be recorded in the Board minutes.
The encouraged to discuss any issues directly reserved matters is reviewed regularly to ensure advice and services of the Company Secretary withthe Chairman and Executive Directors.
whose appointment and removal is a matter The majority of meetings of the Board and reserved for the Board are also available to Board membership and the UK Corporate its Committees are held in London, with the Directors.
The Group has also established Governance Code the aim to hold one meeting each year at an a procedure which enables, in relevant The Code recommends that a UK listed operating location and one other at Merlins circumstances, Directors to obtain independent companys Chairman be independent on head office in Poole.
The Board meets a professional advice at the Companys expense.
The Chairman was appointed in minimum of seven times a year and has a December 2009.
The Board considers that the Board evaluations well-established programme of meetings.
Chairman was independent on appointment and During the year, externally facilitated evaluations remains so.
The Chairmans role is to ensure The Company Secretary prepares the were undertaken of the effectiveness of good corporate governance.
agenda for the Chairmans approval, in the Board, its Committees, the Chairman consultation with the Chief Executive Officer The Code recommends that at least half the and individual Directors.
These evaluations and the Chief Financial Officer.
Papers to members of the Board of Directors excluding were facilitated by Prism Cosec, who are be presented to the Board for review are the Chairman of a UK listed company should independent of the Company and also advise prepared by the appropriate member of be independent in character and judgement the Company from time to time on company the Executive Committee or other senior and free from relationships or circumstances secretarial compliance matters.
The evaluations members of staff.
Board members usually which are likely to affect, or could appear involved the completion of questionnaires receive Board papers seven days prior to to affect, their judgement.
The Board has by all Directors, the compilation of reports meetings in order to give them adequate concluded that, for the purposes of the Code, on the Board and each of its Committees time to study and consider the documents.
Charles Gurassa, Ken Hydon, Fru Hazlitt, Trudy by Prism Cosec and discussions between Rautio and Rachel Chiang should be regarded The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial the Chairman and Company Secretary and as independent Non-executive Directors.
Officer attend all of the Board meetings, and the Chairman and individual Directors.
The Although Mr Gurassa previously served on present the papers on operational and financial performance of the Chairman was evaluated the board of Tragus Group Limited formerly matters.
At every meeting, the Board considers by the Non-executive Directors, led by the a portfolio company of Blackstone, which was the following standing agenda items: Senior Independent Non-executive Director.
a shareholder in the Company until March Chief Executives Report 2015, the other Directors have concluded Financial Report including budget and that this relationship did not have any effect strategic plan once a year on the independence of Mr Gurassa.
KIRKBI Board Committee Reports presently holds 29.72% of the issued share Project approvals capital of the Company and accordingly the Risk Non-executive Director representing KIRKBI General Counsel Report Sren Thorup Srensen is not regarded as independent for the purposes of the Code.
56 MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT C ON T INUED The outcome of the evaluations was very Number of % of issued Nature of holding positive and no major concerns were identified.
Name of shareholder ordinary shares share capital Direct Indirect A number of minor areas were identified for KIRKBI Invest A S 302,971,529 29.72 Direct further improvement, including: BlackRock Inc Not known 5.00 Indirect suggestions were made for improving the The Wellcome Trust 51,788,240 5.08 Direct format of the annual strategy day: ValueAct Capital Management, L. P 54,700,000 5.40 Indirect although the culture of the Board and in the business is strong, the Board might usefully GIC Private Limited Not known 3.00 Indirect monitor and assess the culture of the Marathon Asset Management LLP 51,147,937 5.02 Indirect organisation more explicitly in 2018: and a refreshed training programme meeting the changing development needs of the Board includes rights for KIRKBI to terminate the shareholder holds shares carrying special rights should be rolled out in 2018.
LCA on a change of control of Merlin, but only relating to the control of the Company.
if this would result in a Licensee as defined In addition to the Board results, the outcomes Directors in the LCA being controlled by a LEGO of the individual Committee evaluations were Directors indemnities and insurance competitor or an inappropriate party.
The LCA also positive and no major areas of concern The Articles of Association of the Company defines an inappropriate party as any person were raised.
An action plan addressing these permit it to indemnify the Directors of the or entity other than a financial institution areas of feedback will be implemented during Company or any Group company against where one-third of its revenue is derived the year.
liabilities arising from or in connection with from the manufacture and sale of tobacco, In 2017, the Board implemented an action the execution of their duties or powers to the armaments and or pornographic material.
plan to address the findings of the Board extent permitted by law.
The Company has A Relationship Agreement was entered into on evaluation review conducted in 2016.
This not given any specific indemnity in favour of the 30 October 2013 with KIRKBI and remains in plan included a Board presentation on the Directors during the year but the Company force.
Under this agreement, KIRKBI is entitled industry and competitor landscape, more has purchased Directors and Officers Liability to appoint one Director to the Board while regular communications with the Board on key Insurance, which provides cover for liabilities KIRKBI together with its respective affiliates issues outside formal Board meetings, further incurred by Directors in the performance of holds at least 10% of the Companys issued formality being brought to the workings of the their duties or powers.
No amount was paid share capital.
KIRKBI may appoint an observer Nomination Committee and the appointment of under any Directors indemnity or the Directors with the right to attend and speak but not an external health and safety expert as adviser and Officers Liability Insurance during the year vote to the Board and each of the Audit to the Health, Safety and Security Committee.
other than the applicable insurance premiums.
Committee, Remuneration Committee and Formal reviews of the internal audit function Significant contracts Nomination Committee.
and external auditors, led by the Audit There were no contracts of significance during Amendment to the Companys Articles of Committee, were also conducted during the the year to which the Company, or any of its Association year and these concluded that both internal subsidiary undertakings, is a party and in which The Companys Articles of Association may only audit and the external auditors remain effective.
a Director is or was materially interested.
be amended by a special resolution of its shareholders passed at a general meeting of its Shareholders and share capital Financial reporting and external auditors shareholders.
Major shareholdings Fair, balanced and understandable As at 27 February 2018, the latest practicable As part of the Companys commitment to Power of Directors in respect of share capital date prior to the date of this Annual Report maintaining high standards of corporate The Directors may exercise all the powers of and Accounts, the Company had been governance, the Board has put in place a the Company including, subject to obtaining notified pursuant to DTR5 of the following process to ensure that the Annual Report the required authority from the shareholders interests in the Companys total voting and Accounts is presented in a way that in general meeting, the power to authorise rights as shown in the table above.
is fair, balanced and understandable.
the issue of new shares and the purchase of the Companys shares.
During the year, in KIRKBI LEGO relationships This process includes a review of all Board connection with the Companys employee A Licence and Co-operation Agreement LCA and Committee meetings to identify matters share incentive plans, 3,763,183 ordinary was entered into on 24 August 2005 with for inclusion and a series of specific reviews shares of one pence each were issued.
KIRKBI and sets out the rights granted to the undertaken by a dedicated Disclosure Group to use the LEGO and LEGOLAND Committee of senior managers.
Share capital and related matters brands in connection with the development, The Articles of Association do not contain any operation and promotion of the Groups restrictions on the transfer of shares in the present and future LEGOLAND businesses.
Company other than customary restrictions applicable where any amount is unpaid on a share It includes certain requirements for the all the issued share capital of the Company as at Group to develop LEGOLAND attractions, the date of this Annual Report and Accounts is certain operational requirements for those fully paid.
Each ordinary share in the capital of attractions, and the nature of royalties due the Company ranks equally in all respects.
No to KIRKBI for the use of the rights.
The LCA MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC 57 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Auditors SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT As recommended by the Audit Committee, a resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG LLP The Company places considerable importance on communication with as auditors to the Company will be proposed at shareholders and has a dedicated investor relations team to facilitate the exchange the 2018 Annual General Meeting.
So far as the of information and feedback between shareholders and shareholder representative Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit bodies and the Company.
information of which the auditors are unaware.
The Directors have taken all reasonable steps to ascertain any relevant audit information and Website and The Companys corporate website is regularly ensure the auditors are aware of such shareholder updated with news and information, including its information.
communications Annual Report and Accounts, which set out our Contractual matters strategy, operating model and performance together Change of control with our plans for future growth.
Our presentations The Company does not have agreements with to analysts and shareholders are also available on the any Director or employee that would provide Company website.
Merlins 2018 financial calendar is compensation for loss of office or employment set out on page 154. resulting from a change of control.
Significant agreements to which the Company is Roadshows, The investor relations team manages a programme a party that take effect, alter or terminate upon shareholder meetings of regular meetings in which existing and potential a change of control of the Company following a and feedback investors are provided with information on the takeover bid, are: financial and trading position of the Group.
Views of The LCA, only in the circumstances investors are shared regularly with the Board, enabling described on page 56. the Non-executive Directors in particular to A Multi-currency Facilities Agreement appreciate and discuss the views of shareholders.
entered into by the Group dated 25 February 2015 which includes provisions Consultation and During the year the Chairman and the Company in relation to a change of control or the sale engagement Secretary met with a number of our leading of all or substantially all of the Groups assets, shareholders to encourage full and constructive the occurrence of which will, after a dialogue.
The Senior Independent Non-executive negotiation period, give the lenders under Director was available to meet with any major the Agreement the right to accelerate investors to discuss any concerns that could not outstanding loans and terminate be resolved through normal channels.
The outstanding senior Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer also unsecured facilities comprise 250 million meet with analysts, hold conference calls after the and $540 million in floating rate term debt production of reports and participate in roadshows and a 300 million revolving credit facility, after preliminary and half year results are announced.
An Indenture dated as of 19 March 2015 in relation to an issue of 700 million 2.75% Results and routine All our results and routine announcements are fixed rate notes due in 2022 the notes announcements uploaded to the London Stock Exchange via the under which, in the event of a change of Regulatory News Service system, and our corporate control of the Company and a ratings event, website.
the holders of the notes may have the right to require that those notes be repurchased Annual General At our AGM, all shareholders have the opportunity at 101% of their principal nominal amount Meeting to discuss and raise questions concerning the plus any accrued and unpaid interest.
performance, trading and development of Merlin Further details on the Groups banking facilities and to vote on the resolutions proposed.
are shown in note 4.2 to the financial statements.
