58 MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT The Committee continues to review the The role of the Nomination Committee composition of the Board and its Committees The Nomination Committee assists the Board together with succession planning for the in discharging its responsibilities in relation to executive management team.
The Committee the composition of the Board as set out below: also oversees the pipeline of emerging Reviewing the balance of skills, knowledge talent within the Company to ensure we and experience on the Board.
are developing the next generation of Reviewing the size, structure and managers to deliver our long term strategy.
During 2017, there were no changes to the Considering and making recommendations composition of the Committee.
The external to the Board on retirements, re-elections effectiveness review confirmed the Committee and appointments of additional and remains effective.
replacement Directors and on membership of Committees.
Considering succession planning for both Sir John Sunderland Executive and Non-executive Directors and Chairman of the Nomination Committee Dear Shareholder the Chairman.
28 February 2018 I am pleased to present the Nomination Considering the time required for Directors Committees report for the year ended to fulfil their roles.
Developing a policy on diversity and reporting on progress thereon.
The main purpose of the Nomination Making appropriate recommendations to Committee is to ensure Merlin has the right theBoard on matters within the remit of people in the right place at the right time across theCommittee.
Not only is this important to each operating division, it is also applicable to the Appointment and removal of Directors Board itself and its ability to deliver shareholder The Company is governed by its Articles of value and safeguard the interests of other Association, the UK Corporate Governance stakeholders.
Code, the Companies Act and related legislation, with regard to the appointment and The Nomination Committee must satisfy itself replacement of Directors.
Specific details whether the Board has the right balance of relating to KIRKBI and their rights to appoint skills, knowledge and experience to support Directors are set out in the Corporate and challenge management.
It is also important Governance Report on page 56. that the Board are sufficiently independent, demonstrate perspective and understand Annual General Meeting AGM elections the governance issues which exist in the andre-elections operation of a large international company.
With the exception of Ken Hydon, who The Nomination Committee continues to has confirmed his retirement and will not develop and propose recommendations to the stand for re-election, all Directors will Board regarding the policy on diversity.
It is retire in accordance with the UK Corporate important that the Board sets the tone for the Governance Code and each will offer rest of the Group on matters of diversity and I themselves for re-election in accordance with am pleased to confirm that we have 44% female the Articles of Association at the 2018 AGM.
representation on the Board, which exceeds the In proposing their re-election, the Chairman 2020 target for FTSE350 companies approved confirms that the Nomination Committee by the UK Government in 2015.
The has considered the formal performance Nomination Committees remit is also to ensure evaluation in respect of those Directors diversity is not only gender focused but also seeking re-election, and the contribution addresses ethnicity, country of origin and and commitment of the Directors that are disability.
required to offer themselves for re-election.
He has confirmed to the Board that their performance and commitment is such that the Company should support their re-election.
