56 | Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Nomination Committee report The Nomination Committee has the key role of ensuring we have the right blend of skills on the Board to deliver our strategy and successfully deal with changes in the business environment.
Peter Hindley Chairman of the Nomination Committee Dear Shareholder, The Committee met three times in 2017.
At these meetings the On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the 2017 principal duties of the Committee were formally considered and Nomination Committee report.
no issues or concerns were identied.
The members of the Committees attendance record is set out on page 50.
I report on During 2017 the Nomination Committee the Committee the Committees proceedings at the next full Board meeting and consisted of me as Chairman, Alan McWalter Senior the minutes of those meetings are made available to all Independent Director, Jane Ashcroft, David Blackwood and members of the Board.
Martin Pexton who resigned from the Board on 3 February 2017.
He did not attend any of the meetings in 2017 as they occurred As I explained in my letter in the 2016 Annual Report Martin after his resignation.
He was replaced by Mary McNamara who Pexton indicated that he intended to step down from the Board joined on 1 March 2017.
All, committee members, apart from in early 2017.
The Nomination Committee therefore retained the myself, are independent Non-Executive Directors.
executive search agency Norman Broadbent to provide a list of both male and female high calibre candidates with the Alan McWalter retired from the Board and this Committee on appropriate skills and experience to not only be a Non-Executive 31 January 2018 after nine years service to the Group as an Director of Dignity but also have the ability to be Chairman of the Independent Non-Executive Director and latterly as both Senior Remuneration Committee in the future.
I am pleased to advise Independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the that at the end of a rigorous recruitment process we appointed Remuneration Committee.
I would like to thank Alan for his Mary McNamara, her biographical details are on page 47 of this contribution to this Committee over all those years.
I am also pleased to advise that Mary has taken over the Chairmanship of the Remuneration Committee from The Company Secretary, Richard Portman, acted as Secretary to Alan McWalter following his retirement from the Board.
the Committee when requested by me to do so.
All members are considered to be independent by the Group having no day to In June 2017 Andrew Davies, the Groups Operations Director, day involvement with the Group.
indicated that he intended to retire from the Board.
This retirement took effect from 5 January 2018.
Andrew Judd, During the year the Committee carried out the following tasks: hitherto the Regional Manager for the South West Funeral Region, after careful consideration, was appointed as his Kept under review the structure, size and composition of successor as Director of Funeral Operations.
This appointment the Board including ensuring that it has the necessary skills, was not to the Board of Dignity plc.
knowledge and experience mindful of the Board changes that occurred, which included the appointment of a new chairman Given that the number of Executive Directors was reducing from of the Remuneration Committee and a new Senior four to three it was decided that it would not be necessary to Independent Non-Executive Director: replace Alan McWalter with a new Independent Non-Executive Director so the overall size of the Board fell from nine to seven Considered succession planning in respect of all the Directors but there would still be an equal number of Executive and Nonand senior managers mindful of the changes to the size and Executive Directors.
The Committee felt, given the strengthening composition of the Board: of the wider Executive Management Team, that the structure, size and composition of the Board still remained appropriate for Identied and nominated for approval by the full Board Mary the Groups size and complexity.
McNamara to ll the vacancy arising upon the resignation from the Board of Martin Pexton: All the Non-Executive Directors are appointed for two year terms Kept under review the leadership needs of the Group, both which may then be renewed up to maximum of nine years executive and non-executive: service in accordance with the independence guidelines in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Reviewed the time commitment required from the Non-Executive Directors: and Tenure Length of tenure at 29 December 2017 years Considered and approved the appointment of David Blackwood Name 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 for a further term of two years as an Independent NonExecutive Director.
David Blackwood Jane Ashcroft The terms of reference of the Committee are available on the Mary McNamara Groups corporate website at www.
Overview 01 03 Strategic Report 04 43 Governance 44 74 Financial Statements 75 129 Other Information 130 132 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 | 57 The Committee, and by extension the full Board, continue to support the spirit of Lord Davies Report Women on Boards.
In 2011 we set a goal of 20 per cent of Board positions to be lled by women by 2015.
Following the recent Board changes I am pleased to advise that it is currently 29 per cent having increased from 22 per cent in 2016.
We remain fully committed to increasing the proportion of women serving on the Board of Dignity but we are also mindful of the overall need to recruit the very best candidates regardless of gender.
Similarly, and mindful of the Hampton-Alexander review, we will continue to encourage similar gender diversity in our senior management positions throughout the workforce.
Their report in December 2017 noted that 22 per cent of our Board was female which, as noted above, has now increased to 29 per cent.
It also noted that 22 per cent of the Executive Committee and direct reports to the Directors of Dignity plc was also 22 per cent.
That percentage is now 24 per cent.
I am also pleased to confirm that the Group will continue to publish the details on corporate diversity suggested in Recommendation 2 of the Davies Report and report on our compliance Recommendation 4 and appointment process Recommendation 5 in our Annual Report.
During the period, the Board completed an internal performance evaluation of itself and its Committees.
The results of this are discussed on page 50.
Finally, the Companys Articles provide that all Directors retire by rotation with one third being subject to re-election each year.
However we continue to adopt the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code such that all Directors offer themselves for re-election annually.
This Nomination Committee report was reviewed and approved by the Board on 14 March 2018.
Peter Hindley Chairman ofthe Nomination Committee 14 March 2018
