Overview 01 03 Strategic Report 04 43 Governance 44 74 Financial Statements 75 129 Other Information 130 132 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 | 45 Governance structure Links See Board ofDirectors: p. 46 and p. 47 The Board provides strategic leadership See Directors statement on corporate governance: p. 49 to p. 52 to the Group within a framework See Audit Committee report: p. 53 to p. 55 of robust corporate governance and See Nomination Committee report: p. 56 and p. 57 internal control.
See Report on Directors remuneration: p. 58 to p. 71 See Directors report: p. 72 to p. 74 The Dignity plc Board Chairman, Executive Directors and Independent NonExecutive Directors Board Level Committees Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Independent NonExecutive Directors Independent NonExecutive Directors Chairman and Independent NonExecutive Directors Executive Management Team The Board The Chairman The Board is responsible for the long-term success of the The Chairman is responsible for: Group which includes: The leadership of the Board: Overall management of the Group: Ensuring the Board functions effectively in all aspects of its role: Setting and reviewing the strategy of the Group: Facilitating the effective contribution of the Non-Executive Approval of major capital expenditure and acquisition projects, Directors and ensuring a constructive working relationship and consideration of significant financial matters: exists between Executive and Non-Executive Directors: Monitoring the exposure to key business risks: Making sure all Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information: Approval of major nancing and capital structure changes to the Group: Setting the agenda so all important issues are discussed, ensuring sucient time is devoted to discussing such issues particularly Setting annual budgets and reviewing progress towards strategic ones: achievement of these budgets: and Making sure there is effective communication with stakeholders Proposing and making dividend payments to shareholders.
and acting as the public face of the Group: and The Chairman also acts as the Chairman of the Groups dened benefit pension scheme and also as Chairman of the various pre-arranged funeral plan trusts.
Non-Executive Directors The Chief Executive and Executive Directors The Non-Executive Directors scrutinise, measure and review the The Chief Executive and Executive Directors are responsible for: performance of management: constructively challenge and assist in Operational management and control of the Group on a day to day the development of strategy: review the Groups financial information basis.
Local operational decisions are the responsibility of the local and monitor the effectiveness of internal risk management systems.
managers, who are accountable to the Chief Executive and the There are four independent Non-Executive Directors, the same Executive Directors: number as the Executive Directors as prescribed in the Code for Formulating and proposing strategy to the Board: and listed companies included in the FTSE 250 Index.
Implementing the strategy and policies adopted by the Board.
Senior Independent Director The Senior Independent Director provides a sounding board for the Chairman and acts as an intermediary for other Directors if needed and is available to meet and liaise with shareholders if required.
Committees of the Board Executive Management Team There are three standing committees of the Board: the Audit The Executive Management Team consist of the following Executive Committee: the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Directors and Senior Managers: Committee.
The Terms of Reference of these Committees are Chief Executive: Mike McCollum: set by the Board and are available on the Dignity plc corporate Finance Director: Steve Whittern: website.
Membership is reserved for the Independent Non-Executive Corporate Services Director: Richard Portman: Directors save for the Nomination Committee which is chaired by Director of Funeral Operations from 2018 : Andrew Judd: the Non-Executive Chairman.
The Board Committee Reports are Crematoria Director: Steve Gant: on pages 53 to 71.
Commercial Director: Steve Wallis: and Business Development Director: Alan Lathbury.
