STATEMENT OF Corporate Governance The Companys internal processes in the preparation and review of this Annual THE COMPANYS ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Report and other financial reporting include: Shareholders will have the opportunity to meet and question all of the Directors at the AGM, which will be held at 10 am on 2 May 2018 at review of and feedback on iterations of this Annual Report by the Executive Peterborough Court, 133 Fleet Street, London, EC4A 2BB.
Directors and the full Board: A detailed explanation of each item of business to be considered at the focused review of specific sections of this Annual Report by the relevant AGM is included with the Notice of Meeting, which will be sent to the Board committees: shareholders before the AGM.
Shareholders who are unable to attend the Audit Committee review of a management report on accounting AGM are encouraged to vote in advance of the meeting, either online at estimates and judgements, auditor and management reports on internal ocadoshares.
com or by using the proxy card which will be sent with the controls and risk management, accounting and reporting matters and a Notice of Meeting if sent by post or can be downloaded from the Companys management representation letter concerning accounting and reporting corporate website.
matters for further information see pages 64 to 69 : At last years annual general meeting, all resolutions were passed with votes Board and Audit Committee review of a supporting paper specifically in support ranging from 81.17% to 100%.
highlighting the parts of this Annual Report that best evidenced how this COMPLIANCE WITH THE CODE Annual Report was fair, balanced and understandable: This Statement of Corporate Governance explains how the Company applies paper from the Company Secretary highlighting how reporting, regulatory the main principles and complies with all relevant provisions set out in the and governance issues had been addressed in this Annual Report: UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 issued by the Financial Reporting Council the Code, as required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Board and Audit Committee review of management reports on Authority and meets other relevant requirements including provisions of the assessments on going concern and viability: Listing Rules and the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules of the the Audit Committee regularly reporting to the Board on the discharge of Financial Conduct Authority.
its responsibilities: The Companys obligation is to state whether it has complied with the relevant input from both internal and external legal advisers and other advisers to provisions of the Code, or to explain why it has not done so up to the date of cover relevant regulatory, governance and disclosure obligations: this Annual Report.
The Company has applied the principles and complied with the provisions of the Code, except for provisions A.
1.2, D. 1.1 and Schedule discussions between contributors and management to identify relevant A and D. 2.2.
These areas of non-compliance are explained below.
and material information: Code Provision Area Explanation detailed debates and discussions concerning the principal risks and A.
1.2 Senior Independent During the period, Alex Mahon uncertainties: Director was the Senior Independent checking of factual statements and financial information against source Director of the Company.
As materials: explained on page 62, following her resignation after the period specific Board review of Directors belief statement and key statements: end, the Company has not yet and appointed a successor Senior separate approval by the Group General Counsel, the Board committees Independent Director.
D. 1.1 and Design of As explained on page 97, Directors The statement by the external auditor on its reporting responsibilities is set Schedule A performance-based are not required to retain shares out in the Independent Auditor's report on pages 120 to 126. remuneration from share incentive schemes In addition to this Annual Report, the Group provides other statements to its for a period after leaving the shareholders regarding the Group and its operations, including the modern Company.
slavery statement and tax strategy statement.
Simultaneously with the D. 2.2 Senior As explained on page 73, the publication of this Annual Report the Group will publish its first gender pay management Remuneration Committee reporting statement and in due course, the Group will publish its supplier remuneration monitors, but does not make payments statement.
For further information on the Groups activities in these recommendations concerning, areas see the Strategy Report on pages 6 to 47. the level and structure of remuneration for senior management of the Company.
60 Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 53 weeks ended 3 December 2017 25615 Proof 8 5 February 2018 8:57 PM Our Governance The Company aims to explain how its practices are consistent with the principle to which the particular provision relates, contribute to good governance and promote delivery of business objectives.
The Companys disclosures on its application of the main principles can be found as follows: Section Principle Section of Annual Report Page Leadership Every company should be headed by an effective board which is collectively Board of Directors 52 responsible for the long-term success of the company.
Composition of the Board 56 There should be a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the company between Board structure 54 the running of the board and the executive responsibility for the running of the companys business.
No one individual should have unfettered powers of decision.
The chairman is responsible for leadership of the board and ensuring its effectiveness Board structure 54 on all aspects of its role.
As part of their role as members of a unitary board, non-executive directors should Board structure 54 constructively challenge and help develop proposals on strategy.
Board responsibilities and actions 55 Effectiveness The board and its committees should have the appropriate balance of skills, Board of Directors 52 experience, independence and knowledge of the company to enable them to Director biographies 116 discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively.
There should be a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of Director election 58 new directors to the board.
All directors should be able to allocate sufficient time to the company to discharge External Board Appointments and 58 their responsibilities effectively.
Conflicts All directors should receive induction on joining the board and should regularly Board Induction and Professional 59 update and refresh their skills and knowledge.
Development The board should be supplied in a timely manner with information in a form and of a Information for Directors 59 quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
The board should undertake a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own Review of Board Effectiveness 57 performance and that of its committees and individual directors.
All directors should be submitted for re-election at regular intervals, subject to Director election 58 continued satisfactory performance.
Accountability The board should present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Strategic Report 6 companys position and prospects.
How we manage our risks 38 Going concern statement, Viability statement 39 The board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the principal risks How we manage our risks 38 it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
The board should maintain sound risk management and internal control systems.
The board should establish formal and transparent arrangements for considering Audit Committee Report 64 how they should apply the corporate reporting, risk management and internal control principles and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the companys auditor.
Remuneration Executive directors remuneration should be designed to promote the long-term Directors Remuneration Report 70 success of the company.
Performance-related elements should be transparent, stretching and rigorously applied.
There should be a formal and transparent procedure for developing policy on Directors Remuneration Report 70 executive remuneration and for fixing the remuneration packages of individual directors.
No director should be involved in deciding his or her own remuneration.
Relations with There should be a dialogue with shareholders based on the mutual understanding Engagement with shareholders 59 of objectives.
The board as a whole has responsibility for ensuring that a satisfactory shareholders dialogue with shareholders takes place.
The board should use general meetings to communicate with investors and to Engagement with shareholders 59 encourage their participation.
Certain parts of this Statement of Corporate Governance have been reviewed by the Companys external auditor, Deloitte, for compliance with the Code, to the extent required.
Further information on the Code can be found at www.
uk directors   BOARD APPROVAL OF THE STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE This separate Statement of Corporate Governance is approved by the Board and signed on behalf of the Board by its Chairman and the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary.
Neill Abrams Lord Rose GROUP GENERAL COUNSEL AND COMPANY SECRETARY CHAIRMAN Ocado Group plc, Registered in England and Wales, number 07098618 6 February 2018 Stock Code: OCDO | www.
