BOARD OF Directors Front row seating LR Back row standing LR LORD ROSE EMMA LLOYD Chairman, 68 Non-Executive Director, 48 ANDREW HARRISON TIM STEINER, OBE Non-Executive Director, 47 Chief Executive Officer, 48 DUNCAN TATTON-BROWN RUTH ANDERSON Chief Financial Officer, 52 Non-Executive Director, 64 DOUGLAS MCCALLUM ALEX MAHON Non-Executive Director, 51 Non-Executive Director, 44 Retired from the Board on 13 December 2017 MARK RICHARDSON JRN RAUSING Chief Operations Officer, 53 Non-Executive Director, 57 NEILL ABRAMS Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, 53 The Directors' biographies are found on pages 116 and 117 52 Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 53 weeks ended 3 December 2017 25615 Proof 8 5 February 2018 8:57 PM Our Governance LENGTH OF TENURE OF CHAIRMAN GENDER DIVERSITY BOARD INDEPENDENCE AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 2 2 2 1 8 3 4 0 4 3 Executive Director 36% Chairman 9% Whole Board Executive Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Director 55% Male Female MIX OF KNOWLEDGE AND EXPERIENCE ON THE BOARD Retail Technology International Operations 5 5 4 E-Commerce Finance Accounting Automated Engineering 3 2 3 1.
The charts on this page include Alex Mahon, who retired from the Board on 13 December 2017, and exclude Luke Jensen, who will join the Board with effect from 1 March 2018.
For more information on the composition of the Board see page 56 Stock Code: OCDO | www.
com 53 25615 Proof 8 5 February 2018 8:57 PM 0-3 years: 3-6 years: 6-10 years: 10 years: STATEMENT OF Corporate Governance LEADERSHIP Board Structure The structure of the Board is designed to ensure that the Board focuses on strategy, monitoring the performance of the Group and governance, risk and control issues.
The following diagram shows the role of the Board and its committees and management.
CHAIRMAN BOARD OF DIRECTORS Leads the Board The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Company.
The business of the Company is managed by Promotes high standards the Board who may exercise all of the powers of the Company.
The Board delegates certain matters to the Board committees, of governance and ensures and delegates the detailed implementation of matters approved by the Board and the day-to-day operational aspects of the eectiveness business to t business to the Executive Directors he Executive Directors.
Sets the Board's agenda SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR Provides a sounding board AUDIT COMMITTEE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE NOMINATION COMMITTEE for the Chairman Reviews and reports to the Determines the remuneration, Undertakes an annual review Serves as an intermediary Board on the Group's financial bonuses, long-term incentive of succession planning and for the other Directors reporting, internal control and arrangement, contract terms ensures that the membership Discusses any concerns with risk management systems, the and other benefits in respect and composition of the Board, shareholders independence and eectiveness of the Executive Directors, the including the balance of skills, of the external auditors and Chairman and the Company remain appropriate.
the eectiveness of the Internal Secretary.
Constructively challenge the Executive Directors Monitor the delivery of the Groups strategy within the risk and control framework set by the Board CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS COMPANY SECRETARY AND MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE Leads the Executive Day-to-day management of GROUP GENERAL COUNSEL Implements and oversees Directors the Group's operations Ensures that Board operational management Represents management Operations and results of the procedures are followed Group on the Board Governance matters Execute the strategy once Ensures that informaton agreed by the Board flows between management, the Board and its committees Indicates delegation RISK COMMITTEE INFORMATION TREASURY COMMITTEE SAFETY STEERING CAPITAL EXPENDITURE Oversees the Group's SECURITY COMMITTEE Oversees the treasury COMMITTEE GROUP Indicates Board support risk register, risk control Monitors the Group's policy concerning Oversees the Group's Reviews and processes and disaster information security the Group's cash and health, safety authorises capital recovery planning.
measures and oversees deposits, investments, and environment expenditure projects, changes to security foreign exchange and management systems overspends and systems.
and monitors the property expenditure, progress of safety in accordance with plans.
The primary responsibilities of the Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director, the Company Secretary and the Non-Executive Directors are set out in writing and provide a system of checks and balances in which no individual has unfettered decision-making power.
Certain detailed aspects of the Boards responsibilities are delegated to the Executive Directors.
The Executive Directors carry out some of these responsibilities through executive-led committees.
These committees, whose roles are set out above, formally report to the Executive Directors, and may provide reports to the Board or Board committees from time to time.
The Management Committee comprises the Executive Directors and ten members of management.
The reports by each Board committee are given in this Annual Report.
The full terms of reference for each Board committee are available on the Companys corporate website www.
com 54 Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 53 weeks ended 3 December 2017 25615 Proof 8 5 February 2018 8:57 PM Our Governance WHAT THE BOARD DID THIS YEAR The Boards activities are structured through the year to develop and support the delivery of the Groups strategy.
The Boards discussions throughout the year were focused on our strategic objectives: Driving Growth, Maximising Efficiency and Utilising Proprietary Knowledge.
The Board also regularly discussed governance, risk management and the Groups financial performance.
The table below sets out some of the Boards key areas of focus and discussions through the year and how these developed and support our strategy.
RESPONSIBILITY STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE REPORTING, RISK MANAGEMENT OVERSIGHT OF THE GROUP'S OPERATIONS PEOPLE, GOVERNANCE AND FINANCING AND ACCOUNTABILITY CONTROLS AND TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SPECIFIC ACTIONS DURING THE PERIOD Annual strategy conference to review and Annual review of key risks and risk appetite Approving the annual budget, the business Receiving report on people issues.
Discussing set the Groups strategy.
Overseeing Ocado and reviewing reports of risk management.
plan for the Group and individual capital Board composition.
Review of reports on specific risk areas expenditure projects.
Approving the Groups human rights policy including OSP control environment.
Monitoring grocery retail competitor activity.
Receiving reports on patent protection of and modern slavery statement.
Reviewing and approving the Groups the Groups technology.
Receiving reports from senior management Receiving various reports on governance and regulatory announcements and reports.
on trading, business performance and Receiving regular reports on key projects regulatory changes.
Reviewing reports on health, safety and including new technologies, IT replatforming environment, litigation, investor relations and and development and ramp-up of the Reviewing major strategic initiatives including legal and company secretarial matters.
THE BOARDS STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE ROLE The Board is ultimately responsible for The Board discusses stakeholder issues Entrepreneurial leadership to the Group with A key strategy to supporting business growth the Companys risk appetite and viability and through the year, including investor, customer overall responsibility for driving performance is the growth of our technology business.
therefore plays a key role in reviewing the and employee issues.
The Board is updated through debate and constructive challenge Our strategy in Europe has driven growth in risks that face that business and ensuring that regularly on governance matters.
the technology business while we continue it has and retains oversight of specific, high to expand our UK development centre in The Board received updates throughout Developing effective leadership in the Board risk areas.
the year on recruitment and retention, and and throughout the business and ensuring The Board discusses Company-specific risks discussed the potential impact of Brexit on the right personnel are in place.
Operational efficiency is regularly discussed and uncertainties, including the environment the Groups operations, including the impact and challenged at Board meetings and is Overseas expansion has been an important in which the business operates such as on the Groups operational strategy.
considered an important driver for both focus for the Board during the period as a cybercrime and climate change.
growth and developing our proprietary significant part of the growth strategy.
knowledge, and therefore the Groups The Board reviews the Companys viability strategy.
The commercialisation of Ocado Solutions is a key strategy for the Group.
The Board reviews IP strategy and Ocado Solutions negotiations at each Board meeting.
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES DRIVING MAXIMISING UTILISING GROWTH EFFICIENCY PROPRIETARY KNOWLEDGE PRINCIPAL RISKS Please refer to page 40 for further information about the principal risks for the Group's strategic objectives and the key mitigating activities.
com 55 25615 Proof 8 5 February 2018 8:57 PM STATEMENT OF Corporate Governance The policy also includes a commitment to engage only executive search COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD firms who have signed up to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive REVIEW OF BOARD AND BOARD COMMITTEE COMPOSITION Search Firms.
This includes Ridgeway Partners, who were engaged to help the As noted on page 62, a number of changes were made to the composition of Company secure new Non-Executive Directors for the Group.
In making changes to the Board, the Boards review of composition Committee monitors these objectives.
took into account various considerations including length of Director tenure, Board diversity, independence and the mix of skills and experience of the BOARD TENURE Directors.
Some of these considerations are outlined below.
The Board also takes into account the length of tenure of existing Directors when considering reappointment and succession planning.
Ruth Anderson BOARD DIVERSITY will have served eight years in March 2018 as a Director.
Jrn Rausing has The Board seeks to ensure that its composition, and that of its committees, is served as a Director for over 14 years and accordingly his reappointment to appropriate to discharge its duty effectively and to manage succession issues.
the Board was subject to particular scrutiny including the importance of To enable the Board to meet its responsibilities, it is important that the Boards maintaining Board continuity.
The chart on page 53 illustrates the tenure of composition is sufficiently diverse and reflects a broad range of experience, Directors.
The Boards diversity policy includes a commitment to having a meaningful representation of women on the Board INDEPENDENCE and in senior positions in the Company.
The Code recommends that at least half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise Non-Executive Directors determined by the Board to be At the end of the period the Board had 27% female representation, but independent.
Since, excluding the Chairman, there were six Non-Executive following the resignation of Alex Mahon in December 2017, this has now Directors all determined by the Board to be independent and four Executive decreased to 20%.
The Board has made significant progress in improving Directors, the Board complies with this recommendation at the end of the its gender balance in recent years.
In 2009, the Board had no female period.
Since the retirement of Alex Mahon following the end of the period, the representation.
Despite this, the Board recognises there is further work to Board remains compliant with this requirement.
The third chart on page 53 do to improve female participation in executive and senior management illustrates the composition of the Board in respect of the independence of its positions and to improve ethnic diversity on the Board.
While it has never members as at the end of the period.
been, in the Boards opinion, in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders to set numerical targets for gender or ethnicity on the Board, Similarly, the composition of the Audit Committee, Nomination Committee the Board is committed to increasing the percentage of women on the Board and Remuneration Committee comply in all respects with the independence and in senior positions in the Company.
Any future Board appointments will provisions of the Code.
continue to be based on objective criteria to ensure that the best individuals are appointed for the role.
For more information on diversity in respect of all the Groups employees, see the Our People section on pages 46 and 47.
The chart on page 53 illustrates the diversity of the Board in terms of gender as at the period end on 3 December 2017.
56 Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 53 weeks ended 3 December 2017 25615 Proof 8 5 February 2018 8:57 PM Our Governance REVIEW OF BOARD EFFECTIVENESS The effectiveness of the Board is important to the success of the Group, and the annual review provides a useful opportunity for the Directors to reflect on their collective and individual effectiveness and consider changes.
2016 2017 Internal performance review of progress Independent, externally facilitated review Progress against external review assessed allow the Board more time for discussion of strategic issues.
Directors were BOARD EFFECTIVENESS REVIEW CYCLE asked to identify areas of Board focus for 2018 and common among these were The Board review for 2017 was carried out internally using two questionnaires.
the importance of overseeing implementation of the new Ocado Solutions The online questionnaires were prepared by the Company Secretary with implementation programmes for Groupe Casino and Sobeys and our other support from an external and independent consultant, Independent Audit partners.
The Board concluded that it had operated effectively throughout the Limited.
One questionnaire asked questions to assess performance in a range year.
The Chairman of each of the Board committees separately considered of areas including Board strategy, leadership and culture and sought to gauge the Board review as it pertained to their committee.
The Chairman separately the extent of perceived progress of the Board and the Board committees in the reviewed the results of the individual Director performance evaluations.
areas of development identified in the external Board review from 2016 which had been carried out by Independent Audit Limited.
An assessment of each Apart from the formal review of the Boards effectiveness, the Chairman individual Director was also carried out using a second questionnaire.
and the Non-Executive Directors met without the Executive Directors being The findings of the review were evaluated by the Company Secretary and the present to discuss the performance of the Board and the Executive Directors.
Chairman, and a Board evaluation report was provided to the Board.
The Board The Senior Independent Director and the Non-Executive Directors also met discussed the results of the review.
The Board recognised that management to discuss the performance of the Chairman without the Executive Directors and the Company Secretary had acted upon many of the recommendations or the Chairman being present and subsequently met with the Chairman to identified in the 2016 review.
Some of these actions were aimed at improving provide feedback.
The Chairman regularly met with the Executive Directors Board communications and included implementing an electronic Board portal and the Deputy Company Secretary during the period, on a range of Company for Board papers and scheduling of more informal meetings between Board matters and responsibilities.
members and between Directors and management.
Steps were also taken to Stock Code: OCDO | www.
com 57 25615 Proof 8 5 February 2018 8:57 PM STATEMENT OF Corporate Governance BOARD ATTENDANCE DIRECTOR MEETINGS EXTERNAL BOARD The attendance record of the Directors at scheduled Executive Directors APPOINTMENTS AND CONFLICTS Board meetings during the period is set out in the chart There have been a number of changes to the Directors 11 on the left.
The Board scheduled eleven meetings external appointments during the period as set out in Tim Steiner during the period.
Details of attendance at committee the table below.
The Chairman and the Board are kept 11 meetings are set out in the relevant committee report.
informed by each Director of any proposed external During the period, the Non-Executive Directors held a 11 appointments or other significant commitments as they Duncan number of meetings without the Executive Directors arise.
These are monitored to ensure that each Director Tatton-Brown 11 present.
has sufficient time to fulfil his obligations.
Each Directors biographical details and significant time commitments DIRECTOR ELECTION 11 outside of the Company are set out in the Directors' Neill Abrams Each Director is required under the Articles to retire at Biographies section on pages 116 and 117.
11 every annual general meeting each Director may offer Change in Effective Date himself or herself for re-appointment by the members 10 Director Commitment of Change at such meeting.
At the last annual general meeting on Mark Richardson 3 May 2017, all of the current Directors except Robert Lord Rose Appointed September 2017 11 Gorrie who was retiring stood for re-appointment, and Chairman of Zenith were duly elected with a range of 97.51% to 99.95% of Alex Resigned as Director August 2017 Actual meetings attended votes cast by shareholders in favour of re-appointment.
Mahon of The Edinburgh Possible meetings the Director could have attended International All Directors, with the exception of Alex Mahon who BOARD ATTENDANCE Television Festival retired from the Board on 13 December 2017, will retire Non-Executive Directors Limited and seek re-election at the AGM.
The explanatory notes Alex Resigned as Director August 2017 11 set out in the Notice of Meeting state the reasons why Mahon of The Edinburgh Lord Rose the Board believes a Director proposed for re-election Chairman 11 Television Festival at the AGM should be re-appointed.
The Board has Council based its recommendations for re-election, in part, 10 Alex Resigned as Director September 2017 on its review of the results from the Board evaluation Alex Mahon Mahon of Bandstand process outlined above, on the reviews of the Chairman 11 Productions Ltd led by the Senior Independent Director and of the Alex Appointed Chief October 2017 10 Executive Directors conducted at the meetings of the Mahon Executive of Jrn Rausing Non-Executive Directors, the Chairmans review of 11 Channel 4 individual evaluations, and whether a Director has Alex Resigned as Director November 2017 demonstrated substantial commitment to the role 11 Mahon of WATV Limited including time for Board and committee meetings Ruth Anderson noted below and other responsibilities, taking into 11 1.
Alex Mahon retired from the Board after the period end on account a number of considerations including outside 13 December 2017.
5 commitments and any changes thereof outlined Robert Gorrie Whenever a Director takes on additional external below during the period.
5 responsibilities, the Board considers any potential Luke Jensen, who will join the Board with effect from conflicts that may arise.
The Board monitors any 11 1 March 2018, will seek election at the AGM.
His potential conflicts of interest.
The Companies Act Douglas biography is set out in the Notice of AGM.
provides that Directors must avoid a situation where McCallum 11 they have, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that The rules that the Company has about the conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the Companys appointment and replacement of Directors are 10 Andrew Harrison interests.
Boards of public companies may authorise described in the Directors Report on page 111.
11 conflicts and potential conflicts, where appropriate, if a companys articles of association permit which the 11 Articles do.
Emma Lloyd 11 Each Director is required to disclose conflicts and potential conflicts to the Chairman and the Company Actual meetings attended Secretary.
As part of his or her induction process, a Possible meetings the Director could have attended newly appointed Director completes a questionnaire 1.
Robert Gorrie retired from the Board which requires him or her to disclose any conflicts of on 3 May 2017. interests to the Company.
Alex Mahon retired from the Board after the period end on 13 December 2017. an opportunity to disclose conflicts at the beginning of each Board and Board committee meeting and as part 58 Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 53 weeks ended 3 December 2017 25615 Proof 8 5 February 2018 8:57 PM Our Governance of an annual review.
One Director declared a potential conflict of interest in Lord Rose, the Chairman, and the Board of Directors, are available to the relation to a matter which was being discussed by the Board and which was Companys shareholders for discussions, and have met with various investors appropriately authorised by the Board in accordance with its powers.
None throughout the year to discuss matters such as strategy, corporate governance of the other Directors has declared to the Company any actual or potential and executive remuneration.
We held a number of investor days at our conflicts of interest between any of his or her duties to the Company and his new CFC in Andover throughout 2017 to enable our investors to view the or her private interests and or other duties, except in the case of the Executive progress at the new site as it ramps.
We also briefed shareholders on our new Directors, each of whom holds the position of Director of the Company and segmental reporting.
Director of a number of Group subsidiary companies.
The system in place for The Group also engages with shareholders in the event of a substantial vote monitoring potential Director conflicts remained effective during the period.
against a resolution proposed at an annual general meeting.
At the 2017 annual general meeting there were no such votes.
The Company Secretary had BOARD INDUCTION AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT consulted shareholders in recent years about the Companys remuneration Newly appointed non-executive directors follow a tailored induction issues and policies and the share allotment shareholder authorities.
programme, which includes a comprehensive overview of the Group, dedicated time with Group executives and key management personnel, visits At the 2016 annual general meeting, the Companys share allotment to customer fulfilment centres and participation in van delivery routes.
The resolutions received less support than expected by management.
The Chairman and the Company Secretary are responsible for reviewing, preparing Company consulted the large shareholders who did not support the and coordinating the induction programme.
The Company Secretary received feedback from the shareholders that indicated the shareholders had governance policies that were not wholly The Board and committees receive training, including in specialist areas.
aligned with the Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles and Investment Training is typically arranged by the Company Secretary in consultation with Association guidance.
In response to shareholder feedback the Company the Chairman or committee chairman.
The members of the Remuneration changed its approach to share allotment authorities for the 2017 annual Committee received updates from the Remuneration Committees general meeting.
For more information on the resolutions proposed for the remuneration advisers including on the new remuneration reporting market 2018 AGM, please refer to the Directors Report on pages 110 to 117. practices.
Members of the Audit Committee receive written technical updates from the external auditor to keep them abreast of the latest accounting, FORMAL REPORTING TO SHAREHOLDERS AND auditing, tax and reporting developments.
The Company Secretary also DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY provides updates to the Board and the committees on governance and The Company reports to its shareholders in a number of ways including regulatory changes impacting the Group for example, the requirements of formal regulatory news service announcements in accordance with the the new tax strategy reporting regulations.
Companys reporting obligations, trading statements of sales performance INFORMATION FOR DIRECTORS published in March, September and December each year, the half year report, The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that all of the Directors are properly the preliminary announcement of annual results, the annual report, and briefed on issues arising at Board meetings and that they have full and timely investor presentations slides and videos.
The Company makes available these access to relevant information.
To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all documents, including this Annual Report and other information concerning Directors receive appropriate information from time to time, including briefing the Company, on its corporate website.
All shareholders can choose to receive papers distributed in advance of the Board meetings.
an Annual Report in paper or electronic form.
Directors can, where they judge it to be necessary to discharge their The Company reports its quarterly trading performance, including information responsibilities as Directors, obtain independent professional advice at on the growth of the Groups revenue, average order numbers and size and its the Companys expense.
The Board committees have access to sufficient cash and borrowings position.
The Company believes that it is important to resources to discharge their duties, including external consultants and update the market on a quarterly basis due to the importance shareholders advisers.
place on receiving regular updates about sales and the current competitive pressures in the UK grocery market.
The Groups rate of sales growth is key ENGAGEMENT WITH SHAREHOLDERS to understanding the extent to which it is achieving one of its key strategic Investor Relations objectives, driving growth.
The Directors take responsibility for preparing The Company is committed to keeping shareholders informed of its strategy this Annual Report and make a statement to shareholders to this effect.
The Chairman has overall responsibility for ensuring that the statement of Directors responsibility on pages 114 and 115 of this Annual Company has appropriate channels of communication with its shareholders Report is made at the conclusion of a robust and effective process undertaken and is supported in this by the Executive Directors.
The Company regularly by the Company for the preparation and review of this Annual Report.
The meets with its large investors and institutional shareholders who, along with Directors believe that these well-established arrangements enable them to analysts, are invited to presentations by the Company after the announcement ensure that the information presented in this Annual Report complies with of the Companys results.
the disclosure requirements including those in the Companies Act, and is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary The Company conducts biannual investor roadshows in line with the reporting for shareholders to assess the Companys position, performance, business cycle and also addresses current and prospective shareholders at various model and strategy.
In addition to this Annual Report, the Companys internal investment conferences and other events, both in the UK and abroad.
The processes cover to the extent necessary the preliminary announcement, the Board regularly receives feedback from the Companys brokers, advisers and half year report, trading statements and other financial reporting.
the Executive Directors on the views of major shareholders and the investor relations programme and also receives reports at each Board meeting on the main changes to the composition of the Companys share register.
