LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS Nomination Committee Report DEAR SHAREHOLDER, I am pleased to present the report of the Nomination Committee for the 53 weeks ended 3 December 2017.
After a number of Director changes in recent years, the Group completed another examination of Board composition and succession plans during the period, with a view to identifying the Board composition that might best support the Groups next phase of development.
In reviewing Board composition it was noted that a number of Directors were approaching or had exceeded six years on the Board and accordingly some changes to the Board were likely in the medium term.
The Group completed The review was facilitated externally by Calibro, an external and independent consultant without any connections another examination of to the Company.
Calibro carried out a detailed review of Board skills, composition and succession requirements, Board composition and which included conducting interviews with all of the Directors and some members of senior management and succession plans during the reviewing the make-up and tenure of the current Board.
The report contained findings on the current composition period.
of the Board, its size, its diversity, its current capabilities, the Board culture and the leadership team.
The report also identified areas where the Board should evolve both to meet the expected future needs of the business and Lord Rose to ensure appropriate successors for certain Director roles.
The skill set of the Board, although relevant to the NOMINATION COMMITTEE current needs of the business, which is primarily focused on grocery retail and e-commerce in the UK, would need CHAIRMAN to expand.
In future, the business is expected to grow as a result of the Groups increasing focus on the Ocado Solutions business.
Growing the Ocado Solutions business is likely to result in significant investment internationally and in the areas of technology and software development, robotics and manufacturing.
Future leaders of the business will collectively need to reflect this broader capability, so that the Board skills meet the future strategic direction of the Group.
On 14 December 2017, following the period end, we announced the retirement of Alex Mahon from the Board with immediate effect.
Alex was appointed Chief Executive of Channel 4 in autumn 2017.
Her responsibilities in that position meant that she felt unable to dedicate enough time to her position as a Non-Executive Director of Ocado.
We thank Alex for her valuable contribution during her five years with the Company and wish her well in the future.
Based on Alex's departure and the skill set analysis, the Board expects to meet in early 2018 to identify and agree some objectives and timing for planned changes to the Board.
It is likely the Board will make a number of NonExecutive Director appointments in the next 24 months, both to prepare the Board for the departure of retiring Directors and to identify candidates meeting the identified skill sets.
The Board concluded that because of these planned changes in the short term, an interim Senior Independent Director was not appointed following Alex Mahon's departure from the Board.
In addition to reviewing Board composition, the Nomination Committee oversees the process of succession and management development for the Executive Directors and the next layer of management, the Management Committee.
The Nomination Committee reviewed these succession plans and discussed the areas identified where additional senior management experience would be helpful, particularly in relation to parts of the business experiencing significant expansion.
In the period, Luke Jensen was recruited as Chief Executive Officer of Ocado Solutions, to assume management responsibility for this business and to drive its rapid expansion.
Luke will join the Board on 1 March 2018 as the Directors believe that it is important to have the Solutions business represented at Board level.
With regard to the development of the management team, two senior managers regularly attend the Board meetings to report on their respective business areas, while the Board has exposure to other senior managers who present or report to the Board on their business areas or particular projects.
The Nomination Committee is mindful that it could improve the extent of its exposure to the senior management and expects to expand on existing arrangements for building relationships between Non-Executive Directors and senior management outside of formal Board meetings.
The Nomination Committee is mindful of the corporate governance developments in the areas of diversity and gender balance including the changes to the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules.
The Board plans to review, in 2018, its existing policies and objectives for Board and management diversity and will report on this review in the next annual report.
For further information on Board composition, diversity and independence, see the Statement of Corporate Governance on pages 54 and 61.
I will be available at the AGM to answer any questions about the work of the Nomination Committee.
Lord Rose NOMINATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN 6 February 2018 62 Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 53 weeks ended 3 December 2017 25615 Proof 8 5 February 2018 8:57 PM Our Governance MEMBERSHIP AND MEETINGS The membership and attendance of the Nomination Committee, together with the appointment dates, are set out below.
Nomination Committee Nomination Committee LORD ROSE DOUGLAS member since 11 March 2013 member since 3 October 2011 Chairman MCCALLUM Number of meetings: 2 Number of meetings: 2 Number attended: 2 Number attended: 2 Nomination Committee Nomination Committee JRN RAUSING ANDREW member since 9 March 2010 member since 1 March 2016 HARRISON Number of meetings: 2 Number of meetings: 2 Number attended: 2 Number attended: 2 Nomination Committee Nomination Committee RUTH ANDERSON EMMA LLOYD member since 9 March 2010 member since 1 December 2016 Number of meetings: 2 Number of meetings: 2 Number attended: 2 Number attended: 2 As required under the terms of reference, the Nomination Committee has six members, all of whom are independent Non-Executive Directors, and holds a minimum of two meetings a year.
Emma Lloyd became a member of the Nomination Committee on her appointment to the Board as Non-Executive Director on 1 December 2016.
Alex Mahon was a member of the Nomination Committee until she retired from the Board on 13 December 2017.
She attended all the Committee meetings in the year.
The biography of each member of the Nomination Committee is set out on pages 116 and 117.
Other attendees at the Nomination Committee meetings include the Chief Executive Officer and the People Director.
The Deputy Company Secretary is the secretary to the Nomination Committee.
Annual Review: In addition to its annual performance evaluation, discussed in the Statement of Corporate Governance on page 57, the Nomination Committee carried out a review of its terms of reference during the period.
The review resulted in no changes to the terms of reference.
The Committees terms of reference can be found on ocadogroup.
com 63 25615 Proof 8 5 February 2018 8:57 PM ACCOUNTABILITY Audit Committee Report DEAR SHAREHOLDER, As Chairman of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to present the report of the Audit Committee for the 53 weeks ended 3 December 2017.
Our report provides insight on our role, which is to oversee the Companys financial reporting, assurance framework and internal controls.
We considered the significant accounting matters and issues in relation to the financial statements and in this report we explain why the issues were considered significant, which provides context for understanding the Groups Our report provides insight accounting policies and financial statements for the period.
on our role, which is to It is over three years since the Internal Audit function was established and so the Audit Committee thought it timely oversee the Companys to commission an independent third party review of the effectiveness of Internal Audit.
This report outlines the key financial reporting, findings from that review.
assurance framework and Deloitte became the Groups external auditor during the period, following shareholder approval of their internal controls.
This report outlines the steps taken by the business to help with a smooth transition from outgoing auditors, .
Ruth Anderson AUDIT COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN I will be available at the AGM to answer any questions about our work.
Ruth Anderson AUDIT COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN 6 February 2018 MEMBERSHIP AND MEETINGS The membership and appointment dates of the Audit Committee members, together with details of each members meeting attendance, are set out below.
Audit Committee member since 9 March 2010 RUTH ANDERSON Number of meetings: 5 Chairman Number attended: 5 Relevant sector experience: Retail ANDREW HARRISON Audit Committee member since 1 March 2016 Number of meetings: 5 Number attended: 4 Relevant sector experience: Retail, Technology Andrew Harrison did not attend an ad hoc Audit Committee meeting due to family illness.
Alex Mahon was a member of the Audit Committee until she retired from the Board on 13 December 2017.
64 Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 53 weeks ended 3 December 2017 25615 Proof 8 5 February 2018 8:57 PM Our Governance As required under the terms of reference, the Audit Committee members New accounting standards: The Audit Committee undertook a review of the are independent Non-Executive Directors and the Audit Committee has impact of the new international accounting standards on the Groups financial held a minimum of three meetings a year.
Alex Mahon was a member of the statements for forthcoming years, relating to the accounting for revenue Committee until she retired from the Board on 13 December 2017.
The timing IFRS 15, for leases IFRS 16 and for financial instruments IFRS 9.
Of these of meetings coincide with key intervals in the reporting and audit cycle for the standards, although not applying to the period, only IFRS 16 is expected to Group.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports at each Board meeting have a material impact on the Groups financial results and financial position on the business conducted at the previous Audit Committee meeting, any for future periods when adopted, including requiring the Group to bring recommendations made by the Audit Committee and the discharge of its large operating lease commitments onto the balance sheet and the impact A responsibilities as set out in this report.
on the Group's EBITDA, depreciation, debt and operating profit as well as other measures.
Given its significance, management prepared a quantitative At least one member of the Audit Committee Ruth Anderson is considered analysis of the estimated impact of IFRS 16.
The Audit Committee reviewed by the Board to have competence in accounting and all members have recent the management report and the explanatory notes as well as some of the key and relevant financial experience.
Ruth Anderson is a chartered accountant management judgements.
The Audit Committee sought to ensure that the with the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
In line with most significant changes were clearly explained in this Annual Report.
The the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Audit Committee as a whole has Audit Committee: 1 discussed the systems and processes used by the Group competence relevant to the sectors in which the Company operates, notably to capture the required lease data information and to monitor lease terms: the retail and technology sectors.
Details of each Audit Committee members 2 reviewed the process used to identify all of the Group's revenue streams relevant sector experience can be found in the diagram above.
The biography and the revenue recognition assessment used to recognise revenue from of each member of the Audit Committee is set out in the Board of Directors new Ocado Solutions contracts: and 3 reviewed the disclosure contained section on pages 116 and 117. in this Annual Report regarding the anticipated impact of the standards on Regular attendees at the Audit Committee meetings include the Chief the Groups financial results and position see note 1.2 to the consolidated Financial Officer, the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, the financial statements on pages 132 and 133.
Finance and Risk Director, the Head of Internal Audit and the external auditor.
Accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty: Other attendees who attend as required include the Chief Executive Officer, The Audit Committee has assessed whether suitable accounting policies have the Chairman, a number of senior members of the finance department, other been adopted and whether management has made appropriate judgements members of senior management and operational teams and other advisers and estimates.
The Deputy Company Secretary is the secretary to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee reviewed and discussed reports from management on accounting policies and accounting issues and estimates in relation to this KEY AREAS OF FOCUS FOR THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Annual Report and sought to assess the reasonableness of the assumptions The responsibilities of the Audit Committee are set out in its terms of and judgements underlying the accounting issues.
The Audit Committee has an annual work plan, developed from its The table below summarises those significant issues which received particular terms of reference, with standing items that the Audit Committee considers at focus from the Audit Committee in relation to the financial statements for the each meeting, in addition to areas of risk identified for detailed review and any period and how these issues were addressed.
The issues of useful economic matters that arise during the year.
The main matters that the Audit Committee lives of assets and of revenue recognition for new Ocado Solutions contracts considered during the year are described below.
were identified as new significant issues for the period.
Financial Statements and Reporting: The Audit Committee monitored the financial reporting processes for the Group, which included reviewing reports from, and discussing these with, the external auditor.
As part of the year end reporting process the Audit Committee reviewed this Annual Report, a management report on accounting estimates and judgements, the external auditor's reports on internal controls, accounting and reporting matters, and management representation letters concerning accounting and reporting matters.
Monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Company, the financial reporting process and reviewing the significant accounting issues are key roles of the Audit Committee.
The Board ensures this Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position, performance, business model and strategy and the Audit Committee plays an important role in assisting the Board in reaching those conclusions.
For information concerning the process followed by the Company in preparing this Annual Report see pages 59 and 60 of the Statement of Corporate Governance.
The Audit Committee also monitors the financial reporting processes for the Groups half year report, which is a similar role to the one it carries out for full See Alternative Performance A year reporting.
Measures on page 196 Stock Code: OCDO | www.
com 65 25615 Proof 8 5 February 2018 8:57 PM ACCOUNTABILITY Audit Committee Report Impact on Financial Information Issue and Nature of Judgement Factors and Reasons Considered and Disclosure in Financial Area or Estimate and Conclusion Statements Cost of Sales Commercial income continues to be an The Audit Committee assessed management The amount of 87.1 million is Supplier income area of focus as the quantum of income estimates of supplier income and concluded recognised as supplier income.
including recorded is significant to the results of the these were appropriate.
For each income stream See notes 2.1 and 3.8 to the commercial period.
Some parts of commercial income the Audit Committee considered the analysis consolidated financial statements income, require management to apply estimates to of historical supplier income and management on pages 136 and 151. promotional ascertain the amounts and timings of income reports on internal control for income streams.
allowances and to be recognised where it relates to supplier volume rebates transactions that span the period end.
The amounts due from suppliers in relation to promotional activity and volume related sales targets are material.
Revenue Management judgement is required for The Audit Committee reviewed the appropriateness The accounting treatment is Recognition recognition of revenue due to the evolving of managements proposed accounting treatment included in the Consolidated Income nature of the business and new services of existing and new revenue streams including in Statement on page 127.
See note that are being provided.
The accounting for light of the expected impact of IFRS 15.
2.1 to the consolidated financial new Ocado Solutions contracts with a range statements on page 136.
The Audit Committee considered the appropriate of deliverables and fees is complex.
They accounting policies for certain new contracts require management judgement, including and taking into account the views of the external with regards to the timing of recognition and auditor.
classification of income under the accounting standard.
Intangible Assets The capitalisation of internal development Details of material technology projects which The amount of 42.7 million of Capitalisation costs is material and involves management are being capitalised along with the rationale for internal development costs has of Internal judgements as to whether the costs incurred capitalisation were presented to and reviewed by been capitalised within intangible Development Time meet the criteria in accounting standards the Audit Committee.
The criteria for identification non-current assets, as set out in note and Costs for capitalisation, including the technical of projects which may be treated as intangible 3.1 to the consolidated financial feasibility of the project and the likelihood assets and the process to capture the costs of statements on page 144. of the project delivering sufficient future these technology projects were discussed by economic benefits, and the risk of impairment the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee also when new technology supersedes previously discussed the need for any impairment of the capitalised projects.
existing carrying values of capitalised software and systems recognised as a result of the development of new software and systems.
Useful economic The useful economic lives and residual value The Audit Committee reviewed the reports from As a result, the depreciation cost lives of assets of the Groups assets involves management management that explained the justifications was reduced by 1.9 million in 2017 estimates.
The appropriateness of the for increasing the economic lives of some of the and is expected to decrease further estimated lives were reviewed.
Groups assets and the resulting impact on the on an annual basis in relation to the Groups depreciation charge and profitability revised assets.
See note 3.2 to the including management's estimates based on consolidated financial statements longer historical experience with the use of assets.
Recognition of The estimates used to support the future The basis of management estimates of future taxable The amount of 14.3 million was Deferred Tax Asset business profitability and recognised deferred profits of the Group and the process used to calculate recognised in the Consolidated tax asset require management estimate.
the deferred tax asset recognised were reviewed by Balance Sheet for the period.
The Audit Committee assessed of the deferred tax asset are set out in the reasonableness of the assumptions underlying note 2.8 to the consolidated financial the Group's future profits forecasts.
The table above is not a complete list of all the Groups accounting issues, estimates and policies, but highlights the most significant ones for the period in the A opinion of the Audit Committee.
Accounting for share-based payments and exceptional items are recurring issues, but did not require a significant estimate or judgement during the period, unlike some previous periods.
See Alternative Performance A Measures on page 196 66 Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 53 weeks ended 3 December 2017 25615 Proof 8 5 February 2018 8:57 PM Our Governance The accounting treatment of all significant issues and judgements was The Board discussed and reviewed the Groups risk appetite when reviewing subject to review by the external auditor.
For a discussion of the areas of the principal risks and the strategy for the Group.
Regular review of the risk particular audit focus by the external auditor, refer to pages 121 to 122 of appetite ensures that the Companys risk exposure remains appropriate and the Independent Auditor's Report.
The Audit Committee considers that the acceptable in enabling the Group to achieve its strategic objectives.
The Audit Company has adopted appropriate accounting policies and made appropriate Committee also reviews risk appetite and principal risks when considering the estimates and judgements.
effectiveness of the risk management system.
Every year the Audit Committee focuses on particular risk areas identified in the Group risk register.
During Segmental Reporting: As with previous years, the Audit Committee the period, management reported on the progress of the Groups business considered the Groups approach to segmental reporting.
Given the recent continuity and disaster recovery plans, the Groups information security Ocado Solutions transactions, the Board started to review performance of controls and assurance framework, the programme for complying with the the Group by segment and considered it appropriate to adopt segmental new General Data Protection Regulation and the control environment for the reporting for the Group for year end.
This Annual Report reports the Groups new Ocado Solutions business.
During the period,  two segments, retail and solutions, for the first time.
The Audit Committee LLP performed a high level cyber security audit covering the Groups controls considered the accounting impact of IFRS 8 Operating Segments and the to govern, detect, protect and respond to cyber security incidents.
The Audit external reporting disclosures for the Group.
Committee considered the high level findings of the review and managements Going Concern and Viability Assessments: The Audit Committee and the responses.
The Audit Committee expects to monitor the next phases of Board reviewed the Groups going concern and viability statements as set the review in 2018, including the development of a security roadmap for out on page 39 and the assessment reports prepared by management in expanding the Groups information security arrangements to cater for the support of such statements.
The Audit Committee gave careful consideration growth of the business.
The Audit Committee will continue to receive reports to the period of assessment used for the viability statement.
It took into on these areas in future years.
Further details of the risk review and the Groups account a wide range of factors as set out on page 39 and concluded risk management and internal control systems, including financial controls, the time period of three years remained appropriate.
The external auditor are set out in the How We Manage Our Risks section on pages 38 to 41. reviewed managements assessment and discussed this review with the Audit Internal Audit: Part of the assurance provided to the Audit Committee when Committee.
reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control comes Tax Review: The Audit Committee also considered the Groups tax policy, from Internal Audit.
The Audit Committee reviewed the Internal Audit plan in and concluded that managements low risk approach to tax management January 2017 and considered it appropriate to the Group having regard to the remained appropriate.
The Board reviewed and approved the Groups tax principal risks of the business.
strategy statement, published for the first time during the period.
The Internal Audit plan, which is risk based, set out a number of activities for the period and the 2018 financial year, including assurance programmes Risk Review: The Board has ultimate responsibility for effective management for key strategic projects such as the new CFCs and the Ocado Solutions of risk for the Group including determining its risk appetite, identifying technology and control and data integrity models for key projects such as key strategic and emerging risks, and reviewing the risk management the General Data Protection Regulation control environment and the Ocado framework.
The Audit Committee, in supporting the Board to assess the Solutions business.
The programme also includes operational audits for effectiveness of risk management and internal control processes, relies on key operational risk areas such as site security, health and safety and food a number of different sources to carry out its work including an assessment and product safety.
The Audit Committee reviews the planned internal audit report provided by management, Internal Audit assurance reports and the activities, and its resourcing and prioritisation.
Internal Audit reports to each assurance provided by the external auditor and other third parties in specific Audit Committee meeting.
Management actions are tracked and the status of risk areas.
No significant failings or weaknesses were identified in the Groups these actions is reported alongside progress against the Internal Audit plan.
risk management and internal control system for the period.
At the end These reports enable the Audit Committee to monitor progress, and to discuss of the period, the Audit Committee approved managements proposal to key findings and the plans to address them.
create a new position, Chief Compliance Officer, to head up a new function called Governance, Risk and Compliance.
The new function has assumed The Audit Committee is satisfied that the Internal Audit plan provides responsibility for supporting the Groups risk management processes, such appropriate assurance on the controls in place to manage the principal risks responsibility having been performed previously by Internal Audit previously facing the Group.
called Internal Audit & Risk and to help grow the Groups risk management framework.
The new function will help bring focus on the Group's risk controls As well as reporting at each Audit Committee meeting on the results of their and processes and actions needed to implement them, particularly as the work, Internal Audit reports on any cases of whistleblowing, fraud and bribery.
