CHAIRMANS Governance Overview DEAR SHAREHOLDER, On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present Ocados Statement of Corporate Governance for 2017.
The Board is mindful of the corporate governance reforms and proposed changes in legislation that are intended to encourage responsible corporate behaviour.
The reforms appear to be aimed at ensuring that in growing a business for the longer-term interests of its shareholders, a board is mindful of the companys broader purpose and its responsibilities to a broader stakeholder group.
The Board, in its decision making processes, and the Group as a whole needs to be aware of the interests of its employees, customers and suppliers and the Groups impact The Board... and the Group on wider society.
Delivering sustainable performance is core to the Boards regular deliberations, but we must as a whole, needs to be ensure that we find appropriate time to engage with the Groups employees and get insight on our customers and supply base and our corporate responsibility plans.
These reforms also highlight the importance of ensuring that aware of the interests of its the Companys purpose, strategy and values are fully aligned and clearly articulated.
This Annual Report provides employees, customers and some information on engagement and other issues.
We expect to report more fully on these matters when the new suppliers and the Groups reporting requirements come into force next financial year.
This information will help the reader understand how impact on wider society.
stakeholder relationships are taken into account in the Boards decision making as well as providing shareholders with information to allow them to understand the strategy, development, performance and impact of the Groups Lord Rose activity, including potential long-term outcomes.
CHAIRMAN ACCOUNTABILITY AND RISK The Board periodically discusses risk management, the Groups risk appetite and the principal risks facing the Group.
As well as debating principal risks and the potential impact on the business of the UK leaving the European Union we considered some risk areas in detail.
The Group engaged external consultants to carry out a comprehensive review of our cyber security arrangements and to assess our data and information security controls and processes.
Given the importance of these issues to the Group generally and the growth of the Ocado Solutions business, the Audit Committee will closely monitor the Groups cyber security plans.
The Audit Committee has played an important role in monitoring the Groups risk and assurance systems.
Some of this oversight includes reviewing existing assurance arrangements and so external advisers were engaged to carry out a detailed review of the Internal Audit function.
Implementation of the recommendations from the review will be monitored by the Audit Committee in 2018.
REMUNERATION AND ENGAGEMENT WITH SHAREHOLDERS Our Executive Director remuneration arrangements are designed to incentivise and support the achievement of our business objectives and sustain long-term value for shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee oversees the Directors Remuneration Policy, which received strong shareholder support at the annual general meeting on 3 May 2017.
As the Groups strategy and development evolves we expect to continue to engage with our shareholders on changes to the executive remuneration arrangements.
LEADERSHIP AND BOARD EFFECTIVENESS The Board needs to ensure that we have the right people and leadership in our Group to support the strategy and plans of the Group.
As well as reviewing management succession plans, the Board has considered Board composition.
The report, put together by external consultants, concerned Board composition and succession plans and the existing and desired skill sets of the Board.
This important piece of work will form the basis of Board discussions in 2018 as we consider the make-up of the Board that will best support the business as it moves into the next stage of development.
Our Senior Independent Director, Alex Mahon, retired from the Board after the period end on 13 December 2017.
Alex was with Ocado for over five years and we thank her for her valuable contribution to the Company and the Board and wish her well in the future.
Lord Rose CHAIRMAN Ocado Group plc 6 February 2018 50 Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 53 weeks ended 3 December 2017 25615 Proof 8 5 February 2018 8:57 PM Our Governance STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2017 GOVERNANCE HIGHLIGHTS The Statement of Corporate Governance for 2017 covers the following Emma Lloyd joined the Board at the start of the period as a Nonareas: Executive Director.
Robert Gorrie retired from the Board in May 2017 and Alex Mahon retired from the Board following the period end in the structure and role of the Board and its committees: December 2017. the Boards effectiveness: A review of the Directors Remuneration Policy completed by the relations with the Companys shareholders and the AGM: and Remuneration Committee and approved by shareholders at the 2017 annual general meeting.
the reports of the Nomination Committee and the Audit Committee.
Remuneration consultant,  LLP, appointed The report of the Remuneration Committee is set out separately in the after a tender carried out by the Remuneration Committee.
Directors Remuneration Report on pages 70 to 109.
The Groups risk management and internal control framework and the Groups principal Auditor tender completed by the Audit Committee, which resulted risks and uncertainties are described on pages 38 to 41. in new external auditors, Deloitte LLP, being appointed at the 2017 annual general meeting.
These sections form part of this Statement of Corporate Governance.
The Directors Remuneration Report on pages 70 to 109, the Directors Report Recommendations from external 2016 Board evaluation largely on pages 110 to 117 and the going concern and viability statements implemented by management.
on page 39 also contain information required to be included in this Recommendations agreed by Audit Committee from external review Statement of Corporate Governance, and so are incorporated into this of Internal Audit function.
External report on Board composition and succession plans.
