Strategic report Financial statements Governance William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 75 Report of the Nomination Committee In respect of the recruitment of a new Membership and meetings director, the Committee prepares a Set out below is the membership of the description of the role required.
An external Nomination Committee: firm is appointed, taking into account the Director firms ability to find suitable candidates.
The Committee ensures that the relevant Gareth Davis, Chairman firm subscribes to the relevant industry Sir Roy Gardner codes on executive searches including Mark Brooker from 3 April 2017 diversity.
On joining the Board, NonGeorgina Harvey executive Directors receive a formal appointment letter, which identifies the David Lowden time commitment expected of them.
Once John OReilly from 2 January 2017 appointed, the new director undergoes Robin Terrell from 2 January 2017 a tailored induction and familiarisation programme implemented by the Company Imelda Walsh Secretary with input from the Chairman Gareth Davis and CEO.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary Chairman, Nomination Committee to the Committee.
All members of the Any potential director is required to disclose Committee are independent Non-executive Following the significant all significant outside commitments prior to Directors and the Committee is chaired appointment and the Board has approved changes to Board composition by the Board Chairman.
In order to ensure a policy requiring disclosure and approval agreed in 2016, the key areas there are fully informed discussions, the by the Board of all additional appointments CEO and or the Group Human Resources of focus for the Nomination for executive or Non-executive Directors.
Director are invited to attend meetings Committee this year have Although there were changes in the outside as appropriate.
The Committee met on commitments of some directors during been the appointment of Philip 11occasions during 2017.
2017, none of these were material to the Bowcock as CEO in March, the extent that it would impact on the time appointment of Ruth Prior as Nomination Committee remit required to commit to the Company.
Roger CFO with effect from October Devlin, who joined the Group as Chairman A full copy of the terms of reference for the Committee can be obtained via the website Designate on 1 February 2018, complied and the succession planning with these disclosure requirements prior at www.
com or by request to process ahead of my planned the Company Secretary.
to appointment, and has stepped down as retirement as Chairman Chairman of Sports Information Services The Committees principal responsibilities in2018.
Holdings Ltd and will step down as a are to: Non-executive Director of the Football Association in June 2018. make appointment recommendations to the Board for the appointment, reappointment or replacement of directors: Main activities during 2017 devise and consider succession planning The calendar of Committee activities below arrangements for directors and, as provides an overview of the key areas of appropriate, other senior executives: and specific focus for the Committee in 2017, and further explanation regarding the key regularly review the structure, skills, size, events for the Committee during the year composition and balance of the Board can be found in the Chairmans introduction and recommend any proposed changes.
Matters within the remit of the Committee During 2017, the Committee played an are also on occasion undertaken by important part in recommending changes the Board, for example, discussions on to the composition of the Board, thereby succession planning and more informal ensuring the Companys leadership and meetings with managers in the Companys the Boards succession planning is welltalent pipeline.
positioned and better placed to support Non-executive Directors are currently the Groups strategic objectives.
The Board appointed for an initial three-year term, formally endorsed all the recommendations extendable by a further two additional of the Committee during the year.
The terms and conditions Philip Bowcock was appointed as CEO of appointment of non-executive and in March 2017, having been appointed as service contracts of executive directors are Interim CEO in July 2016.
The decision to available to shareholders for inspection appoint Philip to the permanent position at the Companys registered office during represented the successful conclusion of normal business hours and at the AGM.
an extensive search for potential external candidates in conjunction with external recruitment firm Heidrick & Struggles Heidrick & Struggles otherwise have no connection with WilliamHill.
William Hill PLC 76 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Report of the Nomination Committee continued It also reflected the Boards strong Board diversity and 2017 calendar of Nomination confidence in Philips ability to lead the composition Committee activity business and in particular oversee the The Board has a diverse range of transformation programme to refocus February experience by way of expertise, business operational performance in the medium sector background and by length of CEO and CFO searches tolong term.
tenure on the Board, and the Committee Group Executive composition The Committee also commenced a is well aware of its responsibilities in Recommendation that all eligible search process for the CFO position that respect of diversity.
We recognise the directors be re-elected at the 2017 Philip vacated on appointment.
A similar benefits that diverse viewpoints and AGM, and extension of the term of process was followed, with further input backgrounds can contribute to decisionappointment of David Lowden again from Heidrick & Struggles.
The making and also for the infusion of initial search considered both internal fresh thinking and perspectives from March and external candidates.
Shortlists were newly appointed directors.
The Board is CEO and CFO search then prepared and reviewed by the delighted with the contributions made and appointments Committee which agreed the most suitable by newly appointed directors during the May candidates who should proceed to a series year, which have complemented the Initial discussion on the process for of interviews with the Chairman, various experienced ongoing contribution of the succession of Chairman Non-executive Directors, and the CEO.
That process culminated in the unanimous July It is also the intention of the Board to recommendation that Ruth Prior, who was Discussion regarding succession continue to keep the benefits that derive at that time Chief Operating Officer at of Ashley Highfield as Chair of the from a diverse Board in mind when making Worldpay Group plc, be appointed as CFO.
Corporate Responsibility Committee future appointments.
As at 31 December Recommendation to extend the term During the year the Committee further 2017, 30% of the Board was comprised of appointment of Roy Gardner considered the balance of skills and of women, and this gender diversity ratio experience on the Board and also changes is line with the updated voluntary target Discussion on the process for to support timely succession planning.
of the Davies Review for female board succession of Chairman With this in mind, following reviews by the representation well ahead of the reviews Review and recommendation to Committee it was unanimously agreed 2020 timetable.
refresh the Committees terms that the appointments of David Lowden, of reference Reflecting its commitment to gender Georgina Harvey, Imelda Walsh and Sir Roy diversity, during the year the Board became Gardner each be extended for a further September a member of and is proud to support The three-year term from their respective Recommendation for Mark 30% Club, the global organisation that anniversary.
The Board also welcomed Brooker to succeed Ashley collaborates with businesses, governments each recommendation, which were each Highfield as Chair of the Corporate and other campaigns to improve gender unanimously approved.
Responsibility Committee diversity and accelerate the pace of change Chairman succession In December the Committee recommended from schoolroom to boardroom.
The the appointment of Roger Devlin as current target of The 30% Club, following October Chairman Designate with effect from an extension of scope, is now a minimum of Recommendation to extend the 1 February 2018, to complete the succession 30% women on FTSE 350 boards by 2020, terms of appointment of Imelda planning following Gareth Davis decision which stood at 24.8% in January 2018.
Walsh and Georgina Harvey to step down from the Board before the At WilliamHill we pursue diversity, including Chairman succession 2018 AGM.
Korn Ferry had been appointed gender diversity, throughout the business to conduct an extensive search and a November and will continue to follow a policy of sub-committee led by Sir Roy Gardner as Group Executive composition appointing talented people at every level Senior Independent Director evaluated Chairman succession to deliver outstanding performance.
The many of the initial candidates and Board does not believe that setting a Review of Board undertook additional work in between quota is the most appropriate method for Committee composition Committee meetings.
The sub-committee achieving a balanced Board or for any other regularly reported to the Committee, December positions in the Company and the primary which subsequently agreed a shortlist Chairman succession criteria for all of our appointments is that of candidates.
Korn Ferry has no other and appointment they are made on merit.
However, the connection with WilliamHill.
Board is also supportive of the objectives of During 2017 and up to the date of this the reviews by Lord Davies and by Sir John The Committee is regularly kept informed report, the Committee also: Parkers on diversity and the benefits that of changes in governance including the broader diversity brings to any business.
changes proposed to the UK Corporate continued to monitor the reports Governance Code.
The Committee will and progress updates issued by the In future, the Committee will continue to consider further the implications on Lord Davies review team in respect of monitor the longer-term composition of the diversity once a final version of the Code womenon boards and by Sir John Parker Board, the levels of senior management has been published, expected in 2018. concerning the ethnic diversity of boards: immediately beneath the executive Board and positions, and also how these support the Gareth Davis strategic priorities and leadership needs of Chairman, Nomination Committee considered and recommended to the the business.
Board that each director be proposed for re-appointment at the 2017 AGM.
