William Hill PLC 56 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Report on Corporate Governance Board Committee, the Transformation The Board of WilliamHill remains Overview of the Board Oversight Committee, to provide additional committed to high standards of corporate Board role and structure independent oversight during the Groups governance, which we consider to be vital to WilliamHill has an effective Board transformation programme.
the effective management of the business whose role is to take collective and to maintaining the confidence of This section sets out a summary of the key responsibility for both leadership and investors.
We have a defined framework roles and responsibilities of each Committee driving the long-term and sustainable of roles and responsibilities in place to and how that committee supports the success of the Company.
Inorder to support the Boards operation, which are Board.
Further details on the roles and support the Board in the discharge of further discussed in the remainder of this responsibilities of each standing Committee its duties, there is a formal framework governance report.
and the work they have undertaken in of Committees of the Board.
This year 2017 is provided in the reports from each the Board established an additional Committee commencing on page 67.
Board structure Board Role: Responsible for the overall long-term success of WilliamHill, itsstrategic direction and setting the Groups culture and values.
Key focus in 2017: Review of strategy: oversight of strategic and operational delivery: monitoring and responding to regulatory environment: review and approval of a transformation programme: review of opportunities and challenges in the Groups key international markets.
See calendar of Board activities to the right of this page.
Audit and Risk Remuneration Corporate Nomination Transformation Management Committee Responsibility Committee Oversight Committee CR Committee Committee Role: Role: Role: Role: Role: Advises the Board on Sets the remuneration Sets the Groups CR Advises on Provides independent financial statements, policy for the policies and direction.
appointments to the scrutiny and review policies, internal Companys most Reviews how the Board and on Board of execution of the controls and risk senior executives and Group achieves composition and Boards approved management.
Agrees responsible behaviour succession planning.
transformation Oversees the awards and other on social, ethical and programme: acts as relationship with both terms of remuneration industry matters.
a conduit to provide the internal and the for senior executives.
further input into the external auditor.
Key focus in 2017: Key focus in 2017: Key focus in 2017: Key focus in 2017: Key focus in 2017: Financial Reporting: Revised Remuneration Reviewing regulatory Search and Establishment of Online controls: Policy 2017 AGM : environment and appointment of Committee and technology security: approving developments: permanent CEO, governance: progress agreeing revised remuneration oversight of liaison CFO and Chairman: review against overall arrangements for the arrangements with regulators: executive talent and programme objectives: external audit tender.
for CEO, CFO and review of community succession planning: project specific reviews Company Chairman relations and colleague Board and Committee against key project appointments: engagement: review composition.
agreeing long-term of health & safety incentive performance performance: metrics following retirement of Ashley consultation with key Highfield and investors.
appointment of Mark Brooker as Chair.
Strategic report Financial statements Governance William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 57 undertaking reviews of Board, Committee Matters reserved to the Board 2017 calendar of Board and individual director performance: In order to support the Boards primary role activityand key dates succession planning for senior to promote the long-term success of the management and the Board on the January Company and to promote a strong control recommendation of the Nomination Transformation programme environment, the Board continues to Committee : and operate within a formal Schedule of Matters February Reserved to it and this forms part of an approving the governance arrangements 2016 Full-Year results and dividend, overarching Group Delegation of Authority.
and strategic plan for the Groups Action Plan arising from external 2016 transformation programme.
performance evaluation, authorisation Only the Board may exercise any of of sale of greyhound stadia the powers in the Schedule of Matters The authority delegated to senior Reserved.
Other powers are delegated to management provides a practical March the various Board Committees and senior framework to executive management, Appointment of Philip Bowcock as management via formal Committee terms which seeks to achieve the dual objectives permanent CEO, and Ruth Prior as CFO, of reference or via the Group Delegation of maintaining effective financial and establishment of the Transformation of Authority.
The Group Delegation operational controls whilst providing Oversight Committee of Authority and Schedule of Matters sufficient flexibility to manage the business.
Reserved to the Board are reviewed and April Examples of areas of such delegated Review and approval of a updated on a regular basis, and were authority include: the release of capital transformation programme reviewed and updated in August 2017. expenditure against approved budgets: treasury activity within approved limits: The Group Delegation of Authority and May payroll processing: property transactions: AGM: presentation by UK Gambling Schedule of Matters Reserved to the Board LBO activities: the setting of bet acceptance are circulated by the Deputy Company Commission executives, Global limits: and routine transaction processing.
Technology Platform update: review Secretary to all members of the Group Executive team and certain other senior ofUS market Board operation managers to ensure the authorities July which have been agreed by the Board are How the Board operates 2017 Half Year results and understood across the entire business.
The Chairman, along with the executive interim dividend, transformation directors and the Company Secretary, programme update Matters reserved to the Board include: hasestablished Board processes designed September setting the overall direction, long-term to maximise its performance.
At the Board Strategy Conference objectives and strategy of the Group and heart of this is the flow of high-quality delegating day-to-day management to information on a regular basis which allows October the CEO: the Board to monitor the performance of Follow-up from Board Strategy reviewing Group performance: the Group across a wide range of issues and Conference: review of strategy regarding to make decisions and approvals affecting reviewing the arrangements in place defined benefit pension deficit the strategy and operation of the Group.
relating to regulatory and industry issues: November TheBoard also receives timely information approving the appointment and Board visit to Leeds offices: Retail, on current and potential future matters removal of any Board member and the Trading and Technology operations affecting the business and the environment Company Secretary: in which it operates so that the longer-term November reviewing and approving the terms prospects of the Group can be considered Arrangements for the sale of of reference of the various Board in a strategic manner.
WilliamHills interests in NYX Committees and receiving reports from Gaming Group In addition to the information provided on Committee Chairs on a regular basis: a standing basis at Board meetings, the December approving changes to the Groups capital Board holds annual or ad hoc events which Strategic review of WilliamHill Australia: structure, any significant acquisitions and provide an opportunity to focus specifically Approval of 2018 Budget and fivedisposals, capital investment projects on certain issues or areas of the business.
year forecast and material contracts: approval of the Groups annual plan, At every meeting the Board receives and five year strategic plan, Annual Report discusses updates from the CEO, CFO, and Accounts, Half-Year Statement and the General Counsel and the Company setting the Groups dividend policy: Secretary in respect of progress against strategy, operational matters, financial approval of the Groups charitable performance including a comparison donations and Group-wide corporate against internal plans, compliance responsibility policies: and regulation, legal matters and corporate governance.
The Board of WilliamHill also receives monthly management accounts which provide regular and up-to-date assessments of Company performance.
William Hill PLC 58 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Report on Corporate Governance continued The SID is also required to lead the process Information flows to the Board for evaluating the Chairmans performance and to chair the Nomination Committee when it is considering succession to the Material policy decisions and Updates from across the role of Chairman.
During 2017, the SID mattersreserved to the Board: businessinclude: took responsibility for initiating succession Corporate reporting Company performance planning for the Chairman in anticipation Board Strategy Conference Potential market opportunities of his retirement in 2018 see the report Board operational reviews Market, regulatory, legal and corporate governance updates from the Nomination Committee for Annual operating plan and five-year strategicplan Investor Relations and other more details.
stakeholdersreports The role of the SID also includes, if needed, a process under which he she might Annual ad hoc items discussed by Standing regular items discussed by intervene to maintain Board and Company theBoard theBoard stability.
All of WilliamHills Non-executive Directors, including the Chairman and SID, are required by their role to perform certain functions to improve the effectiveness of the Board.
In particular they: Board oversight, decision-making, approval, strategic planning constructively challenge and contribute to the development of strategy: In particular: each year the annual operating plan for scrutinise the performance of the following financial year is discussed an annual Board Strategy Conference management in meeting agreed goals and approved by the Board.
This sets the BSC is held with the Board and and objectives: targets and agrees the key operational selected senior management to review through the Audit and Risk Management matters for each part of the business and develop the strategy and direction Committee, satisfy themselves that for the subsequent year.
The BSC in 2017 financial information is accurate and against plan is reviewed regularly during reviewed each part of the business that internal controls and systems of risk the year.
and the context of the transformation management are robust: programme, ongoing regulatory reviews, The organisation and management of through the Remuneration Committee, as well as wider strategic issues such as the Board is designed to support focused, take responsibility for determining industry consolidation.
A comprehensive healthy debate and constructive challenge, appropriate levels of remuneration for process is in place to track and follow and to allow specialist advice and strategic senior executives: up on actions arising from each BSC.
through the Nomination Committee, The Board continues to also approve The Board of WilliamHill acts as a collective undertake the role of recommending amedium-term five-year strategic plan unit.
However, in order to further optimise the appointment, and where necessary which reflects over the longer term the the performance and the governance of removal, of positions on the Board: and Companys strategy and the environment the Board, there are distinct and clear roles, in which the business operates: through the Transformation Oversight which are each explained further below.
Committee, monitor executive regular visits are held where the Board delivery during the Boards agreed can see one of the Groups business Role of Chairman, CEO, transformation programme.
locations away from the head office.
Senior Independent Director This gives the Board an opportunity to Role specifications of the Chairman, and Non-executive Directors gain far greater insight on the particular the CEO, SID and other Non-executive business and also provides an excellent No one individual on the Board has Directors are defined in writing so that their opportunity for extended meetings and unfettered powers of decision-making.
role requirements are clearly understood.
discussions with a broader range of the Throughout 2017, the Chairman, Gareth The role specifications are either included in management team.
In 2017 the Board Davis, was responsible for leadership of the terms of appointment or are otherwise visit was held at the Groups Leeds offices the Board, ensuring its effectiveness in all approved by the Board, and each of the and included detailed reviews of the aspects of its role and setting its agenda.
specifications was reviewed against the Groups Retail, Trading and Technology Philip Bowcock, as the CEO from March Code during the financial year.
In addition, individual 2017, and Interim CEO prior to that, is the directors also visit other business executive responsible for the running of locations of the Company and when this the business.
Sir Roy Gardner is the Senior is done the director provides a report Independent Non-executive Director SID back to the Board: and and his main role is to satisfy the function outlined in the Code of being available to shareholders if there are concerns which normal contact has failed to resolve.
Strategic report Financial statements Governance William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 59 Key aspects of the organisation of the reporting packs are normally prepared Board discussions are held in a Board include: by the executive directors and other collaborative atmosphere of mutual senior managers and then distributed respect allowing for questions, scrutiny Board meetings are scheduled to by the Company Secretary to the Board and constructive challenge, where ensure consideration of issues relevant at least four working days in advance appropriate.
Where applicable, the to the Board and to provide adequate of Board meetings.
This enables the minutes are also prepared in such a time for discussion of each agenda reporting packs to be as up-to-date manner as to record directors opinions item.
Agendas are set to provide the as possible whilst allowing sufficient or concerns regarding the operation directors with a longer-term outlook time for their review and consideration of the Board or the management of of the business the Board needs to in advance of the meeting.
Verbal the Company: consider, but it also provides a regular updates at Board meetings cover any and systematic opportunity for each in addition to formal Board meetings, material developments subsequent director to add additional items which during the year the Board held a series to the distribution of reporting packs.
they consider to be important: of informal dinners which provided Presentations and discussions during an excellent opportunity for further the significant corporate activity that Board meetings are provided by either discussion between the Board and involved the Group in 2016 was not the executive director concerned or by for the Board to engage further with repeated in 2017, and other than the the relevant senior manager or external various members of the management establishment of the Transformation advisor who has been invited to attend team in discussions over various matters Oversight Committee during the year, for that particular item: in a more informal setting: non-executive Board members were not each scheduled Board meeting reviews full debates allow decisions to be taken required to regularly make themselves individual reports received from the available to the Group outside of the by consensus although any dissenting CEO, the CFO, the General Counsel and views would be minuted accordingly : usual calendar of scheduled meetings: the Company Secretary as standing comprehensive reporting packs are the development of strategy is led by agenda items: provided to the Board, which are the executives with input, challenge, the annual calendar of scheduled Board designed to be clear, accurate and examination and ongoing testing from meetings is also structured to allow analytical, whilst avoiding excessive and the Non-executive Directors: the Board to review cyclical and ad hoc unnecessary information.
Papers are good working relationships exist agenda items, which are scheduled by distributed and retained in an electronic between Non-executive Directors the Company Secretary to coincide system which is managed by the and non-Board members of the with relevant key dates and events, or Company Secretary and this provides senior management team, which is the culmination of relevant projects.
directors with instant access to current encouraged by the executive directors: Examples of each can be found in the and prior papers at any time: and annual calendar of Board activities 2017: a summary of the actions arising at members of the senior management where a director is unable to attend, he each Board and Committee meeting team draw on the collective experience or she is still provided with the papers in iscirculated by the Company Secretary of the Board, including its Non-executive order to comment ahead of the meeting following each meeting.
The Company Directors and the industry expertise of on the matters to be discussed: Secretary then ensures progress is the Non-executive Directors who joined made in respect of each action and financial updates with commentary the Board in the year.
a progress report against previously aredistributed to the Board on a regular agreed actions is dealt with as a basis.
The Board regularly reviews standing item to provide feedback risk management and challenges this tothe entire Board that actions have where appropriate: been progressed appropriately: William Hill PLC 60 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Report on Corporate Governance continued Throughout 2017, and up to the date of this Also, Georgina Harvey, David Lowden and Board composition report, the Company satisfied the Code Imelda Walsh were all appointed in 2011 The Board currently comprises seven requirements that at least half the Board, and the Nomination Committee and the independent Non-executive Directors, excluding the Chairman, should comprise Board reviewed their independence against theChairman, the Chairman Designate Non-executive Directors determined by the provision B.
The Board continues andtwo executive directors.
toregard each of Georgina Harvey, David In December 2017 Roger Devlin was Lowden and Imelda Walsh as independent The proportion of women members of appointed as Chairman Designate with in accordance with provision B.
1.1. of the Board as 31 December 2017 stood at effect from 1 February 2018, and is the Code.
The Board continues to monitor expected to be appointed Chairman on composition of the Board, and is committed Gareth Davis satisfied the independence 2 April 2018 when Gareth Davis will step to ensuring that all appointments are made criteria detailed in provision A.
3.1 of the down from the Board.
on the grounds of merit against specific Code upon his appointment as Chairman Philip Bowcock was appointed as Interim role criteria.
The Board is monitoring the on 1 September 2010.
Roger Devlin similarly CEO with effect from 21 July 2016, and various initiatives to further increase the satisfied the same criteria upon his was confirmed as CEO with effect from diversity of boards and remains mindful of appointment as Chairman Designate with 10 March 2017. the considerable benefits greater diversity effect from 1 February 2018. offers.
The Board commits to review its Ruth Prior joined the Group as CFO on The Board comprises individuals with approach to diversity regularly in the 2 October 2017 and joined the Board on widebusiness experience gained in context of an evolving market approach that date.
Mark Summerfield had been varioussectors of industry and in the and good practice.
acting as Interim CFO although he was publicsector.
The directors aim is to ensure not a member of the Board and he The Company continues to regard that the balance of the Board reflects stepped down from that position upon the needs of the Groups business and each ofSir Roy Gardner, Mark Brooker, Ruths appointment, whilst ensuring an Georgina Harvey, David Lowden, John toensure a thorough consideration of the effective handover of responsibilities and important issues facing WilliamHill and OReilly, Robin Terrell and Imelda Walsh completing certain projects.
The independence of each director is Sir Roy Gardner continues to act as reviewed annually.
Ashley Highfield stepped Senior Independent Director, having been down as a director in November, on his appointed to the position in 2014. completing nine years asan independent Non-executive Director.
His re-appointment prior to retirement, at the 2017 AGM, alsocontinued to be subject to rigorous review by the Board, in accordance with provision B.
2.3. of the Code, which requires this ofany term beyond six years for a Non-executive Director.
Board balance Philip Bowcock Gareth Davis Roger Devlin Ruth Prior Leisure, construction International regulated Leisure, betting and Digital, regulated and finance business gaming industries, financial services, international business finance Mark Brooker Sir Roy Gardner Georgina Harvey David Lowden Betting and gaming International business Media and publishing International business industry, international and finance regulated business John OReilly Robin Terrell Imelda Walsh Betting and gaming Online, retail and Retail and human industry, international technology resources regulated business Strategic report Financial statements Governance William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 61 Composition of the Board Length of service of Board members Board composition % % andapproach Composition of the Board as at 31 December 2017 Male non-executive 60% 03 years 50% Female non-executive 20% 36 years 10% Male Executive 10% 69 years 40% Female Executive 10% Attendance at Board and Committee meetings Details of Board and Committee attendance during 2017 are set out in the table below.
All directors are expected to attend all Board and relevant Committee meetings.
Ad hoc defined Audit and Risk Corporate scope Board Management Responsibility Nomination Remuneration 1 3 2 Scheduled Board Committees Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings held 8 11 5 4 11 9 Meetings attended Philip Bowcock 8 9 n a 4 n a n a 4 Mark Brooker 6 2 4 3 6 4 Gareth Davis 8 11 n a 4 10 9 Roger Devlin n a n a n a n a n a n a Sir Roy Gardner 7 1 4 4 8 5 Georgina Harvey 8 2 4 4 10 8 5 Ashley Highfield 6 3 4 3 8 6 David Lowden 8 5 5 4 10 9 John OReilly 8 3 5 4 9 7 6 Ruth Prior 3 1 n a n a n a n a Robin Terrell 6 2 3 2 9 6 Imelda Walsh 8 4 4 4 10 9 In the few instances where a director was not in attendance, this was due to other unavoidable commitments, or because a director wasunable to attend an ad hoc meeting which was convened at short notice.
Directors who were unable to attend a Board or Committee meeting received the relevant papers and provided their comments to the Chairman of the Board or Committee, as appropriate.
In addition, any director who missed a meeting received the minutes of that meeting for future reference.
In addition to attending Board and Committee meetings, each of the Non-executive Directors devotes sufficient time to the Company to ensure that their responsibilities are met effectively.
This includes preparation ahead of each meeting and, for the Chairman and Committee Chairs, holding planning meetings and discussions with the relevant executives or senior management ahead of a meeting to ensure that each meeting has been well-prepared.
The Chairman maintains frequent contact with all members of the Board between meetings and has regular meetings with the CEO and Company Secretary to keep apprised of material developments in the business.
1 During the year there were 11 additional ad hoc or defined scope meetings of the Board or Committees established by the Board for specific purposes, for example to give final approval to the release of the Company's trading results.
The defined scope Committees comprised any two of the Chairman, the Chairman of the Audit & Risk Management Committee, the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and the CEO, and there was full attendance at each convened meeting.
2 Following a periodic review by the Nomination Committee in November, composition of the Audit and Risk Management Committee was changed such that David Lowden Chair, Mark Brooker, John OReilly and Robin Terrell were the only continuing members with immediate effect.
The members who stepped down from the Committee each attended all of the meetings held prior to the changes in the composition of the Audit and Risk Management Committee.
3 The Board established the Transformation Oversight Committee in May 2017, which will operate for the duration of the transformation programme.
The Committee is chaired by John OReilly, with Philip Bowcock, David Lowden and Mark Brooker appointed as members.
The Chairman Gareth Davis attends meetings by invitation but is not formally appointed to the Committee.
The Transformation Oversight Committee has not been included in the table due to its project specific remit.
4 Mark Brooker was appointed with effect from 3 April 2017, and attended all meetings to which he was invited following his appointment.
5 Ashley Highfield stepped down from the Board with effect from 16 November 2017 and attended all meetings to which he was invited prior to stepping down.
6 Ruth Prior was appointed with effect from 2 October 2017, and attended all meetings to which she was invited following her appointment.
William Hill PLC 62 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Report on Corporate Governance continued Each newly appointed director receives an acknowledgement of strategic areas Approach to governance induction and each induction programme is which may become more of a priority atWilliamHill tailored specifically to suit the needs of the andwill require additional Board Conflicts of interest new director.
During the year John OReilly, discussion.
In particular, longer-term The composition of the Board means that Robin Terrell, Mark Brooker and Ruth strategy following the transformation many of the directors have considerable Prior completed personalised inductions programme, ongoing industry experience, and board level, industry and providing a range of in-depth general, consolidation and market opportunities, other roles outside of WilliamHill.
Whilst industry and Group-specific information.
the regulatory environment and the this brings benefits to the stewardship of Roger Devlin has largely completed a Companys sustainability agenda WilliamHill, controls are in place to ensure bespoke induction as Chairman Designate.
were highlighted: that suitable arrangements are made when The induction process also includes certain other areas for further a directors external role could come into meeting members of the Board and of improvement were also identified by conflict with their duties as a director of the Group Executive and visits to various the evaluation.
longer term succession planning, further refining and improving the content and Each director has access to all required In accordance with the Companies timeliness of reporting to the Board, Act 2006, the Companys Articles of information relating to the Group and to and additional interaction with senior Association include provisions reflecting the advice and services of the Company managers in the business.
The Board recommended practice concerning Secretary.
The Board also obtains advice also identified additional topic areas for conflicts of interest.
The Board has in from professional advisers as and when further discussion and review.
place procedures for directors to report required and directors may, as required, any potential or actual conflicts to the obtain external advice at the expense of The above areas which require further other members of the Board for their the Group.
Board attention or improvement will authorisation where appropriate.
be addressed in an action plan to be Performance evaluation progressed and monitored in 2018.
In deciding whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict of interest only nonThe Board continues to recognise the benefits of an effective evaluation Shareholder engagement interested directors i. e. those who have no interest in the matter under consideration ofits performance.
The UK Corporate Each year, the Director of Strategy, Brand Governance Code recommends that will be able to take the relevant decision.
and Investor Relations IR prepares a Intaking the decision the directors must the evaluation of the Board should scheduled programme of contact between be externally facilitated at least every act in a way they consider, in good faith, will the Company and its largest institutional be most likely to promote the Companys three years.
The Board followed this investors.
This supports a regular recommendation and the process was success.
In addition, the directors may dialogue with the Companys institutional impose conditions or limitations when conducted externally by Independent shareholders, where the CEO and CFO AuditLimited IAL in 2016.
IAL also giving authorisation if they think this is meet with investors to discuss the business appropriate.
The Board is confident that provides the Company with software to further.
Great care is exercised, however, support Board performance evaluations the appropriate checks and balances are during such meetings to ensure that any in place to identify and minimise potential but otherwise IAL does not have any price sensitive information is not disclosed, otherconnection with the Company.
as such information is only released at the same time to all shareholders, in The external evaluation report comprised Information and professional accordance with the requirements of the a number of main recommendations Financial Conduct Authority.
development which have been reviewed by the Boardand addressed during the year.
The Chairman, supported by the Company Presentations are also provided to An internal performance evaluation was Secretary, takes responsibility for ensuring institutional shareholders and analysts also completed in 2017, which focused, that the directors receive accurate, timely following the publication of the Groups in addition to the usual parameters, on and clear information across a wide range financial results or for other selected the progress made from the external of matters relevant for the Board to topics in respect of the business.
Copies evaluation and key issues for the Board to operate effectively.
The Board continues of such presentations are made available address looking forward.
Key points to note to operate an electronic portal, by which on the Groups corporate website, from the 2017 evaluation include: papers, information and guidance are www.
com, for a period promptly and efficiently disseminated.
The Chairman the areas identified in the previous is available to discuss strategy and evaluation had been largely addressed.
In addition to receiving presentations governance issues with shareholders and In particular, the composition and andbriefings from internal management, Sir Roy Gardner, as the Senior Independent dynamics of the Board had improved the Board also on occasion requests that Non-executive Director, is available to following the permanent appointment external advisers provide briefings.
This shareholders if they have concerns that of the CEO and CFO and addition of new supports a wider awareness of issues and have not been, or cannot be, addressed Non-executive Directors with sector and facilitates decision-making.
through the Chairman, CEO or CFO.
digital experience The Chairman is also responsible for taking Meetings between the Chairman, CEO strengthening of the interaction between the lead on issues of director development and or the CFO and shareholders can be the Board and the Group Executive: and encouraging all Board members to held on request to discuss governance and engage in Board and Committee meetings corporate responsibility issues generally.
by drawing on their skills, experience and knowledge.
Strategic report Financial statements Governance William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 63 The Chairman and Chair of the The Board did not elect to extend the In order that shareholders are aware of Remuneration Committee facilitated share repurchase programme completed theother shareholders voting intentions, anumber of meetings with key investors in December 2016, under which 95m was the details of proxy votes for the AGM held during 2017 as part of the ongoing returned to shareholders, pending further in 2017 were made available at the general contact programme to discuss proposed clarification of the regulatory outlook meeting and were published following the arrangements for executive long-term for the business, and given asignificant meeting on both the Companys website incentives to be granted in year.
This is pipeline of opportunities to invest savings and to the London Stock Exchange.
discussed further in the Directors Report generated by the approved transformation Each of the resolutions at the AGM held in on Remuneration.
As a result, an aggregated 2017 were passed with the requisite level total of 108.1m was distributed to The Group also liaised with certain key of approval, however the Board noted shareholders during the financial year, investors during the year to discuss an opposition in excess of 20% to the standard under the 2016 final and 2017 interim approach for the share capital authority allotment authority and non-pre-emptive dividend payments.
resolutions which received in excess of 20% share issue resolutions.
Both resolutions opposition at the 2017 AGM.
The Board will continue to review were presented to shareholders in line application of its policy to both dividend with established UK market practice The Group also obtains feedback from its payments and dividend cover, but does and are fully in line with the guidelines corporate brokers and its investor relations not anticipate that any policy changes of Pre-Emption Group.
In line with the adviser on the views of institutional will be necessary to stated policy in the recommendations of the Code, the Board investors on a non-attributable basis forthcoming 2018 financial year in the released a statement acknowledging this and the CEO and or CFO, supported context of the Groups projected financial significant opposition within the results of by the Director of Strategy, Brand performance and current outlook for the AGM poll, and also conducted a further and IR, communicate the issues and its primary markets, or indeed for the exercise to gauge the root causes for the concerns of major shareholders to foreseeable future.
One significant US the Board.
Asa matter of routine, the investor opposed the resolutions on the Board receives regular reports from the The Board has specifically considered basis that their global voting policy has a Director of Strategy, Brand and IR and and modelled the potential impact of an lower allotment authority than contained in from the Companys external advisers unfavourable ruling from the Governments the AGM resolutions.
Following consultation on issues relating to recent share price Triennial Review of staking limits and with that shareholder, and after having performance, trading activity and general gaming on its dividend policy, and has taken into account the voting policies of institutional investor sentiment.
The alternative strategies depending on a another shareholder who subsequent Board also receives copies of relevant range of outcomes.
The Board remains to the 2017 AGM has become a material analysts reports on an ad hoc basis via comfortable that the existing dividend shareholder in the Company, the Board has the Companys Investor Relations team policy of around 50% of adjusted earnings agreed to reduce the level of both proposed and other matters of interest in the media will remain appropriate and sustainable.
The Board via the Corporate Affairs and External acknowledges that the opposition to both All future reviews will encompass periodic Communications teams.
2017 AGM resolutions has been recorded assessments of the future profitability by the Investment Association in its newly of the business, principal risks and asset Dividend Policy and published public register of companies valuations, as necessary, in accordance with Distributions encountering shareholder opposition votes best practice.
in excess of 20%, along with the Boards The Board closely monitors the explanatory statement.
appropriateness of its stated policy on The Annual General Meeting dividend payments, dividend cover, and its The Board continues to consider the It is intended to continue with the Boards capital structure and allocation priorities current practices that a separate resolution AGM as an important opportunity to as cyclical agenda items.
Each proposed communicate directly with all shareholders.
be proposed on each substantially separate dividend payment is also specifically At the AGM in 2017, the Chairman issue.
It is planned to post the Notice of reviewed in the context of the Companys and the CEO took the opportunity to the 2018 AGM to shareholders with the distributable reserves, prior to payment to summarise WilliamHills performance 2017 Annual Report and Accounts at least shareholders following the Groups half and 20 working days prior to the date of the and achievements in the prior year and to full year results.
The website also contains the Notice of General Meeting and supporting Both dividend payments in the year were Board members, including the chairs of the explanatory notes.
approved in line with the Boards policy Remuneration, Nomination, Audit and Risk and reflect the Groups continued strong The Articles of Association of the Company Management, and Corporate Responsibility cash flow and confidence in delivery of Committees, attended the 2017 AGM require that any newly appointed director theBoards strategic priorities.
That policy will be subject to election at the following and intend to attend the 2018 AGM to be is subject to periodic review by the Board.
In accordance with the provisions Further information regarding the strategic ofthe Code, the Board has agreed that At the conclusion of the AGM, shareholders rationale for decisions taken with respect alldirectors will be subject to annual to both dividend payments in 2017 can be are provided with an opportunity to discuss re-election by shareholders.
Directors business matters informally with the found in the Strategic Report on page 2. willaccordingly be elected or re-elected by directors and other senior managers in the shareholders passing an ordinary resolution business.
This provides the Company with at a general meeting.
a further opportunity to understand and respond to the views of the shareholders.
William Hill PLC 64 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Report on Corporate Governance continued The Company also continues to operate Board and corporate culture Internal control and refine its policies and procedures to The Board continues to prioritise a focus The Board has overall responsibility for the prevent, detect and to report suspected on culture, recognising its importance in Groups internal control systems and for fraud and money laundering, all under any organisation.
Whilst a clear tone from monitoring their effectiveness.
Executive the supervision of the Audit and Risk the top remains a critical accountability for directors and senior management are Management Committee.
The Company the Board, workstreams within the Groups responsible for making sure that risks are also has a robust policy in place regarding transformation programme have sought understood and they are also responsible anti-bribery and corruption which is to refocus the Groups core values this year for the implementation, monitoring communicated to employees.
The policy and also identify improved ways of working and maintenance of the internal control and its effectiveness is reviewed periodically to strengthen culture across the Group.
systems, which are subject to regular by the Audit and Risk Management review.
The Board monitors the ongoing The outputs and recommendations of Committee and it requires strict adherence process by which critical risks to the those workstreams were approved by the to good corporate behaviours.
business are identified, evaluated and Transformation Oversight Committee, with managed.
This process is consistent with It is vital that WilliamHill maintains the executive sponsorship from the CEO.
The the FRCs Guidance on Risk Management, right culture to perform effectively in the workstreams are further supported by Internal Control and Related Financial regulated gambling markets in which the the Groups new location strategy, under and Business Reporting published in business operates.
The Group Compliance which staff will be concentrated in fewer September 2014.
Committee focused on its core remit to European hubs in London, Leeds, Gibraltar, oversee regulatory compliance across Krakw and Sofia.
It is expected that the The Board continues to assess the the Group, under the responsibility of the location strategy will drive improved shared effectiveness of the Groups system Director of Regulatory Affairs.
Meetings of working practices between different areas of internal controls including financial, the Committee continue to be attended of the business, support the emphasis operational and compliance controls by the CEO and CFO, which ensures omni-channel is now being given across and risk management systems.
This is that Board-level views on the culture of the business, and also encourage a more conducted through ongoing processes compliance within the organisation are flexible, solutions-orientated culture with designed to oversee provision of effective communicated directly to those responsible customer service at the centre.
internal controls and risk management for compliance within the business.
systems, which include: The Board delivers its responsibilities Committee meetings are also attended with regard to culture with the assistance by the Director of Risk & Audit and this regular scheduled meetings of the of standing Committees and senior helps to support a more holistic view Board and its Committees, the Group management as needed.
From the point of regulatory compliance as part of the Executive and Business Reviews for of recruitment, all staff are made aware business framework of operational controls each business unit.
This provides regular of existing Company policies and codes and risk management.
Further information opportunities to assess performance and which are designed to encourage and regarding the specific areas of focus for the potential risks: support good conduct, and these have Group Compliance Committee can be found established structures and delegations of been reviewed and refreshed in the year.
in the Corporate Responsibility Report on authorities which set out responsibilities Reward mechanisms are also designed page 72. and levels of authority: to incentivise good behaviours and good Looking forward, our culture will also ongoing procedures, including those performance and not to encourage evolve as we progress our sustainability already described, which are in place to excessive risk-taking.
In particular, malus strategy, which will take greater account of manage perceived risks: and clawback provisions exist in the key stakeholders.
regular reports to the Audit and Risk bonus and incentive arrangements for the Management Committee which inform executive directors and for other executive Approach to risk management the Committee on the adequacy and management.
This is more fully explained effectiveness of internal control systems in the Remuneration Report.
Other levels The section Managing our Risks outlines and significant control issues: of management have reward mechanisms the Boards approach to the management which are designed to promote our of risks within the business and summarises the continuous Group-wide process corporate behaviours and strong the principal risks facing the business.
for formally identifying, evaluating and personal performance.
The sections below provide further managing the principal risks to the detail on the Boards actions to monitor achievement of the Groups objectives: A formal whistle blowing policy and the Companys risk management and and procedure for staff, suppliers and internal control.
The work of the Board reports to the Audit and Risk stakeholders to raise issues regarding in this regard is supported by the Audit Management Committee on the possible improprieties is already in and Risk Management Committee and results of internal audit reviews, work place.
During 2017, the Audit and Risk further details of the activities undertaken undertaken by other departments and Management Committee continued to by the Committee to support the risk where needed reviews undertaken monitor the use of the Groups whistlemanagement framework is provided in the by external third parties on behalf blowing arrangements and was satisfied report which appears on pages 67 to 71. of management.
that appropriate actions were being taken.
Strategic report Financial statements Governance William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 65 The Groups internal control systems are Audit and Risk Management Committee The Groups financial and operational designed to manage, rather than eliminate, and the Board.
controls and associated procedures are the risk of failure to achieve the Groups subject to a schedule of risk-based reviews The register records the key risks facing the objectives, and can only provide reasonable, to provide assurance that they remain business, the assessment of the likelihood and not absolute, assurance against robust and fit for purpose.
The Group of the risks crystallising and their potential material misstatement or loss.
In assessing Risk and Audit functions work is focused materiality, and the Groups response to what constitutes reasonable assurance, the on areas of greatest risk to the Group, as each risk.
Responsibility for management Board considers the materiality of financial determined by: of the risks is attributed to senior and non-financial risks and the relationship management and management remain a structured risk assessment process between the cost of, and benefit from, aware of the risks facing the business and involving executive directors and senior internal control systems.
The Board operate in a risk aware manner.
management: and regularly reviews the actual and forecast ongoing reviews to take into account performance of the business compared The Board uses the control and risk new areas of focus due to any material with the annual plan, as well as other key management processes to identify and emerging issues which may arise performance indicators both financial and manage any significant risks arising from during the year.
The Audit and Risk non-financial.
Forecast performance is social, environmental and ethical issues.
Management Committee reviewed revised during the year as necessary, taking Further details of the Groups corporate an assessment of the coverage of into account performance for the  practices are described on corporate level risks through the date and performance going forward, and pages 32 to 44. internal audits undertaken for the year.
any potential macro-economic or material The assessment helped to support industry factors.
Risks and opportunities are also embedded the Boards determination that an for consideration where key decisions and Lines of responsibility and delegated appropriate review had been undertaken approvals are required by the Board.
In authorities are clearly defined.
The Groups of the effectiveness of the Companys particular, part of the annual operating plan policies and procedures are regularly system of risk management and internal considers key risks and opportunities which updated and distributed throughout controls, including principal risks and may impact upon the business over the the Group.
The Audit and Risk Management The Group Risk and Audit function Additionally, each year the Board considers Committee receives reports on a regular also prepares an annual plan for the and approves a five-year strategic plan basis on compliance with the Groups forthcoming financial year which which reflects the Companys strategy policies and procedures as part of the is approved by the Audit and Risk and the environment in which the business ongoing work of the Risk & Audit team.
Management Committee and is then operates.
Risks are included as part of reviewed in greater detail on a quarterAs with many large, complex and multithe consideration of the five-year plan to by-quarter basis during the financial jurisdictional organisations, it was provide a longer-term assessment on issues year, allowing for further refinement necessary for the Group to introduce which may impact the business.
additional controls and further strengthen A key tool to ensure effective ongoing risk existing controls during the year to support The Risk and Audit team also conduct a management throughout the business is operational initiatives, as a result of review number of ad hoc reviews during the year to ensure that the executive directors are findings, and also to keep pace with good at the request of management or the sufficiently involved and have oversight of practice.
Specifically, we continue to review Audit and Risk Management Committee the material aspects of the operation of our internal regulatory and compliance toprovide live assurance over key projects each business unit.
This is accomplished controls to meet the changing regulatory or critical business areas.
through regular interactions between each requirements, but also to align with advice business unit with the executive directors, The Director of Risk and Audit reports and requests from our regulators.
including regular scheduled Business regularly to the Audit and Risk Management The Audit and Risk Management Reviews which are held with the respective Committee on work undertaken, the results Committee were made aware of relevant business unit managing director and other of audit reviews, the adequacy of the control issues arising throughout the senior business unit managers throughout Internal Audit functions resources and on period and there is a robust process to the year.
The Business Review meetings progress against the annual audit plan.
capture, track and approve actions taken to review all material operational aspects of The Director of Risk and Audit also remediate issues identified.
The directors the business unit, including risks.
reports regularly on the actions taken noted historic control weaknesses relating by management in response to audit to sources of funds checks in the Online Internal Audit reviews and this process provided the business and a remediation plan is in flight.
The Group Risk and Audit function reviews Audit and Risk Management Committee Other than this, no significant failings or the extent to which systems of internal with additional assurance that timely weaknesses were identified as a result of control are effective, are adequate actions were being taken in response to the review that may significantly impact the tomanage the Groups significant risks, audit reviews.
safeguard the Groups assets and, in The role of the Group Risk and Audit conjunction with the Company Secretary, Assessment of risk department and the scope of its work aim to ensure compliance with legal and continue to evolve, to take account of A corporate risk register is maintained and regulatory requirements.
It provides changes within the business and emerging is regularly updated following detailed ongoing independent and objective best practice.
review by the Group Risk and Audit function assurance on risks and controls to the and senior management during the year.
Auditand Risk Management Committee, The register was discussed with the Group the Board and to senior management.
Executive and has been approved by the William Hill PLC 66 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Report on Corporate Governance continued The terms of reference of the Audit, Going concern Remuneration Nomination, Corporate Responsibility and A full description of the Groups business The Directors Remuneration Report is set Remuneration Committees, are available activities, financial position, cash flows, out on pages 77 to 97. upon request from the Company Secretary liquidity position, committed facilities or via the Groups corporate website and borrowing position, together with Statement of Compliance www.
Each are regularly the factors likely to affect its future The Board supports the comply or explain reviewed by the relevant Committee and development and performance, is set the Board and the terms of reference were approach set out in the UK Corporate outinthe Strategic Report, including the Governance Code, which forms part of the reviewed and refreshed as appropriate in Financial Review and in notes 22 and 23 July 2017.
The Code tothe financial statements.
is issued by the Financial Reporting Council All Committees have access to independent As highlighted in notes 22 and 23 to the and is available on the FRCs website at expert advice as necessary.
This report has been financial statements, the Group meets its to Board Committees are for three-year day-to-day working capital requirements prepared against the version of the Code terms extendable by no more than two published in 2016, which is applicable for from the positive cash flows generated by additional three-year terms.
its trading activities and its available cash WilliamHills 2017 financial year for the first time.
Under the Codes comply or explain resources.
These are supplemented when Group Executive required by additional drawings under the approach, this permits listed companies some flexibility and the opportunity to Groups revolving credit bank loan facilities, Philip Bowcock also chairs the Group which are committed until May 2019. adopt governance arrangements otherwise Executive, which meets monthly apart than in accordance with the provisions from August and includes the Companys Whilst there are a number of risks of the Code, where the Board feels this key senior managers who report to the tothe Groups trading performance, as is appropriate for the good running of CEO.
In addition to the monthly meetings, summarised in the Managing our risks the business.
weekly conference calls are held by the section on pages 45 to 50, the Group is Group Executive to ensure each member confident of its ability to access sources The Board can report full compliance with is up-to-date on recent performance and the Code during the 2017 financial year.
offunding in the medium term.
The The Board has also reviewed the FRCs The Groups strategic forecasts, based on Group Executive retains oversight on issues reasonable assumptions, indicate that the affecting the day-to-day management of announcement of proposed revisions to the Code, expected to apply for financial Group should be able to operate within the the Groups operations, and also reviews level of its currently available and expected certain matters prior to Board or Board years commencing after 1 January 2019.
The proposals are currently under public future facilities and its banking covenants Committee consideration.
Members and for the period of the strategic forecast.
regular attendees at the Group Executive consultation.
Based on the FRCs current proposed changes, the Board is satisfied meetings are: Philip Bowcock, Chief After making enquiries and after Executive Officer: Ruth Prior, Chief Financial that its effective governance procedures consideration of the Groups existing and policies mean that no further material Officer: Joe Asher, CEO WilliamHill US: Paul operations, cash flow forecasts and Durkan, Chief Information Officer: Nicola changes should be necessary to the Boards assessment of business, regulatory governance framework.
However, the Frampton, Director, UK Retail: Karen Myers, and financing risks, the directors have a Group Human Resources Director: Crispin Board acknowledges the proposed revisions reasonable expectation that the Company which call for better alignment of board Nieboer, Managing Director, Online: Terry and the Group have adequate resources Pattinson, Group Trading Director: David culture with company values and enhanced to continue in operational existence for staff engagement and is committed to Steele, Director of Corporate Affairs: Luke the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the Thomas, Company Secretary: and Tom reviewing any further improvements directors confirm that they continue to which may be made in these areas as Waterhouse, CEO WilliamHill Australia.
adopt the going concern basis in preparing Harry Willits was appointed as a member bestpractice market practices emerge.
the Annual Report and Accounts.
ofthe Group Executive on joining the Group Luke Thomas as General Counsel in January 2018.
Company Secretary Board Committees In April 2018, Ulrik Bengtsson will join For and on behalf of the Board The Audit and Risk Management WilliamHill in the new Group role of Chief WilliamHill PLC Committee, the Corporate Responsibility Digital Officer.
Crispin Nieboer will move Committee, the Nomination Committee, tobecome Group Corporate Development and the Remuneration Committee are Director.
Both Ulrik and Crispin will sit on standing Committees of the Board.
During the year, the Board also established the Transformation Oversight Committee, to provide independent review and challenge on the delivery of the Boards approved transformation programme.
The Committee is chaired by John OReilly, with Mark Brooker, David Lowden and Philip Bowcock the other appointed members.
Gareth Davis attended the majority of meetings by invitation in his capacity as Chairman, as did Jim Marsh, Chief Transformation Officer.
The Deputy Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
