OUR RESOURCES AND RELATIONSHIPS COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT AND BEING R E S PO NS IB L E St. Modwen Properties PLC 16 Annual report and financial statements 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information OUR CONNECTIONS Partners A key strength of our business is acting in partnership with public and private sector companies.
Over time, we have formed strong relationships with many organisations, with whom we work closely to unlock the development potential from strategic sites.
We nurture these partnerships to get to know and understand our partners, enabling us to create and maintain strong bonds.
We take ownership and responsibility for projects, providing leadership and developing strong lines of communication.
We are able to offer the full suite of property services required for our partners to meet objectives and maximise value: from planning promotion and master planning, delivery of infrastructure, development of both residential and commercial through to long-term asset and estate management.
Communities An integral part of the development process is not only building positive relationships with our partners but also other key stakeholders and, most importantly, the local communities we serve.
By focusing on long-term success rather than short-term gain we ensure quality and excellence in our projects and create a lasting legacy of which we can be proud.
St. Modwen involves the local community through the lifecycle of every project to provide solutions that the community can embrace over the long term.
Improving the quality of an environment means creating and maintaining strong, vibrant communities and involving stakeholders in decision-making that affects them.
This approach is based on developing our understanding of all sectors of the community via consultation and communication.
Our developments touch the lives of many and we recognise how proactive engagement with every community helps shape each new project for the better.
Supply chain To help our understanding of and engagement with the local communities in which we work, we encourage the use of local sub-contractors, apprentices, resources, and materials through our supply chain.
As an extension of the St. Modwen team, we encourage our supply chain partners to share our approach to community engagement, health and safety and quality management.
A number of our contractors have worked with us across multiple schemes and this enhances our working relationship and mutual trust.
It is also important for our contractors to adhere to site specific St. Andrews Park, Uxbridge Longbridge, Birmingham as well as Group recycling and reclamation targets which reduce Top: We continue to work with schools Above: We have over 3,800 tenants both cost and the impact on the environment.
adjacent to our development portfolio across our diverse portfolio and we to give lessons in health and safety and strive to foster excellent relationships to educate students on careers in the with them.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2017 17 OUR RESOURCES AND RELATIONSHIPS CONTINUED Assets When managing our retained assets as well as designing new buildings, and indeed when master planning, we are guided by our values to deliver sustainable, aesthetically pleasing and successful developments.
A high quality building, designed to reduce energy and water can deliver benefits to both our tenants and the environment: in turn creating high quality, sustainable and safer communities.
Our retained income portfolio currently has a value of 844m, with an annualised gross rental income of 60m from over 3,800 tenants.
In our development projects, we look to recycle as much material as we can through demolition.
We also build to a sustainable specification, which benefits the environment and our tenants.
We are rebalancing our portfolio through our focus on high quality industrial logistics assets and by reducing our exposure to both retail and smaller, less efficient assets.
The capital generated from these sales will be reinvested to help deliver our commercial development pipeline to build our industrial and logistics platform.
Land Our large, geographically diverse land bank of 6,000 developable acres comprises an assortment of sites at varying stages in the development cycle, giving us the flexibility to move with market trends.
We are accelerating activity on the land we own to secure maximum value, with opportunity split broadly 50 50 between commercial development and residential.
We will continue to pursue acquisitions that complement our skills in delivering infrastructure and new communities.
We have the financial ability to acquire new schemes at the appropriate time and are adaptable to change.
Be it greenfield or brownfield, we recognise that land is a finite resource: it needs to be treated with care and used wisely.
We utilise land as prudently as we can by protecting the environment and contributing to the social and economic needs of communities.
Finance We are enhancing returns through asset recycling and land bank utilisation and see strong cash generation from the sale of residential land.
We aim to improve returns on capital by concentrating our activities on sectors that have long-term structural growth characteristics while also enhancing our flexibility through tightly controlling leverage and reducing the proportion of our portfolio invested in land.
The revenue raised through our value creating activities diversifies our cash flow and is then reinvested into new property and Great Homer Street, Liverpool Bay Campus, Swansea University Top: As part of our commitment to the Above: The development of the new generates returns for our shareholders.
local communities in which we work, campus at Swansea University has we have encouraged the use of local seen over 11,000 people employed sub-contractors, apprentices and locally on site since 2013, including 176 sourced materials.
trainees, apprentices and work experience students.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 18 Annual report and financial statements 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Our people are skilled, OUR COMMITMENT TO OUR PEOPLE responsive and passionate, proud about what they do The expertise, commitment and teamwork of all our people are and care about doing the critical to the continued success and growth of the business.
We are putting 1 March 2017, Jane Saint joined the business as Group HR Director to in place the right structures, further strengthen our approach to people and support our vision resources and people and strategy.
practices we need to achieve our aim of becoming During the 2016 17 financial year, our aim has been to ensure an Employer of Choice.
St. Modwen is seen as an inspiring place to work, built around our shared purpose and guiding values.
Over the next five years we Jane Saint will be creating modern working practices and office environments Group HR Director and ensuring our systems and the technology is in place to give our people the right tools to do their jobs as effectively and safely as possible.
Our aim is also to ensure that St. Modwen is a place for advancement where it is possible for everyone to develop their skills and realise their full potential.
We are committed to the training and continued professional development of all our employees.
During the year, we supported employees from all areas of the business on a total of 529 training days as well as supporting directly or on site via our contractors 76 graduates, trainees and apprentices across the business.
We also aim to be a place of recognition where we value the The Board Employees Male 67% Male 59% contribution of each and every employee.
During the year we Female 33% Female 41% launched St. Modwens first internal awards named The Mods.
The Mods gave people from across the Company an opportunity to celebrate the best of the business, to recognise our achievements and to thank the person, team or collective group of colleagues who embody the best of St. Modwen.
3 During 2017, we focused on ensuring we have the right 188 organisational structure and resources in place, aligned to our strategic objectives.
Led by Jane and two other Senior Leadership Executive colleagues, a team of senior managers from across the 276 business was engaged in the organisational design work to 6 restructure the business and ensure individuals and teams understand the role they play in helping to deliver the strategy.
We are also focusing on creating a culture of empowerment, accountability and collaboration.
The organisation design work will create clear, consistent structures, roles and responsibilities across SLE Total the Group and, in the first quarter of 2018, we will be launching Male 87% Male 60% tailored management and leadership development programmes.
Female 13% Female 40% Our recruitment activities have thus been focused on strengthening existing teams to deliver our strategy for growth and providing individual development and succession planning.
We ended the 1 year with 481 employees 2016: 393, a testament to our ability to continue to attract, develop and retain individuals who uphold our 192 values and strive for excellence.
Employee diversity Building a diverse and inclusive workforce which reflects the 289 communities we work with and where everyone feels valued and respected is of paramount importance to us.
7 In 2018, we will be setting up a working group to help shape our new Diversity and Inclusion strategy.
In addition, the Company adheres to a clear equality policy which sets out individuals rights and obligations as defined by the Equality Act 2010.
For the purposes of the charts above Mark Allan and Rob Hudson are only included in the Board figures.
The accompanying charts set out the number of men and women Andrew Eames is excluded from all charts by virtue of his status as an interim employee.
employed fulland part-time as at 30 November 2017, across our business and split between the Board, our Senior Executive Leadership team and our employees.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2017 19 OUR RESOURCES AND RELATIONSHIPS CONTINUED Renewable energy CORPORATE SOCIAL Objective for 2016 17: Continue to install solar panels on all marketing suites, as new St. Modwen homes sites are completed.
We have successfully installed solar panels on all sales centres and over 10% of St. Modwen Homes built, generating We are committed to improving the built environment through 63,000 kWh energy for the year.
our projects, transforming areas in need of redevelopment into inspirational and thriving communities.
Rainwater harvesting Objective for 2016 17: Recycle and re-use rainwater on 35% by floor We understand that regeneration goes beyond bricks and 1 area of our speculative, new build, industrial unit developments mortar: it is about making positive and genuine changes to communities, the environment and the economy.
We see Progress: Exceeded by over 34ppts.
We have successfully installed Corporate Social Responsibility CSR as the process of assessing rainwater harvesting systems at over 69% of our speculative our impact on society, evaluating our responsibilities and taking developments.
positive actions to improve how we operate and engage with Re-use and reclamation people and our environment.
Objective for 2016 17: Recycle and re-use over 140,000 tonnes of We have a dedicated CSR Steering Committee which meets every material, in accordance with the Specification for Highway Works, six weeks, chaired by Rupert Wood, Property Director Asset to avoid the use of natural quarried materials.
Management: it includes representatives from each of the Progress: Exceeded by over 208,000 tonnes.
We have successfully St. Modwen business disciplines.
The Committee sets our strategy recycled and re-used 348,760 tonnes of material across our sites and helps to ensure we identify and actively pursue CSR initiatives in the year.
It reviews progress against our CSR objectives, ensures we maintain a best practice approach, and that we Health and safety continue to evolve as the business grows.
Objective for 2016 17: Remain below the industry standard Accident Frequency Rate AFR 0.4 across our portfolio.
Successful CSR initiatives take organisations beyond compliance with legislation and corporate governance requirements, and Progress: Achieved.
We have successfully achieved an average lead companies to honour ethical values and respect people, score of 0.22 across the Group, with our asset management communities and the natural environment.
St. Modwen Homes has scored 0.09: and the programme can lead to enhanced financial performance and construction team scored 0.26. provides a means of improving the attractiveness of a company Objective for 2016 17: Encourage and create opportunities for all for its people retention and recruitment, business partnerships staff to participate in a variety of Health and Safety training and communities.
activities throughout the year, to embed further our value to put The CSR Steering Committee will continue to develop and inform safety before anything else.
In 2017 18, we will be reviewing our approach to Progress: Achieved.
We have provided 346 days of health and safety CSR, to align, promote and endorse our purpose and values and to training for a wide range of employees throughout the year.
deliver and promote CSR internally and externally.
It will develop a framework which identifies opportunities for all our people to Smart meters actively participate in CSR activities and community engagement.
Objective for 2016 17: Install smart meters in all of our incomeproducing properties by 2020.
Our 10 CSR objectives Progress: On target.
We continue to make good progress with this For the 2016 17 financial year, we have continued to use the 10 target, with 74 installed in the period.
We are still working towards CSR objectives which focus our CSR capabilities and lead to further achieving this objective by 2020. positive work being carried out across our business.
Public green space In addition, we are proud to have supported a number of individual Objective for 2016 17: Create public green spaces, including parks project-led CSR initiatives this year.
Please see our CSR booklet and wildlife areas, across a minimum of 100 acres.
which can be found on our website www.
co. uk for more information and to read some of the highlights from the year.
Progress: Exceeded by over 46 acres.
We have successfully created over 146 acres of new public open space.
Our progress on our objectives Waste recycling Support to local schools Objective for 2016 17: Continue to recycle waste to energy Objective for 2016 17: Visit a total of 25 schools adjacent to all our operators for waste disposal across our shopping centres.
large construction sites at least once a year, to provide presentations on relevant aspects of education and training.
We have successfully increased both recycling rates and the volume of waste to energy throughout the period.
We have continued to nurture good Highlights included: relationships with schools near our development sites.
We regularly carry out health and safety visits with primary school children and At Lee Green, London, 100% of waste is now converted to energy have engaged with 33 schools this financial year.
The sessions The Meads in Farnborough, Hampshire, is recycling or converting provide a good opportunity to inspire pupils about the wide range to energy 99% of waste of job opportunities in the construction industry.
At Trentham Gardens, 75% of waste is recycled and the remaining is recovered for energy 1 For the purpose of this objective, our speculative programme is defined as the point when construction commences on a building with no designated occupier.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 20 Annual report and financial statements 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Apprenticeships Objective for 2016 17: Create opportunities for a minimum of 30 full-time equivalent trainees graduates or apprentices across the Group.
In the year we have employed 76 trainees, apprentices and graduates across our regional, construction, head office and St. Modwen Homes teams.
Considerate Constructors Objective for 2016 17: Extend the Considerate Constructors Scheme across additional regeneration projects.
We have successfully registered 17 Group and 19 St. Modwen Homes development sites onto the Considerate Constructors Scheme.
Objective for 2016 17: Continue to achieve a minimum Considerate Constructors score of at least 36.75 50 on all St. Modwen Home schemes.
This year our St. Modwen Homes schemes achieved an average Considerate Constructors score of 36.58, with five scores achieving over 40.
In future, we will be implementing a standard approach for the layout and management of our sites, to ensure there is consistency throughout.
Electric car charging points: Objective for 2016 17: Install electric car charging points in the garages or car ports of 10% of the homes at the following three St. Modwen Homes sites: Weogoran Park: Longbridge: and St. Andrews Park.
We have successfully installed car charging points at three of our 20 live St. Modwen Homes sites.
Longbridge has a total of 113 car charging points which equates to 50% of the homes St. Andrews Park, Uxbridge phase three has 27 car charging points installed, or 30% of homes St. Andrews Park, Uxbridge phase six has 26 car charging points installed, or 40% of homes Objective for 2016 17: Install electric car charging points at all of our commercial speculative schemes across the UK and continue to investigate further opportunities.
Of our four commercial speculative schemes developed during the year, we have successfully installed car charging points at two of the sites and we continue to investigate opportunities for further car charging points to be installed at other schemes.
Branston Leas, Burton Kirkby town centre, Merseyside Working with charities Top: We have found ways to engage local Above: We carry out a number of We continue to work with a variety of charities from across the UK community groups in environment-led community engagement activities initiatives.
This benefits the local across our portfolio.
For instance, we which have a synergy with our developments.
These charities are ecology and encourages buy-in from host free events throughout the year to either located within the vicinity of our sites or have similar objectives nearby residents into the larger encourage people to come together.
to us around ensuring a sustainable business: creating better development scheme.
environments: or supporting the communities which we serve.
1 We have not included Weogoran Park within these three sites, and instead have included two separate phases of construction at St. Andrews Park in Uxbridge.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2017 21
