THE BOARD Bill Shannon Mark Allan Rob Hudson Non-executive Chairman Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Appointed: November 2010 as non-executive Appointed: 1 November 2016 as Chief Executive Appointed: September 2015 as Group Finance Director.
director and Chairman Designate, March 2011 as Designate, 1 December 2016 as Chief Executive.
Key strengths: strong financial management, non-executive Chairman.
Key strengths: extensive knowledge and experience commercial and operational experience in financial Key strengths: significant management and board of the property sector combined with strong services, information services and commercial experience across retail, leisure, financial services operational leadership and financial and strategic property sectors.
Experience: over 20 years experience in finance, most Experience: a 30-year career at Whitbread plc which Experience: joined St. Modwen from The Unite Group recently as Group Financial Controller at British Land plc culminated in his appointment as a main board director plc where he had been Chief Executive since 2006. from 2011.
Joined  on graduating for 10 years until his retirement in 2004.
Former He moved to Unite in 1999 from KPMG and held a then moved to Experian plc in 2000 where he held Chairman of AEGON UK plc, Gaucho Grill Holdings Ltd number of financial and commercial roles in the a number of senior financial roles, including Global and Pizza Hut UK Ltd, and former non-executive business, including Chief Financial Officer from 2003 to Finance Director of its Decision Analytics business and director of The Rank Group plc, Barratt Developments 2006.
A qualified Chartered Accountant and a member UK Finance Director.
A qualified Chartered of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
External appointments: Trustee director on the External appointments: Deputy Chairman and Senior non-executive board of Anchor Trust.
Independent Director of LSL Property Services plc, non-executive director of Johnson Service Group plc and Council Member of the University of Southampton.
N R Richard Mully Ian Bull Kay Chaldecott Senior Independent Director Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Appointed: September 2013 as non-executive director, Appointed: September 2014.
December 2013 as Senior Independent Director.
Key strengths: strong financial management and Key strengths: significant knowledge of the retail Key strengths: extensive experience in investment operational experience in major commercial businesses property sector, including the retail development banking, fund management, capital markets and across a range of sectors.
process, retail mix and leasing and shopping centre real estate private equity investing with considerable operations.
Experience: Chief Financial Officer of Parkdean Resorts board experience.
Previously Chief Financial Experience: joined Capital Shopping Centres Group plc Experience: Partner and Managing Director at Bankers Officer and main board director at Ladbrokes plc 2011 now Intu Properties plc on graduating and held a Trust Company from 1992 to 1998 and Managing to 2016 and Group Finance Director of Greene King plc number of senior management positions, including Director and Head of European Merchant Banking from 2006 to 2011.
Over 20 years financial experience Managing Director, during a career spanning 27 years.
Co-Founder and Managing Partner of with companies such as Whitbread plc, Buena Vista Also served as a main board director from 2005 until Soros Real Estate Partners LLC and its successor firm, Home Entertainment Walt Disney Company and BT leaving the group in 2011.
A member of the Royal Grove International Partners LLP, a major real estate Group.
Former non-executive director of Paypoint Ltd. Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
private equity firm from 2000 to 2011.
Former Senior A Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management External appointments: non-executive director Independent Director of Hansteen Holdings plc and Accountants.
of NewRiver REIT plc and Lichfields and Advisory Board ISG plc.
External appointments: none member of Next Leadership.
External appointments: non-executive director A N R N R of Standard Life Aberdeen plc, Aberdeen Asset Management plc and Great Portland Estates plc.
Vice Chairman of Alstria Office REIT-AG.
Senior Advisor of TPG Real Estate.
A N R St. Modwen Properties PLC 66 Annual report and financial statements 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Board diversity Male 67% Female 33% 3 6 Simon Clarke, DL Lesley James, CBE Non-executive director Independent non-executive director Appointed: October 2004.
Key strengths: strong commercial and management Key strengths: extensive executive remuneration and Length of directors tenures experience in both farming and property and extensive human resources experience and considerable board 3 yrs 33% knowledge of the Companys history.
experience across public, private, voluntary and 3-6 yrs 33% education sectors.
Experience: the son of Sir Stanley Clarke, the founder 7-9 yrs 23% 1 and former Chairman of St. Modwen, he represents Experience: HR Director for Tesco plc from 1985 9 yrs 11% the interests of the Clarke family, one of the Companys to 1999 and a main board director from 1994.
Former largest shareholders, on the Board.
Former Deputy non-executive director for various companies 3 Chairman of Northern Racing plc and director and including Alpha Airports Group plc, Anchor Trust, Care 2 Vice-Chairman of The Racecourse Association Ltd. UK plc, Inspicio plc, Liberty International plc and the An Honorary Doctor of Staffordshire University.
Former trustee of the charity I CAN.
Awarded a CBE in 2003 for services External appointments: Chairman of Dunstall to the DTI Partnership at Work Assessment Panel.
Trustee of Racing Welfare and Chairman A Companion of the Chartered Institute of Personnel of Racing Homes.
Chairman of Staffordshire Universitys and Development.
3 R N Directors core area of expertise Property and operations 56% Finance 33% HR 11% 1 3 5 Changes to the Board Jenefer Greenwood, OBE Andrew Eames Steve Burke, Group Construction Director, sadly Independent non-executive director General Counsel & Company Secretary passed away on 13 March 2017.
Jenefer Greenwood joined the Board as independent non-executive director on 1 June 2017.
Key strengths: extensive knowledge of the retail and regeneration sectors of the real estate industry Tanya Stote stepped down as Company Secretary Key strengths: a lawyer with over 15 years of legal, combined with significant board-level experience.
Rob Hudson was appointed as commercial and governance experience across Company Secretary Interim until 9 November 2017 a number of different sectors.
Experience: over 30 years experience in the real estate when Andrew Eames joined the Company as sector with companies such as Hillier Parker now CBRE Experience: Joined St. Modwen from Mothercare Plc General Counsel & Company Secretary Interim.
and Grosvenor Ltd, where she was Director of Sales and where he was Group General Counsel and Company Lettings, Great Britain and Ireland before retiring in Secretary Interim, having previously held various 2012.
Currently serves the board of Assura plc and positions at Nomura International Plc including A Member of the Audit Committee Devon & Cornwall Housing.
Formerly served on the Co-Head of Corporate Legal and Company Secretary.
board of The Crown Estate and has chaired the National N Member of the Nomination Committee Key responsibilities: leads the legal, company Skills Academy for Retail.
Awarded an OBE in 2014 for R Member of the Remuneration Committee secretarial, compliance, risk and insurance functions services to the UK Real Estate Industry and for and is responsible for legal, compliance and governance voluntary services to young people.
A Fellow of the Denotes Committee Chairman activity across the Group.
Provides advice and support Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
to the Board and its Committees and oversees the External appointments: Non-executive director Groups relationship with its external law firms.
for both Assura plc and DCH Group, member of the supervisory board of INTERNOS Global Investors Ltd and trustee of the Ernest Cook Trust.
A N R St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2017 67
