Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT AT A GLANCE Meetings attended in year out of maximum % attended in Committee member Member since possible year Ian Bull Sep 2014 3 3 100% 1 Kay Chaldecott Mar 2013 2 3 66.6% 2 Jenefer Greenwood Jun 2017 3 3 100% Lesley James Oct 2009 3 3 100% Richard Mully Sep 2013 3 3 100% Bill Shannon Nov 2010 3 3 100% 1 Unable to attend the meeting in September 2017 due to a prior business commitment.
THE COMMITTEE WILL 2 Joined the Committee with effect from 1 June 2017.
CONTINUE TO REVIEW Committee meeting attendees by invitation SUCCESSION PLANS IN THE Chief Executive CONTEXT OF THE GROUPS Mark Allan STRATEGY.
Non-executive director Simon Clarke Bill Shannon Company Secretary and secretary to the Committee Chairman of the Nomination Committee 1 Tanya Stote 2 Principal role Andrew Eames To review the succession planning and leadership needs of the 1 Resigned as Company Secretary on 1 November 2017.
Group and lead the process for Board appointments, ensuring 2 Appointed as General Counsel & Company Secretary Interim on 9 November that directors have an appropriate range of skills, diversity and 2017 Rob Hudson, Chief Financial Officer was appointed as Company Secretary experience to deliver St. Modwens strategy.
The Committee plays a vital role in ensuring that St. Modwen is headed by a Board which is collectively responsible for the Key activities in 2016 17 long-term success of the Company and is best placed to operate Selected and recommended the appointment of effectively in the context of our strategic objectives.
Jenefer Greenwood as non-executive director.
This year again was an important one for the Committee.
Having Reviewed and recommended the re-appointment of appointed Mark Allan as Chief Executive in 2016, the primary focus Simon Clarke, Lesley James, and Bill Shannon.
returned to wider succession planning in the context of the Groups Reviewed and then utilised the skills matrix developed in 2016 strategy as outlined in this Annual Report.
The Committee has as part of succession planning activity.
undertaken to ensure that arrangements are in place for the orderly and progressive refreshing of the Board as we look ahead and Areas of focus for 2017 18 consider the extent to which the collective skills, experience and Continue to monitor and develop Board and senior capabilities of the directors support the Groups strategic direction.
management succession in the context of the Companys Having further enhanced and utilised a skills matrix developed to medium and longer-term strategy.
support its assessment of the requirements of the Board, we were Continue to support management and the Board pleased to appoint Jenefer Greenwood as an independent nonin promoting diversity across the workforce.
Jenefers considerable experience working with both investors and developers in the property and Terms of reference regeneration sectors and expertise in leasing and sales strategy www.
co. uk about-us corporate-governance was identified by the Board in the context of the skills assessment.
Jenefer has joined the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees and in line with succession planning arrangements, Jenefer will succeed Lesley James as Chair of the Remuneration Committee during 2018, a role she is experienced in.
The Committee also considered the appointment of the new Company Secretary, following the resignation of Tanya Stote after five years service.
We were pleased in November to appoint Andrew Eames as General Counsel & Company Secretary Interim.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2017 83 NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED The Committee also considers the skills matrix, together with The performance of the Committee was evaluated during the year matters such as independence and individual performance, when by way of a questionnaire which was completed by all members making its recommendations to the Board on the re-appointment of the Committee as well as those who attended Committee of non-executive directors.
In the year, Simon Clarke, Lesley James meetings.
Feedback received was supportive of the manner in and I were re-appointed to the Board.
which the Committee operated, but highlighted that there was scope to improve and evolve in relation to developing talent within Looking forward to 2018, the Committee will continue to review the business and to closely monitor the environment for succession plans in the context of the Groups strategy to ensure prospective candidates.
Details of the steps taken to address that arrangements are in place for the orderly and progressive succession planning can be found below in the section headed refreshing of the Board and to identify key talent within the Succession planning overleaf.
business with potential for appointment to senior management and Board positions.
Activities of the Committee during the year Recognising the benefits that diversity can bring, and noting Appointment and re-appointment of directors publications such as Sir John Parkers report on ethnic diversity The Committee leads the process for appointments to the Board and the Hampton-Alexander Review of gender diversity in FTSE and makes recommendations to the Board when suitable companies, the Committee will also continue to support candidates have been identified in line with Board-approved management and the Board in promoting parity of representation procedures.
When a vacancy arises, the Committee evaluates the across the workforce.
balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge on the Board before preparing a description of the role and capabilities Meaningful reporting on the activities of the Committee is required for that appointment.
Where appropriate external challenging due to the sensitive nature of the matters which fall recruitment consultants are engaged to assist with the search within its remit.
However, the remainder of this report attempts to process.
Appointments are made based on merit whilst having provide insight into the way in which the Committee operates and regard to the need to maintain Board diversity in all its forms.
its activities during the year: I hope you find it informative.
Appointment of non-executive director Bill Shannon During the year The Committee engaged the Zygos Partnership, Chairman of the Nomination Committee a leading executive search firm, that had been used previously in the appointment of Mark Allan as Chief Executive to assist with the 5 February 2018 search to identify a new non-executive director who would also succeed Lesley James as Chair of the Remuneration Committee during 2018.
Whilst Zygos has been engaged by the Company in a search consultancy capacity previously, it does not provide any Committee membership other services to the Company.
All members of the Committee are independent non-executive directors, with each bringing broad financial and commercial In accordance with the Committees appointment procedures, experience at senior levels across a range of industries.
The Zygos prepared a detailed role specification which included the Committee is responsible for keeping its composition under expected time commitment and duties to be performed both as review and for making recommendations to the Board as to its a non-executive director and as Chairman, in the future, of the membership.
Its assessment using the skills matrix includes specific Remuneration Committee.
Candidates from a range of backgrounds desired attributes such as regeneration expertise, planning and were considered, including both male and female candidates, and portfolio management, financial acumen and audit and comprehensive profiles were prepared by Zygos for consideration remuneration experience.
Detailed references were sought in respect of the shortlisted candidates.
Following a thorough process, the The Chairman of the Board chairs all meetings of the Committee Nomination Committee recommended that Jenefer Greenwood be unless they relate to the appointment of his successor: for these appointed to the role having the desired skillset and remuneration meetings, the Senior Independent Director SID is invited to take experience.
The Board accepted the recommendation and Jenefer the Chair unless the SID is in contention for the role.
was duly appointed as a non-executive director on 1 June 2017.
Since her appointment Jenefer has been gaining significant How the Committee operates knowledge of the Company and the role of the Chair of the The Committee met formally on three occasions, primarily to Remuneration Committee alongside Lesley James.
progress succession planning as the Companys strategy developed and usually immediately prior to or following a Board meeting, but Re-appointment of non-executive directors also meets on other occasions on an ad hoc basis as may be Independent non-executive directors, including the Chairman, are needed.
A number of informal meetings, conference calls and appointed by the Board for an initial three-year term and typically discussions also took place between Committee members, search serve a second three-year term.
Beyond this a third term of up to consultants and potential candidates throughout the year.
The three years may be served subject to a particularly rigorous review Committee Chairman reports to the Board, as a separate agenda and taking into account the need for progressive refreshment of the item, on the activity of the Committee and matters of particular Board.
Appointments are subject to satisfactory performance relevance to the Board in the conduct of its work.
reviews, re-election by shareholders and statutory provisions relating to the removal of directors.
Only members of the Committee have the right to attend meetings.
However, an invitation to attend meetings is extended The terms of service of the Chairman and the other non-executive to Simon Clarke, a non-executive director, and the Chief Executive directors are contained in letters of appointment.
These set out the attends for all or part of meetings by invitation in order that the time commitment expected from each non-executive director to Committee can understand his views, particularly on key talent ensure they perform their duties satisfactorily.
Each non-executive within the business.
director confirms that they are able to allocate the time commitment required at the time of their appointment and thereafter as part of their individual annual effectiveness review undertaken by the Chairman or the SID in the case of the Chairmans review.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 84 Annual report and financial statements 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information During the year, the Committee considered the re-appointment of Board diversity Simon Clarke non-executive director, Lesley James Remuneration All aspects of diversity, including but not limited to gender, are Committee Chairman, and Bill Shannon Chairman.
In making its considered during the recruitment process at every level within recommendations, which were approved by the Board and are set the business, including appointments to the Board.
The Board out below, the Committee considered the relevant directors skills, acknowledges the importance of diversity in all forms and experience, independence and performance, succession planning recognises the benefits that it can bring, both to the boardroom in the context of the Companys strategy and the extent to which it and across the business by drawing on a range of thought, was satisfied that the director would be able to continue to dedicate experience and expertise.
Differences in skills, industry experience, sufficient time to fulfil their role on the Board.
background, ethnicity, gender and other qualities can combine to provide different perspectives and impact positively on the Groups Simon Clarke: completed 13 years service and re-appointed for performance and wider organisational effectiveness.
Whilst not considered to be independent for the purposes of the UK Corporate Governance Code, as the Both the Committee and the Board have a fundamental obligation longest serving director on the Board, Simon brings continuity to ensure that the best candidates, selected on merit against and extensive knowledge of the business to the Board as well objective criteria, are appointed.
Subject to this, the availability of as strong commercial and management experience.
suitable candidates and compliance with the requirements of the Equality Act, the Board is committed to strengthening female Lesley James: completed eight years service.
Appointment representation at Board and senior management level and gender renewed for a further one-year term.
will continue to be an active consideration.
It has not however set Bill Shannon: completed seven years service.
Appointment prescriptive targets as it does not believe these are in the best renewed for a further one-year term.
interests of either the Company or its shareholders.
Independence and re-election to the Board The Board currently comprises three female non-executive directors, Lesley James, Jenefer Greenwood and Kay Chaldecott, Following her appointment in June 2017, Jenefer Greenwood will retire and offer herself for re-election.
Jamie Hopkins, appointed in who together represent 33% female Board membership.
Gender the year 2017 18 joining the Board with effect from 1 March 2018 diversity below Board level is set out on page 19. will also retire for re-election.
As announced Kay Chaldecott and In support of its diversity policy, the Committee will only engage Richard Mully will not be standing for re-election at the 2018 AGM.
executive search firms who have signed up to the Enhanced In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code all other Voluntary Code of Conduct which supports more female directors will retire and offer themselves for re-election to the Board.
appointments to FTSE 350 boards and that, as far as possible, Those directors who have been in post throughout the year search agencies would be encouraged to provide a diverse range of candidates for vacancies.
The policy would be kept under review have been subject to a formal performance evaluation process and both the Committee and the Board are satisfied that all directors as market practice in this area continued to evolve.
continue to be effective in, and demonstrate commitment to, their respective roles on the Board and that each makes a valuable Composition of the Board Length of directors tenures contribution to the leadership of the Company.
The Board therefore Independent directors 56% 3 yrs 33% 7-9 yrs 23% recommends that shareholders approve the resolutions to be Non-independent directors 33% 3-6 yrs 33% 9 yrs 11% proposed at the 2018 AGM relating to the election and re-election Non-exec.
Chairman independent of the directors.
Further supporting information in respect of the 11% non-executive directors can be found on pages 66 and 67.
1 1 With the exception of Simon Clarke, who is not deemed to be independent by virtue of his representation of the interests of the 3 Clarke family and his length of tenure, the Committee has also 2 reviewed and confirmed the independence of each non-executive director seeking re-election at the 2018 AGM.
3 5 Succession planning Effective succession planning is critical to the long-term success of the Company.
To support its activities in respect of succession planning at Board level, the Committee completed a skills matrix 3 assessment to identify any competencies or skills that will be required or should be strengthened to support the delivery of the strategy in the longer term and help guide recruitment needs over Directors core area of expertise the medium term.
Property and operations 56% Finance 33% The Committee intends to continue to undertake a skills matrix HR 11% assessment annually to ensure that succession planning remains closely aligned to the strategic direction of the Group and delivers 1 the correct balance of knowledge, skills and attributes to enable the Board and its Committees to operate effectively.
The Board also recognises the importance of developing employees of St. Modwen, particularly in relation to succession planning for senior positions within the Company.
People development is reviewed 5 by both the Nomination Committee and the Board to ensure that 3 plans are in place to recognise and grow internal talent.
As part of the Boards agenda in the year a new organisational design framework was presented, aligning the SLE to the new strategy and detailing a clear career development pipeline and key employees were identified in respect of new roles within St. Modwen.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2017 85
