Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT AT A GLANCE Meetings attended in year out of maximum % attended Committee member Member since possible in year Ian Bull Sep 2014 5 5 100% Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants 1 Kay Chaldecott Dec 2012 3 4 75% Member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors 2 Jenefer Greenwood June 2017 2 2 100% Fellow of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors 3 Lesley James Oct 2009 2 2 100% Companion of the Chartered Institute of the Personnel and THE COMMITTEES ACTIVITIES Development CONTINUE TO ENHANCE HOW Richard Mully Sep 2013 5 5 100% WE UNDERSTAND AND MONITOR 1 Unable to attend the meeting in January 2017 due to a prior business commitment.
Resigned from the Committee with effect from 28 June 2017.
2 Joined the Committee with effect from 1 June 2017.
Ian Bull 3 Resigned from the Committee with effect from 30 January 2017.
Chairman of the Audit Committee Principal role Committee meeting attendees by invitation To monitor the integrity of the Groups financial reporting Chairman process, review the effectiveness and oversee the development Bill Shannon of the internal controls and risk management systems and the Chief Financial Officer results of internal audit reviews.
Rob Hudson To monitor the statutory audit and review and monitor the Non-executive director independence of the external auditor, their objectivity and Simon Clarke effectiveness and is responsible for the recommendation of the selection of the external auditor to the Board.
Group Financial Controller and Treasurer Simon Redfern Key activities in 2016 17 Company Secretary and Secretary to the Committee Reviewed all risk management activities, including assessment 1 Tanya Stote of risk appetite and the Groups key risk indicators.
2 Andrew Eames Reviewed and changed internal audit outsourced to PwC in 2016 as part of an integrated approach to management of risk Head of Internal Audit and controls.
Representatives from PwC Reviewed a number of key business functions: Finance, IT External auditor 3 and systems support including resourcing to support the Representatives from Deloitte and KPMG Groups strategy.
External valuers Reviewed the General Data Protection Regulation GDPR plans Representatives from Cushman & Wakefield and Jones Lang LaSalle for the Group and supported the handover of external audit External advisors services from Deloitte to KPMG.
Representatives from RSM risk management Areas of focus for 2017 18 1 Resigned as Company Secretary on 1 November 2017.
Continuing to improve and assess risk management and 2 Appointed as General Counsel & Company Secretary Interim on 9 November internal controls.
2017 Rob Hudson, Chief Financial Officer was appointed as Company Secretary in the interim.
Continuing to enhance the Groups risk assurance framework 3 Following the appointment of KPMG as the Companys auditor for the year ended and procedures including GDPR and cyber security.
30 November 2017, Deloitte were invited to attend to complete the audit for the year ended 30 November 2016, whilst KPMG commenced as external auditor for Continuing risk management in the context of the Groups the year ended 30 November 2017. new strategy.
co. uk about-us corporate-governance St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2017 75 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED As Chairman of the Audit Committee I am pleased to present the We will report on the non-audit services undertaken in line with Committees report for the financial year ended 30 November 2017. these arrangements in future reports.
We also reviewed the Groups The report is intended to provide meaningful insight into the policy on the employment of former employees of the auditor to Committees activities in the year and sets out how we have ensure that the policy takes into account relevant legal performed our responsibilities in relation to those areas within the requirements and professional standards.
Committees terms of reference, including financial reporting, The Committee also continues to focus on those matters it internal control, risk management and in transition to KPMGs first considers to be important by virtue of their size, complexity, level year as external auditor.
of judgement required or impact on the financial statements: these Good progress was made in the year across a number of areas included the accounting treatment of the sale of our interest in the including the approval of the Groups tax strategy for publication as 10-acre Nine Elms Square site.
required and the accounting policies and judgements undertaken I would like to thank my fellow Committee members for their in relation to asset disposals in the year, including the 10-acre Nine continued support and commitment to ensuring effective Elms Square site and the review of the forecast liability to establish governance through the Committees activities and also to the the market on behalf of the Covent Garden Market Authority executive team for their continued positive engagement on matters CGMA.
The Committee continues to obtain greater insight into the within the Committees remit.
business, from which we are able to effectively monitor, review and challenge as required.
The work undertaken to assess and refresh Finally, there were a number of changes to the Committees the risk management process as a continuation of a Group-wide composition in the year, after just over seven years service Lesley initiative in 2016 has progressed and has been assessed and tested James stepped down as a member of the Committee and Kay to ensure that it remains effective in supporting the identification Chaldecott also resigned from the Committee, in part to focus on and management of the uncertainties faced by St. Modwen.
assisting the SLE with the portfolio reviews as part of the strategy development process.
I thank Kay and Lesley for their contributions.
At the end of their first year as internal auditor appointed We were however pleased to welcome Jenefer Greenwood to the 1 December 2016, PwC has made a smooth transition, undertaken Committee following her appointment to the Board in June 2017 several key reviews and provided assurance on a number of internal and look forward to welcoming Jamie Hopkins in the coming year processes such as the Groups procurement process, identifying a as part of planned succession.
We have also announced that number of operating inefficiencies of which improvements have Richard Mully will be stepping down from the Board after nearly been implemented, and an assessment of our cash handling five years following the 2018 AGM, and I would also like to thank procedures at a number of our sites where additional controls and him for his contribution.
management oversight has been introduced.
Our approach to risk management is beginning to drive the audit requirements in the I hope that the following report provides a useful guide to the next few years.
A full schedule of activities is planned for the activities of the Committee during the year.
coming year which will include a governance review as the Groups strategy progresses.
Ian Bull Chairman of the Audit Committee As advised in last years report, the Committee determined that in 2016 the external audit would be put out to competitive tender 5 February 2018 with a recommendation by the Committee to the Board to appoint KPMG as the Companys external auditor for the 2016 17 financial year.
I am pleased to report the transition to KPMG from Deloitte went well and they have gained a good understanding of the business over the year.
We thank Deloitte for their services and supporting the smooth transition.
The Committee also reaffirmed the arrangements it has developed to define and manage the use of the external auditor for non-audit services.
In order to safeguard the objectivity, independence and effectiveness of its external auditor, St. Modwen continues to adopt a policy on the provision of non-audit services by its external auditor or any member of the external auditors network to the Group and having reviewed the policy in the year, non-audit services will fall into one of three categories: 1. where the involvement of the external auditor is prohibited: 2. where the external auditor can be engaged, subject to the approval of the Chief Financial Officer: and 3. where the external auditor can be engaged, subject to Audit Committee approval.
In categories 2 and 3, the skills and experience of the external auditor to perform the required services, the effect of the non-audit services on the audited financial statements, the potential impact of each project on the external auditors independence and objectivity, and the resulting ratio of non-audit to audit fees will be taken into consideration.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 76 Annual report and financial statements 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Committee membership The Committee has direct access to the Head of Internal Audit, All members of the Committee are independent Non-Executive the external audit engagement partner and the external valuers Directors, collectively bringing broad financial and commercial outside formal Committee meetings.
Whilst permitted to do so, experience at senior levels across a range of industries, particularly no member of the Committee, nor the Committee collectively, within the property industry.
Ian Bull was appointed Committee sought outside professional advice beyond that which was Chairman in March 2015.
He was Chief Financial Officer of Ladbrokes provided directly to the Committee during the financial year.
plc until February 2016 and is currently Chief Financial Officer of The performance of the Committee was evaluated by way of Parkdean Resorts UK Ltd.
The Board considers him to have a questionnaire which was completed by all members of the significant, recent and relevant financial experience as required Committee as well as those who attended Committee meetings.
The Committees composition is kept under review Feedback received was supportive of the manner in which the by the Nomination Committee, which is responsible for making Committee operated, particularly in relation to the agenda items recommendations to the Board as to its membership, and the covered at Committee meetings and there was full consensus that Board is of the view that the Committee as a whole has the Chairman facilitated constructive debate in order to reach competence relevant to the sector in which the Company operates.
agreement and bring discussion to conclusion.
Further feedback All members of the Committee receive an appropriate induction included the requirement to ensure future appointments will to ensure that they have an understanding of the principles of, reinforce the Committee with further skills, expertise and and recent developments in, financial reporting, key aspects of the experience in financial reporting.
This is being addressed as part Companys accounting policies and judgements, and internal of the skills matrix assessments and succession planning activities control and risk management arrangements, as well as the role of of the Nomination Committee see Nomination Committee report the internal and external auditors.
Ongoing training is undertaken on pages 83 to 85.
As identified in the 2015 16 Committee as required and there is opportunity for Committee members to questionnaire and mentioned in last years Audit Committee report, speak with various employees within the Group as they present the Committee has sought to strengthen the Internal Audit function to the Committee on matters such as cyber security and the with the appointment of PwC as Internal Auditors, see Internal Audit forthcoming data protection regulation, GDPR.
How the Committee operates Activities of the Committee during the year The Committee met five times during the year: the schedule Reporting included a stand-alone meeting with the external valuers to review The Committee undertook its primary responsibility in relation to and discuss their valuation reports.
Meetings of the Committee the Groups financial reporting, to review with both management generally take place just prior to a Board meeting to maximise and the external auditor the integrity of the half year and annual the efficiency of interaction with the Board and the Committee financial statements with particular focus on: Chairman reports to the Board, as a separate agenda item, on the the consistency of, and any changes to, accounting policies activity of the Committee and matters of relevance to the Board and practices: in the conduct of its work.
material areas in which significant judgements have been applied Representatives from the external auditor are invited to each or where significant financial issues have been discussed with the meeting together with other Board members, the Group Financial external auditor: Controller, the Head of Internal Audit and the Company Secretary.
Representatives from both Cushman & Wakefield and Jones Lang the clarity of the disclosures and compliance with financial LaSalle JLL, the external valuers, are invited to attend meetings reporting standards and relevant financial and governance at which the half year and annual valuations of the Groups reporting requirements, such as statements on viability and investment properties are considered by the Committee.
going concern: and Representatives from the Groups external advisors such as RSM whether the annual report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced who advise on risk management, as well as other St. Modwen and understandable and provides the information necessary for employees, are invited to attend meetings as appropriate.
shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, At least once a year, usually preceding a Committee meeting, the business model and strategy.
Committee meets separately with the external audit engagement partner and with the Head of Internal Audit to give them the opportunity to discuss matters without executive management being present.
The Committee Chairman also holds separate oneto-one meetings with the Chief Financial Officer, the Head of Internal Audit and with KPMG, typically ahead of Committee meetings, to better understand the issues and areas of concern and to make sure adequate time is devoted to these matters at the subsequent meeting.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2017 77 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Accounting policies and practices The Committee received reports from management in relation to the continuing appropriateness of accounting policies applied by the Group and any changes required as a consequence of the implementation of new accounting standards.
During the year we have begun our analysis of the implications of adopting three new significant accounting standards and their effects.
Standard Expected impact Future actions IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Likely limited to the calculation of bad debt Review of bad debt processes and provision to focus on expected losses rather designing new policy during the than incurred losses.
IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers Likely to result in different revenue Detailed review of existing contracts to recognition profiles, particularly on certain commence during the forthcoming year.
construction contracts and non-standard elements of housebuilding.
IFRS 16 Leases Recognition of right of use assets and Review of leases to take place during the associated liabilities for operating leases, forthcoming year to model the impact of limited to certain premises, motor vehicles the new accounting standard.
Following consideration and discussions with KPMG, the Committee was satisfied that the accounting policies and related disclosure in this annual report were appropriate.
Accounting policies See pages 126 to 132 Significant judgements and financial issues The Committee pays particular attention to matters it considers to be important by virtue of their impact on the Groups results, or the level of complexity, judgement or estimation involved in their application to the Group financial statements.
The significant financial issues considered by the Committee in relation to the 2017 financial statements, and how these were addressed, are outlined below.
The Committee discussed these with the external auditor and, where appropriate, how these were addressed by KPMGs audit scope.
Independent Auditors report See pages 115 to 120 Significant issues Work undertaken by and conclusion of the Committee Valuation of investment properties The Committee adopts a formal approach by which the valuation process, see note 9 to the Group financial statements methodology, assumptions and outcomes are reviewed and robustly The valuation of St. Modwens investment properties challenged.
This includes separate review and scrutiny by both management is a key determinant of the Groups balance sheet and and the Committee, with members of the Committee discussing the performance as well as indirectly impacting executive valuations both prior to and at Committee meetings in January and June.
It also includes the external auditor which is assisted by its own specialist team of chartered surveyors who are familiar with the valuation approach and UK Although the portfolio valuation is conducted property market.
externally by independent valuers, the nature of valuation estimates is inherently subjective and The external auditor has direct access to the Groups valuers and their remit requires significant judgements and assumptions extends to investigating and confirming that no undue influence has been to be made by the valuers.
These include market exerted by management in relation to the valuations.
The external auditor comparable yields, estimates in relation to future reviewed the valuations and process and reported its findings to the Committee.
rental income, void periods, purchaser costs, together Both Cushman & Wakefield and JLL submit their valuation reports to the with remediation and other costs to complete, some Committee as part of the half year and full year results process.
Both valuers of which require management input.
These judgements were asked to present their valuation reports at Committee meetings and and assumptions are subject to market forces and will highlight any significant judgements made or disagreements between change accordingly.
themselves and management: there were none.
Against the backdrop of the continued uncertainty created by the UKs vote to leave the EU, the Committee also considered the extent to which this could impact the property investment and lettings market in terms of both activity and liquidity.
Based on the degree of oversight and challenge applied to the valuation process, the Committee concluded that the valuation as a whole had each been conducted appropriately, independently and in accordance with the valuers professional standards.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 78 Annual report and financial statements 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Significant issues Work undertaken by and conclusion of the Committee Net realisable value of inventories The Committee reviewed managements assessment as to whether any see note 13 to the Group financial statements provision was required against the carrying value of inventory, either at Group The Groups inventories, comprising property held level or within any joint venture arrangements.
The assessment process for sale, property under development commenced undertaken to determine net realisable value was considered by the with a view to sale and land under option, is of Committee, which included ongoing monitoring by management as well as significant value.
detailed reviews at both the half and full year.
Cushman & Wakefield also provided valuations for certain sites, typically new build units not yet sold.
All inventory is carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value and appropriate allowances are made The Committee concluded that the judgements and estimates made by for remediation and other costs to complete.
For the management were in line with Group policy, reasonable and appropriate and majority of inventories held, management rely on were supported by KPMG.
their own internal procedures for assessing the carrying value of inventory.
These require a number of judgements to be made, such as forecast revenue and costs, that derive a profit margin over the development and provide an indication of the recoverability of the inventory.
Accrual for costs in relation to the NCGM site During 2017, the Committee has: see note 11 to the Group financial statements reviewed a report from the external expert to form a view on the The project to procure a market at the Nine Elms site appropriateness of the liability included for the NCGM project: for CGMA is a significant project which is forecast to continue for multiple years.
assessed and discussed the sensitivities, risks and opportunities inherent in the project highlighted in this report: and Our share of the total costs of the market construction are forecast pre-discounting to be c. 145m but this assessed the range of outcomes discussed in this report to satisfy itself that assessment is an area of significant accounting the accrual has been made at a level which fairly represents the likelihood judgement for the Group.
of the sensitivities, risks and opportunities materialising.
The Group engages with external experts to form The Committee concluded that the liability recognised in respect of this a reliable estimate of the costs associated with project was appropriate.
Other issues Work undertaken by and conclusion of the Committee Tax provisions Based on reports from management and PwC the Groups tax compliance see note 6 to the Group financial statements advisor, the Committee has continued to assess the risk of challenge and As a property group, tax and its treatment is often individual judgements made by management in respect of tax provisions and an integral part of transactions undertaken by was satisfied that the mitigating actions and resultant level of tax provisioning St. Modwen.
The outcomes of tax treatments are at both the full year and half year remained appropriate.
recognised by the Group to the extent the outcome Further disclosure on taxation is set out in note 6 to the Group financial is reasonably certain.
statements and the accounting policies note on page 131.
Where tax treatments have been challenged by HMRC, or management believe that there is a risk of such challenge, or new tax regulation is introduced, provision is made for the best estimate of potential exposure based on the information available at the reporting date.
Disposal of 10-acre site at Nine Elms Square Following the initial recognition in 2015, the Committee has continued see note 11 to the Group financial statements to assess the appropriateness of the accounting treatment adopted and Certain property transactions entered into by the associated disclosure, particularly given the scale and complexity of the Group are more significant to the results of the Group proposed development.
and or involve an element of complexity and the In addition, in relation to the disposal the Committee reviewed: need to exercise judgement to determine the most appropriate accounting treatment.
This includes the the elements of the asset included in the disposal and their valuation: disposal of the 10-acre site at Nine Elms Square in the liabilities retained under the terms of the disposal for completeness: August 2017 by a joint venture of the Group for 470m.
the calculation of the overage liability to the CGMA in respect of the Due to the significant size of the transaction, and disposal: and because the sale represented only a proportion of the land on this site, there were a number of complexities the calculation of profit on disposal and the associated tax provision.
The Committee concluded that the accounting treatment adopted and As with the rest of the portfolio, significant valuation assumptions made were appropriate.
judgements and assumptions are made by JLL, our independent valuers of this asset, in arriving at the valuation, some of which required management input.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2017 79 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Viability and going concern External auditor The Committee provides advice to the Board on the form and basis KPMG, as the external auditor, is engaged to express an opinion on underlying both the going concern statement and the longer-term the Companys and the Groups financial statements.
includes a review and test of the systems of internal control and data contained in the financial statements to the extent necessary As both statements rely on forecasts, the Committee considered to express an audit opinion on them.
Having undertaken a the assumptions and judgements applied by management in competitive external auditor tender process in respect of the relation to the timing of receipt and payment cash flows, the 2016 17 year and appointing KPMG to the office of auditor, with ongoing availability of funding and covenant compliance.
The Bill Holland of KPMG as the Senior Audit Partner, the Company has Committee also reviewed the sensitivity analysis prepared by complied with the Statutory Services for Large Companies Market management, including the assumptions made.
Investigation Mandatory use of Competitive Tender Processes and The Committee concluded that it remains appropriate for the Audit Responsibilities order 2014.
Under the current regulations, financial statements to be prepared on a going concern basis the Company will be required to retender the audit by no later than and recommended the viability statement to the Board.
2026 27 and the Committee will keep the external auditor tender under review and act in accordance with any changes in regulations Going concern statement and best practice relating to the tenure of the external auditor.
See page 113 Audit plan In respect of the audit for the financial year ended 30 November Viability statement 2017, KPMG presented their audit plan to the Committee prepared See page 61 in consultation with management.
The audit plan took into account Fair, balanced and understandable key changes in the business and the impact of these on materiality, When reporting to shareholders the Board aims to present a fair, scope and risk assessment.
The audit fee, which was approved by balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys the Committee, was felt to be appropriate given the scope of work position and performance and is assisted in this by the Committee.
whilst not adversely affecting KPMGs independence or objectivity.
This responsibility covers the annual and half year reports and Independence financial statements, as well as trading updates and other The Committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing the financial reporting.
objectivity and independence of the external auditor.
In KPMGs The Committee is satisfied and has confirmed to the Board that first year as external auditor, the Committee has reviewed: the 2017 annual report and financial statements are fair, balanced the confirmation from KPMG that they maintain appropriate and understandable and provide the information necessary for internal safeguards in line with applicable professional standards: shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, and business model and strategy.
the mitigating actions taken by the Committee in seeking to In reaching this view the Committee considered the robust and safeguard KPMGs independent status, including the operation well-established processes in place to prepare the annual report of policies designed to regulate the appointment of former and financial statements which include: employees of the external audit firm and the extent of non-audit clear guidance and instruction is given to all contributors: services provided by the external auditor.
revisions to regulatory requirements and governance principles, Taking the above review into account, the Committee concluded including the Code, are continually monitored: that KPMG was objective and independent in their role as external auditor.
meetings are held with the auditors in advance of the year end reporting process: input is provided by senior management to identify relevant and material information and ensure accurate, consistent and balanced reporting: detailed debates and discussions regarding principal risks and uncertainties: focused review and approval of specific sections by the relevant Board Committees, supported by regular reporting by Board Committees to the Board on their activities: a review by the Committee of reports prepared by management on accounting estimates and judgements, auditor reports on internal controls, accounting and reporting matters and a management representation letter concerning accounting and reporting matters: consideration of the draft annual report and financial statements by the Committee in advance of final sign-off: and review and approval by the external auditor.
The Board takes into account the view of the Committee when undertaking its own review of the document prior to giving final approval.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 80 Annual report and financial statements 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Effectiveness Non-audit fees The Committee resolved not to undertake an assessment of To help safeguard KPMGs objectivity, independence and Deloittes performance as outgoing external auditor.
As the financial effectiveness, the Committee has refreshed a non-audit services year ended 30 November 2017 is KPMGs first year as external policy which sets out the circumstances and financial limits auditor, an assessment on external audit effectiveness will be within which the external auditor may be permitted to provide completed later in 2018 when sufficient time has passed with KPMG certain non-audit services such as tax and other services.
in post which will comprise an extensive questionnaire on external audit effectiveness to be completed by management and the Board This policy sets a presumption that KPMG should only be which will be assessed by the Committee.
The Committee will also engaged for non-audit services where there is an obvious and consider KPMGs experience and expertise, the extent to which the compelling reason to do so for example their skills and audit plan had been met, its robustness and perceptiveness with experience or ability to provide the services and provided such regard to key accounting and audit judgements and the content work does not impair their independence or objectivity and has of its audit reports.
As part of its considerations, the Committee no impact on the audited financial statements.
It prohibits KPMG reviews a report on the audit firms own internal quality control from providing certain services including legal, valuation, procedures together with the policies and processes for actuarial and internal audit.
Where KPMG can be engaged and maintaining independence and monitoring compliance with their fees are anticipated to exceed 25,000, advance approval relevant requirements.
of the Audit Committee on the recommendation of the Chief Financial Officer is required: no such approvals were required Internal audit in the year.
A competitive tender process was undertaken in 2016 and the The Committee is advised of all non-audit services provided, Committee approved the appointment of PwC to provide internal irrespective of value, and reviews all expenditure annually.
Save audit services with effect from 1 December 2016.
As the complexity for any fees payable for non-audit work required to be carried and reach of the business continues to grow, the Committee out by the external auditor by law or regulation, the policy limits recognises the benefits that a fully outsourced internal audit the total fees payable to the external auditor for non-audit function offers.
The internal auditors key objectives are to provide services to no more than 70% of the average of the audit fees independent and objective assurance that each business area paid in the last three consecutive financial years for the audit of implements and maintains appropriate and effective controls.
An the Company and the Group.
Internal Audit Charter, which is reviewed annually, governs its remit and sets out the standards against which activities are undertaken.
Non-audit fees paid to KPMG 2016: Deloitte in the year totalled nil 2016: 22,000, representing 0% 2016: 5% of the fees paid Internal audit is a standing agenda item at each Committee for audit and audit-related assurance services.
Reports from the Head of Internal Audit usually include updates on audit activities and assurance, progress of the Group Further information on the remuneration of the external auditor audit plan, the results of internal audits and monitoring the status can be found in Note 4b to the Group financial statements.
of implementation of recommendations to address any unsatisfactory areas.
During the year, internal audits were carried out across a number of areas, as intended, extending the scope of internal audit within the business including key controls reviews, to build on the Group internal controls checklist to identify control gaps and mitigating controls and aspects of Safety, Health & Environment SHE, focusing largely on the sufficiency of management oversight controls and associated reporting.
The Committee reviews and approves annually the audit plan for a rolling three-year period which is closely aligned to the key risks the business faces.
It also has input into ensuring that adequate resources are made available and that the necessary support is provided by the business to accomplish the agreed work programme.
The Committee Chairman meets with the Head of Internal Audit regularly to discuss activities and the nature of any significant issues which may have arisen.
As PwC is already engaged by the Group to provide tax compliance advice, extensive enquiries were made prior to their appointment as internal auditor to ensure that their existing role did not compromise their independence.
As intended no new areas of tax work have been allocated to PwC and safeguards continue to be in place, with Committee approval as necessary, should a conflict arise.
There were none reported in the year.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2017 81 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED The effectiveness of the internal audit function is reviewed annually The Committee has carried out a robust assessment of the principal by the Committee, primarily by assessing performance against the risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its Internal Audit Charter.
The Committee remained satisfied that the business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The function continued to operate effectively throughout the year.
It Groups risk management framework incorporates both a topwas the Committees intention to seek an independent external down and bottom-up approach to the evaluation of risk, to ensure review of the function in 2016, however, in light of the decision to there is a common understanding of those risks to which the Group outsource, this was postponed until after PwCs first year in the role.
is exposed and their potential impact on the performance of the During the year ending 30 November 2018 the Committee will business and achievement of strategy.
Its evaluation of these review PwCs activities and performance to ensure that the internal solvency risks in the context of the new strategy is described audit services meet the scope and quality required.
further in the going concern and viability statements.
Following a review in 2016 by BDO a number of enhancements Risk management and internal control have been made to strengthen the control environment, meaning During the year, the Committee monitored and reviewed the that all actions are either completed or well-progressed.
For 2017, effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems, accounting PwC have built upon this review, both tracking progress on the policies and practices, standards of risk management and risk actions identified by BDO and by suggesting areas for management procedures and compliance controls, as well as the improvement in the internal control environment, particularly key Companys statements on internal controls, before they were financial controls but also other controls, which are in the process agreed by the Board for this Annual Report.
In doing so the Committee considered: The Board is ultimately responsible for maintaining a sound system the Groups risk register, including significant and emerging risks, of risk management and internal control and for determining the mitigating controls in place and how exposures have changed nature and extent of risks it is willing to take to achieve its strategic over the reporting period: objectives.
an updated risk appetite framework, with key risk indicators Risk management reviewed and refreshed and associated tolerances defined and See pages 50 to 55 aligned to the businesss wider performance reporting following the development of the strategy: Whistleblowing and fraud internal audit reports on key audit areas and any significant The Groups whistleblowing policy encourages employees to deficiencies in the control environment: report, in confidence and anonymously if preferred, concerns management reports on the systems of internal controls and about suspected impropriety or wrongdoing in any matters risk management, including tax compliance: affecting the business.
An independent hotline exists to facilitate this process.
Any matters reported are thoroughly investigated external audit reports from KPMG which included details of their and escalated to the Committee.
During the year there was one risk assessment process for the purposes of audit: whistleblowing incident reported to the Committee and, actual and potential legal claims and litigation involving the following review, it was satisfied that matters had been dealt Group: with appropriately.
internal audit reports on potential fraudulent activities The Groups fraud prevention policy requires employees to perpetrated against the Group: be alert to the possibility of the threat of fraud and to report immediately any concerns they have.
The Company remains the effectiveness of the internal audit function: and vigilant against such risk, including fraudulent payment the Groups approach to IT, information security and Data requests, and continues to monitor the adequacy of controls Protection regulations.
and procedures to prevent such fraud.
The Committee is made aware of all potential fraudulent activity.
During the year the A significant project to review the Groups risk appetite, risk Committee reviewed the instances of cash across the Group and register and the monitoring and mitigation of risks had taken place the controls over them, and commissioned internal audit reviews during 2016 in consultation with RSM.
The risk appetite framework to gain assurance over this area.
to ensure that St. Modwen continues to operate within a level of risk exposure acceptable to the Board has been reviewed and reassessed in the year.
As further progress a suite of key risk indicators has been established and integrated into the overall framework for risk monitoring, see pages 50 to 61.
This review has also included a detailed review of the Group risk register, the risk appetite framework and risk management strategy.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 82 Annual report and financial statements 2017
