GOVERNANCE How the Board operates LEADERSHIP Board meeting agendas are prepared collaboratively with input from the Chairman, Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, members of the Senior Leadership Executive and the Company The Role of the Board Secretary.
Each agenda is carefully planned to ensure sufficient The Board provides leadership of the Company and oversees the time is given to regular operational and financial reports as well management of the Groups activities and is collectively responsible as topical items and matters of interest or concern.
and accountable to shareholders for St. Modwens long-term success.
It sets the strategy, oversees implementation and reviews Meetings performance, ensuring that only acceptable risks are taken, and the The Board discharges its responsibilities through an annual appropriate people and resources are in place to deliver long-term programme of Board and Committee meetings which are value to shareholders and benefits to the wider community.
supplemented by visits to sites within the Companys property portfolio.
In the year ended 30 November 2017 the Board met Matters reserved to the Board formally on 11 occasions, which included a strategy day in March To help retain control of key decisions, the Board has a formal and a visit to Firepool in Taunton and Locking Parklands in Westonschedule of reserved matters that require its approval.
Individual director attendance is set out in the reserved include strategy, new business or geographical areas, table below.
The Chairman also met the non-executive directors transactions in the ordinary course of business where the value periodically without the executive directors present and maintained is 25m or greater and those which are otherwise significant, regular contact with the Chief Executive.
risk management and internal control, Board and Committee composition and dividend policy.
For directors unable to attend the meeting their views are made known to the Chairman ahead of each meeting.
Members of the Board Committees SLE and certain advisors are invited to attend meetings in relation In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board to specific agenda items.
Meetings are typically set well ahead of delegates certain responsibilities to its three principal Committees.
time to minimise any clashes with non-executive directors other The Committees assist the Board in carrying out its functions commitments as far as possible.
and ensure closer oversight on matters such as remuneration, internal control and the Companys risk management framework.
Information and support Membership of these Committees comprises primarily the All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company independent non-executive directors and, in some cases, the Secretary.
Board papers and meeting minutes are sent to directors Chairman.
The Chairs of each Board Committee report to the in a timely manner to enable sufficient time to consider and review Board on matters discussed at Committee meetings.
All Committees ahead of meetings and are circulated via a secure online portal.
operate within defined terms of reference which are updated as appropriate and can be viewed on the Company website www.
Executive Directors The Board has delegated the delivery of strategy and day-to-day management of operations to the Chief Executive.
Attendance at Board meetings Meetings attended in year Director Role Director since out of maximum possible % attended in year Mark Allan Chief Executive Nov 2016 11 11 100% 1 Ian Bull Non-executive director Sep 2014 10 11 90.1% 2 Steve Burke Group Construction Director Nov 2006 2 2 100% 3 Kay Chaldecott Non-executive director Oct 2012 8 11 72.73% 4 Simon Clarke Non-executive director Oct 2004 10 11 90.1% 5 Jenefer Greenwood Non-executive director June 2017 5 5 100% Rob Hudson Chief Financial Officer Sep 2015 11 11 100% 6 Lesley James Non-executive director Oct 2009 10 11 90.1% Richard Mully Senior Independent Director Sep 2013 11 11 100% Bill Shannon Chairman Nov 2010 11 11 100% 1 Unable to attend the Board Meeting in February 2017 due to a prior commitment.
2 Steve Burke sadly passed away in March 2017.
3 Unable to attend Board Meetings in January, May and September due to prior commitments.
4 Unable to attend the Board meeting in January 2017 due to a prior commitment.
5 Appointed to the Board as a non-executive director in June 2017.
6 Unable to attend Board Meeting in July 2017 due to a prior commitment.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 68 Annual report and financial statements 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information The Board Develops strategy and effectively monitors its execution Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Oversees financial and narrative Oversees Board and senior Develops the remuneration policy reporting, property portfolio management succession, leads the and determines the remuneration valuations, internal control, risk process for Board appointments and arrangements for the executive management systems, and internal monitors membership of Board directors, the Chairman and the and external audit processes Committees.
Assists the Chairman Company Secretary with the Board evaluation process Audit Committee report Nomination Committee report Directors remuneration report See pages 75 to 82 See pages 83 to 85 See pages 86 to 109 Supported by Investment Committee Performance and Senior Leadership Safety, Health & Corporate Social 1 Responsible for considering Pipeline Review Executive Environment Steering Responsibility Steering and approving investment Reviews and oversees Reviews performance Committee Committee transactions and recommends portfolio management and and considers GroupOversees Group strategy, Co-ordinates the Groups higher value transactions to asset performance as part wide operational issues procedure and performance approach to, and enhances the SLE and Board for approval of the operational strategy and initiatives in relation to safety, health the reporting of, its corporate and environmental matters social responsibility activities and initiatives Division of role and responsibilities The Board comprises the Chairman, two executive directors and six non-executive directors of which five are independent.
Their biographical details can be found on pages 66 and 67.
There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman, who is accountable for the leadership of the Board, and the Chief Executive, who manages and leads the business.
Chairman Bill Shannon leads the Board and ensures that it is effectively operated.
He is responsible for setting appropriate agendas for Board meetings and ensuring that all matters are given due consideration.
Maintains a culture of openness, debate and constructive challenge between the non-executive directors and the Senior Leadership Executive.
Monitors the performance of the Chief Executive and ensures effective dialogue takes place between St. Modwen and its shareholders.
Senior Independent Richard Mully acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and serves as a trusted intermediary for the other Director directors when necessary, whilst also providing an additional channel of communication for shareholders.
He leads the other independent non-executive directors in the performance evaluation of the Chairman.
Non-executive The non-executive directors work with and challenge the executive directors in the development of St. Modwens directors strategy.
They offer an independent, external perspective on the business and bring wide and varied commercial experience to both the Board and its Committees.
With the exception of Simon Clarke, all non-executive directors are considered to be independent.
Chief Executive Mark Allan is responsible for the leadership and strategic direction of the business and managing it within the authorities delegated by the Board.
He is responsible for the day-to-day management of the business, recommending proposals for St. Modwens strategic development and implementing the strategy.
He leads the senior management through the SLE.
Chief Financial Rob Hudson is responsible for devising and implementing the Groups financial strategy and policies, as well as Officer financial reporting and internal controls.
He also oversees investor relations, internal audit and IT.
2 Company Secretary Andrew Eames supports the Chairman and Chief Executive in fulfilling their duties and is available to all directors for Interim advice, support and assistance.
He is responsible for keeping the Board regularly updated on governance matters.
He attends and maintains a record of the matters discussed and approved at Board and Committee meetings and facilitates effective information flows between the Board, its Committees and the SLE and non-executive directors.
1 Senior Leadership Executive SLE The members of the Senior Leadership Executive are: Guy Gusterson Property Director Midlands and North, Rupert Joseland Property Director West and Wales, Richard Powell Construction Director, Jane Saint Group HR Director, Tim Seddon Property Director South East, Remco Simon Director of Strategy and Research, Dave Smith Managing Director of St. Modwen Homes, Rupert Wood Property Director Asset Management.
Mark Allan, Rob Hudson and Andrew Eames are also members of the Senior Leadership Executive.
2 Tanya Stote resigned as Company Secretary on 1 November 2017 and Andrew Eames was appointed as General Counsel & Company Secretary Interim on 9 November 2017.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2017 69 GOVERNANCE CONTINUED What the Board did this year During 2017, the Board concluded a strategy review and identified four clear strategic objectives against which future performance and direction will be reported against.
The business purpose together with the five values that were developed through the year will guide our behaviour and enable us to live our purpose and deliver our strategy.
See Strategic review pages 22 to 28 The key Board activity table opposite sets out the regular matters that were considered at meetings and highlights the key focus areas in relation to the strategy review and strategy development activities undertaken in 2017.
The regular matters considered at each meeting are formed of strategy and property, operational, financial performance and governance.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 70 Annual report and financial statements 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Key Board activity in 2017 Timeline Strategy and property Operational Financial performance Governance Key Board focus for Strategic matters Operational updates Trading results Legal, company 2017: Organisational and forecasts secretarial and design and purpose, Acquisition and CEO report regulatory matters values, culture and development Market update Health, Safety & brand opportunities Board Committee Environment Management activities accounts and KPIs Construction report Investor relations Jan Considered proposed Received updates on Received 2017 Considered the proposals approach to strategy sales bids for Nine budget update to develop our purpose, review and Board Elms Square site and values, culture and brand engagement Swansea University Feb Approved the 2016 Considered and Launched employee Annual Report and approved 2017 engagement survey and financial statements Notice of AGM external stakeholder and final dividend perception audit, an recommendation anonymised and independent review undertaken with 25 stakeholders Mar Held a strategy day Reviewed residential Considered the Considered AGM and a separate Board and commercial Groups capital preparation and meeting opportunities structure and related matters resourcing Agreed the four strategic objectives Apr Approved the revised Concluded residential Discussed the outcome Senior Leadership and commercial of the employment Executive structure development engagement survey activities and external stakeholder perception audit May Approved the final Considered the Approved Approved the Capital Markets day updated financial appointment of communications plan in presentation model, scenario Jenefer Greenwood relation to the Groups analysis and risk to the Board strategic objectives and appetite its purpose statement June Approved the sale of Approved the 2017 Analysed feedback A Capital Markets day was Nine Elms Square site half year results and from the Capital held on 7 June 2017 interim dividend Markets day July Visited Firepool in Taunton and Locking Parklands in Weston-super-Mare Sep Reviewed the Considered the proposed St. Modwen homes five values and people plan 3-5 year plan Oct Discussed the Reviewed and Reviewed the next phase Commercial approved the 2018 of the organisational development budget design and considered business plan the new brand Considered the visual identity proposals Approved a Group financing significant strategy and move to commercial bid an unsecured facility Nov Considered the Approved Group Held annual meeting asset management delegated authorities with the Companys business plan and reviewed brokers dividend policy Reviewed Group business plan and Considered and scenario analysis approved trading statement St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2017 71 GOVERNANCE CONTINUED The explanatory notes set out in the notice of meeting state the EFFECTIVENESS reasons why the Board believes that the directors proposed for re-election at the AGM should be re-appointed.
It has concluded that the performance of each director continues to be effective, Induction of a new director that they continue to demonstrate commitment to their respective The Chairman, assisted by the Company Secretary, is responsible roles, and that their respective skills complement one another to for the induction of all new directors.
enhance the overall operation of the Board.
On joining the Board, a director receives a comprehensive induction pack which includes background information on the Company, Notice of AGM material on matters relating to the activities of the Board and its Pages 180 to 185 Committees and governance-related information including the duties and responsibilities of directors.
External appointments On appointment directors are advised of, and requested to make, Meetings are arranged with the executive directors for briefings on the necessary time commitment required to discharge their strategy and performance, as well as with the external auditor and responsibilities effectively.
This time commitment is also outlined valuers.
Visits to key sites within the Groups property portfolio are in the letters of appointment issued to non-executive directors.
scheduled and external training, particularly on matters relating to membership of Board Committees, is arranged as appropriate.
The Chairman reviews annually the time each director has Major shareholders are also offered the opportunity to meet newly dedicated to St. Modwen as part of their individual performance appointed directors should they express a desire to do so.
evaluations and is satisfied that their other duties and time commitments do not conflict with those as directors of the Director development Company.
Similarly, the Board is content that the Chairmans The Company is committed to the continuing development of external appointments do not impact on his ability to allocate directors in order that they may build on their expertise and sufficient time to discharge his responsibilities to St. Modwen.
develop an ever more detailed understanding of the business and the markets in which St. Modwen operates.
Conflicts of interest The Board operates a policy to identify and where appropriate, Training and development needs are discussed with each director manage any conflicts of interest affecting directors.
This enables by the Chairman as part of the annual individual performance the Board to consider and if thought appropriate, to authorise evaluation process and kept under review.
Development activities a directors actual or potential conflict of interest, taking into include visits to sites within the Groups property portfolio, both as consideration what is in the best interests of the Company and a Board and individually and regular presentations to the Board by whether the directors ability to act in accordance with his or her members of the SLE and senior management on key issues and wider duties is affected.
Board members can also meet with the external valuers to review their property valuation reports and develop further understanding of the markets within which we operate.
An overview of this years key Board activities, is set out on page 71.
The attendance by members of Board Committees on courses relevant to aspects of their respective Committee specialisms is also encouraged.
Director independence and re-election to the Board The Board considers Bill Shannon to have been independent on his appointment as Chairman in 2011 and that he remains so.
Simon Clarke, a non-executive director, represents the interests of the Clarke family and has held the position for over nine years.
Consequently, the Board has determined that Simon Clarke is not independent for the purposes of the Code.
The Board considers that all other non-executive directors are independent and is not aware of any relationship or circumstance likely to affect the judgement of any director.
At the 2018 AGM, and in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Jenefer Greenwood and Jamie Hopkins joining the Board with effect from 1 March 2018 will retire and offer themselves for election.
As announced Kay Chaldecott and Richard Mully will be not be standing for re-election.
All other directors will retire and offer themselves for re-election in accordance with the provisions of the Code.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 72 Annual report and financial statements 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information 3 Processes: statements included whether Board members receive proper induction on appointment and Board packs are PERFORMANCE EVALUATION circulated in a timely manner and contain the appropriate level To ensure its continued effectiveness, the Board undertakes of information and detail.
The Company Secretary will in 2018 performance evaluations.
undertake to review and refresh the director induction process.
In addition, he will review timings of distribution of Board packs The Board evaluation will usually comprise a questionnaire that is and proposes to include a useful overview of each Board paper.
circulated to all Board members based on a scoring system which measures the extent to which directors agree with a series of Good progress has been made against actions and statements on a number of key themes.
There is also an recommendations arising from previous Board performance opportunity to provide additional commentary if desired.
evaluations, including the following: One-to-one discussions with the Chairman follow to enhance the Formal non-executive director appraisals are undertaken feedback received and results and conclusions are considered by annually with the Chairman to shape the contribution of the the Board.
A programme of actions and recommendations is then Board and align views over time.
Discussions also help inform implemented.
and guide the Boards refreshment and succession planning.
The Board was content to conduct an internal review in late 2017, A cycle of longer Board meetings has been implemented.
having undertaken an external review in late 2015, and in light of Committee meetings are held prior to Board meetings to the appointment of Mark Allan on 1 November 2016 appointed facilitate reporting of Committees into the Board.
There is continued development with the assistance of the Nomination Committee of a skills matrix and succession Key themes in the 2017 evaluation questionnaire planning to ensure alignment of the Boards composition with 1 Corporate culture and governance leadership: statements strategy.
included whether the Board has clear agreement on its role in shaping, embedding and overseeing the Groups corporate A review of the risk appetite framework has been completed culture, and has visibility over KPIs measuring corporate value.
with the assistance of the Audit Committee alongside key risk indicators and has been incorporated in the year.
2 Behaviours: a statement included whether the Board members support and debate the Companys strategy, enabling them to set To increase the visibility and input of HR, the HR director attends the strategy from the top.
As detailed in the various sections of Remuneration Committee meetings.
this annual report, strategy will continue to feature regularly on the Boards agenda as it further progresses into 2018.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2017 73 GOVERNANCE CONTINUED RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS COMPLIANCE STATEMENT Dialogue with investors This corporate governance report, together with the Audit The Board has a comprehensive investor relations programme Committee report, the Nomination Committee report, the Directors which aims to provide existing and potential investors with a means remuneration report and the sections of this annual report entitled of developing their understanding of St. Modwen.
The programme Risk management and Principal risks and uncertainties, provide is split between institutional shareholders who, in aggregate, hold a description of how the main principles of the Code have been over 80% of the issued share capital in the Company, private applied by St. Modwen in 2016 17.
The Code is published by the shareholders and debt investors.
Feedback from the programme Financial Reporting Council and is available on its website at of events is provided to the Board to ensure that directors develop www.
an understanding of the views of the Companys major investors.
It is the Boards view that, throughout the financial year ended As part of the programme, presentations on the half year and 30 November 2017, the Company complied with the relevant annual results are given by the Chief Executive and Chief Financial provisions set out in the Code.
Officer in face to face meetings and on conference calls with With the exception of disclosures required by Rule 7.2.
6 which are institutional investors, analysts and the media.
Copies of these set out in the Directors report, this Corporate governance report presentations, together with trading updates, are published on contains the information required by Rule 7.2 of the Disclosure and the Companys website.
Meetings with principal shareholders were Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority.
also held and the Company had regular dialogue with its key relationship banks throughout the year.
The Chairman is available The directors are responsible for preparing this Annual Report.
The to meet with institutional shareholders and investor representatives statement of directors responsibilities on page 114 is made at the to discuss matters relating to strategy and governance.
Private conclusion of a robust and effective process undertaken by the shareholders are encouraged to give feedback and communicate Company for the preparation and review of the Annual Report.
The with the Board through the Company Secretary.
directors believe that these well-established arrangements, details of which are set out on page 80, enable them to ensure that the A capital markets day was held for investors and analysts on information presented in this annual report is fair, balanced and 7 June 2017.
The event was initiated by Mark Allan and arranged understandable and provides the information necessary for immediately following the completion of the six-month strategic shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, and portfolio review.
A copy of the presentation can be found at business model and strategy.
pdf Three key objectives were identified for the capital markets day: 1. to provide greater visibility of the value creation potential primarily through the commercial and residential pipelines: 2. to demonstrate the skills and abilities of the senior management team in driving forward the strategy: and 3. to detail the modelling of the Group in relation to the key areas of development and the associated financing.
Presenters included Mark Allan, Rob Hudson and other members of the SLE and covered the Groups strategy, highlighting the opportunities identified across the Groups assets in the context of the launch of the four strategic objectives see pages 22 to 28.
Feedback from the analysts and institutional investors that attended was collated and reviewed by the Board at its June meeting, with the key messaging well received.
Annual General Meeting The AGM provides an opportunity for all shareholders to vote on the resolutions proposed and to question the Board and the Chairs of the Board Committees on matters put to the meeting.
Resolutions for consideration at the 2018 AGM will be voted on by way of a poll rather than by a show of hands as the Board believes that this is a more transparent method of voting as it allows the votes of all shareholders to be counted, including those cast by proxy.
The results of the poll vote will be published on the Companys website after the meeting.
Notice of AGM Pages 180 to 185 St. Modwen Properties PLC 74 Annual report and financial statements 2017
