| 34 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 Report of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee has written terms of reference the Committee has not identified, nor been advised which are shown on the Companys website.
Its duties of, any material failings or weaknesses.
Therefore a include risk assessment: reviewing internal controls, confirmation in respect of necessary actions has not the Companys accounting policies and Financial been considered appropriate.
Statements prior to their release: and the Companys procedures on whistleblowing.
The Committee is Following the outsourcing of the company secretarial, also responsible for all aspects of the Companys accounting and most administration functions, relationship with its external auditor including: the Committee also monitors the controls and risk management of Maitland Administration Services Scotland Limited Maitland.
reviewing the scope and effectiveness of the annual audit: The Committee also monitors the controls and risk the auditors remuneration: management of the Companys custodian, Northern Trust.
the terms of engagement: and the level of non-audit work, if any, carried out by the There are procedures in place to ensure that: auditor.
all transactions are accounted for accurately and Annual Report reported fully to the Board: The Audit Committee reviews the Annual Report management observes the authorisation limits set and Accounts to ensure it is fair, balanced and by the Board: understandable.
there is clear segregation of duties so that no Internal controls investment transaction can be completed by one The Company does not have an internal audit function person: as the Audit Committee believes that the Companys control activities are regularly checked: and straightforward structure and small number of employees do not warrant such a function.
This is legal and regulatory obligations are met.
reviewed by the Committee annually.
The Committee recognises that such systems can only The Committee is responsible for ensuring that provide reasonable, but not guaranteed, assurance the Company has in place an effective system of against material misstatement or loss.
internal controls designed to maintain the integrity of accounting records and to safeguard the Companys Significant issues assets.
The Committee has applied the UK Corporate The Committee considers the risks that may have an Governance Code by establishing a continuous impact on the Companys Financial Statements.
process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks the Company faces.
The valuation and ownership of the Companys investments are risks.
Investments are valued in In compliance with the UK Corporate Governance accordance with the accounting policy on page 49.
Code, the Committee reviews the effectiveness of the The prices of all investments are agreed by Maitland Companys system of internal controls at six-monthly with an independent source and the ownership of intervals.
each investment agreed through confirmation received from the Companys independent global custodian, The Committees monitoring covers all controls, Northern Trust.
including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
It is based principally The incomplete or inaccurate recognition of income in on reviewing reports from management and the Financial Statements are also risks.
Internal control considering whether significant risks are identified, systems, including frequent reconciliations, are in place evaluated, managed and controlled, and whether to ensure income is fully accounted for.
The Board is any significant weaknesses are promptly remedied provided with information on the Companys income or require more extensive monitoring.
During the account at each meeting.
course of its review of the system of internal controls, | The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 35 Report of the Audit Committee continued Partner rotation Auditor The audit partners responsible for the audit are rotated Assessment every five years.
Andrew Partridge, the current audit The Companys auditor, Deloitte LLP, was appointed partner, was appointed in 2015. in 2002.
The Committee reviews annually the appointment of the auditor, the services provided Independence and the related fees.
The Committee is aware that The Committee has satisfied itself of the continuing EU regulations in relation to statutory audits of EU independence of Deloitte LLP.
The Committee confirms listed companies will require the Company to change the level of non-audit work undertaken does not its audit firm by 2023.
The corporate governance compromise independence.
provisions relating to audit tenure have been reviewed and the Committee is of the opinion there Re-appointment of auditor is no need to conduct a competitive tender at the A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as the present time.
The fees for audit and non-audit services Companys auditor, and to authorise the Directors to fix were 34,000 2016: 34,600 and 21,950 2016: its remuneration, will be proposed at the forthcoming 19,800, respectively.
Non-audit services include: tax Annual General Meeting.
compliance 9,850: assurance services 5,400 and pension scheme audit 6,700.
Disclosure of information to auditor It is the Companys policy to allow the auditor unlimited All costs for non-audit services are considered to be access to its records.
The Directors confirm that, so appropriate relative to fees paid for audit services.
An far as each of them is aware, there is no relevant audit engagement letter is issued for all non-audit work and information of which the Companys auditor is unaware subsequently reviewed by the Audit Committee to and they have taken all the steps which they should ensure that the independence and objectivity of the have taken as Directors in order to make themselves auditor is not compromised by the provision of nonaware of any relevant audit information and to establish audit services.
that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted The Company has complied with the provisions of the in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Statutory Audit Services for Larger Companies Market Companies Act 2006.
Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilites Order 2014.
The Audit Committee reviews and approves any nonaudit services provided by the auditor and assesses the impact of any non-audit work on the ability of the Karyn Lamont auditor to remain independent.
Chair of the Audit Committee 8 December 2017
