| The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 27 Corporate Governance Report Board committees Introduction The Board has established three committees: Audit, The Board is committed to implementing high levels Remuneration and Nomination.
Each of the committees of corporate governance within the Company in has written terms of reference which are reviewed at order to safeguard the interests of its shareholders, to least annually and clearly define their responsibilities manage the risks that the Company faces and to ensure and duties.
The terms of reference for these the efficient and effective running of the Company.
committees are available on the Companys website Sound governance is at the heart of the Boards efforts www.
co. uk to ensure that the Company continues to meet its investment objective.
The following statement reports Audit Committee on how the Board, supported by the committees that The Audit Committee comprises the whole Board and it has established, has continued to achieve these aims is chaired by Karyn Lamont.
It has reviewed the matters over the course of the year.
within its terms of reference and reports as follows: it has approved the Financial Statements for the Statement of compliance year to 31 October 2017: The Board has reviewed the principles set out in the it has reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys UK Corporate Governance Code revised 2014, which internal controls and risk management: can be found at www.
uk and the Association of it has reviewed the need for a separate internal Investment Companies Code of Corporate Governance audit function: by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide it has recommended to the Board that a resolution for Investment Companies published in July 2016, be proposed at the AGM for the reappointment both of which can be found at www.
co. uk The of the external auditor and it has considered the Company is a member of the Association of Investment proposed terms of their engagement: Companies.
it has satisfied itself as to the independence of the The Board believes that the way the Company is external auditor and agreed that any non-audit governed is consistent with the principles of the UK services provided by the auditor must be approved Corporate Governance Code and that the Company by the Audit Committee in advance: has complied with its provisions, except that: it has satisfied itself that the Strategic Report is there is no senior independent director: consistent with the Financial Statements: and the Chairman is a member of the Audit Committee: it has reviewed the Companys procedures for and handling allegations from whistleblowers.
evaluation of the Board has not been externally Further details are set out in the Report of the Audit facilitated.
The terms of reference are available from the Companys website.
The Board considers that, as all Directors are independent and non-executive, there is no Remuneration Committee compelling case for appointing a senior independent The Board has appointed a Remuneration Committee director.
The Board further considers that the Chairman to recommend pay and conditions for the Board is independent in character and judgement and, and employees.
It has written terms of reference therefore, that there is no reason for James Will not which are shown on the Companys website.
The to be a member of the Audit Committee.
The Board Committee is chaired by Jane Lewis.
Further details of currently considers that the use of external consultants Directors remuneration are included in the Directors to facilitate the Board evaluation process is unlikely to Remuneration Report on pages 36 and 37. be of significant benefit to the process, although the The Company aims to provide levels of employee option of doing so is kept under review.
remuneration which reward responsibility and achievement and are comparable with other fund Directors independence management organisations operating in Scotland.
The Boards policy on tenure is that continuity and Remuneration is reviewed annually.
experience are considered to add significantly to Every employee is entitled to a salary and other the strength of the Board and, as such, no limit on benefits including a contributory pension scheme.
In the overall length of service of any of the Companys addition, there is a discretionary performance-related Directors, including the Chairman, has been imposed.
For all staff, bonuses payable The Board believes that each Director is independent depend, inter alia, on individual performance and the in character and judgement and that there are no Companys short and medium term performance in relationships with the Company or its employees which both absolute and relative terms.
Any other metrics that might compromise this independence.
are considered appropriate may be taken into account.
| 28 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 Corporate Governance Report continued Nomination Committee of of strong candidates were interviewed by the There is a Nomination Committee comprising the Nomination Committee, whereafter a recommendation whole Board.
The Committee is chaired by James Will.
was made to the Board to appoint Karyn Lamont as a The Committee meets at least annually to review the director and Chair of the Audit Committee.
Karyn was structure, size and composition of the Board.
It has appointed on 1 October 2017 and shareholders will be written terms of reference which are available to view asked to elect her at the AGM.
Hamish Buchan will retire from the Board at the AGM.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for There is no current intention to replace him as the nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates Board considers that its membership will continue to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise.
The to ensure that the appropriate balance of skills, Committee will evaluate the skills, experience, experience, independence and knowledge will be independence, knowledge and diversity of the achieved.
Board and, subject to the aforementioned, prepare a description of the role and capabilities required to fulfil Board and committee meetings the appointment.
The Board has adopted a schedule of matters reserved for the Board which includes investment strategy, When Board positions become available as a result of accounting and financial controls, dividends and retirement or resignation, the Committee will ensure announcements, capital structure including share that a diverse group of candidates is considered.
In buybacks, gearing and major contracts.
order to recruit relevant candidates, the identification of such candidates may be carried on in conjunction The Board has appointed the Companys wholly-owned with the Board by an independent firm of consultants.
If subsidiary, S. I. T. Savings Limited, as its Alternative such a process is not used, the Committee will disclose Investment Fund Manager AIFM.
Day-to-day the reasons in the Corporate Governance Report or management of the Company is delegated to the the Directors Report in the next Annual Report and Companys executive management, which reports Accounts.
The Committee will consider candidates on merit and Prior to each Board meeting, Directors are provided against objective criteria having regard to the benefits with a comprehensive set of papers giving detailed of diversity, including gender.
information on the Companys transactions, financial position and performance.
On 30 September 2017, Ian Hunter resigned from the Board as a director and Chair of the Audit Committee.
The Board normally meets six times a year while the Having reviewed the skills, composition and structure Audit and Remuneration Committees each meet three of the Board, the Company engaged Trust Associates, times and the Nomination Committee meets at least a specialist recruitment company with no connection annually.
Attendance at the scheduled and additional to the Company, to draw up a list of candidates for meetings throughout the year is shown in the table consideration as a replacement Director.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended James Will 9 9 4 4 5 5 4 4 Hamish Buchan 9 9 4 4 5 5 4 4 retiring at AGM 2 February 2018 Russell Napier 9 9 4 4 5 4 4 4 Ian Hunter resigned 30 September 2017 8 8 4 4 5 5 3 3 Jane Lewis 9 9 4 4 5 5 4 4 Mick Brewis 9 9 4 4 5 5 4 4 Karyn Lamont appointed 1 October 2017 1 1 1 1 | The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 29 Corporate Governance Report continued Board and Directors performance appraisal indemnified in respect of liabilities to the Company, The performance of each Director was assessed and any regulatory or criminal fines, any costs incurred in appraised by the Nomination Committee during connection with criminal proceedings in which the the year.
The Chairmans performance was assessed Director is convicted or civil proceedings brought by and appraised in his absence by the other Directors.
the Company in which judgement is given against him The review and assessment by the Nomination her.
In addition, the indemnity does not apply to any Committee of each Directors performance as well liability to the extent that it is recovered from another as the performance of the Board as a whole and of person pursuant to the Directors' and officers' liability its committees followed completion by each of the insurance policy which is maintained by the Company Directors of a written questionnaire.
The appraisals and or otherwise.
assessments considered, amongst other criteria, the The Board has direct access to the advice and services balance of skills of the Board, training and development of the Company Secretary, who is responsible for requirements, the contribution of individual Directors ensuring that Board procedures are followed and and the overall effectiveness of the Board and its that applicable regulations are complied with.
Company Secretary is also responsible for ensuring timely delivery of information and reports to the Board Following this process it was concluded that the and for compliance with the Companys statutory performance of each Director, the Chairman, the Board obligations.
and its committees continues to be effective and that each Director and the Chairman remain committed to There is a procedure for Directors to seek independent the Company.
professional advice at the expense of the Company.
Appointment and re-election of Directors Diversity policy The Companys policy on the appointment of Directors The Company recognises the need to consider the is shown on the Companys website, diversity of its staff and its Board of Directors.
co. uk general principle, the Company will show no bias for New Directors receive an induction from the age, gender, race, sexual orientation, marital status, Companys Manager and the Company Secretary on religion, nationality, ethnic or national origins, or joining the Board, and all Directors will receive other disability in considering the appointment of staff or relevant training as necessary.
board members and will ensure appointments are made on the basis of merit against objective criteria.
All Directors are appointed for initial three year terms, renewable every three years, subject to the Companys The structure, size and composition of the Board policy for all Directors to stand for re-election annually.
of Directors are reviewed at least annually by the Each of the Directors has made a valuable and effective Nomination Committee ensuring an appropriate contribution to the Company and the Board therefore balance of skills, experience, independence and recommends that shareholders vote in favour of their knowledge.
In considering new appointments to re-election and election in the case of Karyn Lamont.
the Board, the Committee recognises the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender.
The Directors letters of appointment will be available for Committee will consider both male and female inspection at the AGM.
candidates and ensure appointments are made on The Companys Articles of Association provide that the basis of merit against objective criteria.
As all any Director or other officer of the Company may be appointments will be based on merit and in view of the indemnified out of the assets of the Company against small size of the Board, the Board does not consider it any liability incurred by him or her as a Director or appropriate to set diversity targets.
other officer of the Company to the extent permitted by law.
The Company entered into deeds of indemnity Conflicts of interest in favour of each of its Directors on 26 August 2016 The Companies Act 2006 requires that a director of a and in favour of Karyn Lamont on her appointment.
company must avoid a situation in which he or she has, The deeds cover any liabilities that may be incurred or might have, an interest that conflicts, or may conflict, by a Director in respect of any act or omission alleged with the interests of the company.
Each Director or otherwise in the exercise of his or her powers or in submits a list of potential conflicts prior to each respect of his or her duties in relation to the Company meeting.
The other Board members consider these including any liabilities arising from negligence, and recommend whether or not each potential conflict default or breach of trust or duty.
The Directors are not should be authorised.
| 30 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 Corporate Governance Report continued Going concern The accounts of the Company have been prepared on a going concern basis.
It is the opinion of the Directors that, as most of the Companys assets are readily realisable and exceed its liabilities, it is expected that the Company will continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The viability statement, under which the Directors assess the prospects of the Company over a longer period, is contained on page 16.
Internal controls and risk management The Directors acknowledge that they are responsible for the Companys systems of internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness on an annual basis.
A process has been implemented for identifying, evaluating and managing risks faced by the Company.
This process has been in place throughout the year ended 31 October 2017 and up to the date that the Financial Statements were approved.
The risk management process and systems of internal control are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Companys objective.
It should be recognised that such systems can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
The Board considers the following as the principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Company: Principal risks Mitigation Strategic Risks in relation to the ongoing attractiveness and The Board considers strategy and the business model sustainability of the Companys investment objective on a periodic basis, including the discount levels and placing pressure on the share price discount to net the marketing plans for the business.
Investment portfolio and performance The holding of securities and investing activities Company performance is monitored at each Board involve certain inherent risks, principally in relation to meeting, including investment performance.
The Manager seeks to maintain a diversified portfolio.
A contrarian investment approach is a distinctive style The contrarian investment approach is explained in our that may deviate from comparator indices and peer marketing content and through meetings with media group performance over discrete periods.
Financial The Companys normal business activities are exposed The Company holds a portfolio which is well diversified to market risk including market price risk, foreign across industrial and geographical areas.
Most assets currency risk and interest rate risk, liquidity risk, credit are held in listed securities and are therefore readily risk and counterparty risk.
All debenture stocks and secured bonds are at fixed rates.
Only approved counterparties are used and within agreed limits.
Operational Failure of the Companys or third party service The Company monitors the performance of its service providers systems could result in a misappropriation providers, whether internal S. I. T Savings Limited is the of assets or an inability to report to shareholders.
There Companys AIFM or external custody and depositary, could be a possible impact on reputation if any such company secretarial, administration and accounting events were to occur.
The Company is also exposed services through regular meetings and review of to the operational risk that one or more of its service available internal control reports.
providers may not provide the required level of service.
The threat of cyber attack has become more prevalent across all sectors.
| The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 31 Corporate Governance Report continued Principal risks Mitigation Tax, legal and regulatory The Company employs internal and external resource The Company is required to comply with a range of to ensure compliance with relevant legislation and legislation and regulation and may be impacted by regulation and the Board receives periodic reports on changes in the external environment.
any issues and potential changes.
These and other risks facing the Company are reviewed regularly by the Audit Committee and the Board.
Risk maps are considered every six months.
Further information on risks is detailed in note 17 to the accounts on page 60.
Relations with shareholders Under the gross method, exposure represents the The Company recognises the value of good sum of the Companys positions after deduction of communication with its shareholders.
The management cash balances, without taking account of any hedging meets regularly with private client stockbrokers, wealth or netting arrangements.
Under the commitment managers and the Companys major institutional method, exposure is calculated without the deduction shareholders.
The Board receives regular briefings of cash balances and after certain hedging and netting from the Companys broker.
Newsletters are sent to positions are offset against each other.
shareholders during the year and are posted on the The leverage limits are set by the AIFM and approved Companys website.
The AIFM is also required to comply with The Annual General Meeting of the Company is the the gearing parameters set by the Board in relation to main forum at which shareholders can ask questions borrowings.
of the Board and management.
All shareholders The Companys maximum limits and actual leverage are encouraged to attend the AGM and to vote on levels are shown below: the resolutions which are contained in the Notice of Meeting on page 72 and which is posted to Gross Commitment shareholders at least 21 days prior to the meeting.
Leverage exposure method method Shareholders who cannot attend the AGM are Maximum limit AIFM 200% 200% encouraged to vote by proxy on the resolutions.
Proxy Maximum limit Board 20% 20% voting figures are given after each resolution has been voted on and are published after the end of the Actual at 31 October 2017 5% 11% meeting.
Annual General Meeting Any shareholder who wishes to ask a question at The Companys 130th AGM will be held at The Royal another time should write to the Chairman at 6 Albyn College of Physicians of Edinburgh, 9 Queen Street, Place, Edinburgh EH2 4NL.
Edinburgh, EH2 1JQ on Friday 2 February 2018 at 10.30am.
Voting policy Management reviews resolutions put to general The Board considers that the resolutions to be meetings of the companies in which the Company proposed at the AGM are all in the best interests of invests and, wherever practicable, will cast its vote, the Company and of the shareholders as a whole and usually by proxy.
recommends that shareholders vote in favour of them.
Resolution 12, Alternative Investment Fund Managers AIFM set out in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting on Directive Leverage page 72, seeks to renew the authority to repurchase For the purposes of the AIFM Directive, leverage shares until 2 May 2019.
The principal reasons for such is any method which increases the Companys repurchases are to enhance the NAV of the shares by exposure, including the borrowing of cash and the repurchasing shares for cancellation at prices which, use of derivatives.
It is expressed as a percentage of after allowing for costs, improve the NAV for remaining the Companys exposure to its net asset value and is shareholders and to allow implementation of the calculated on a gross and commitment method.
| 32 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 Corporate Governance Report continued Companys discount control policy.
The maximum number of shares which may be purchased pursuant to this authority shall be 11,785,598 or, if less, 14.99% of the aggregate issued capital of the Company on the date of passing of the resolution.
Under the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, the maximum price that may be paid on the exercise of the authority must not exceed the higher of i 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for the shares as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange over the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase and ii the higher price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid.
The minimum price which may be paid is 25p per share.
Resolution 12 will be proposed as a special resolution that requires to be passed by a three-quarters majority of votes cast at the AGM.
Carbon emissions The Companys carbon emissions result predominantly from its consumption of electricity at its single office.
Using Defra DECCs GHG conversion factors for company reporting 2015, emissions for the year to October 2017 were 28.1 tonnes of CO e 2016: 56.3 2 tonnes CO e. This equates to 0.07 tonnes of CO e 2 2 2016: 0.13 tonnes of CO e per square metre.
2 The Directors Report on pages 26 to 37, which includes the Responsibility Statement, the Corporate Governance Statement, the Report of the Audit Committee and the Directors Remuneration Report, and the Going concern statement on page 30, have been approved by the Board.
The Strategic Report on pages 14 to 17 includes information relating to: Dividends, Share capital and Discount control policy including share buybacks.
Maitland Administration Services Scotland Limited Company Secretary 8 December 2017 | The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 33 Overset Text Page...
