The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 Report of the Audit Committee In accordance with the September 2014 Competition and Markets consideration of the quality and effectiveness of the accounting Authority Order, the Audit Committee presents its Report.
records and management information maintained on behalf of the Company, relying on meetings with and reports from the Manager: Composition consideration of the appropriate level of dividend to be paid by The Audit Committee comprises all of the Directors except the theCompany for recommendation to the Board: Chairman of the Board, and is chaired by Matthew Thorne who is a chartered accountant.
The other Audit Committee members have a consideration of the internal controls in place at the Manager and combination of financial, investment and other experience gained BNP as administrator and the Managers policies in relation to throughout their careers and the Board is satisfied that at least one of cyber risk and business continuity, meeting with representatives of the Committees members has recent and relevant financial the Managers internal audit and risk departments periodically: experience.
All members of the Audit Committee are independent and have competence relevant to the sector in which the Company consideration of the key risks, risk management systems in place operates.
The biographies of the Audit Committee members are and the Companys risk map: shown on page 23.
Isobel Sharp will become the Audit Committee Chair following Matthew Thornes retirement from the Board at the consideration of the Companys anti-bribery policy and review of conclusion of the 2018 AGM.
the Companys gifts and hospitality register the Audit Committee was satisfied that the Company was in compliance : Meetings consideration of the nature and scope of the external audit and the The Audit Committee met three times during the year under review.
findings therefrom: TheCompanys Auditor is invited to attend meetings as necessary.
Representatives of Janus Henderson and BNP Paribas Securities annual consideration of whether there is a need for an internal Services BNP may also be invited.
audit function, in order to make a recommendation to the Board as described on page 37 : Role and Responsibilities consideration of the appointment of the external Auditor, their The role of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board in applying the effectiveness and their performance and remuneration: financial reporting and internal control principles and to maintain an appropriate relationship with the Auditor.
The responsibilities are set consideration of the external Auditors independence and objectivity out in formal terms of reference which are regularly reviewed.
In the and the provision of any non-audit services as explained further on year under review the main duties undertaken were: page 41 and the reporting of the external Auditor: consideration of the appropriateness of the Companys the Audit Committee Chairman met with the Auditor to discuss the accountingpolicies: audit plan and audit results: a review of the half year results and the Annual Report, including the consideration of the whistle blowing policy that the Manager has disclosures made therein in relation to internal controls and risk put in place for its staff to raise concerns about possible management, viability statement, going concern and related parties improprieties, including in relation to the Company, in confidence.
and consideration of whether the Annual Report is fair, balanced The policy includes the necessary arrangements for independent and understandable and provides the information necessary for investigation and follow up action: shareholders to assess theCompanys position and performance, business model and strategy in order to make recommendations to consideration of the changes in the management fee and the the Board.
In assessing whether the Annual Report is fair, balanced calculation of the management fee: and and understandable, each Director reviewed the disclosures made, applying their respective knowledge and expertise.
The internal consideration of the allocation of fees and finance costs between controls over financial reporting were also considered together with capital and revenue.
From 1November 2014 all expenses and feedback from the Companys Auditor, Fund Manager andthe interest payable including accounting, secretarial and Corporate Secretary: administration fees have been allocated to capital in accordance withnote1e on page 53. consideration of the Terms of Reference of the Audit Committee: 40 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 Report of the Audit Committee continued Annual Report for the Year Ended 31 October 2017 In relation to the Annual Report for the year ended 31 October 2017 the following significant issues were considered by the Committee: Significant issue How the issue was addressed Valuation and The Directors have appointed Janus Henderson to perform the valuation of the assets of the Company in accordance with its ownership of responsibilities under the AIFMD rules.
As required under the AIFMD rules, Janus Henderson has adopted a written the Companys valuation policy, which may be modified from time to time.
Actively traded investments are valued using stock exchange investments prices provided by third party pricing vendors.
The portfolio valuation is regularly reviewed by the Committee.
Ownership of listed investments is verified by reconciliation to the Custodians records.
Investments that are unlisted or not actively traded are valued using a variety of techniques to determine their fair value: all such valuations are reviewed and approved by the Directors.
Recognition of Income received has been accounted for in line with the Companys accounting policies as set out on pages 52 income and53 and was reviewed by the Committee at each meeting to confirm it is in compliance with IFRSs.
The Board reviews at least four times per annum Janus Hendersons revenue forecasts in support of the Companys future dividends.
For special dividends where Janus Henderson is required to allocate between revenue and capital, the Committee reviews the rationale provided and approves the treatment.
Maintaining The Committee has received regular reports on internal controls from Janus Henderson and BNP and their internal controls respectivedelegates and has had access to the relevant personnel of Janus Henderson who have a responsibility forrisk management and internal audit.
The Committee noted the service auditors qualifications in respect of the Janus Henderson assurance report which covered controls during the reporting period.
The Committee sought additional clarification in respect of the report and is satisfied that none of the exceptions impacted the Company for the year ended 31 October 2017 and that appropriate actions have been taken to address the issues identified.
The Committee has considered regularly the controls in place to ensure that the regulations for ensuring investment trust status are observed at all times, receiving supporting documentation from Janus Henderson and BNP.
Audit Tendering Policy on Non-Audit Services As a Public Interest Entity listed on the London Stock Exchange, the The provision of non-audit services by the Companys Auditor is Company is subject to the mandatory auditor rotation requirements considered and approved by the Committee on a case by case of the European Union.
It will put the external audit out to tender at basis.
The policy set by the Committee, which is kept under review, least every ten years, and change auditor at least every twenty years.
ensures that consideration is given to the following factors when considering the provision of non-audit services by the Auditor: The tender process concluded in September 2016 resulting in Ernst& Young LLP EY being appointed as the Auditor.
The next the level of non-audit fees paid to the audit firm in relation to the tender will be required no later than 2026. statutory audit fee: External Audit, Review and Auditor Reappointment whether the audit firm is the most suitable supplier of non-audit The Committee discusses the audit process with the Auditor without services: representatives of the Manager present and considers the effectiveness of the audit process after each audit.
This is the second the impact on the Auditors independence and objectivity and year EY have audited the Companys Annual Report.
what safeguards can be put in place to eliminate or reduce any threat in this regard: and During the audit, the Committee Chairman liaised with thepartner to receive progress updates and reviewed EYs audit results prior to the the cost-effectiveness of the services.
Committee meeting to consider the financial statements.
EY attended this meeting to present their report and observe the The Board has determined that the Auditor will not be considered for Committees review of the financial statements and internal controls the provision of services related to accounting and preparation of the reporting by the Manager.
financial statements, internal audit and custody.
Non-audit services provided by the Auditor during the year related to the provision of a Based on the Committees review of EYs reporting, interactions with debenture covenant compliance certificate.
the audit team throughout the process and our discussions with representatives of the Manager, the Committee is satisfied with the effectiveness of the audit provided by EY and that they are independent of the Company.
The Auditor is required to rotate Matthew Thorne partners every five years and it is proposed that the current audit Audit Committee Chairman partner will serve until the AGM in 2021.
