The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 Corporate Governance Statement Responsibilities of the Board and its Committees Applicable Corporate Governance Codes During the year six scheduled Board meetings were held to deal with The Board is accountable to shareholders for the governance of the the important aspects of the Companys affairs.
The Board has a Companys affairs.
As an investment trust, the Companys day-toformal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its decision, day responsibilities are delegated to third parties: the Company has which are categorised under various headings including strategy, no employees and the Directors are all non-executive.
Therefore not management, structure, capital, financial reporting, internal controls, alltheprovisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the UK gearing, asset allocation, share price premium discount, contracts, Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in investment policy, finance, risk, investment restrictions, performance, April2016 are directly applicable to the Company.
The Board has corporate governance and Board membership and appointments.
therefore considered the principles and recommendations of theCode of Corporate Governance published by the Association The Board is responsible for the approval of the annual and half year ofInvestment Companies in July 2016 the AIC Code by reference results and other public documents and for ensuring that such to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies documents provide a fair, balanced and understandable assessment the AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, of the Companys position and prospects.
The Directors confirm that addresses all theapplicable principles set out in the UK Code as they are satisfied that the Annual Report for the year ended well as setting outadditional principles and recommendations on 31October 2017, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and issues that are of specific relevance to investment companies.
understandable and provides the information necessary for TheFRC has confirmed that, by following the AIC Guide, boards of shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, investment companies should fully meet their obligations inrelation business model and strategy.
to the UKCode and paragraph 9.8.
At each meeting the Board reviews the Companys investment Copies of the AIC Code, the AIC Guide and the UK Code can be performance and considers financial analyses and other reports found on the respective organisations websites: www.
The Board monitors compliance with the and www.
Companys investment objectives and policy and is responsible for setting asset allocation, investment and gearing limits within which New Zealand Listing the Manager has discretion to act.
The Board has responsibility for the approval of any investments in in-house funds managed or It should be noted that the UK Codes of Corporate Governance may advised by the Manager.
Italso has adopted a procedure for differ materially from the New Zealand Stock Exchanges corporate Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent governance rules and principles of the Corporate Best Practice Code.
professional adviceat the expense of the Company.
In order to enable them to discharge their responsibilities, all Directors have Statement of Compliance fulland timely access to relevant information.
The Directors believe that during the year under review they have complied with the provisions of the AIC Code, insofar as they apply Internal Controls to the Companys business, and with the provisions of the UK Code, The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys system of except as noted below: internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
the role of chief executive: The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, executive directors remuneration: and evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by the Company.
the need for an internal audit function.
The process accords with the FRCs guidance on Risk Management, As the Company delegates to an external investment manager Internal Control and Related Business and Financial Reporting which has its own internal audit function its day-to-day operations published in September 2014.
The system was in operation and has no employees, the Board does not consider these provisions throughout the year and up to the date of this report.
The system is to be relevant to the Company and has not reported further in designed to meet the specific risks faced by the Company and takes respect of these provisions.
account of the nature of the Companys reliance on its service providers and their internal controls.
The system therefore manages rather than eliminates the risk of failure to achieve the Companys The Board business objectives and provides reasonable, but not absolute Board composition assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Articles of Association provide that the total number of Directors shall not be less than three nor more than eight: the Board currently The key components of the internal control framework include: consists of six non-executive Directors.
The biographies of the Directors holding office at the date of this Annual Report, which are set out Clearly defined investment criteria, specifying levels of authority onpage 23, demonstrate the breadth of investment, commercial and and exposure limits.
The Board reviews reports on investment professional experience relevant to their positions as Directors.
performance against and compliance with the criteria at each meeting: 36 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 Corporate Governance Statement continued Regular financial reporting which allows the Board to assess the TheArticles of Association require all Directors to retire at each Companys financial position.
The management accounts and AGM, in accordance with the corporate governance policy adopted.
forecasts are reviewed by the Board at each meeting: Matthew Thorne and David Wild will not be offering themselves for re-appointment and will retire from the conclusion of the AGM.
Contractual agreements with the Manager and all other third Allthe remaining Directors will be retiring and, being eligible, will party service providers.
The Board reviews performance levels offer themselves for re-appointment at the AGM.
and adherence to relevant provisions in the agreements on a regular basis through reporting to the Board and conducts a The contribution and performance of each Director excluding Isobel formal evaluation of the overall level of service provided at Sharp was reviewed by the Nominations Committee at its meeting least annually: in September 2017, which recommended to the Board the continuing The review of controls at the Manager and other third party appointment of each of the Directors.
The Board receives quarterly reporting from the Manager and Depositary, and reviews annual assurance reports Under the Articles of Association, shareholders may remove a on the effectiveness of the control environments at the Companys Directorbefore the end of his or her term by passing an ordinary key service providers.
Review of additional reporting provided by: Independence the Managers Operational Risk team on the control All Directors have a wide range of other interests and are not environment in operation at the Manager and their view of the control environments in place at the third party service providers dependent on the Company itself.
At the Nominations Committee used by the Company: and meeting in September 2017, the Directors reviewed their independence and confirmed that all Directors remain wholly the Managers Internal Audit team on areas of operation which independent of the Manager.
Susan Inglis is the Companys Senior are relevant to the Company.
There were no contracts in existence during or The Board noted the service auditors qualification in respect of the at the end of the year and up to the date of this Annual Report which assurance reports of one of the Companys third party service aDirector of the Company is or was materially interested and which providers which covered controls during the reporting period.
The isor was significant in relation to the Companys business.
Board is aware that the Audit Committee has sought additional clarification in respect of the exceptions which resulted in the Induction and ongoing training qualification and is satisfied that the matter has been considered in When a new Director is appointed he or she receives an induction sufficient detail.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the seminar which is held by the Manager at the request of the Chairman.
Companys system of internal controls for the year ended 31 October Directors are also provided on aregular basis with key information 2017.
During the course of its review the Board has not identified or onthe Companys policies, regulatory and statutory requirements and been advised of any failings or weaknesses that have been internal controls.
Changes affecting Directors responsibilities are determined as significant.
advised to the Board as they arise.
Directors also regularly participate in relevant training and industry seminars.
Directors individual training Internal audit function requirements are considered as part ofthe annual evaluation process Systems are in operation to safeguard the Companys assets and which is led bythe Chairman of theBoard.
shareholders investments, to maintain proper accounting records and to ensure that financial information used within the business, or Directors conflicts of interest published, is reliable.
The Companys management functions are The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to consider delegated to third parties and the Board monitors the controls in and, if it sees fit, to authorise situations where a Director has an place with support from the Managers internal audit department.
interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the interests of the Assuch the Board has determined that there is currently no need Company situational conflicts.
The Board has a formal system in forthe Company to have its own internal audit function.
place for Directors to declare situational conflicts to be considered for authorisation by those Directors who have no interest in the Directors matter being considered.
In deciding whether to authorise a situational conflict, the non-conflicted Directors must act honestly Terms of appointment and retirement and in good faith with a view to the best interests of the Company The Board may appoint Directors to the Board and any Director so and they may impose limits or conditions when giving the appointed must stand for appointment by the shareholders at the authorisation, or subsequently, if they think this is appropriate.
Annual General Meeting AGM following appointment, in Anysituational conflicts considered, and any authorisations given, accordance with the Articles of Association.
Miss Isobel Sharp, who are recorded in the relevant meetings minutes.
The prescribed was appointed to the Board on 1 November 2017, will stand for procedures have been followed in deciding whether, and on what appointment by shareholders at the 2018 Annual General Meeting.
terms, to authorise situational conflicts and the Board believes that The appointment of Miss Sharp was made following a recruitment process using the independent external recruitment consultant the system it has in place for reporting and considering situational Stephenson & Co. conflicts continues to operate effectively.
37 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 Corporate Governance Statement continued additional non-executive Directors is required.
Giventhe size of the Directors insurance and indemnification Directors and officers liability insurance cover is in place in respect Board it is not considered appropriate to have set targets in relation to ofthe Directors.
Under the Companys Articles of Association and, gender diversity.
Once a decision is made to recruit additional subject to the provisions of UK legislation, a qualifying third party Directors to the Board, a formal job description is drawn up and each provision indemnity may be provided to Directors in respect of costs Director is invited to submit nominations and these are considered in which they may incur relating to the defence of any proceedings accordance with the Boards agreed procedures.
TheCommittee also brought against them arising out of their positions as Directors in uses independent external agencies as and when the requirement to which they are acquitted or judgment is given in their favour by the recruit an additional Board member becomes necessary.
Noindemnity was given during the year or up to the date of this report.
The Committee also reviews and recommends to the Board each Director seeking re-appointment.
Recommendation is not automatic Performance evaluation and will follow a process of evaluation of each Directors The Directors recognise the importance of the AIC Codes performance and consideration of the Directors independence.
The recommendation in respect of evaluating the performance of the Committee also takes into account the mix of skills and experience Board as a whole, the Committees and individual Directors.
During of the current Board members.
In accordance with the AIC Code any theyear the Directors undertook a review of the Board structure Director serving forlonger than six years would be subject to including an evaluation of the performance of the Board, the particularly rigorous assessment of his her contribution.
Committees and of individual Directors including the Chairman.
Management Engagement Committee The Company is obliged to engage an external facilitator for Board The Management Engagement Committee membership comprises evaluation every three years.
An external review was first carried out all the members of the Board.
The Committee meets at least by Lintstock Limited in 2013 and has been undertaken each year annually to review the investment management agreement and to since.
The evaluation for the year under review was also undertaken review the services provided by the Manager.
by Lintstock Limited who are independent of the Company.
The evaluation concluded that the Board has a good balance of skills and experience relevant to the Companys objectives and operations.
Meeting attendance The table below sets out the number of formal Board and Committee meetings held during the year under review and the number of Committees of the Board meetings attended by each Director.
All Directors attended the The Board has three principal Committees, the Audit AGMin February 2017.
Committee, theNominations Committee and the Management Engagement Committee.
The terms of reference for these Board AC NC MEC Committees are available on the Companys website Number of meetings 63 1 1 www.
com or via the Corporate Richard Killingbeck 6 n a 1 1 Secretary.
Julian Chillingworth 6 3 n a 1 Susan Inglis 6 3 1 1 The Company has also established an Insider Committee to assist Matthew Thorne 6 3 1 1 inmeeting the disclosure requirements of the Market Abuse Regulations.
David Wild 6 2 1 1 AC: Audit Committee NC: Nominations Committee Audit Committee MEC: Management Engagement Committee The Audit Committee is chaired by Matthew Thorne.
TheReport of the Audit Committee can be found on pages 40 and 41.
Isobel Sharp Isobel Sharp joined the Board on 1 November 2017.
The Insider is to succeed Matthew Thorne as Audit Committee Chair following his Committee did not meet.
retirement from the Board at the Annual General Meeting in 2018.
The Directors and Committees of the Board also met during the year as needed to undertake business such as the approval of the Nominations Committee Companys results.
Richard Killingbeck, Susan Inglis, Matthew Thorne and David Wild are the members of the Nominations Committee.
The Chairman of the Board acts as Chairman of the Committee but would not chair Accountability and Relationship with the Committee when the Chairmans successor is being considered.
JanusHenderson The Committee is responsible for reviewing Board succession planning, the composition and performance of the Board as a whole The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the and the Board Committees, andthe appointment of new Directors.
Financial Statements is set out on page 33, and the Viability Statement on page 26.
When considering succession planning, the Committee bears in mind the balance of skills, knowledge, experience, gender and diversity The Board receives and considers regular reports from the Manager existing on the Board and will recommend when the recruitment of and ad hoc reports and information are supplied to the Board as 38 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 Corporate Governance Statement continued required.
In addition, the Chairman is able to attend meetings of all Share Capital the chairmen of the investment trusts and companies managed by Please see the Report of the Directors on page 31.
Janus Henderson which provide a forum to discuss industry matters which are then reported to the Board.
Relations with Shareholders The Manager takes decisions as to the purchase and sale of Shareholder relations are given high priority by the Board.
The Manager also ensures that all Directors medium by which the Company communicates with its shareholders receive, in atimely manner, all relevant management, regulatory and is through the half year results and Annual Report which aim to financial information.
Representatives of the Manager attend each provide shareholders with a clear understanding of the Companys Board meeting enabling the Directors to probe further on matters of activities and their results.
This information is supplemented by the concern.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of daily calculation and publication of the NAV pershare at the London theCorporate Secretary through its appointed representative who and New Zealand Stock Exchanges.
Janus Henderson also provides isresponsible to the Board for ensuring that Board and Committee amonthly fact sheet which is available on the website and procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations information on the Company and Fund Manager videos on the arecomplied with.
The proceedings at all Board and Committee website, via various social media channels and through its HGi meetings are fully recorded through a process that allows any content platform, more details of which are included on page 24.
Directors concerns to be recorded in the minutes.
The Board and Janus Henderson operate in a supportive, co-operative and open The Board considers that shareholders should be encouraged to environment.
attend and participate in the AGM.
Shareholders have the opportunity to address questions to the Chairman of the Board, the The Corporate Secretary, Henderson Secretarial Services Limited, Chairman of the Audit Committee and all other Directors at the isa subsidiary of Janus Henderson with its own reporting lines meeting and the Fund Manager will make a presentation to andaudited internal controls.
There are processes and controls in shareholders.
A summary of the proxy votes received on the place to ensure that there is a clear distinction between the two resolutions proposed is displayed at the meeting and each entities particularly when dealing with any conflicts or issues substantial issue is dealt with in a separate resolution.
It is the between the Company and Janus Henderson.
Any correspondence intention of the Board that the Annual Report and Notice of AGM be from shareholders addressed to the Chairman or the Company issued to shareholders so as to provide at least 20working days received at Janus Hendersons offices is forwarded to the Chairman notice of the meeting.
These documents are also included on the of the Company in line with the audited procedure in place.
Shareholders wishing to lodge questions in advance of the correspondence is also submitted to the next Board meeting meeting, or raise issues or concerns at any time, are invited to do so fordiscussion.
by writing to the Chairman at the registered office address given on page 24.
Janus Henderson and BNP Paribas Securities Services, which provides Janus Henderson with accounting and administration General presentations to both shareholders and analysts follow services, have arrangements in place by which their staff may, in thepublication of the annual results.
Meetings between confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in relation JanusHenderson, including our Fund Manager, and shareholders tofinancial reporting or other matters.
By order of the Board Continued Appointment of the Manager The Board considers the arrangements for the provision of investment management and other services to the Company on Henderson Secretarial Services Limited anongoing basis.
The principal contents of the agreement with the Corporate Secretary Manager and the fees payable are contained on page 4.
15 January 2018 The Board reviews investment performance at each Board meeting and a formal review of the Manager is conducted annually.
As part of the annual review in September 2017 the Directors discussed the quality and continuity of the personnel assigned to handle the Companys affairs, with particular reference to performance and results achieved to date.
In addition, they reviewed other services provided by the Manager to the Company, such as accounting, company secretarial and administration services and the Managers activities in promoting and marketing the Company.
TheBoard notedthe Managers resources and experience in managing and administering investment trust companies.
As a result of their annualreview it is the opinion of the Directors that the continued appointment of the Manager on the terms agreed is in the interests ofthe Companys shareholders as a whole.
