CORPORATE LEADERSHIP GOVERNANCE Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code The Board The Board supports the principles under The UK Corporate The Board of Directors currently has seven members, Governance Code the Code as issued by the Financial comprising the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Reporting Council.
Throughout the financial year ended Financial Officer, and four independent Non-Executive 1October 2017 and at the date of this report, the Company Directors.
The biographical details of the Board members has complied with the provisions set out in the Code with are set out on pages 46 and 47.
All of the Directors bring the exception of the following provisions: strong judgement to the Boards deliberations.
They have all occupied, or occupy, senior positions in UK and or international A.
4.2 The non-executive directors should meet companies including listed companies and have substantial without the Chairman present at least annually to experience across a range of businesses.
Other than their appraise the Chairmans performance.
fees, which are disclosed on page 78, the Non-Executive B.
6.2 Evaluation of the board should be externally Directors received no remuneration from the company facilitated at least every three years.
They do not participate in any of the Groups pension schemes or in any of the Groups bonus, share option A significant focus for the Board during the financial year has or other incentive schemes.
The Board is satisfied that all centred around succession plans for the Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, remain Board roles.
As a result, it was not considered appropriate independent for the purposes of the Code and further, that for the Non-Executive Directors to appraise the Chairmans each of the Non-Executive Directors commit sufficient time performance nor conduct an externally facilitated Board and attention to the business of the company.
The Board carefully considered the impact of deferring the timing of the externally facilitated The role of the Board evaluation taking into account Gerald Corbetts retirement, The Board is responsible for the long-term success of the the appointment of John Daly as Chairman and Ian McHoul company, corporate governance, strategy, risk management as Senior Independent Director.
The Board agreed that the and financial performance.
The Board normally meets at Chairman and Senior Independent Director should be afforded least eighttimes each financial year and has a formal schedule sufficient time to adjust to their new roles, which would of matters reserved to it for decision making, including maximise the output and value of the evaluation.
Further responsibility for the overall management and performance information on the Board evaluation in 2017 can be found of the Group, and the approval of its long-term objectives and on pages 54 and 55, along with details on the external evaluation planned for 2018.
GOVERNANCE Shareholders FRAMEWORK 2,591 shareholders as at 1 October 2017 Board Nomination Audit Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Primary responsibility for Provides oversight and Agrees remuneration succession planning, governance over the policy and sets board director selection groups external individual compensation and board composition reporting, internal levels for directors and controls, risk senior management management and relationship with external auditors Committee Report Committee Report Committee Report see pages 56-57 see pages 58-61 see pages 62-85 50 www.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information commercial strategy, approval of annual and interim results, Company Secretary annual budgets, material acquisitions and disposals, material It is the responsibility of the Company Secretary to ensure agreements and major capital commitments, approval of that there are good information flows to the Board and its treasury policies, and assessment of its going concern position.
committees and between the Executive team and the Non-Executive Directors.
The Company Secretary advises Matters reserved for the Board the Board on all legal and corporate governance matters The Board provides strong and effective leadership within a and assists the Chairman in ensuring that the Directors framework of prudent and effective controls, and in accordance have suitably tailored and detailed induction and ongoing with the Code provisions there is a formal schedule of matters professional development programmes.
specifically reserved for Board decision which defines the Board from sub-committees and management.
This clear The role of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer definition not only complements and strengthens the The Chairman is primarily responsible for the workings companys decisions, but builds the foundations of a solid of the Board, to ensure that its strategic and supervisory business.
Although there is a standard agenda of items, role is achieved, and for ensuring effective communication these are regularly reviewed to ensure that the Board with shareholders.
provides continual effective leadership and drive towards The Chairman works closely with the Chief Executive Officer the companys strategic aims.
Matters which the Board to ensure that the strategies and actions agreed by the Board considers suitable for delegation are contained in the terms are implemented, and provides support and appropriate advice of reference of its committees which, in line with the Code to the Chief Executive Officer.
The Chief Executive Officer is provisions, can be found on the companys website at responsible for the day-to-day management of the business, www.
aspx developing the Groups strategic direction for consideration and approval by the Board, and implementing the agreed strategy.
Re-election of Directors He is supported by the other members of his Executive team.
The companys articles of association provide that all The different roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Directors will stand for re-election at least every three years are acknowledged.
A responsibility statement for each of those but in order to comply with the Code, all of the Directors roles has been agreed with the Chairman and Chief Executive submit themselves for re-election or election following Officer, respectively, and adopted by the Board.
first appointment at each AGM.
Senior Independent Director Board committees The Senior Independent Director is Ian McHoul, who The Board is assisted by three Board committees as shown is available to shareholders if they have concerns which on page 50 to which it delegates specific responsibilities.
Each are not resolved through the normal channels of Chairman, committee has full terms of reference that have Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer, or for been approved by the Board and which can be found on which such contact is inappropriate.
His biography can our website at www.
com investor-centre corporatebe found on page 46. governance.
aspx Executive Team Chief Executive Offi cer Chief Chief Chief Chief General MD MD MD MD CEO Financial Marketing Supply Human Counsel & GB Ireland France International Brazil Officer Officer Chain Resources Company Officer Officer Secretary Britvic plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 51 LEADERSHIP CONTINUED Board activity throughout the year Leadership and people Reviewed the development of people and potential talent, including succession planning for senior leaders Approved the appointments of John Daly as Chairman, Ian McHoul as Senior Independent Director and Sue Clark as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and reviewed the composition of the Board and its committees Visits to Rugby, Beckton and Crolles manufacturing sites Financial performance Received regular performance reports from the CFO Approved the annual budget Approved the half year and full year results, including dividend recommendations and announcements Approved interim management statements Approved the Annual Report, including going concern review and viability statement Approved long-term nancing plans Internal controls and risk management Received regular updates on risk and reviewed key risks and mitigation plans including cyber security Approved insurance renewal Received regular updates on quality, health and safety and environment Strategy Received regular M&A updates and approved acquisitions for Brazil and Irish businesses Review of the companys strategy over a two day offsite meeting Reviewed and approved investments relating to the GB supply chain transformation programme Received updates on Brexit implications, planning for the Soft Drinks Industry Levy, and innovation launches and performance Deep dives of France, Brazil and US businesses Review of brands, adult socialising strategy and consumer trends Governance and stakeholders Received regular meeting reports from each of the Committee Chairs Reviewed annual fees for the Non-Executive Directors Reviewed developments in corporate governance, legal and regulatory updates Approved modern slavery transparency and tax strategy statements for publication Received investor relations reports and shareholder feedback Board meetings and attendance The Board met eight times during the year in accordance with its scheduled meeting calendar, excluding ad-hoc conference calls and committee meetings to approve the financial results.
Additional meetings were convened to deal with matters requiring the Boards attention and major projects, as required.
Each year, there is a dedicated two day meeting at which the Board and Executive team review the Companys strategy.
Prior to each Board and committee meeting, comprehensive papers are circulated in advance to enable sufficient time to consider and review the information.
At each meeting, the Board receives regular reports, including a detailed report on current trading performance, any matters requiring approval or decision and in-depth presentations from senior executives.
The business reports monthly on its performance against its agreed budget.
The attendance by each Board member is shown below: Number of Number of Number of Audit Remuneration Nomination Number of Committee Committee Committee AGM Membership and attendance Board meetings meetings meetings Meetings attendance 1,2 Gerald Corbett 7 7 4 4 2 4 Y Simon Litherland 8 8 Y Mathew Dunn 8 8 Y 1,3 Joanne Averiss 4 7 Y Sue Clark 7 8 4 5 Y 3, 4 John Daly 8 8 2 2 5 5 2 4 Y Ben Gordon 8 8 3 3 5 5 4 4 Y Ian McHoul 7 8 3 3 5 5 4 4 Y 3 Euan Sutherland 7 8 3 3 Y Notes: 1 Meetings attended by Gerald Corbett and Joanne Averiss until the date of their resignation, 1 September 2017 2 Both Gerald Corbett and John Daly were not able to participate in certain meetings of the Nomination Committee due to the nature of succession planning discussions.
3 Sue Clark, Ian McHoul and Euan Sutherland were unable to attend meetings due to pre-existing business commitments.
Joanne Averiss was unable to attend three meetings during the year due to PepsiCo meetings and scheduled annual leave.
4 John Daly was appointed Chairman on 1 September 2017.
Prior to his appointment, John was a member of the Audit Committee.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Tenure of Non-Executive Directors The Code provides that the length of tenure is a factor to consider when determining the independence of Non-Executive Directors.
The table below shows the tenure and independence of each of our Non-Executive Directors since the date of their first election by shareholders.
Date first elected by Years from first election Considered to be shareholders to 2018 AGM independent by the Board Sue Clark January 2017 Yes 1 1 John Daly January 2016 2 Yes Ben Gordon January 2009 9 Yes Ian McHoul January 2015 3 Yes Euan Sutherland January 2017 Yes Notes: 1 The company considers that, on appointment, the Chairman was independent for the purposes of provision A.
Service contracts and letters of appointment Details of the Executive Directors service contracts and the Chairmans and the Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 84.
These documents are available for inspection at the registered office of the company during normal business hours and at the AGM.
Indemnification of Directors In addition to the indemnity granted by the company to Directors in respect of their liabilities incurred as a result of their office in accordance with our articles of association, we maintain a Directors and Officers liability insurance policy throughout the year.
Neither our indemnity nor the insurance provides cover in the event that a Director has proven to have acted dishonestly or fraudulently.
Conflicts of interest The companys articles of association allow the Board to authorise potential conflicts of interest that may arise and to impose limits or conditions, as appropriate.
Any decision of the Board to authorise a conflict of interest, whether matter-specific or situational, is only effective if it is agreed without the participation of the conflicted Director s, and in making such a decision, as always, the Directors must act in a way they consider in good faith will be most likely to promote the success of the company.
The company has an established procedure whereby actual or potential conflicts of interest are reviewed annually and for the appropriate authorisation to be sought prior to the appointment of any new Director or if a new conflict arises.
During the year, the Board considered external appointments for Simon Litherland as Non-Executive Director of Persimmon plc and Sue Clark as Non-Executive Director of Tulchan Communications Group, Bakkavor Group plc and as a Supervisory Board member of AkzoNobel N. V. The Board considered John Dalys external appointments as Non-Executive Director of G4S plc and Ferguson plc in the context of his appointment as Chairman and concluded that each of the Directors would be able to devote sufficient time to their roles at Britvic and these interests would not impede or affect their respective ability to fully discharge their responsibilities.
Shareholder engagement Investor relations The Board is committed to maintaining good communications with shareholders.
Senior executives, including the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, have regular dialogue with individual institutional shareholders in order to develop an understanding of their views, which is then discussed with the Board.
All Directors are offered the opportunity to meet with major shareholders to listen to their views and, in addition to a monthly report prepared by the Chief Financial Officer, receive regular reports prepared by an independent capital markets advisory firm which provide comprehensive information relating to the companys major shareholders.
Presentations are made to analysts, investors and prospective investors covering the annual and interim results and the company seeks to maintain a dialogue with the various bodies which monitor the companys governance policies and procedures.
The Strategic Report set out on pages 1 to 43 details the financial performance of the company as well as setting out the risks it faces.
Private investors We are keen to hear the views of our private shareholders and we encourage them to use our shareholder mailbox investors@britvic.
com for detailed enquiries and to access our website for our company reports and business information.
Specific enquiries to the Company Secretary may be sent to the Secretariat mailbox company.
com or sent to the registered office.
At the AGM, the Chief Executive Officer gives a regular update on the positioning and outlook for the business.
Shareholders are invited to ask questions formally during the meeting and to follow up these discussions with Directors on a one-to-one basis afterwards.
The Chairs of the Board committees and the Senior Independent Director are present and available to respond to questions at the AGM.
We look forward to welcoming all our shareholders to our AGM in January 2018 and to updating them on our business developments.
Britvic plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 53
