ACCOUNTABILITY AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Ian McHoul Audit Committee Chairman Risk management and internal control On behalf of the Audit Committee the Committee, I am The Board has overall responsibility for monitoring the Groups pleased to present its report for the financial year ended system of internal control and risk management and for 1October 2017.
The purpose of this report is to describe how the carrying out a review of its effectiveness.
In discharging that Committee has carried out its responsibilities during the year.
responsibility, the Board confirms that it has established the procedures necessary to apply the Code, including clear Role of the Committee operating procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated The Committees role is to ensure appropriate oversight authority.
These procedures have been in place since the and review of the presentation and integrity of the Groups company listed and are regularly reviewed by the Board.
financial reporting, internal control and risk management, Business performance is managed closely and the Board internal audit programmes, changes in regulatory requirements, and the Executive team have established processes, as part and the independence and appointment of external auditors.
of the normal good management of the business, to monitor: The terms of reference for the Committee can be found on our website at http: britvic.
com investors corporate-governance strategic plan achievement, through a regular review corporate-governance.
of progress towards strategic objectives: To enable the Committee to discharge its responsibilities, maintenance of insurance cover to insure all risk areas discussions on a broad range of topics and reports were held of the Group: with management, internal audit and the external auditors financial performance, within a comprehensive financial throughout the year.
This provided us with insight into the planning and accounting framework, including budgeting progress towards the companys strategic goals, and the and forecasting, financial reporting, analysing variances challenges and risks and how they are being managed.
The against plan and taking appropriate management action: activities of the Committee can be found in the table opposite.
capital investment and asset management performance, The Committee has an open dialogue throughout the year with detailed appraisal, authorisation and post investment with the Director of Audit and Risk and the external auditors reviews: and to raise challenges and questions to support understanding the principal risks facing the business, ensuring that the whilst sharing experience and an independent perspective.
signi cant risks faced by the Group are being identi ed, The most significant matters discussed over the course evaluated and appropriately managed, giving consideration of the year are described in the report below.
to the balance of risk, cost and opportunity.
Responsibilities The Board is supported by the Audit Committee in reviewing Reviewing the financial results announcements and the effectiveness of the Groups risk process and internal financial statements, and any signi cant financial reporting, control systems.
The system of internal control is designed issues and judgements which they may contain.
to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve Advising the Board on whether the Annual Report business objectives and it must be recognised that it can only and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material understandable and provide the information necessary misstatement or loss.
for shareholders to assess the companys performance, Management, with the assistance of the finance function, business model and strategy.
is responsible for the appropriate maintenance of financial Ensuring compliance with applicable accounting standards records and processes.
This ensures that all financial and reviewing the appropriateness of accounting policies information is relevant, reliable, in accordance with the and practices in place.
applicable laws and regulations, and distributed both internally Assessing the adequacy of the internal control environment and externally in a timely manner.
A review of the consolidation and the processes in place to monitor this, including and financial statements is completed by management to reviewing the activities and performance of the internal ensure that the financial position and results of the Group are audit team.
appropriately recorded, circulated to members of the Board Reviewing risk management processes and considering and published where appropriate.
All financial information the adequacy of the actions being taken to identify risks published by the Group is subject to the approval of the Board, and reduce the exposure of the Group to those risks.
on the recommendation of the Audit Committee.
Overseeing the relationship with the external auditors, and make recommendations to the Board in relation to their appointment, remuneration and terms of engagement, independence, objectivity and eff ectiveness.
Ensuring that appropriate safeguards are in place for individuals to raise issues with the Board where a breach of conduct or compliance, including any financial reporting irregularity, is suspected.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Meetings and composition of the Committee Officer, the Director of Financial Controls and Governance, the The Committee comprises independent Non-Executive General Counsel, the Director of Audit and Risk and the external Directors Ben Gordon, Euan Sutherland and Ian McHoul, auditor, Ernst & Young LLP.
who is Chair of the Committee.
During the year and prior to Each meeting allows time for the Committee to speak with his appointment as Chairman, John Daly served as a member key people without the presence of the others, in particular of the Committee.
The Board is satisfied that Ian has recent the external auditors and the Director of Audit and Risk.
and relevant financial experience as required by the Code and, further, that the Committee as a whole has competence Main activities during the year relevant to the sector in which the company operates.
The Committee supports the Board in carrying out its The Committee meets three times a year: in November and responsibilities in relation to financial reporting, risk management May to review the Annual Report and Accounts and interim and assessing internal control.
It also reviews the effectiveness report respectively and to consider the external audit findings, of the companys internal audit function and manages the and in September to review the activities of the previous year, relationship with the external auditors.
The Committee ensures the plan for the year ahead and to consider any emerging that the company has appropriate provision for a confidential and issues.
At each meeting the performance and findings of the impartial whistleblowing process in line with good practice.
internal audit team are reviewed and the most recent key risks Committee meetings usually take place prior to a Board are considered.
The attendance of the Committee for each meeting.
The Chair of the Committee subsequently reports meeting during the year can be found on page 52.
Attendees on the activities of the Committee and matters of particular at each of the meetings are the Committees members as well relevance to the Board.
as, by invitation, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial The Committee undertook the following activities during the course of the year to discharge its responsibilities: November Review of Annual Report and Financial Statements, including changes to accounting policies, key issues and judgements and assessment that the statements are fair, balanced and understandable Review of the CFOs report on accounting issues and judgements Review of external audit findings, including any accounting and audit adjustments Effectiveness of external auditors, including audit process, independence and objectivity Recommendation of the appointment of the external auditors Internal audit update, including review of risk management processes Review of year end risk and internal control Cyber security update May Review of interim financial report, including any changes to accounting policies, including the proposed impact of adopting IFRS 15 Review of the CFOs report on accounting issues and judgements Review of external audit findings, including any accounting and audit adjustments Review of the annual external audit plan, including scope of engagement for the year Internal audit and risk update and review of risk management processes Viability statement update Review of treasury policies Cyber security update September Key accounting judgements for the full year financial statements and any potential issues Internal audit and risk update, including approval of audit plan for the next financial year, significant audit findings and progress against previous outstanding audit actions Review status of risk management processes, including a review of the viability statement work Review progress for adoption of new accounting standard IFRS 15 Fair, balanced and understandable assessment At the request of the Board, the Committee considered whether the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
To enable the Board to have confidence in making this statement, the Committee considered the elements in the table below: Fair Balanced Understandable Is the whole story being presented?
Is there a good level of consistency between Is there a clear and understandable the narrative in the front section and the financial framework to the report?
Has any sensitive material been omitted reporting in the back section of the report?
that should have been included?
Are the important messages highlighted Is the Annual Report considered a document appropriately throughout the document?
Are the key messages in the narrative fit for shareholders?
reflected in the financial reporting?
Is the layout clear with good linkage Are statutory and adjusted measures throughout in a manner which reflects Are the KPIs disclosed at an appropriate explained clearly with appropriate prominence?
level based on the financial reporting?
Are the key judgements referred to in the narrative reporting and the significant issues reported in the Audit Committee Report consistent with the disclosures of key estimation uncertainties and critical judgements set out in the financial statements?
How do the risks compare with the risks that the auditors plan to include within their report?
Britvic plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 59 AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED To form its opinion, the Committee reflected on the information and reporting it received from management and the external auditors and the discussions that took place during the year.
Key considerations for the Committee in 2017 included the following: The financial statements comply with all applicable financial reporting standards and any other required regulations.
Material areas of signi cant judgement have been given due consideration by management and reviewed with the external auditors.
The application of acceptable accounting policies and practices is consistent across the Group.
The disclosures provided are clear, and as required by financial reporting standards.
Reporting and commentary provide a fair and balanced view of company performance.
Any correspondence from regulators received in relation to our financial reporting are considered and disclosures are updated if required.
To ensure that these considerations are met, reviews take place based on information provided by the Chief Financial Officer and his team at each Committee meeting as well as reports from the external auditors based on the outcomes of their half year review and annual audit.
Financial statements and significant issues Significant financial and reporting issues considered by the Committee in relation to the 2017 financial statements, and how these were addressed, are shown below: Revenue recogniti on There has been no change in the Groups approach to revenue recognition in 2017: however, it remains a key area of focus.
The control, accounting and accuracy of long-term discounts, promotional discounts and account development funds are reviewed throughout the year to ensure that they remain consistent and IFRS compliant.
Developments in the market have also been discussed with the Committee, where challenging conditions increase the focus of our customers on rebates and promotional spend.
The impact of this is continually monitored by management and reviewed with the external auditors to ensure that policy and practice remain consistent.
The assessment of the impact of adoption of IFRS 15 has been completed and the company intends to adopt the standard early from the accounting period starting 2 October 2017.
Valuation of goodwill and assets The review of goodwill and intangible assets is based on a calculation of value in use, using cash flow projections based on market measures and financial budgets prepared by senior management and approved by the Board of Directors.
The assessment models were reviewed as part of the audit, for which the external auditors, provided reporting to the Committee.
The Committee has also considered management reports on potential triggers of impairment and the outcome of sensitivity testing for all areas of the Group, including France, Ireland and Brazil and the potential reversal of prior year impairments.
The Committee concluded that it was appropriate to recognise an impairment of the Britvic brands in Ireland of 2.2m, an impairment of the Fruit brand in France of 4.4m and a reversal of impairment in the Ballygowan trademark of 9.2m.
Acquisition accounting Following the acquisition of Bela Ischia and East Coast Suppliers Limited in March 2017, management has calculated the purchase price allocation and resulting goodwill to be accounted for in the Group accounts.
The Committee has reviewed and approved the approach to these calculations, including areas of judgement and potential risks.
In addition, the Committee has discussed the integration approach, progress and associated one-off costs and is satisfied that the plans, execution and outcome are proportionate to the investment and risk associated with the acquisitions.
Adjusting items In response to the changing landscape around the classification of exceptional items, the Committee agreed that exceptional items no longer be reported as part of the financial statements but rather presented as adjusting items outside of the financial statements.
The classification of adjusting items is defined by a group policy, as approved by the Committee, and includes items of significant income and expense which due to their size, nature or frequency merit separate presentation to allow shareholders to understand better the elements of financial performance during the year.
Management have reviewed items to be included with the Committee throughout the year to confirm appropriateness.
Derivative and hedging activities The Group has derivative instruments to which hedge accounting is applied and which swap principal and interest of US Private Placement notes.
The Committee reviewed reporting on comparisons of valuations to external confirmations and assessment of hedge effectiveness in order to be satisfied with the quality of financial statement disclosures.
Taxation Uncertain tax positions within the Group were reviewed to ensure that the balance sheet provisions are appropriate and the Group effective tax rate is calculated appropriately.
Defined benefit pension scheme valuation The Committee reviewed benchmarks and assumptions that are provided by the Groups actuaries and used to value the pension liabilities for the four defined benefit schemes.
The underlying assumptions based on market conditions and the characteristics of the schemes are reviewed by management and the external auditors and conclusions reported to the Committee.
The triennial valuation of the GB scheme was completed in March 2017 and the Committee is satisfied that the resulting financial implications are fairly represented in the financial statements and associated notes.
The Committee subsequently recommended to the Board that, taken as a whole, the Companys 2017 Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and that it provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Internal audit and control Whistleblowing The internal audit function carries out work across the The Groups whistleblowing policy contains arrangements company, acting as a third line of defence.
In September, for an independent external service provider to receive, in the Committee agreed the audit plan to be undertaken by the confidence, complaints on accounting, auditing, risk, internal internal audit team prior to the start of the year.
The audit plan control and related matters for reporting to the Committee coverage is based on risk, strategic priorities and consideration as appropriate.
Updates are provided to the Committee at of the strength of the control environment.
receives a report at each of the Committee meetings and Effectiveness of external audit reviews the results of the internal audit reports, looking in There are a number of areas that the Committee considers detail at any reports where processes and controls require in relation to the effectiveness of the external auditors: their improvement or any reports that are particularly pertinent to performance in discharging the audit and the interim review, delivery of strategic objectives or priorities.
Updates are received their independence and objectivity, and their reappointment on progress made against actions agreed from previous audits and remuneration.
The Chairman of the Committee has regular and on the overall control environment progress related to contact with the external audit partner outside of Committee previous audit areas.
meetings and without the management of the business present.
Additional areas were added to the audit plan as required The external auditors, Ernst & Young LLP EY, provided the where circumstances gave rise to an increased level of risk Committee with their plan for undertaking the year end audit and any changes to the agreed audit plan were agreed by the which highlighted the proposed approach and scope of the audit Committee.
Detailed updates on specific areas are provided for the coming year and identified the key areas of audit risk, at the request of the Committee.
including the audit approach for these areas.
The Committee Risk management reviewed and appropriately challenged the basis for these before The risk management process is reviewed at each meeting agreeing the proposed approach and scope of the external audit.
by the Committee to ensure that it is set up to deliver EY prepared a detailed report of their audit findings at the appropriate risk management across the company.
year end, which they took the Committee through at the A particular focus during this year has been on defining the meeting in November 2017.
The findings were reviewed and companys risk appetite.
This is an expression of the amount discussed in detail by the Committee, particularly in relation to and types of risk that the company is willing to take to achieve the areas highlighted above.
A similar review of the external its strategic and operational objectives.
The Board has agreed auditors report of their findings at the half year review is these statements which are now being used in decision making undertaken by the Committee.
As part of this review the processes across the company to define and validate the Committee questioned and challenged the work undertaken, mitigating activities required to manage our risks.
A summary the findings and the key assumptions made, with particular of the key risks and uncertainties to which the business is attention to the areas of audit risk identified.
The Committee exposed to can be found on pages 29 to 32. also considers the effectiveness of the audit in relation to the robustness of the audit, the quality of the audit delivery and Viability statement the quality of the people and service and has concluded that The Committee reviewed managements work in conducting EY remain effective as external auditors.
a robust assessment of those risks which could threaten the business model and the future viability of the company.
Audit tendering and CMA Order Compliance This assessment included identifying severe but plausible Following a comprehensive tender carried out in 2016, EY have scenarios for each of our principal risks as well as considering remained as the companys external auditors.
The Committee inter-dependencies and scenarios involving multiple risks.
confirms compliance with the Statutory Audit Services for Additionally reverse stress testing was carried out, allowing the Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Committee to assess the circumstances that would render the Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee business unable to pay its liabilities as they fall due.
To support Responsibilities Order 2014. the final conclusion on viability, the assessment also took into Independence and reappointment account the mitigations available to the company to protect The Committee reviews the independence of the auditors against these downside scenarios.
Based on this analysis, the throughout the year.
The external auditors are required to Committee recommended to the Board that it could approve rotate the lead audit partner every five years.
The current lead and make the Viability Statement on page 33. audit partner began his tenure for the financial year ended Internal control 30September 2013 and in keeping with audit partner rotation, The Board is responsible for reviewing the adequacy and a new partner will lead the FY18 audit.
The incoming lead effectiveness of the risk management framework and the audit partner has shadowed key meetings during the current system of internal controls.
The Board has delegated financial year.
Based on the Committees recommendation, responsibility for this review to the Committee.
Management the Board is proposing that EY be reappointed to office at the in each business unit are responsible for establishing and AGM in January 2018. maintaining adequate internal controls.
Functions such as Non-audit fees finance, legal, procurement and quality are responsible for The Group has a policy regarding the provision of non-audit setting out the company policies to be followed by the business services by the external auditors.
The Committee, through the internal audit function provided must be pre-approved by the Committee unless reviews the adequacy and effectiveness of internal control the activity will have a total value of less than 5,000 and procedures and identifies any weaknesses and ensures these falls within the allowed services defined by FRC guidance.
are addressed within agreed timelines.
Control over total non-audit fees is also exercised by The system of internal control has been designed to reviewing spend on all activities proposed or provided by the manage rather than eliminate material risks to the achievement external auditors and we can confirm that we are significantly of our strategic and business objectives and can only provide below a 1:1 ratio in this financial year as disclosed in note 7 reasonable, and not absolute assurance against material to the financial statements on page 110, and well within the misstatement of loss.
The risk management process is FRC guidance of the 70% cap that will be required from 2019. reviewed annually by the Committee to ensure that it is set up to deliver appropriate risk management across the group.
The risk management process is continually improving, in particular in relation to embedding across new and developing Ian McHoul areas of the business.
The Committee believe that the Chair, Audit Committee improvements will continue to strengthen the way that 28 November 2017 the business understands and manages risk.
Britvic plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 61
