BOARD OF DIRECTORS 1 2 3 4 John Daly Simon Litherland Mathew Dunn Ian McHoul Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Offi cer Chief Financial Offi cer Senior Independent Director John Daly was appointed Simon Litherland was Mathew Dunn joined the Ian McHoul was appointed Chairman of the Board on appointed Chief Executive business in September 2015 Senior Independent Director 1September 2017.
John Offi cer in February 2013 and and was appointed Chief on 1 September 2017. joined the Board as a is responsible for overseeing Financial Offi cer CFO Ian joined the Board as Non-Executive Director the delivery of the companys on 25 November 2015. a Non-Executive Director on27January 2015 and business strategy.
He is responsible for Finance, prior to his appointment as Britvic in September 2011, IT, Legal, Estates, Internal Skills, competence Chairman served as Senior initially as Managing Director Audit and Risk Management.
Ian is a Chartered Accountant Skills, competence Skills, competence Skills, competence and has extensive finance, and experience: and experience: and experience: strategy, beverage and retail Prior to joining Britvic, John brings strong Prior to this, he had a career experience gained through Mathew was at SABMiller international and consumer spanning 20 years with leadership roles at Scottish & PLC where he was CFO of expertise to the Board having Diageo.
His last role was Newcastle plc, Inntrepreneur South African Breweries Ltd, held various executive MD of Diageo Great Britain, Pub Group and Fosters based in South Africa since leadership positions over the having previously run Diageos Brewing Group.
Mathew first joined course of 20 years at British businesses in South Africa, acquisition by John Wood SABMiller in 2002 where he American Tobacco plc BAT.
Ireland and Central and Group plc in October 2017, held various financial planning His most recent positions at Eastern Europe.
During his he held the role of Chief and management, as well as BAT were Chief Operating time at Diageo, Simon was Financial Offi cer of Amec leadership positions before Offi cer 2010-2014 and responsible for an extensive Foster Wheeler plc for joining EMI Music Ltd as CFO Regional Director for Asia portfolio of brands, including nine years.
Ian served as of the Global Catalogue Paci c, based in Hong Kong Guinness, Johnnie Walker, Non-Executive Director division in 2009.
John is a former Baileys, Smirnoff and and Chair of the Audit to SABMiller in 2010 as CFO, Director of Reynolds American Captain Morgan.
In his earlier Committee of Premier Asia based in China, a role Inc. a US public company career he held a variety of Foods plc between 2004 which he held until his 2014 owned 42% by BAT.
Prior to International Finance Director and 2013, the last year of move to South Africa.
his time with BAT, John held roles in Diageo, IDV and which he was also the Senior External directorships: various sales and marketing Grand Metropolitan.
Ian None positions with Johnson & holds a BSc in Mathematics Simon quali ed as a Johnson, Bristol-Myers from the University of Bristol.
Chartered Accountant with Squibb, Pennwalt Corporation Deloitte in South Africa and Committee membership: and Schering-Plough.
holds a business degree from A N, R Committee membership: the University of Cape Town.
External directorships: N R External directorships: Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director External directorships: of JohnWood Group plc of Persimmon plc Non-Executive Non-Executive Director and a member of its Director of Ferguson of Bellway plc eff ective Audit, Nomination and plc formerly Wolseley 1February 2018 Remuneration Committees plc and a member of all Board Committees 2014-present Non-Executive Director of G4S PLC 2015-date, Chair of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit Committee 7 3 1 5 46 www.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 5 6 7 8 9 Sue Clark Ben Gordon Euan Sutherland Jonathan Adelman Clare Thomas Independent Independent Independent Acting General Counsel See page 49 for Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director and Company Secretary Clare Thomass full biography.
Skills, competence Sue Clark was appointed Ben Gordon was appointed Euan Sutherland was and experience: a Non-Executive Director aNon-Executive Director appointed a Non-Executive Jonathan was the General on29February 2016 on15 April 2008.
Counsel and Company and is Chair of the Skills, competence Skills, competence Secretary of Ladbrokes plc, Remuneration Committee.
and experience: and experience: having previously served Skills, competence Ben has a strong background Euan has over 24 years as Vice President and Senior and experience: in executive management, experience gained from the Counsel at the Hilton Hotel Sue has strong international consumer insight and retail and FMCG sectors Corporation where he also credentials and has worked in international retail gained having held roles with Boots, sat on the Board of Hilton the global FMCG sector for through his roles as Chief Dixons, Coca-Cola and Mars International.
Jonathan joined the last 14 years.
Prior to the Executive of Mothercare plc Incorporated.
Euan was Britvic in January 2015 as merger with Anheuser-Busch and former Senior Vice previously Group Chief Acting General Counsel and InBev in October 2016, she President and Managing Executive Offi cer for the Company Secretary whilst held the role of Managing Director of Disney Store, Co-op group of companies.
Clare Thomas was on Director of SABMiller Europe Europe and Asia Paci c. Earlier in his career he was maternity leave.
Following and was an Executive Hehas also held senior Group Chief Operating Offi cer Clares return, Jonathan Committee member of management positions with at King sher Plc, Chief remained with the business SABMiller PLC.
She joined WHSmith group in the UK Executive Offi cer of B&Q and as its Strategic Programmes SABMiller in 2003 as and the United States and Chief Executive of AS Watson Director before returning to Corporate Aff airs Director LOreal S. A. in France and UK, owner of Superdrug.
act as General Counsel and and was part of the executive in the UK.
Euan has a First Class Interim Company Secretary team that built the business Ben has an MBA from INSEAD Honours degree in Managerial for a further period of into a top five FTSE company.
and is a Member of the & Administrative Studies from maternity leave cover.
Previously, Sue has held Institution ofCivil Engineers.
a number of senior roles Committee membership: Committee membership: in UK companies, including A, N, R A that of Director of Corporate External directorships: External directorships: Aff airs for Railtrack Group Chairman of Heals plc Chief Executive Offi cer and Scottish Power plc.
Non-Executive Director of SuperGroup plc Sue has an MBA from of St Ives plc to retire Heriot-Watt University.
with eff ect from Committee membership: 30November 2017 R Trustee of the Canal & River Trust External directorships: Non-Executive Director of Tulchan Communications, a leading financial communications advisory rm Non-Executive Director of Bakkavor Group A Audit Committee plc and member of its N Nomination Committee Audit, Nomination and R Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committees 8 Chairman of the Committee Supervisory Board member of AkzoNobel N. V. eff ective 30November 2017 4 2 6 Britvic plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 47
