EFFECTIVENESS Induction and development The Chairman is responsible for preparing and co-ordinating an induction programme for newly appointed Directors, including presentations from senior management on different aspects of the business, as well as guidance on their duties, responsibilities and liabilities as a Director of a listed company.
The Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to visit Group manufacturing sites to enable them to gain a greater understanding of the groups activities and to meet senior managers throughout the business.
Directors have access to appropriate training as required and they are encouraged to develop their understanding of the business.
To strengthen their knowledge and understanding of the business, Board meetings regularly include updates and briefings on specific areas of the companys activities, and Board meetings, where possible, are held offsite at other Britvic sites.
Following the appointment of Suniti Chauhan and William Eccleshare as Non-Executive Directors on 29 November 2017, it is expected that their induction programme will cover each of the elements listed below: Type of induction activity Face-to-face meetings Meetings with Chairman, CEO and CFO to understand the culture and values, strategy, recent developments, overview of nancials including last years Annual Report and Accounts and key challenges and opportunities Meetings with members of the Executive team to gain insight of their role and responsibilities, the structure of their teams, and current challenges and opportunities Site visits Visits to manufacturing sites to further their knowledge of operations Committee inductions To understand Committee remit and overview of key issues policies developments Meeting with Chair of Committee and advisors to Committee Investor relations and media views To gain an overview of investor relations activities, market facing issues and investor concerns Governance, risk management Matters reserved for the Board and Statement of Authorities, overview of Board procedures and litigation and schedule of future meetings Directors duties and Board procedures for con icts of interest, and share dealing Key governance issues aff ecting the company Principal risk register and risk management approach Overview of material litigation Directors and Offi cers insurance policy Use of Board portal To gain access to key materials and policies, allowing each Director to further their knowledge of the work of the Board and annual planning cycles, minutes from previous meetings and other relevant information The Company Secretary provides support to the Chairman to ensure that ongoing development for the Board is carried out and is tailored for each Board member.
Independent advice The Board has approved a procedure for Directors to take independent professional advice at the companys expense if necessary.
No such advice was sought by any Director during the year.
In addition, the Directors have direct access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
Board evaluation Board evaluation is reviewed on an annual basis and during the year, it was agreed that an internal evaluation would be carried out.
A questionnaire was devised and the results were presented to the Board confirming that the Board and its committees were operating effectively.
The 2017 review built on the actions delivered in the prior year which are referred to in the table opposite.
In addition, the review confirmed that there were a small number of focus areas for the Board during 2018 which were to: maintain focus on building board capability and improve succession planning: continue to support management in developing the International & Brazilian businesses and growing the UK market: and improve quality of information relating to brands and marketing metrics.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 2016 evaluation Recommendations Actions delivered in year Continue to focus on shorter-term succession planning The Board continued to focus on succession planning and for a successor to the Chairman during the 2017 financial year, which resulted in changes amongst the existing Board in the form of a new Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
The Board continued to develop succession plans for the ongoing refreshment of the Board recognising that Ben Gordon would reach the end of his ninth year of tenure in 2018.
Increase number of deep dives on core strategic priorities Deep dives have been weaved into the Boards agenda enabling the Board to gain effective insight, demonstrate robust challenge and support for the Executive team during the year.
Improve the quality of Board analytics in financial The quality of information presented to the Board relating commercial performance areas to financial commercial data has improved during the year, bringing more insight to the performance of the business.
Continue with opportunities for the Non-Executive The Board visited the Rugby, Beckton and Crolles sites during Directors to visit other sites and to meet informally the year.
Meetings are scheduled to take place off-site with outside of Board meetings Board dinners to enable discussion outside of the boardroom.
Increased focus on risk management The Boards agenda has been reshaped with risk as a regular item and includes focus on principal risks, emerging risks, risk appetite, understanding the criteria for scoring risk set against a backdrop of volatility in the macro-economic environment, Brexit and sugar tax.
Under the Code, an external facilitated evaluation should take place every three years.
The last external evaluation was carried out in 2013 and as indicated in the 2016 Annual Report, the Board agreed to defer the timing of an external review in light of succession planning for the Chairman and two new Non-Executive Directors joining the Board.
In the context of further Board changes, with a new Chairman and Senior Independent Director, the Board agreed that it was sensible to delay the timing of an externally facilitated review until the summer of 2018 and is therefore considered to be non-compliant for the purposes of provision B.
The Board carefully considered the rationale for delaying the external evaluation and agreed that this prudent approach would allow the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director to adjust to their new roles being mindful of the benefit, insight and value that an external evaluation brings.
Ahead of the proposed external evaluation in 2018, the Board has carried out a tender for Board evaluation services and has appointed Lintstock to carry out evaluation services over a three year period starting in 2018.
Lintstock has no other connection with the company.
The Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Company Secretary will work together to agree the scope of the evaluation in early 2018 and further information will be published in next years Annual Report.
Britvic plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 55
