com Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 1 2 3 4 5 Doug Frost Paul Graham Kevin Donnelly Hessel fide Jong Clive Hooper Chief Human Managing Director, GB Managing Director, Ireland Managing Director, International Chief Supply Chain Offi cer Resources Offi cer Paul was appointed GB Kevin joined Britvic Ireland Hessel joined the business Clive was appointed Chief Doug was appointed Human Managing Director on inSeptember 2008 as inSeptember 2015 with over Supply Chain Offi cer in Resources Director in 2004 13 April 2015, having Marketing Director and 20 years of management October 2016 having joined and became Chief Human joined Britvic asGB was appointed Country experience in the international the business in 2006 as Resources Offi cer in General Manager in Director inJune 2013.
Kevin has over 25 years Prior to joining Britvic, Clive has responsibility for Doug previously worked Before joining Britvic, experience in sales, marketing Hessel worked as an production, procurement, for 15 years with Mars Paulworked in a range and general management in advisor to a number of logistics, warehousing, Incorporated in positions of commercial roles for FMCG companies, including private equity companies, technical and quality, safety in manufacturing, sales companies including Unilever and Dairygold.
including Blackstone and and environment across the and human resources.
Mars Confectionery Bencis Capital Partners.
Prior to joining Kevin holds a First Class He started his career in the and United Biscuits.
From 2008 to 2014, he was Britvic, he has held senior Honours degree in Marketing UK, then worked across Managing Director of the management, production and Paul has a BSc in from Trinity College Dublin several continental European Dutch and Benelux operations planning roles at Greencore, Management Sciences and a Post Graduate Diploma markets and latterly spent of the Coca-Cola Company.
fromthe University of in Digital Marketing.
Manchester and is a Before 2008, Hessel held Clive has a BEng in memberof the Executive various regional and global Engineering from the Royal Council of TheBritish leadership positions at Naval Engineering College.
Heineken and SCA Group in Europe and Asia.
Hessel is based in Amsterdam and holds a Master of Business Administration from INSEAD and a Bachelor of Business Administration from Nyenrode University.
6 7 8 9 Clare Thomas Jean-Luc Tivolle Joo Caetano Matt Barwell Please see page 46 for General Counsel and Managing Director, France fide Mello Neto Chief Marketing Offi cer Simon Litherlands and Company Secretary Chief Executive Offi cer, Mathew Dunns biographies.
Jean-Luc was appointed Matt is responsible for all Ebba Brazil Clare joined the Group Managing Director of France aspects of Britvics global as General Counsel in 2010, after 14 years as Joo Caetano joined Britvic brand strategy and execution, and Company Secretary Vice-Chairman of Fruit following the acquisition of innovation, corporate aff airs in September 2013.
Entreprises, which was Ebba on 30 September 2015. and the companys acquired by Britvic at that He brings with him over 30 sustainability agenda.
Clare has a corporate and time.
Prior to this, Jean-Luc years of executive commercial legal background, He joined Britvic from Diageo held senior roles in Tetra Pak management experience in and prior to joining Britvic in 2014 where he held a and a variety of positions at the consumer goods industry.
spent 15 years as a corporate number of senior positions Chocolat Poulain Cadbury M&A lawyer at law rm Previously, Joo Caetano over 15 years, including Schweppes Group.
Addleshaw Goddard LLP, worked for Cia.
Mller fide Marketing and Innovation including six years as a Bebidas Caninha 51 where Director for Diageo Africa partner, with a particular he spent 14 years and acted and, later, Diageo Europe.
as Chief Executive Offi cer He started his career for 7 of those years.
He then with Mars where he worked for J. Macedo for worked for 10 years in 7years as Chief Executive both the confectionery Offi cer of Hidracor before and pet food businesses.
moving to Ebba, where Matt is Chairman of the he remains the Chief Advertising Associations Executive Offi cer.
Front Foot group and is a Fellow of The Marketing Society.
Britvic plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 49
