NOMINATION COMMITTEE John Daly Nomination Committee Chair On behalf of the Nomination Committee the Committee, Appointment of Directors I am pleased to present its report for the financial year ended There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure 1 October 2017.
It has been a busy year for the Committee for the appointment of new Directors to the Board under with a focus on Chairman succession planning and ongoing which the Committee interviews suitable candidates who succession planning for the Board.
This report describes how are proposed either by existing Board members or by an the Committee has carried out its responsibilities during the year.
Careful consideration is given to ensure that proposed appointees have enough time available to Committee members devote to the role and that the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board is maintained.
1 Gerald Corbett former Chairman When discussions relate to the appointment of a Chairman, the Senior Independent Director will chair the Committee and John Daly Chairman lead the recruitment process.
When the Committee has found a suitable candidate, the Chair of the Committee will make Ben Gordon a proposal to the whole Board, which retains responsibility Ian McHoul for all such appointments.
Note: Succession planning 1 Gerald Corbett stepped down as Chairman of the Board on Succession planning has continued to be an area of focus of 1September 2017. the Committee during the year.
The main focus for the year has been on Chairman succession planning as indicated in The Committee comprises a majority of independent Nonthe 2016 Annual Report.
Gerald Corbett had indicated towards Executive Directors.
The Chief Executive Officer also attends the end of 2016 that he intended to step down from the Board by invitation.
The Committee meets as necessary and at least as soon as he was assured that the newer members of the twice a year.
The Chairman of the Committee also provides Board and other role changes amongst the Board had settled.
a report of Committee meetings to the Board.
During the year, John Daly former Senior Independent The Committee is responsible for considering and Director declared his interest in being considered as a recommending to the Board candidates who are appropriate candidate for the Chairmans position.
As he was Senior for appointment as Executive and Non-Executive Directors Independent Director at the time, he could not lead the and for other senior management roles, so as to maintain an Committee through the Chairman succession process, nor appropriate balance of skills and experience within the company could he participate in any discussions relating to his proposed and on the Board and to ensure progressive refreshing of the candidacy.
It was agreed that Ian McHoul would lead the Board.
In addition, it is the responsibility of the Committee to Committee through the succession process including the review the structure, size and composition of the Board and appointment of Zygos Partnership to assist with the planning its committees and further that the procedures for appointing process.
Zygos Partnership has no other connection with Directors is formal, rigourous, transparent, objective, meritthe company.
Other Non-Executive Directors were co-opted based and has regard for diversity.
to the Committee to ensure that the views of the entire Board were reflected in the succession process.
Following a Main activities during the year thorough process, the Committee recommended John Dalys The Committee considered and has made recommendations appointment as Chairman to the Board.
In consideration of to the Board in respect of: John Dalys appointment as Chairman, other changes were recommended by the Committee, with Ian McHoul assuming a review of the Board and committee membership responsibility as Senior Independent Director and Sue Clark as following the changes to the composition of the Board: Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
All of these changes succession planning and subsequent recommendation became effective on 1 September 2017. of John Daly as Chairman: It was agreed that Zygos Partnership be retained for the ongoing Non-Executive recruitment plans and subsequent purposes of continuing the ongoing refreshment of the Board recommendation of appointees to the Board: mindful of Ben Gordon reaching his ninth year of tenure.
a review of the findings of the 2016 17 Board evaluation Following the recommendation of the Committee, the Board for more information see page 54 : and agreed to appoint Suniti Chauhan and William Eccleshare, annual review of Directors potential con icts of interest.
For orderly transition, it was agreed that Ben Gordon will remain on the Board until the end of January 2018.
Ben will not seek re-election at the AGM on 31 January 2018.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Diversity At Britvic, diversity is a wider topic than simply gender and the Board recommends to the company that, in order to achieve its future growth aspirations, it should remain committed to building a pipeline of diverse talent and to regularly review its HR processes, including recruitment and performance management frameworks.
The Directors view, however, remains that we do not feel in a position to publish a target of the percentage of women on the Board.
Gender remains an important aspect of overall diversity.
The Committee continues to monitor and review the balance of the Board under a lens of diversity recognising the benefits of a truly diverse and inclusive environment.
Further details of the companys statistics on gender diversity may be found on page 37 of the Strategic Report.
Conflicts of interest As referred to on page 53, the Board operates a formal policy to identify and, where appropriate, manage any potential conflicts of interest that Directors may have.
It is the role of the Committee to monitor the situation and determine actions to address any potential or actual conflicts that may arise.
The Committee reviews all potential conflicts of interest on an annual basis and when new Directors are formally appointed.
Board evaluation Details of the review of the Board and its committees undertaken during the year can be found on pages 54 and 55.
Having reviewed the results of the evaluation, the Committee has confirmed to the Board that the present Board and its committees continue to operate effectively and that all of the Non-Executive Directors remained independent, in accordance with the Code and all Directors should stand for re-election or election in the case of Suniti Chauhan and William Eccleshare at the AGM.
John Daly Chair, Nomination Committee 28 November 2017 Britvic plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 57
