GOVERNANCE C ORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT HOW OUR BOARD LEADS THE BUSINESS BOARD Chairman, CEO, CFO and eight Independent Non-Executive Directors.
THE BOARD IS GOVERNED BY: A Schedule of Matters reserved for the Board which sets out matters that can only be decided by the Board A documented Division of Responsibilities between the Chairman and the CEO Terms of Reference for Committees which set out matters the Board has authorised the Committees to deal with These documents are available on the Groups website at www.
OUR COMMITTEES AUDIT COMMITTEE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE HEALTH, SAFETY & REMUNERATION COMMITTEE ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITTEE Five Independent Chairman and three Independent Five Independent Non-Executive Directors.
CEO and three Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Responsible for overseeing the Leads the process for Board Responsible for advising the Board Groups financial reporting, internal appointments and re-election, and on remuneration of Executive Responsible for health, safety and and external audit, internal control succession planning of Directors Directors and setting an overall environmental policy and compliance, and risk management system, and andthe Chairman.
policy for remunerating the and developing standards whistleblowing policies.
andprocedures to manage risk across the Group.
Committee report on pages 74 to 77.
Committee report on pages 78 to 79.
Committee report on page 84 to 108.
FINANCE & ADMINISTRATION COMMITTEE DISCLOSURE COMMITTEE CEO, CFO and Group General Counsel and Company Secretary.
CEO, CFO, and Group General Counsel and Company Secretary and also attended by senior managers from Group Finance, Investor Relations, Meets weekly to facilitate swift and efficient operational management decisions andCorporate Communications.
for the business in relation to day-to-day financing and administrative matters.
The Committee meets regularly during the year to consider the Groups A schedule of decisions taken by the Committee is reported disclosure obligations and to review results announcements prior to release.
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE CEO, CFO and functional and segment leaders.
Meets on a weekly basis to review trading, execution of strategic projects, progress against targets and monitor risk.
THE CODE THOMAS COOK LEADERSHIP DELEGATED OF CONDUCT COUNCIL TCLC AUTHORITY MATRIX The Board-approved Code of Conduct sets out the The TCLC comprises the top 170 senior leaders The Board-approved Delegated Authority Matrix behaviours expected of everyone in the organisation.
Information about the sets out levels of authority delegated by the Board During the year the Code of Conduct was updated Companys strategy and performance is regularly to senior leaders within the business in respect to ensure it supports and aligns with the new communicated to the TCLC, who in turn cascade of the decision making required for the day-to-day Customer Promises and values more information to their teams to ensure everyone understands operation of the business.
about our values can be found on page 37. where they fit into the strategy and what they The Matrix is reviewed and updated annually.
can do to help the Company achieve its goals.
The Code of Conduct includes guidance to TheMatrix is sent out to all members of the TCLC colleagues about their responsibility to report More information about how our strategy and so that they can cascade to their teams.
problems and issues that come to their attention values are communicated throughout the and how they can do this.
All colleagues are organisation can be found on page 37. encouraged to use Trustline, the Companys independent whistleblowing helpline, if they wish to raise concerns anonymously.
Any significant issues brought to Managements attention through the Trustline are investigated and reported to the AuditCommittee.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 65 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED THE BOARD IS RESPONSIBLE FOR: Director independence and time committment guiding the Groups strategic aims and approving the Groups The Nominations Committee and the Board considered the strategy and its budgetary and business plans: independence of the Non-Executive Directors against the criteria approving significant investments and capital expenditure: specified in the Code and determined that each was independent.
approving the Groups dividend policy and payments: They also considered the independence of Directors whose threeestablishing and maintaining the Groups risk appetite, system year terms were renewed during the year, before approving the ofinternal control, governance and approval authorities: renewal of these terms.
monitoring executive performance, remuneration and succession The Chairman and each Independent Non-Executive Director have planning: and provided assurance to the Board that they remain fully committed reviewing standards of ethics and policy in relation to health, to their respective roles and can dedicate sufficient time to fulfil safety, environment, social and community responsibilities.
All Directors must obtain the prior consent of the Chairman before Board composition taking on any additional directorships.
Before providing consent As at 21 November 2017, the Board was made up of 11 Directors the Chairman will take into consideration any existing directorships which comprised the Chairman, two Executive Directors and eight and commitments and the nature, location and expected time Independent Non-Executive Directors.
commitment of the proposed new role.
The Chairman will not approve any Director taking on additional commitments that he Frank Meysman was the Chairman throughout the year.
The roles believes would interfere with their ability to dedicate sufficient time of the Chairman and CEO are separate and distinct.
Dawn Airey is to the Company.
the Senior Independent and is available to Shareholders should they have concerns that cannot be resolved through the normal channels involving the Executive Directors or the Chairman.
Biographical details of all Directors can be found on pages 63 to 64 and on the Groups corporate website at www.
Changes to the Board and Committees During the year, Paul Edgecliffe-Johnson and Jrgen Schreiber were appointed as Independent Non-Executive Directors with effect from 26 July 2017 and subsequently Paul Edgecliffe-Johnson was appointed to the Audit and Remuneration Committees and Jrgen Schreiber was appointed to the Audit and Health, Safety & Environmental Committees.
Following these appointments, the Board reviewed the membership of its Committees and made further changes so that each NonExecutive Director is a member of two Committees.
Therefore, with effect from 1 October 2017, Dawn Airey stepped down from the Audit and Health & Safety Committees, Warren Tucker stepped down from the Nominations Committee, Emre Berkin stepped down from the Remuneration Committee and Peter Fankhauser stepped down from the Nominations Committee.
66 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 GOVERNANCE Directors conflicts of interest Meetings The Board has a set of principles for managing conflicts and an The full Board meets at least six times a year at its scheduled agreed process to identify and authorise potential conflicts where meetings, and in between these meetings when required.
The Nominations Committee reviews any potential Board members communicate with each other and Management conflicts, as and when they arise, and makes a recommendation to outside of formal Board meetings to keep up-to-date with business the Board as to whether the potential conflict should be authorised.
The Chairman and the Committee Chairs hold The Nominations Committee regularly reviews all authorised planning meetings and calls with Management in respect of conflicts.
It also reviews the interests of candidates prior to making upcoming meetings.
recommendations to the Board for the appointment of new Directors.
At each Board meeting, the CEO presents a comprehensive update This process was followed throughout the year to 30 September 2017. on the progress of the Groups strategy and business issues arising Re-appointment of Directors across the Group, and the CFO presents a detailed analysis of the financial performance, both at Group and segment level.
In accordance with the Code and the Companys Articles of Association, all Directors are subject to re-election by Packs for the Board and Committee meetings are circulated using Shareholders.
At the AGM held in February 2017, each of the a fully encrypted electronic portal system.
This enables fast and Directors in post at the time was submitted for re-election and secure distribution of information that can be accessed using successfully re-elected.
Non-Executive Directors are initially electronic tablets.
appointed for a three-year term, subject to annual re-election by All Directors are invited to attend the meetings and receive the Shareholders, and rigorous review by the Nominations Committee.
packs for all Committees, regardless of membership unless not in Each Non-Executive Director can serve up to a maximum of three line with governance best practice i. e. an Executive Director would such terms.
not attend a Remuneration Committee meeting where their own Group Company Secretary remuneration was being discussed.
This ensures all Directors remain well informed on all matters of the Boards business and The Group Company Secretary is responsible for advising and reduces the need for lengthy Committee feedback sessions during supporting the Chairman and the Board on corporate governance Board meetings.
matters as well as ensuring that there is a smooth flow of information to enable effective decision making.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group Company Secretariat and through them have access to independent professional advice in respect of their duties, at the Companys expense.
The Group Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Board and its Committees.
During the year, Alice Marsden held the position of Group General Counsel and Company Secretary.
Biographical details can be found on page 64.
Attendance at scheduled Board and Committee meetings during the year is set out below: Health, Safety & Audit Remuneration Environmental Nominations Name Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Frank Meysman 6 6 6 6 Peter Fankhauser 6 6 4 4 6 6 Michael Healy 6 6 Dawn Airey 6 6 5 5 6 6 4 4 6 6 Annet Aris 6 6 6 6 4 4 Emre Berkin 6 6 6 6 4 4 6 6 Warren Tucker 5 6 4 5 6 6 5 6 Martine Verluyten 6 6 5 5 6 6 Lesley Knox 5 6 4 5 5 6 Paul Edgecliffe-Johnson 1 1 1 1 Jrgen Schreiber 1 1 Paul Edgecliffe-Johnson and Jrgen Schreiber were appointed as Independent Non-Executive Directors on 26 July 2017.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 67 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED WHAT THE BOARD DID DURING THE YEAR NOVEMBER DECEMBER JANUARY FEBRUARY MARCH APRIL 2016 2016 2017 2017 2017 2017 Met in Met in Met in Oberursel and London office.
Frankfurt airport offices in Germany.
Reviewed full Attended AGM year performance.
in London and Held strategy day in met Shareholders.
Germany and received presentations from Approved various areas of recommendation of the business.
Lesley Knox induction activities visited Oberursel in Germany and In-Destination Services Team in Mallorca where she met with colleagues and Management.
During the year the Board spent significant time considering the HOW THE BOARD IS EFFECTIVE Companys key strategic projects, receiving deep-dive Management presentations and comprehensive updates.
Projects included the launch of a 750 million guaranteed bond in November 2016: extending BOARD INDUCTION AND TRAINING a partnership with Brussels Airlines to make them the leading carrier A tailored induction programme is provided to each new Director for Thomas Cook in Belgium and the sale of the Belgium Airlines ground on appointment.
Inductions typically include: the provision of operations and Airline Operating Certificate to SHS Aviation: entering a comprehensive induction pack: meetings with other Board into a strategic alliance with Expedia under which Expedia will become members and senior management across a wide variety of the preferred supplier of complementary city and domestic hotels: and geographies: visits to the Companys business operations: and entering into a partnership with LMEY Investments to develop and grow presentations and briefings on the Companys business and other the Companys own-brand hotel portfolio.
Other important items on the relevant topics.
Individual induction requirements are monitored by Board agenda included the approval of the five-year business plan and the Chairman, with the support of the Group General Counsel and risk mitigation matters, including agreeing the Boards risk appetite.
In March, the Board held its meetings and strategy days in the During the year Lesley Knox completed her comprehensive NonCompanys Oberursel and Frankfurt airport offices in Germany, the Executive Induction programme.
Following positive feedback, a head offices of the Tour Operator and Airline in Germany respectively.
similar programme has been designed for Paul Edgecliffe-Johnson The strategy days included in-depth discussion of the Companys and Jrgen Schreiber.
The programme covers the following strategy and presentations from various areas of the business including activities and meetings during the course of the coming year: Thomas Cook China and Thomas Cook Money.
In July, the Board held its meetings in the new Peterborough office, the head office of the UK Tour Operator, where it was able to meet colleagues and receive presentations on the UK business.
The Board dedicated half a day to people, where it spent time considering a Group-wide talent review which examined talent, succession, retention risk and diversity in respect of the top 100 roles inthe business and how this feeds into the executive pipeline.
68 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 GOVERNANCE MAY JUNE JULY AUGUST SEPTEMBER 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 Met in Chair of Audit Met in Met in London office.
Committee and Group Peterborough office.
General Counsel and Company Secretary Received training on Reviewed halfmet with key business Met colleagues in new year performance.
Peterborough office and Directors duties.
partners in Cyprus and Turkey as part received presentations from UK business.
of an In-Destination compliance review.
Paul Edgecliffe-Johnson and Jrgen Schreiber induction activities commence see below.
Held risk appetite Approved risk appetite sessions with statement for Annual Headof Risk.
Externally facilitated Board Board evaluation effectiveness evaluation.
feedback and One-to-one interviews and meeting observation.
Carried out Groupwide talent and succession review.
Visits to the following business areas: In respect of the appointment of Bill Scott, who will take up post as The Group Airline head office at Manchester Airport Group CFO on 1 January 2018, a tailored induction programme has The Northern Europe Tour Operator business and Airline head been designed.
As Bill has been with the business for five years, he offices in Stockholm and Copenhagen respectively has an in-depth knowledge of the Companys operations and wellThe UK business head office in Peterborough established relationships with key business leaders.
Therefore his The German Tour Operator business and Condor Airline head induction activities will focus on the new responsibilities he will offices in Oberursel and Frankfurt respectively take on as an Executive Director including a training session on A retail store Directors duties and responsibilities.
Visits will involve meetings with Management Teams, presentations from the businesses, touring premises and meeting colleagues.
At Board meetings and, where appropriate, Committee meetings, the Directors receive updates and presentations on developments to the One-to-one meetings with: legislative and regulatory environments.
In September 2017, the Board E xecutive Directors received a training session on Directors duties and responsibilities.
Committee Chairs The Board also holds deep-dive sessions on different aspects of the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary business which are presented by Management.
Other members of the Executive Committee Other key leaders in the business The Companys audit partner Attendance at an Executive Committee meeting Invitation to attend a Thomas Cook Leadership Council event A familiarisation trip to a Thomas Cook own-brand hotel to experience our product and meet customers THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 69 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED BOARD EFFECTIVENESS EVALUATION During the year the Chairman engaged Dr Tracy Long, of Boardroom Review Limited, to conduct an externally facilitated Board evaluation.
Neither Dr Tracy Long nor Boardroom Review Limited have any other connection with the Company aside from the provision of board evaluations.
The below sets out the evaluation process: REVIEW PREPARATION EVIDENCE FEEDBACK A discussion Themes to be considered Insight was collected Feedback was ACTIONS document was were agreed as: through: provided via: prepared which set out: S trategy One-to-one in-person S trengths O ne-to-one verbal The Group Company Horizon scanning interviews with Board C hallenges discussions Secretary and Chairman Risk & control members and the Group A reas of focus C ollective Board devised an action plan Remuneration setting Company Secretary discussion at the based on the discussion Talent development & Observation of Board, September Board document.
executive succession Committee meetings meeting A meeting between Dr Tracy Stakeholder &private sessions Long and the Chairman will communication Review of Board and take place within 6-12 Culture, composition committee papers months to discuss progress.
&choreography and minutes Use of time OUTPUTS FROM 2017 EVALUATION Strengths identified: A positive Board culture focused on adding An increasingly effective use of formal and Good attention to the risk and control value to the Company with a shared strategic informal Board and Committee time, including framework, crisis management and visibility perspective, led by the CEO, and focused on a good balance of strategy, performance and ofand confidence in the lines of defence the customer governance themes throughout the year Areas of focus identified: Actions: Certain agenda items and the private sessions i. e. the The Group Company Secretary and Chairman will work to increase the overall meetings of Non-Executive Directors in the absence of timeavailable for meetings and improve time allocation of the agenda.
Management can sometimes feel rushed as a result oflack of time available on a busy agenda.
The Nominations Committee should spend more This will be added to the Nominations Committee agenda.
timelooking at long-term succession planning for theChair and Committee chairs as well as the Executive Directors.
The Board has set a clear tone from the top in respect The annual employee engagement results will be presented to the Board by of culture but it could now benefit from spending theGroupHR Director and allocated time on the Board agenda for discussion.
moretime monitoring how culture changes are being Exit interviews of any outgoing senior personnel will be conducted by the received and filtering down through the organisation.
70 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 GOVERNANCE The Chairman and Group Company Secretary monitor progress against the action plan set.
The below sets out progress in respect of theaction points identified following last years internal evaluation: OUTPUTS FROM 2016 EVALUATION Areas of focus identified: Progress: The format and quality of Board papers should continue The Group Company Secretary provided guidance to senior management on the to be developed to shift the emphasis from reporting structure and content of Board papers.
Templates were created and provided to past events to highlighting important matters that contributors to ensure consistency and papers must pass a more robust review require the Boards guidance.
andgatekeeping process before being provided to the Board.
The Board may benefit in the future from recruiting an On the recommendation of the Nominations Committee, the Board appointed additional Non-Executive Director with direct customer twonewIndependent Non-Executive Directors who possess the skills identified experience in the retail industry and or relevant travel seeNominations Committee report on pages 78 to 79 for more details.
The Nominations Committee should be given more time The Group Company Secretary put in place an annual agenda plan and set aside on the agenda.
moretime for Nominations Committee meetings.
During the year the Nominations Committee held six scheduled meetings and spent more time looking at succession planning see Nominations Committee report on pages 78 to 79]for more details.
CHAIRMAN EVALUATION INDIVIDUAL EXECUTIVE EVALUATION Separately, the Non-Executive Directors, under the leadership The individual performance of the Executive Directors is reviewed of the Senior Independent Director and with input from the separately by the Chairman and the Remuneration Committee.
Executive Directors, conducted an evaluation of the Chairman The outputs from that evaluation were discussed by the Board in the absence of the Chairman and feedback was given to him by the Senior Independent Director, and reported to the Board at its November meeting.
SHAREHOLDER COMMUNICATION ANDENGAGEMENT The Board promotes open communication with Shareholders.
This is The Company hosts a dedicated conference call for bondholders on formalised within the framework of an ongoing investor relations a semi-annual basis and during the year the CFO and Management programme conducted by the CEO, the CFO and the Investor Relations also engaged with Bondholders both as a group, and, on a oneTeam.
The programme includes the presentation of preliminary and halfto-one basis, at several investment-bank sponsored conferences.
year results which can be accessed on www.
com Additionally, the Board responded to ad-hoc requests for information.
and a large number of meetings with existing Shareholders and All Shareholders are entitled to attend the AGM.
Shareholders are potential investors throughout the year.
The Company makes every given the opportunity to lodge their votes by way of proxy and or effort to ascertain investor perceptions and regular reports of investor to attend the meeting in person where they have the opportunity and analyst feedback are provided to the Board.
to ask questions of the Board, including the chairs of the Board The Chairman of the Board and Chairman of the Remuneration Committees, vote by way of a poll and meet informally with the Committee engage with Shareholders on matters concerning corporate Directors to discuss any issues they may wish to raise.
governance and executive remuneration respectively, and feed this In line with the authority given at its 2008 AGM, the Company uses back to the Board.
Dawn Airey held the position of Senior Independent its website and email as the primary means of communication with Director throughout the year, providing an additional channel through its Shareholders.
This arrangement provides significant benefits for which Shareholders can engage with the Board if they so wish.
Shareholders and the Company in terms of timeliness of information In respect of debt investors, the Company maintains regular and reduced environmental impact and cost.
Shareholders may dialogue with key relationship banks which includes semi-annual still opt to receive their communications in a paper format.
meetings with presentations from the Executive Management Team.
The Companys corporate website www.
com During theyear, it also held update and review meetings with Moodys, contains information for Shareholders, including share price Standard & Poors and Fitch, the Companys credit rating agencies.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 71 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT IN RELATION TO THE FINANCIAL REPORTING PROCESS The Board recognises its ultimate accountability for maintaining an effective system of internal control and risk management The Group has a thorough assurance process in place in respect that is appropriate in relation to both the scope and the nature of the preparation, verification and approval of periodic financial of the Groups activities, and complies with the UK Corporate reports.
This process includes: Governance Code.
the involvement of qualified, professional employees with an The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal appropriate level of experience both in Group Finance and risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its throughout the business : business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
This is formal sign-offs from appropriate business segment Managing fully described in the Risk Management section on pages 54 to 59.
Directors and Finance Directors: comprehensive review and, where appropriate, challenge from The Groups internal control and risk management systems are keyinternal Group functions: designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to a transparent process to ensure full disclosure of information achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable, but to the external auditors.
Engagement of a professional and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
experienced firm of external auditors: and These systems have been in place for the year under review and up oversight by the Groups Audit Committee, involving amongst to the date of approval of the Annual Report & Accounts.
The Board other duties : has approved the framework and the standards implemented.
a detailed review of key financial reporting judgements which have been discussed by Management: and REVIEW OF SYSTEM OF INTERNAL CONTROL review and, where appropriate, challenge on matters including: During the year the Board, through the work of the Audit Committee, the consistency of, and any changes to, significant accounting has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the Groups policies and practices during the year: system of internal control.
The Board monitors the internal control significant adjustments resulting from an external audit: processes on an ongoing basis, including financial, operational the Companys statement on internal control systems, prior to and compliance controls, under the auspices of the Enterprise endorsement by the Board: and Risk and Audit function.
Regular reports on control issues are the going concern assumption.
presented to and discussed with the Audit Committee and there is The above process, and the review by the Audit Committee of a a follow-up process in place to ensure audit recommendations are comprehensive note that sets out the details of the preparation, fully implemented by Management.
This work is also complemented, internal verification and approval process for the Annual Report & supported and challenged by the controls assurance work carried Accounts, provides comfort to the Board that the Annual Report & out independently by the external auditors, Ernst & Young, as part of Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and the external audit.
The Board has noted ongoing progress and active provides the information necessary for Shareholders to assess the focus in the internal control processes during this year.
The Board, Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
in reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal control, can confirm that necessary actions continue to be taken to remedy any STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES significant failings or weaknesses identified from that review.
IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL REPORT, THE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT AND GOING CONCERN THEFINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Directors have assessed the prospects of the Group over the The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, medium term in the context of its current operating performance, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements the principal risks facing the business and its internal business in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law plan for the next five years.
In addition, the Group has prepared a requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each sensitivity analysis on its business plan and evaluated the impact financial year.
Under that law, the Directors have prepared the of certain principal risks occurring both individually and in unison, Group and the Company financial statements in accordance with together with mitigating actions that could be implemented in International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by such circumstances.
The financial statements are required by law to As part of their assessment, the Directors have also noted give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the refinancing of the Groups bonds in December 2016, which the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
further extended debt maturities and reduced borrowing costs, and the agreement of larger, more flexible banking facilities in November 2017.
Having considered the above factors, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
72 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 GOVERNANCE In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: The Directors then took into account the thorough preparation and verification process in respect of the Annual Report & Accounts, select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: which included sufficient time for the Directors to review the Annual make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable Report & Accounts and to feed in their comments to Management and prudent: and before approving the document.
confirm that the financial statements comply with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above Each of the Directors who held office at the date of approval of this requirements in preparing the financial statements.
Directors Report confirms that: so far as they are aware, there is The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys unaware: and that they have taken all steps that they ought to transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any have taken as a Director to make them aware of any relevant audit time the financial position of the Company and the Group, and information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the of that information.
Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article SHARE CAPITAL AND RELATED DISCLOSURES 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Directors are also responsible for Disclosures in relation to the share capital of the Company, safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and for including the Companys major Shareholders are given in the taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud OtherDisclosures section on pages 81 to 83. andother irregularities.
DIVIDEND The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing The Board has proposed a final dividend of 0.6 pence per the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ share, representing a distribution to shareholders of 9 million.
from legislation in other jurisdictions.
This represents an increase of 20% compared to the dividend paid in respect of the previous year, reflecting the underlying progress made in FY17 and the confidence of the Board in the DISCLOSURE GUIDANCE AND TRANSPARENCY Groups future.
RULES CONFIRMATION The Board has a policy to target dividend growth that reflects Each of the Directors who were in office at the date of this report the Groups progress in underlying earnings per share.
and whose names and functions are listed on pages 63 to 64, As previously stated, in view of the seasonality of the Groups confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: profit profile, it is not our intention to pay interim dividends for the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in theforeseeable future.
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair The ex-dividend date will be 8 March 2018 and, subject to view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the shareholder approval at the 2018 Annual General Meeting, the Group: and final dividend of 0.6 pence per share will be paid on 5 April 2018 the Strategic and Directors Report contained on pages 4 to 59 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on includes a fair review of the development and performance of the 9 March 2018. business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE The Directors confirm that they consider the Annual Report & Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable andprovides the information necessary for Shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
In making this confirmation, the Directors took into account their knowledge of the business, which is kept up-to-date with regular reports, updates and business reviews circulated prior to and discussed at each Board meeting, and supplemented by a variety of written reports, verbal updates and presentations including the training and strategy support presentations detailed on page 58 given at Board and Committee meetings as well as a regular flow of information about the business between meetings.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 73 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE AUDIT COMMITTEE The role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee are set out in written Terms of Reference which are available at www.
Some of their keys responsibilities are: monitoring the integrity of the annual, half-year and quarterly results statements, including reviewing the significant financial reporting judgements contained in them: reviewing the Companys internal financial controls and internal control and risk management systems: monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys Internal Audit function: CHAIRMAN establishing and overseeing the Companys relationship with Martine Verluyten itsexternal auditors, including monitoring their effectiveness andindependence: and OTHER MEMBERS monitoring matters raised pursuant to the Companys Dawn Airey until 30 September 2017, Paul Edgecliffe-Johnson whistleblowing arrangements.
from 21 September 2017, Lesley Knox, Jrgen Schreiber from21September 2017, Warren Tucker.
ACTIVITIES COMPOSITION OF THE COMMITTEE Financial reporting and significant judgement areas All members of the Committee are Independent Non-Executive The Committee monitored the integrity of the annual, half-year and Directors.
quarterly results statements, including a review of the significant financial reporting judgements contained in them.
In May and Martine Verluyten, Warren Tucker and Paul Edgecliffe-Johnson November, the Committee reviewed a comprehensive paper prepared are considered by the Board to have recent and relevant financial by the Director of Financial Reporting, which set out the Groups experience, as required by the Code, and satisfy the requirements accounting policies and basis of preparation.
The Committee also for competence in accounting and or auditing under the Disclosure reviewed a paper prepared by the external auditors, which included Guidance and Transparency Rules.
The Board considers that the significant reporting and accounting matters.
The Committee pays Committee as a whole has competence in the travel sector.
Travel particular attention to matters that it considers to be important sector experience is highlighted in the Directors biographies.
by virtue of their impact on the Group results and remuneration DIRECTORS BIOGRAPHIES of senior management, or the level of complexity, judgement or estimation in their application in preparation of the Groups See pages 63 to 64 financial statements.
The significant issues considered by the Audit Committee are shown in the table overleaf.
MEETINGS ALSO ATTENDED BY: The Chairman and the other Non-Executive Directors, Peter During the year, the Company had correspondence with the Fankhauser CEO, Michael Healy CFO, Alice Marsden Group General FRCs Corporate Reporting Review team in relation to its review Counsel and Company Secretary, Bill Scott Director of Financial 1 of the Companys FY16 Annual Report & Accounts in line with Reporting, Sofya Linderman Group Head of Risk, DerekFoster the FRCs disclosed focus on the travel and leisure sector in 2017.
Group Head of Audit, Ani Sen Gupta Internal Audit, Deloitte, The Company provided clarifications and rationale for disclosures in NickOng-Seng Thomas Cook Money Risk and Compliance Director respect of separately disclosed items and alternative performance and Richard Wilson External Audit Partner, Ernst & Young.
measures and committed to enhancing disclosure in these areas going forward.
The FRC welcomed these commitments.
At the end of two of its meetings during the year, the Committee Management presented the findings of the review to the Committee and also those Non-Executive Directors who are not on the and the Committee reviewed and approved the correspondence Committee met with the Internal Audit and Risk functions and withthe FRC.
Ernst & Young, the Companys external auditor in the absence ofManagement.
1 The FRC stated that the scope of their review was based on the Companys FY16 Annual Report & Accounts and was conducted by staff of the FRC who have an understanding of the relevant legal and accounting framework.
The review did not benefit from detailed knowledge of the Companys business or an understanding of the underlying transactions entered into and therefore their review does not provide assurance that the FY16 Annual Report & Accounts arecorrect in all material respects.
74 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 GOVERNANCE Significant issues in relation to the financial statements How the issue was addressed considered by the Committee by the Committee Revenue Recognition: There are a significant number of transactions The Committee evaluated the IT systems and the internal controls in in relation to revenue, given the nature of the business.
The accounting place around revenue recognition.
This included a review of the Group for revenue is susceptible to management override.
This brings a risk revenue recognition policies to ensure revenue is recognised in line around the completeness and accuracy of the revenue recognised with the policy.
The Committee concluded that revenue was complete duringtheyear.
Accounting for aircraft maintenance provisions: Significant fixed The Committee reviewed the methodology and key assumptions used assets for aircraft and provisions for maintenance and contractual end by Management in accounting for aircraft maintenance provisions oflease obligations are held on the balance sheet.
and concluded that the treatment was appropriate.
In addition, the methodology for the calculation of the discount rate and the subsequent There is an inherent level of estimation included in the calculation of the prior year correction as a result of this change was reviewed and agreed maintenance provisions which are based upon forecast aircraft usage as appropriate.
Furthermore, there is judgement needed to determine the appropriate discount rate for the provision.
Separately disclosed items: The Group has an established policy of The Committee considered the presentation of the Group financial separately disclosing items that are either exceptional or not reflective statements and the appropriateness of the presentation of separately ofthe underlying performance of the Group.
disclosed items, in particular items relating to the New Operating Model and certain non-cash finance items.
The Committee reviewed the Separately disclosed items are not defined by IFRSs as adopted by the nature of items identified and concurred with Management that the European Union and therefore judgement is required by the Directors to treatment was even-handed, consistent across years and appropriately identify such items.
Consistency in identifying and disclosing items as presented movements on items which have an effect over a number separately disclosed is important to maintain comparability of reporting ofyears.
Consideration was also given to the quality of earnings within year-on-year.
Carrying Value of Goodwill and Deferred Tax Assets: The Group The Committee reviewed Managements process for testing goodwill and holds significant goodwill and deferred tax assets on the balance deferred tax assets for potential impairment.
Determining the carrying value of these assets is dependent the key assumptions: principally cash flow forecasts, growth rates and onjudgements about the future results of the business.
discount rates for goodwill and taxable profit forecasts for deferred taxassets.
Provision for illness claims and associated recoveries: There has The Committee reviewed and challenged the assumptions that been a significant increase in the number of customer illness claims in Management had used in determining the provision for illness claims the current year.
Significant judgement is required and there is limited tosatisfy itself that the level of provisioning was appropriate.
historical data available in determining the level of provision required.
The Committee reviewed the methodology behind the hotel recovery In addition, in line with the increase in illness claims the level of position and challenged Management on the assumptions used.
recoveries from hotels relating to these illness claims has also increased.
The Committee satisfied itself that the level of recovery recognised To determine the amount recoverable is subjective and requires asappropriate.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 75 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED INTERNAL CONTROL, RISK MANAGEMENT Internal Audit ANDINTERNAL AUDIT The Committee continued to oversee and support development of the in-house Internal Audit function.
The Committee challenged and Risk Management approved the proposed Internal Audit Plan, and throughout the year The Audit Committee considers risk exposure against the risk monitored the allocation of Internal Audit resource and delivery appetite of the Group, as set by the Board, by profiling key risks against the Internal Audit Plan.
The Committee closely monitored to the business in terms of their potential impact and likelihood of the recruitment process for a new Group Head of Internal Audit.
occurrence, after consideration of mitigating and controlling actions The Committee considered an effectiveness review of the Internal that are in place.
During the year, the Committee reviewed the key Audit function, which measured performance against the Quality strategic risks and received updates from the Group Head of Risk Assessment criteria provided by the Institute of Internal Auditors in respect of the Group Risk Dashboard, highlighting any changes and concluded it remains satisfied with work of the Internal in the Companys risk profile.
The Committee also confirmed that Audit function.
appropriate mitigations were in place for the key strategic risks.
These activities fed into the annual Internal Audit Plan, which During the year the Committee considered the findings of a number enables a risk-based approach to be adopted as part of the ongoing of reviews carried out by the Internal Audit function.
Internal Audit and assurance programme.
Internal Control The Committee was supported in its work by the Executive The Groups internal control framework is managed by the Group Committee, which is comprised of relevant representatives of senior Finance function.
The Audit Committee receives updates on internal management and chaired by the CEO.
The Executive Committee control matters at each meeting which provides the Committee meets quarterly to monitor the risk dashboard.
with assurance that the internal controls in place are robust.
Regular monitoring of the internal control framework allows timely Particular areas of focus for the Committee during the year identification of issues and formal tracking of remediation plans.
included: fraudulent customer illness claims in the UK: information security: data protection: and cyber security.
The Committee The internal control framework includes Risk and Control Matrices, received presentations and regular updates from senior which act as a key mechanism to mitigate the risk of financial management on these issues.
The Committee received regular misstatement and fraud.
Management of each Thomas Cook updates in respect of the Groups legal compliance programme reporting entity certified compliance with the Risk and Control which covered matters including: data protection: anti-bribery and Matrix for the financial year.
Group Finance ensure that agreed corruption: competition law: the Package Travel Directive: hotel and actions are being implemented to support a programme of accommodation contracting.
maintaining and improving internal controls.
Management also continues to refine the framework based on the findings of the As part of the ongoing In-Destination Compliance Programme, the reviews from Internal Audit.
Committee Chair and Group General Counsel & Company Secretary visited Cyprus and Turkey and met with key business partners to To further support the Boards annual assessment of the receive first-hand feedback in respect of the Companys general effectiveness of the internal control framework, Group Finance governance and compliance practices in-destination.
Findings from prepare a report on the Groups internal control framework and the review were reported to the Committee and an action plan to its effectiveness, which describes the risk management systems further enhance compliance in this area was put in place and is and arrangements in place for internal control, as well as work being monitored by the Committee.
conducted during the year to improve the control environment.
Work in the current year has focused on further education on the The Committee reviewed reports of all cases lodged with internal control framework, to achieve consistency across the Group, Expolink, the Groups whistleblowing line, and the outcomes of as well as phased testing of reconciliations and controls.
These activities, together with the regular reports from the external auditors, have supported the Audit Committee in providing its advice to the Board in respect of the effectiveness of internal controls see section headed Risk Management and Internal Control on page 72.
76 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 GOVERNANCE EXTERNAL AUDITOR Non-audit Fees The Companys external auditor is Ernst & Young and Richard Wilson The Company has a Non-audit Fee Policy the Policy in place to is the Audit Partner.
ensure that the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor does not impair their independence or objectivity.
Independence The Policy, which is appended as a schedule to the Audit During 2016, the Audit Committee conducted a competitive Committees Terms of Reference, is published on the Groups website tender process, the details of which were reported in last years at www.
The Policy states that the external Annual Report & Accounts.
The Board approved the Committees auditor should not be engaged in respect of services blacklisted recommendation to appoint Ernst & Young as auditor in respect in the FRCs Ethical Standard 2016.
Any other material non-audit of the audit of FY17 onwards, and a resolution was approved by work must be authorised in advance by the Committee, unless the Shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting in February engagement is urgent, in which case the CFO can agree the work 2017.
Thorough conflict of interest checks were undertaken as with the Committee Chair and report it to the next Committee part of the tender process and independence was one of the key meeting.
The details of non-audit work if any are reported to the considerations for the Committee when making its recommendation.
Therefore the Committee considers that appointment of Ernst & Young will ensure a high level of independence is maintained and the Fees for non-audit services during the year totalled 202,604 Committee will continue to monitor this area.
representing 13% of the fees paid to the external auditor further information about non-audit fees can be found in Note 6 to the Effectiveness financial statements.
Taking into consideration that 184,082 of At its meeting in November 2017, the Committee considered the this fee was in respect of the review of the Companys half-year effectiveness of Ernst & Young as external auditor in respect of results, for which the Companys external auditor must be used, FY17.
The review included consideration of comprehensive papers theCommittee considered the level of fees to be acceptable and from both Management and the external auditor, and meetings didnot consider it posed any risk to auditor independence.
withManagement in the absence of the external auditor.
Planning The effectiveness review considered matters such as: the At its meeting in May 2017, the Committee considered and competence of the key senior members of the team and their approved the external audit plan for the audit of the Group for FY17.
understanding of the business and its environment: the planning The Committee considered significant risk areas for the audit, the process: effectiveness in identifying key risks: technical expertise proposed scope, the materiality threshold, the approach to internal displayed by the auditors over complex accounting matters: audit and the transition from PwC to Ernst & Young.
communicating and resolving audit issues: timeliness of the audit process: cost: and communication of issues and risks to MARTINE VERLUYTEN Management and the Committee.
CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Following the review, the Committee concluded that overall Ernst & Young had provided an effective and independent audit in respect 21 November 2017 of FY17.
The Company confirms that it has complied with the provisions of the Competition and Markets Authoritys Statutory Audit Services Order in respect of the financial year under review.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 77 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility for reviewing and proposing appointments to the Board and for recommending any other changes to the composition of the Board or its Committees.
The principal responsibility of the Committee is to make recommendations to the Board on all new appointments to the Board, as well as Board balance and composition.
The Committee ensures that there is clarity in respect of the role description and capabilities required for such appointments.
The Committee is also responsible for reviewing the Directors potential conflicts of interest and for making recommendations to the Board in respect CHAIRMAN ofauthorising such matters.
Frank Meysman The full Terms of Reference of the Committee are available at www.
OTHER MEMBERS Dawn Airey, Emre Berkin, Peter Fankhauser until 30 September 2017, ACTIVITIES Warren Tucker until 30 September 2017 and Martine Verluyten.
During the year, the Committee dealt with two significant tasks, COMPOSITION OF THE COMMITTEE firstly appointing two new Non-Executive Directors, and secondly A majority of the members of the Committee are appointing a new CFO.
The Committee considered the current skill set, experience and balance of the Board alongside the Companys strategic goals DIRECTORS BIOGRAPHIES and decided that, given the importance of the customer and the See pages 63 to 64 hotel portfolio to the Companys strategy, it would recommend the appointment of two individuals with particular expertise in MEETINGS ALSO ATTENDED BY: these areas.
The other Non-Executive Directors, Peter Fankhauser CEO, Michael Healy CFO and Alice Marsden Group General Counsel The Committee provided a skills-based brief to executive search andCompany Secretary.
firm Egon Zehnder who do not have any connection to the Company and are a signatory to the Voluntary Code of Conduct of Executive Search Firms and instructed them to compile a gender balanced long list of candidates for the roles.
After a comprehensive search the Committee recommend that Paul Edgecliffe-Johnson, who has deep global hotel industry experience, and Jrgen Schreiber, who has extensive experience across retail and consumer goods, be appointed to the Board.
More information about each Director can befound in the biography section on pages 63 to 64.
During the year the Committee also spent considerable time focusing on executive succession planning.
Aware of the CFOs intention to retire in the near future, the Committee oversaw a rigorous recruitment and selection process.
Again the Committee instructed Egon Zehnder to compile a gender balanced long list of candidates and considered a number of external and internal candidates.
This process resulted in the recommendation to appoint Bill Scott, currently Director of Financial Reporting, as successor to Michael Healy.
In reaching its decision, the Committee considered Bills skill set, experience and achievements during his five years at the Company alongside the Companys business plan and strategic goals.
78 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 GOVERNANCE Other important work in the area of succession planning included considering how the annual talent review feeds into Executive succession planning and reviewing initiatives to strengthen the internal pipeline such as the Leadership and Development Programme which aims to develop the leadership skills of c. 90 leaders in the business and the Womens Sponsorship Programme which aims to enhance the profile and opportunity for future female leaders.
More information about the Groups activities in this area can be found on page 39.
The Committee also considered: the composition of the Committees following the appointment oftwo new Non-Executive Directors and recommended changes: the extension of Annet Aris and Martine Verluytens appointment terms for a further three years: re-appointment of Directors before making a recommendation tothe Board regarding their re-election at the 2017 AGM: and Directors potential conflicts of interests and independence.
BOARD DIVERSITY The Board currently has 36% female representation which exceeds the Davies Review target for Boards to have a minimum of 33% female representation by 2020.
The Chairman is a member of the 30% Club, which has the aim of promoting the achievement of 30% of women on FTSE 100 Boards.
The Committee continues to monitor gender diversity of senior management, including the Executive Committee and the TCLC statistics for which are provided on page 39, and is mindful of the Hampton-Alexander Review targets in respect of gender diversity in senior management of FTSE 100 companies.
The Board also acknowledges the target set by the Parker Review as a FTSE 250 company, to have at least one non-white Director by 2024.
As stated in the People section on page 39, ethnicity will be an area of increased focus for the Company in the coming year and the Committee will consider this aspect of diversity in the context ofthe Board.
The Committee remains committed to ensuring a diverse and representative Board, and making appointments based on merit.
A copy of the Groups Board Appointments Policy can be found at theGroups website at www.
com FRANK MEYSMAN CHAIRMAN OF THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE 21 November 2017 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 79 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Health and Safety HEALTH, SAFETY & Oversaw a restructure of the Group Health and Safety function which ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITTEE involved aligning the Groups approach to health and safety across all markets for both complementary and differentiated products Monitored the work and performance of the Companys main third-party audit supplier SGS and other suppliers, including Cristal Standards, who carried out independent security audits in certain destinations Supported an increase in health and safety audits of hotels, resulting in a position where over 92% of differentiated hotels have been audited by one of the Companys independent third-party audit suppliers Monitored the outcomes and findings of audits and any remedial CHAIRMAN actions identified Emre Berkin Reviewed the Companys Health and Safety Policy statement, Group Fuel Policy and Legionella Policy OTHER MEMBERS Monitored compliance with the Thomas Cook Group Fuel Policy Dawn Airey until 30 September 2017, Annet Aris, Peter Fankhauser Approved the introduction of a Hotel Security PolicyFramework and Jrgen Schreiber from 21 September 2017. which aligns with the Federation of Tour Operators Security Guidance Oversaw a training programme in respect of retail store security COMPOSITION OF THE COMMITTEE inthe UK which resulted in a reduction of burglary incidents A majority of the members of the Committee are .
Aviation Security Reviewed and approved a four-year Safety Plan which aims to DIRECTORS BIOGRAPHIES enhance and harmonise safety practices across the Group Airline.
See pages 63 to 64 The Safety Plan includes the launch of the Safe@Heart initiative which aims to embed an enhanced culture of safety in the Airline, MEETINGS ALSO ATTENDED BY: including extra safety training for 7,000 Group Airline employees The other Non-Executive Directors, Michael Healy CFO, Marc Jordan Monitored the safety and security of various airports including Group Head of Health, Safety and Security, Jean Christoph-Degen those in Turkey, Tunisia and Egypt Group Airlines Director of Aviation Safety, Alice Macandrew Carried out a deep-dive into the Group Airlines Disruptive GroupCorporate Affairs and Communications Director, Passenger Policy StephenDAlfonso Group Head of Public Affairs and Alice Marsden Sustainability Group General Counsel and Company Secretary.
Approved a new Sustainability Strategy which is aligned to the Groups wider strategy and provided direction in respect of target setting and implementation Approved a new Animal Welfare Policy and supported the engagement of an independent third-party supplier to carry out ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE audits of animal attractions to ensure they meet ABTAs standards for animal welfare The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility to review, Monitored the performance of hotels in achieving a Travelife develop and oversee consistent policy, standards and procedures sustainability certification for managing health, safety and environmental risks to the Groups Oversaw a review of the Groups charitable activities.
It is also responsible for the review and oversight of Monitored Carbon reporting under the Carbon Disclosure Project compliance with relevant legislation and regulation relating to and the Commitment to Carbon Reduction Scheme health, safety and the environment across the Group.
Public Affairs The full Terms of Reference of the Committee are available at www.
Monitored the Groups engagement with governments and policy makers in respect of Brexit, the implementation of the Package Travel Directive, fraudulent customer illness claims in the UK and ACTIVITIES the security of various airports and resorts The Committee continued to put customer and employee safety at the forefront of its agenda.
As well as closely monitoring activity EMRE BERKIN in these areas, it provided strategic oversight and guidance to CHAIRMAN OF THE HEALTH, SAFETY & ensure that activities align with the Companys strategy and values.
ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITTEE The matters it considered within its four main areas of focus are: 21 November 2017 80 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017
