STRATEGIC REPORT RISKS Internal Control and Risk Management The Board is committed to protecting and enhancing Diplomas The detailed risk evaluation process begins in the operating reputation and assets, while safeguarding the interests of businesses with an annual exercise undertaken by management shareholders.
It has overall responsibility for the Groups system to identify and document the significant strategic, operational, of risk management and internal control.
financial and accounting risks facing the businesses.
This process is both robust and challenging and ensures risks are Diplomas businesses are affected by a number of risks and identified and monitored and management controls are uncertainties.
These may be impacted by internal and external embedded in the business operations.
factors, some of which we cannot control.
Many of the risks are similar to those found by comparable companies in terms of The Group uses a quantitative method to determine a Risk Score scale and operations.
for each risk which is based on both the likelihood of each identified risk occurring and the consequence of an adverse Our approach outcome and its impact on the business.
Each business will then Risk management and maintenance of appropriate systems of identify processes established to control each risk and minimise control to manage risk is the responsibility of the Board and is its potential impact.
integral to the ability of the Group to deliver on its strategic priorities.
The Board has developed a framework of risk The risk assessments from each of the operating businesses management which is used to establish the culture of effective are then considered by the Board who evaluate the principal risk management throughout the businesses by identifying and risks of the Group with reference to the Groups strategy and monitoring the material risks, setting risk appetite and operating environment.
determining the overall risk tolerance of the Group.
This framework of risk management has been further enhanced this Our principal risks and uncertainties year and additional processes have been developed which will Set out in this section of the Strategic Report are the principal assist the Board to monitor and assess the principal risks risks and uncertainties affecting the Group which have been throughout the year.
determined by the Board, based on a robust risk evaluation process described above, to have the potential to have the The Groups risk management systems are monitored by greatest impact on the Groups future viability.
These risks theAudit Committee, under delegation from the Board.
aresimilar to those reported last year, although with some TheAudit Committee is responsible for overseeing the movement on the relative ranking of these risks.
In addition, effectiveness of the internal control environment of the Group.
following the risk evaluation process carried out this year as An internal audit function has been established for many described above, a new principal risk has been added that relates yearsto provide independent assurance that the Groups risk to Cybersecurity Information Technology Business Interruption.
management, governance and internal control processes are operating effectively.
The risks are each classified as either strategic, operational, financial or accounting.
The Groups decentralised operations Identifying and monitoring material risks with different Sectors and geographical spread reduces the Material risks are identified through a detailed analysis of impact of these principal risks.
individual processes and procedures bottom up approach anda consideration of the strategy and operating environment The Board has also considered the risks associated with the UKs of the Group top down approach.
Brexit vote to leave the European Union and this is explained further on page 31 in the Finance Review.
Viability Statement Diploma PLC The Directors confirm that they have a reasonable performance of existing businesses.
A robust financial model expectation that the Group will continue to operate and meet of the Group is built on a business-by-business basis and the its liabilities, as they fall due, for the next three years to metrics for the Groups KPIs are reviewed for the assessment September 2020.
The Directors assessment has been made period.
These metrics are also subject to sensitivity analysis with reference to the resilience of the Group and its strong which includes flexing a number of the main assumptions, financial position, the Groups current strategy, the Boards namely, future revenue growth, gross margins, operating risk appetite and the Groups principal risks and how these costs and working capital management.
The results of flexing are managed, as described in the Strategic Report.
these assumptions, both individually and in aggregate, are used to determine whether additional bank facilities will be The Group has a broad spread of customers and suppliers required during this period.
across different geographic areas and independent market sectors, often secured with longer term agreements.
The The Directors confirm that this robust assessment also Group is supported by a robust balance sheet and strong considers the principal risks facing the Group, as described operational cash flows.
on pages 33 to 35 and the potential impacts these risks wouldhave on the Groups business model, future The assessment period of three years has been chosen as it performance, solvency or liquidity over the assessment is consistent with the Boards triennial review of the Groups period.
The Board considers that the diverse nature of the strategy at which the prospects of each business are Sectors and geographies in which the Group operates acts discussed: assumptions are made regarding entering into significantly to mitigate the impact any of these risks might new markets and geographies, about future growth rates of have on the Group.
the existing businesses and about the acceptable 32 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic risk Downturn instability in major markets Risk description and assessment Mitigation Change Adverse changes in the major markets in which the businesses The businesses identify key market drivers and operate can have a significant impact on performance.
The monitor the trends and forecasts, as well as effects of these changes can be seen in terms of slowing maintaining close relationships with key customers revenue growth, due to reduced or delayed demand for who may give an early warning of slowing demand.
products and services, or margin pressures due to increased competition.
Changes to cost levels and inventories can then be made in a measured way to mitigate the effects.
A number of characteristics of the Groups businesses moderate the impact of economic and business cycles on the Group as a Significant global events are closely monitored to whole: determine any potential impact on key markets.
The Groups businesses operate in three differing Sectors with different cyclical characteristics and across a number of geographic markets.
The businesses offer specialised products and services, which are often specific to their application: this offers a degree of protection against customers quickly switching business to achieve a better price.
A high proportion of the Groups revenues comprises consumable products which are purchased as part of the customers operating expenditure, rather than through capital budgets.
In many cases the products are used in repair, maintenance and refurbishment applications, rather than original equipment manufacturer.
Strategic risk Supplier concentration loss of key suppliers Risk description and assessment Mitigation Change For manufacturer-branded products, there are risks to the Long term, multi-year exclusive contracts signed business if a major supplier decides to cancel a distribution with suppliers with change of control clauses, agreement or if the supplier is acquired by a company which has where possible, included in contracts for protection its own distribution channels in the relevant market.
There is or compensation in the event of acquisition.
also the risk of a supplier taking away exclusivity and either setting up direct operations or appointing another distributor.
Collaborative projects and relationships maintained with individuals at many levels of the supplier Currently no single supplier represents more than 10% of Group organisation, together with regular review meetings revenue and only six single suppliers represent more than 2% and adherence to contractual terms.
Regular review of inventory levels.
Relationships with suppliers have normally been built up over many years and a strong degree of interdependence has been Bundling and kitting of products and provision of established.
The average length of the principal supplier added value services.
relationships in each of the Sectors is over ten years.
Periodic research of alternative suppliers as part of The strength of the relationship with each supplier and the contingency planning.
volume of activity generally ensures continuity of supply, when there is shortage of product.
The businesses work very closely with each of their suppliers and regularly attend industry exhibitions The success of the businesses depends significantly on to keep abreast of the latest technology and market representing suppliers whose products are recognised in the requirements trends.
The businesses also meet marketplace as the leading competitive brand.
If suppliers fail to with key customers on a regular basis to gain support these products with new development and insight into their product requirements and technologies, then our businesses will suffer from reduced marketdevelopments.
demand for their products and services.
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2017 33 STRATEGIC REPORT RISKS Internal Control and Risk Management continued Strategic risk Customer concentration loss of key customer s Risk description and assessment Mitigation Change The loss of one or more major customers can be a material risk.
Specific large customers are important to individual operating businesses and a high level of The nature of the Groups businesses is such that there is not effort is invested in ensuring that these customers a high level of dependence on any individual customer and no are retained and encouraged not to switch to single customer represents more than 4% of Sector revenue another supplier.
or more than 2% of Group revenue.
In addition to providing high levels of customer service and value added activities, close integration is established where possible with customers systems and processes.
Operational risk Cybersecurity information technology business interruption Risk description and assessment Mitigation Change Group and operating business management depend critically on There is good redundancy and back-up built into timely and reliable information from their IT systems to run their local IT systems and the spread of businesses with businesses.
The Group seeks to ensure continuous availability, their own stand alone IT systems also offers good security and operation of those information systems.
Cyber threats to the businesses information systems have A member of the Executive Management Group continued to show an increasing trend this year.
maintains responsibility for ensuring each business in the Group has a robust cybersecurity programme Any disruption or denial of service may delay or impact and reports twice a year to the main Board on the decision making through lack of availability of reliable data.
status of cybersecurity across the Group.
In Poor information handling or interruption of business may also addition, education awareness of cyber threats lead to reduced service to customers.
Unintended actions of continues to ensure Group employees protect employees caused by a cyber-attack may also lead to disruption, themselves and Group assets.
Business continuity plans exist for each business In North American Seals, HFPGs Aftermarket business is with ongoing testing.
During September 2017, HFPG operated from a single warehouse based in Tampa, Florida successfully deployed their business continuity which continues to be exposed to hurricanes during the season plans to mitigate the impact of Hurricane Irma.
Operational risk Loss of key personnel Risk description and assessment Mitigation Change The success of the Group is built upon strong, self-standing Contractual terms such as notice periods and management teams in the operating businesses, committed to non-compete clauses can mitigate the risk in the the success of their respective businesses.
As a result, the loss short term.
However, more successful initiatives of key personnel can have an impact on performance, for a focus on ensuring a challenging work environment limited time period.
The Group places very high importance on planning the development, The average length of service of the ca.
90 senior managers motivation and reward for key managers in the in the Group is 11 years and for all personnel in the Group operating businesses including: isconsistently ca.
Ensuring a challenging working environment where managers feel they have control over, and responsibility for, their businesses.
Establishing management development programmes to ensure a broad base of talented managers.
Offering a balanced and competitive compensation package with a combination of salary, annual bonus and long term cash incentive plans targeted at the individual business level.
Giving the freedom, encouragement, financial resources and strategic support for managers to pursue ambitious growth plans.
34 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Operational risk Product liability Risk description and assessment Mitigation Change There is a risk that products supplied by a Group business may Technically qualified personnel and control fail in service, which could lead to a claim under product liability.
systems are in place to ensure products meet The businesses, in their terms and conditions of sale with quality requirements.
The Groups businesses are customers, will typically mirror the terms and conditions of required to undertake Product Risk assessments purchase from the suppliers.
In this way the liability can be and comprehensive Supplier Quality Assurance limited and subrogated to the supplier.
The Group has also established Group-wide product liability insurance which If a legal claim is made it will typically draw in our business as provides worldwide umbrella insurance cover of a party to the claim and the business may be exposed to legal 30m across all Sectors.
costs and potential damages if the claim succeeds and the supplier fails to meet its liabilities for whatever reason.
Product The Groups businesses have undergone product liability insurance can be limited in terms of its scope of liability training and are continually reviewed to insurable events, such as product recall.
demonstrate compliance with Group policies and procedures relating to product liability.
Financial risk Foreign currency Risk description and assessment Mitigation Change Foreign currency risk is the risk that currency rates will affect The Group operates across a number of diverse the Groups results.
The Group is exposed to two types of geographies but does not hedge translational financial risk caused by currency volatility: translational exposure of operating profit and net assets.
exposure, being the effect that currency movements have on the Groups financial statements on translating the results of The Groups businesses may hedge up to 80% of overseas subsidiaries into UK sterling: and transactional forecast being a maximum of 18 months foreign exposure, being the effect that currency movements have on currency transactional exposures using forward the results of operating businesses because their revenues or foreign exchange contracts.
product costs are denominated in a currency other than their local currency.
The Group finance department monitors rolling monthly forecasts of currency exposures.
The Group operates internationally and is exposed to translational foreign exchange risk arising from various currency Details of average exchange rates used in the exposures, primarily with respect to the US dollar, the Canadian translation of overseas earnings and of year-end dollar, the Australian dollar and the Euro.
The results and net exchange rates used in the translation of overseas assets of the Groups operations outside the UK are also exposed balance sheets, for the principal currencies used by to foreign currency translation risk.
the Group, are shown in note 28 to the consolidated financial statements.
A strengthening of UK sterling by 10% against all the currencies in which the Group does business, would reduce adjusted operating profit before tax by approximately 6.2m 8%, due to currency translation.
Similarly, a strengthening of UK sterling by 10% against all the non-UK sterling capital employed would reduce shareholders funds by 19.1m.
The Groups UK businesses are exposed to transactional foreign exchange risk on those purchases that are denominated in a currency other than their local currency, principally US dollars and Euros.
The Groups Canadian and Australian businesses are also exposed to a similar risk as the majority of their purchases are denominated in US dollars and Euros.
The Groups US businesses do not have any material foreign currency transactional risk.
Accounting risk Inventory obsolescence Risk description and assessment Mitigation Change Working capital management is critical to success in specialised Inventory write-offs are controlled and minimised industrial businesses as this has a major impact on cash flow.
by active management of inventory levels based The principal risk to working capital is in inventory obsolescence on sales forecasts and regular cycle counts.
Where necessary, a provision is made to cover both The charge against operating profit in respect of old or surplus excess inventory and potential obsolescence.
inventory in the year was 1.3m but inventories are generally not subject to technological obsolescence.
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2017 35
