Audit Committee Report I wish to thank Deloitte, the retiring audit firm, for their excellent service and wise counsel to the Committee over many years.
Anne Thorburn, Chairman of the Audit Committee Members of Committee: Attendance The breadth of the Groups operations has expanded substantially through acquisition in recent years.
The Anne Thorburn Chairman 8 8 Committee was therefore pleased that the Groups Internal Charles Packshaw 8 8 Audit function was strengthened during the year with the Andy Smith 8 8 recruitment of an experienced and multi-lingual auditor from one of the Big 4 firms.
The Committee places strong reliance on Internal Audits ability to visit each of the Groups operating Dear Shareholder businesses during the course of a year, particularly given the The Committees work this year has been largely focused on carrying out a tender process for the Company and Group audit Groups decentralised operating model.
As Chairman of the engagement, as Deloitte will have completed ten years as Committee, Ifind it very helpful to meet regularly with members of the team to discuss their reports.
This provides me with auditor at the end of the 2017 financial year.
greater insight of the overall culture of the internal control The process was very thorough, beginning in January this year environment in the Group.
and concluding in early September and is explained further on I am pleased to report that there were no significant control page 47.
The Committee was pleased with the strong quality of deficiencies or accounting irregularities reported to the presentations received from each of the participating audit firms, but unfortunately there could only be one successful firm.
The Group continues to maintain After a close contest, the Committee unanimously agreed to a strong culture of robust and effective systems of internal control, overseen by strong and experienced finance recommend that the Board appoint  as departments.
This appointment remains subject to the approval of shareholders at the AGM in January 2018.
I look forward to meeting shareholders at the AGM on 17 January 2018 and will be happy to respond to any questions relating to On behalf of the Committee, I wish to thank Ed Hanson and his the activities of the Audit Committee.
team at Deloitte, the retiring audit firm, for their excellent service and wise counsel to the Committee over many years.
Anne Thorburn 20 November 2017 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2017 45 GOVERNANCE Audit Committee Report continued Audit Committee The Committee is chaired by Anne Thorburn and comprises Key Duties three independent non-Executive Directors.
The Chair of the Committee is a qualified accountant, who has recent and Full terms of reference are available on the relevant financial experience.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that as a whole, the Monitors the integrity of the financial statements of the Committee has sufficient knowledge and competence in the Group and assists the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities business sectors in which the Group operates in order to provide relating to external financial reporting and similar appropriate challenge to management.
announcements, including Half Year and Annual financial statements and quarterly trading updates.
The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
The Executive Directors also attend Committee Reviews key accounting, auditing and tax issues.
meetings and the Internal Audit Manager also attended two Committee meetings.
The Committee met with the external Reviews effectiveness of the Groups risk management auditor during the year, without the Executive Directors and internal control systems.
Recommends appointment and or reappointment of the Engagement of the external auditor external auditor and approves their terms of engagement.
The external auditor is engaged to express an opinion on the financial statements of the Group and of the Company.
The Reviews and monitors independence of the external audit includes the review and testing of the systems of internal auditor and the effectiveness of the audit process.
financial control and the data contained in the financial statements, to the extent necessary for expressing an audit Monitors policy on external auditor supplying opinion on the truth and fairness of the financial statements.
Deloitte LLP has been the Companys auditor since its Monitors operation of the Companys Whistleblowing appointment in 2008.
Deloitte LLP provides the Committee with and anti-bribery corruption policies and investigates relevant reports, reviews and advice throughout the year, as set anyreports of fraud within the Group.
out in their terms of engagement.
Reviews effectiveness of the Internal Audit function In accordance with UK regulations, the Companys auditor and approves the Internal Audit work programme adheres to a rotation policy based on best practice and a new and reviews the results of the work undertaken.
Group lead engagement partner was appointed in 2013 in place of the previous lead engagement partner who had completed Reviews the basis on which the Company and a term of five years in that role.
its principal subsidiaries continue to prepare their financial statements on a going concern basis.
During the year, the Committee carried out an assessment of the effectiveness of the external audit process.
The assessment Reports to the Board on how it has discharged was led by the Chair of the Committee, assisted by the Group itsresponsibilities.
Finance Director and focused on certain criteria which the Committee considered to be important factors in demonstrating an effective audit process.
These factors included the quality of audit staff, the planning and execution of the audit and the role of management in the audit process.
Following this assessment, the Committee concluded that the external audit process remained effective and that it provides an appropriate independent challenge of the Groups senior management.
The Committee was satisfied that Deloitte provided a robust and effective audit and supports the work of the Committee through clear and objective communication on developments in financial reporting and governance.
46 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Audit tender During the year, with Deloitte approaching the end of their Audit Committee Agenda 2017 ten-year term as the Groups auditor at 30 September 2017, theCompany carried out a formal competitive tender for the Reviewed and agreed the scope of audit work to be external audit engagement.
The tender process began early in undertaken by the external auditor and agreed the terms 2017 and was overseen by the Chair of the Committee, together of engagement and fees to be paid for the external audit.
with the assistance of the Group Financial Controller.
The tender process was carried out in accordance with best practice Reviewed the Annual Report & Accounts and received guidelines provided by the FRC and the Investment Association.
reports from the Group Finance Director and the external auditor on the key accounting issues and areas of The Committee reviewed a potential list of audit firms to be significant judgement.
invited to tender for the audit and concluded that, in light of the size and geographic spread of the Groups businesses, an Reviewed the processes necessary to ensure that the audit firm from the Big 4 would be most appropriate for the Board was able to confirm that the Annual Report & Group audit engagement.
In March 2017, formal invitations Accounts are fair, balanced and understandable.
to tender were sent to each of the audit firms, including the incumbent firm, Deloitte.
These letters set out a schedule Reviewed the report from the Group Finance Director of matters to be addressed in the tender presentations, the on the controls in place to mitigate fraud risk.
proposed timetable and a set of confidential documents relating to the Groups reporting processes and the key criteria that the Reviewed the Half Year Announcement and received Committee would use to evaluate the tender process.
Each reports from the Group Finance Director and the external audit firm was also invited to visit the senior management auditor on the key accounting issues and areas of teams in the principal businesses, as part of the tender process.
The Committee received written proposals from each of Reviewed the Trading Updates at meetings held in the four audit firms in May, which was followed in June January, March and August.
by a formal presentation by each firm to a meeting of the Committee, which included the Chairman, the Executive Reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups internal Directors and the Group Financial Controller.
The Committee control and risk management procedures and, where scored each audit firm against criteria of capability, cultural fit, appropriate, made recommendations to the Board on audit quality, resource and proposed fees.
These scores areas for improvement.
wereused to reduce the tender process to a shortlist of two audit firms.
Invited the Internal Audit Manager to attend meetings in September and January to review the results of the At the end of August, following further soundings and the Internal Audit work for the current year and to agree the taking up of references, the Audit Committee recommended scope and focus of Internal Audit work to be carried out to the Board the appointment of  in the following year.
LLP PwC as auditors for the year ending 30 September 2018 for a period of up to ten years.
The final decision was Reviewed the effectiveness of the external audit judged against the principal selection criteria of capability, processand following a competitive tender process, audit quality and cultural fit.
The Board accepted and endorsed recommended the appointment of the Groups this recommendation, which is now subject to shareholder external auditor.
approval at the AGM to be held on 17 January 2018.
Reviewed terms and implications of the Competition & Following the announcement to shareholders on 5 September Markets Authority Order and the EU Audit Directive and 2017 of the Boards proposal to appoint PwC, a transition Audit Regulation.
plan was agreed with PwC which highlights key milestones, beginning with PwC shadowing Deloitte at the 2017 Group Reviewed the Groups policy on anti-bribery corruption audit close meeting with management and attendance and the procedures in place to ensure compliance across at the Audit Committee meeting held on 14 November the Group.
PwC do not provide any non-audit services to the Company or its subsidiaries and have confirmed their Reviewed the scope of sanctions issued by the European independence as at 1 October to the Audit Committee.
Union and the US and the procedures being followed by the Groups businesses to monitor compliance.
The Audit Committee confirms that the Company has complied with the provisions of the Competition & Markets Authority Reviewed the whistleblowing arrangements and the use Order throughout its financial year ended 30 September 2017 made by employees of a dedicated external independent and up to the date of this report.
and confidential telephone hotline service for all employees to raise concerns.
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2017 47 GOVERNANCE Audit Committee Report continued Financial reporting and significant judgements The Regulations substantially curtail those non-audit services As part of its monitoring of the integrity of the financial which can be provided by the auditor to the Company and in statements, the Committee reviews whether suitable particular, prohibits all tax related services, including compliance accounting policies have been adopted and whether services as well as general advice and all consultancy and management has made appropriate estimates and judgements advisory services.
The Regulations require that Board approval is and seeks support from the external auditor to assess them.
required if eligible non-audit services, such as due diligence and similar assurance services exceed 30% of the prior year Group The main areas of focus reviewed in the year ended audit fee and the Company may not allow eligible non-audit 30 September 2017 are set out below: services to exceed 70% of the Group audit fee, calculated on a rolling three-year basis.
Impairment of goodwill The Committee considered the carrying value of goodwill and In Diploma PLC, taxation services are not provided by the the assumptions underlying the impairment review.
The Groups current or proposed audit firm: a separate firm is judgements in relation to goodwill impairment largely relate to retained to provide tax advice and any assistance with tax the assumptions underlying the calculations of the value in use compliance matters generally.
In addition, due diligence of the Sector being tested for impairment.
These judgements exercises on acquisitions and similar transactions are not are primarily the calculation of the discount rate, the provided by the auditor, but are placed with other firms.
achievability of strategic business plans and macroeconomic assumptions underlying the valuation process.
This area is a The Group auditor is retained to carry out assurance services prime source of audit focus and accordingly the external auditor to the Committee in connection with carrying out agreed provided detailed reporting to the Committee.
upon procedures on the Groups Half Year consolidated financial statements.
Accounting for acquisitions The Committee reviewed the accounting for acquisitions The Group Finance Director does not have delegated authority completed during the year and the assumptions underlying the to engage the auditor to carry out any non-audit work, but must valuation of intangible assets.
They discussed the nature of the seek approval from the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
intangible assets with the Group Finance Director and the period over which these assets are to be amortised.
The Committee also The Committee assures itself of the auditors independence by discussed the fair value adjustments and the value attributed to receiving regular reports from the external auditor which provide deferred consideration.
The Committee also discussed with details of any assignments and related fees carried out by the the external auditor the work they had carried out to satisfy auditor in addition to their normal audit work and these are themselves that the valuation assumptions were appropriate.
reviewed against the above guidelines.
Valuation of inventory Details of the external auditors total fees, including non-audit The Committee reviewed the Report of the Group Finance fees of 13,000 paid to Deloitte LLP during the year are set out Director that set out the gross balances by business, together in note 27 to the consolidated financial statements.
with any related provision against the carrying value.
The Committee reviewed the bases used to value and confirm Risk management and internal control existence of inventory held across the Group: they also The principal risks and uncertainties which are currently judged considered the appropriateness of provisions held against to have the most significant impact on the Groups long term the carrying value of inventory, having regard to the age and performance are set out in a separate section of the Strategic volumes of inventory, relative to expected usage.
This matter Report on Internal Control and Risk Management on pages 32 was also discussed with the external auditor.
The Committee was satisfied that each of the matters set out The Committee is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of above had been fully and adequately addressed by the Executive the Groups system of internal control.
The system of internal Directors, appropriately tested and reviewed by the external control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of auditor and that the disclosures made in the Annual Report & failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide Accounts were appropriate.
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In addition to the main areas reviewed above, the Committee also seeks confirmation from the auditor that the Groups The Board has established a clear organisational structure businesses follow appropriate policies to recognise material with defined authority levels.
The day-to-day running of the streams of revenue and that the audit work carried out more Groups business is delegated to the Executive Directors of the generally has assessed any instances where management may Company.
The Executive Directors visit each operating unit on be able to override key internal controls designed to guard a regular basis and meet with both operational and finance against fraud or material misstatement.
The auditor also reports management and staff.
to the Committee on other less material matters in relation to accounting for the Groups two pension scheme arrangements, Key financial and operational measures relating to revenues, accounted for in accordance with IAS19 Revised and the cash and receivables are reported on a weekly basis.
management accounts and KPIs are prepared monthly using a robust proprietary reporting system to collect and analyse Non-audit services financial data in a consistent format.
Monthly results are The Committee has reviewed its internal guidelines covering measured against both budget and half year reforecasts which the type of non-audit work that can be carried out by the have been approved and reviewed by the Board.
All capital external auditor of the Company, in light of the new regulation expenditure above predefined amounts must be supported by a set out in the EU Audit Directive and Audit Regulation 2014 paper prepared by business management.
These Regulations came into force on 17 June 2016 and applied to the Company from 1 October 2017.
48 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2017 All financial data is taken directly from the trial balances of each There were no significant or high risk matters identified in the business held in their local ERP systems and reanalysed and internal audits undertaken during the current financial year.
formatted in a separate Group management reporting system, Several recommendations were made to the businesses with operated by the Group finance department.
There is no rekeying regard to formalising and improving their inventory cycle count of financial data and very limited use is made of spreadsheets procedures and improving the regularity and depth of credit by the Group businesses to report monthly financial results.
control assessments of customers with large credit balances.
The Group finance department continues to develop the The Internal Audit manager also reported that good progress functionality of this management reporting system to provide have been made with addressing those recommendations made greater insights into the activities of the Groups businesses, in 2016 in connection with inadequate inventory reconciliations both financial and operational.
The Groups internal auditor and more detailed employee expense reporting.
It was also regularly audits the base data at each business to ensure identified that further work is still required in some businesses it is properly reported through to the Group management to tighten up access controls in their ERP systems.
The work of the Internal Audit department was also extended As part of the year end close process each business is required this year to review and report on progress made by Group to complete a self-assessment which evaluates their financial businesses in ensuring that their control environment was control environment in the business designed to identify sufficiently robust to resist cyber-attacks.
This work identified weaknesses in controls.
These assessments are critically a number of instances where systems need to be upgraded and reviewed by the Groups Internal Audit manager and a summary strengthened and these results were reported to the member for each business is prepared for the Audit Committee.
In of the EMG who has been given responsibility for managing and addition, senior management of each business are required reporting to the Board on the Groups cybersecurity status.
to confirm their adherence with Group accounting policies, processes and systems of internal control by means of a The Internal Audit department also continues to monitor the representation letter addressed to the Audit Committee.
businesses compliance with Group policies on anti-bribery corruption and sanctions.
The Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control systems for the period The Committee is satisfied that the Internal Audit department from 1 October 2016 to the date of this Report.
Taking into is sufficiently independent of Executive management and has account the matters set out on pages 32 to 35 relating to sufficient resources and scope that is appropriate for the size principal risks and uncertainties and the reports from the and nature of Diploma PLC.
Internal Audit manager, the Board, with the advice of the Committee, is satisfied that the Group has in place effective Sanctions risk management and internal control systems.
The Audit Committee continued to work with senior management of the Company, in conjunction with local Internal Audit management of Kenteks Russian operations, to ensure ongoing The Group maintains a small Internal Audit department which compliance with EU and US led sanctions.
The Committee has reports directly to both the Group Finance Director and Chair of received reports on compliance with these sanctions and will the Audit Committee.
The department comprises an Internal continue to monitor developments until the sanctions are Audit manager, based in one of the Groups businesses in suspended or revoked.
Minneapolis, US and an experienced Senior Internal auditor based in the Groups offices in London.
Anti-bribery and whistleblowing Diploma maintains a Group-wide policy on anti-bribery A full programme of Internal Audit visits has been completed corruption which addresses the requirements of the Bribery Act during the year.
The scope of work carried out by Internal Audit 2010.
The Committee periodically reviews this policy and the generally focuses on the internal financial controls and risk procedures to ensure continued and effective compliance in its management procedures operating within each business.
In businesses around the world.
During the year, the Group rolled January the Internal Audit manager presents his Audit Plan for out a refresher using an e-learning training programme to all its the year to the Committee for their approval.
This training has been undertaken by all senior reports are prepared on the results of each Internal Audit visit management and employees in customer or supplier facing which set out weaknesses identified during their work, together roles and in particular by management and employees from with recommendations to improve the control environment.
companies that have recently joined the Diploma Group.
The These reports are discussed with management of the business e-learning training programme is being extended to encompass visited and are reviewed by the appropriate member of the other regulatory and compliance based topics, including a Code Executive Management Group.
At the end of the financial year, the Internal Audit manager The Committee also monitors the Groups Whistleblowing formally reports to the Committee on the results of the Internal policy, which provides the framework to encourage and give Audit work carried out by his department during the year.
The employees confidence to blow the whistle and report Committee reviews managements responses to matters raised, irregularities.
The policy, together with Hotline posters are including the time taken to resolve such matters.
The Audit placed on site noticeboards across the Group.
Employees are Chair also meets separately with the Internal Audit manager at encouraged to raise concerns via the confidential Hotline which least twice a year to review some of the departments reports is managed by an independent external company.
Reports to and discuss their findings.
the hotline are investigated and reported to the Committee, together with details of corrective action taken.
The Group received three Whistleblowing reports during the year.
On further review and investigation, the Committee concluded that all three reports essentially related to grievance issues in the workplace and the concerns reported to the Committee were satisfactorily resolved under the business grievance policy and procedures.
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2017 49
