Governance Effectiveness The standard Board schedule sets seven formal meetings objectives and details of any issues arising.
In addition, items throughout the year, one of which was specifically focused that requireformal Board approval are circulated in advance on a review of the Companys longer-term strategy.
with all supporting paperwork to aid appropriate decisions.
The Board has a list of matters reserved to it, and a rolling annual The Board also spent a day visiting sites in Manchester including plan of items for discussion, agreed between the Chairman and our development schemes at Clippers Quay and Gore Street.
They review the list of reserved matters TheBoard also received a number of presentations from the andannual plan regularly, to ensure they are properly covered, Grainger team throughout the day.
together with other key issues as required.
At each Board The table below shows examples of the subjects and matters meeting, the Chief Executive provides a review of the business, theBoard debated and considered throughout the year: setting out how it has been progressing against strategic Board activity 1.
P roperty transactions and How the Board spent its time Reviewed progress one year into operations 20% thestrategic plan.
Considered health and safety matters, Reviewed the proposed customer including a presentation to the Board proposition and technology strategy from the Health and Safety Director, for the business.
and matters arising in the sector 5 Received a presentation from 1 following the Grenfell Tower tragedy.
Goldman Sachs regarding domestic Considered material transactions and and international real estate and business opportunities including, equities markets, together with an among others, acquiring Gore Street, update on merger and acquisition The Rock and Finzels Reach.
Received a presentation on the towns Considered competitor activity in and cities in the English regions best the PRS sector.
suited for investment in the PRS.
Monitored the economic, legislative Considered supply chain management, 2 and geo-political landscape, with particular focus on key repair and 3 including the impact of Brexit maintenance contracts.
Received a presentation on Reviewed the risk management Graingers customer proposition framework, principal risks and andoperational plan.
appetite, in particular with regard tothe implementation of strategy.
Governance 10% Considered Executive and NonReviewed the Groups debt and Received briefings on regulatory Executive Director succession capital structure.
andgovernance issues, including and development.
Considered the Groups financial theModern Slavery Act 2015 and Considered the external evaluation performance throughout the year.
the Governments review of of the Boards effectiveness.
Agreed the continued application corporate governance in the UK.
Reviewed the culture of the business, ofthe dividend policy approved Considered shareholder relations, the Board and employee in 2016. inparticular the feedback from engagement.
The Board now Compared corporate and operating investors and analysts in connection considers culture at least annually.
overheads to the business plan.
with the 2016 full year results Received a presentation from the Monitored performance of the andthe 2017 interim results.
HR Director on senior management agreed KPIs for the business.
Received reports from the succession, people development Considered the requirements of a Nominations, Audit and and talent management.
REIT conversion, and the feasibility Remuneration Committees.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 48 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Information flow Induction and professional development The Chairman and the Company Secretary ensure the Directors In accordance with the Code, Graingers policy is that the receive clear, timely information on all relevant matters.
Chairman, supported by the Company Secretary, is responsible Wecirculate Board papers well in advance of meetings to for ensuring that each Director receives a comprehensive and ensurethere is adequate time for them to be read and to tailored induction.
facilitate robust and informed discussion.
Case study: Mark Clare and Justin Read The papers contain the Chief Executives written report, highlevel reports on each business area, key figures and papers on specific agenda items.
Also, minutes of the Executive Committee meetings and detailed financial and other supporting information are provided.
The Board also received presentations throughout the year from various departments, including Human Resources, Legal, Investment, Corporate Finance and Health & Safety, and from external advisers on subjects including financing and business valuation.
Time commitment The Board, supported by the Nominations Committee, carefully As both Mark Clare and Justin Read were appointed at the same time, as Chairman and Non-Executive Director respectively, the Chief considered the external commitments of the Chairman and each Executive and outgoing Chairman were involved in the induction of the Non-Executive Directors.
The Board is satisfied that each andorientation process, to ensure a smooth and effective handover.
Director committed enough time to be able to fulfil their duties, and has capacity to continue doing so.
None of them has any Each new Director met the Company Secretary in the year to discuss conflict of interest not disclosed to the Board, in accordance their particular induction and training requirements.
This covered matters such as Directors duties, corporate governance, share withthe Companys Articles of Association.
dealing and use of the Companys electronic Board portal.
Mark and Justins induction involved them visiting our London and Newcastle Access to independent advice offices, and meeting Executive Directors and senior managers from All Directors have access to the advice and services of the across the investment, development, operational and central Company Secretary, who ensures we follow Board processes functions of the business.
They both also met key third-party advisers andmaintain high corporate governance standards.
Any such as the external auditor and brokers.
In addition, they both visited a number of operational or in development sites: so as well as the Directorwhoconsiders it appropriate may take independent, site visit to Manchester referred to on page 48, they also visited our professional advice at the Companys expense.
None of the properties at Berewood, Aldershot and Abbeville.
Justin also visited Directors did so inthe current year.
PRS homes in Newcastle, Whitley Bay and Pimlico.
Engagement with stakeholders As Chairman, Mark had an induction which emphasised shareholder The Board acknowledges and understands that Graingers engagement.
He met a number of key shareholders to hear their views on Grainger, and to understand their expectations from the stakeholders may have different views and interests regarding Company and from him as Chairman.
Mark reported to the Board the Company.
It is therefore important we engage with each key onthis engagement process.
stakeholder group to understand their views and priorities.
The table below shows where you can find further detail in this report: The Board is updated on a range of matters throughout the year.
Subjects include the business of the Group, legal and regulatory Stakeholder Page responsibilities of the Company and changes to accounting Employees 31 requirements.
This takes the form of presentations by Grainger Customers and communities 3234 senior management and external advisers, and in Board papers Shareholders 5961 and briefing materials.
We also expect individual Directors to identify their own training needs, and to ensure they are adequately informed about the Group and their responsibilities as a Director.
The Board is confident that all its members have the knowledge, ability and experience to perform the functions required of a Director of a listed company.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 49 Governance Effectiveness continued The Board and its Committees will monitor progress and Performance evaluation continue their critical review of its effectiveness during the Board Alchemy, an independent specialist consultancy, yearahead.
In accordance with the Code, we intend the next undertook the annual evaluation of the Board and its external evaluation of the Board to be carried out in 2020.
They performed a thorough independent review of the Board and its Committees.
This included the Election and re-election of Directors completion of a detailed questionnaire, followed by individual We continue to adopt the recommendations of the Code that all meetings with each of the Directors and the Company Secretary.
Directors offer themselves for re-election annually, even though This process ensured that there was a complete follow-up to the Companys Articles of Association only require this every those matters highlighted in the questionnaire exercise.
Therefore all current Directors, with the exception also reviewed recent Board and Committee papers.
Board of Mark Clare, Justin Read and Belinda Richards, will stand for Alchemys report concluded that the Board and its Committees re-election at the 2018 AGM.
Belinda will be retiring from the were all operating effectively.
Board having served for more than six years.
As it will be Mark Key findings and recommendations are set out below.
and Justins first AGM as Directors of the Company, they will be subject to election by the shareholders at the AGM.
The review of individual Director performance was outside of thescope of Board Alchemys work.
The Chairman undertook In light of the performance evaluation, the Board recommends thisin one-to-one meetings with each Non-Executive Director.
that all Directors proposed are so elected or re-elected He also conducted a formal review of the Chief Executives asapplicable.
Notwithstanding that the Chairman has been in the role for a relatively short period, Belinda Richards, the Senior Independent Director, led a review of his performance, taking into account feedback from the Directors.
This concluded that the Chairmans leadership and performance were effective and of ahigh standard.
External Board evaluation cycle Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 2017 2018 2019 2020 External Internal Internal External Key findings from the 2017 external Board evaluation Findings The new Chairman has settled in well and established good working relationships with the Chief Executive and other Board members.
There are good Board dynamics and appropriate challenge.
The Board focuses on key matters and its work is supported by good-quality Board papers and management briefings.
This was supported by the work of the Company Secretariat as well as the various Committees.
Certain improvements were in progress at the time of the evaluation.
These included: greater customer focus being brought to Graingers strategy, recognising the businesss move to PRS: the Board giving greater focus to succession planning: and plans to give Non-Executive Directors greater exposure to a wider range of staff, and to bring greater external perspective to the Board.
Principal recommendations Give greater consideration to the values and culture needed to support the PRS strategy.
Take a more structured approach to Board development.
Provide Board members with information updates between Board meetings.
Carry out formal annual reviews of the effectiveness of Graingers Internal Audit function.
When the opportunity arises, recruit a retail consumer experienced Non-Executive Director to complete the skill sets required.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 50
