GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance With a proven strategy and the support of an experienced group of managers on the EMG, the Board is confident that it remains in a strong position to meet the likely challenges during this transition year.
The Audit Committee completed a formal competitive tender for the external audit engagement during this year.
This process is described in more detail in the Audit Committee Report.
After a thorough process, the Board has resolved, on the recommendation of the Committee, to propose to shareholders that  be appointed John Nicholas, Chairman as auditor to the Company from 1 October 2017.
On behalf of the Board, I wish to thank Deloitte, the retiring auditor, for their excellent service over the past ten years.
Members of Board Attendance The Remuneration Committee completed its review of the Chairman Remuneration Policy for Directors during the year.
Their review John Nicholas 7 7 was supported by Aon Hewitt and included consultation with Independent non-Executive Directors the Companys largest shareholders who in aggregate represent Andy Smith 7 7 over 50% of the Companys ordinary shares.
The review resulted Charles Packshaw 7 7 in a tightening of some elements of the Policy to ensure the Company remains up to date with current best practice, Anne Thorburn 7 7 asdescribed further in the Remuneration Report.
However the Executive Directors Board was pleased that this review also confirmed that the core Nigel Lingwood 7 7 principles of the existing Policy continued to provide a strong Bruce Thompson 7 7 basis for linking Diplomas strategy to Director remuneration.
The Companys Capital Markets Day held in February this Dear Shareholder yearprovided an opportunity for shareholders and potential The Board and its Committees have enjoyed a productive year in investors to meet with senior management in the Group who 2017 guiding the Company through some important Governance comprise the EMG.
I thought it was an excellent morning which tasks set out in the Code, namely a formal review of the demonstrated very well the breadth and depth of the Groups Companys Remuneration Policy and undertaking a tender for businesses and the growth opportunities that remain available the Companys audit engagement.
As these two exercises drew to each of the Groups Sectors.
I would recommend that to a close in September, the Board also embarked on a process shareholders have a look at the videos and presentations that to recruit a new CEO, after Bruce Thompson had notified the were used at this event and which are available on the Board of his decision to retire from his role by 30 September Companys website.
Bruce has been an outstanding leader of the Group for over 20 years and has been instrumental in developing and I hope that as shareholders in the Company you will be able to executing the existing strategy that has underpinned the find time to attend our AGM on Wednesday, 17 January 2018. tremendous success of the Group.
Itprovides an excellent opportunity to meet the Board of Directors and challenge them on any matters you feel are The Board, led by the Nomination Committee, has commenced important to the development of the Company.
a formal process with a search agency to recruit a new CEO.
I look forward to updating shareholders on this process as soon John Nicholas as we have identified a successor.
20 November 2017 The Board recognises that the period of transition to the new CEO is likely to be challenging, but it is confident that with a proven strategy and the support of an experienced group of managers on the EMG, it remains in a strong position to meet the likely challenges during this transition year.
40 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Compliance with the Code Diploma PLC is required to state whether it has complied with The Companys auditor Deloitte LLP, is required to review the Main Principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code whether the statement reflects the Companys compliance the Code, issued by the Financial Reporting Council in April with the Provisions of the Code specified for their review by 2016.
Set out on pages 41 to 63 is an explanation of how the the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and to report if it Company has complied with the Main Principles of the 2016 does not reflect such compliance.
The Board confirms that throughout the financial year, the Company applied all of the Principles set out in sections A to E of the Code for the period under review.
The Board also confirms that it complies with all of the Provisions of the Code as at the date of this Report.
Nomination Committee Framework of Corporate Governance Chaired by John Nicholas Number of meetings in the year: Three The Board The Diploma PLC Board is accountable to the Companys Role of the Committee shareholders for standards of Governance across the Groups The Nomination Committee regularly reviews the structure, size businesses.
Certain strategic decision-making powers and and composition of the Board and its Committees.
It identifies authorities of the Company are reserved as matters for the and nominates suitable candidates to be appointed to the Board Board.
The principal matters reserved for the Board are set out subject to Board approval and considers succession generally.
Day-to-day operational decisions are managed by the Chief Executive Officer.
Remuneration Committee Chaired by Andy Smith Setting the overall strategic direction and oversight of the Number of meetings in the year: Seven management of Diploma PLC.
Role of the Committee Approval of the Group and Company financial statements.
The Committee reviews and recommends to the Board, the All new bank facilities, or significant changes to framework and policy for the remuneration of the Chairman and existingfacilities.
The remuneration of the non-Executive Assessment and approval of the principal risks facing Directors is determined by the Chairman and the Executive theGroup and how they are being managed.
The Committee takes into account the business Approval of the Viability Statement.
strategy of the Group and how remuneration policy should Maintaining sound internal control and risk reflect and support that strategy.
Approval of major corporate transactions and commitments.
Leadership Succession planning and appointments to the Board.
Board composition Review of the Groups overall corporate governance The Board currently comprises a Chairman, two Executive arrangements and reviewing the performance of the Board Directors and three independent non-Executive Directors.
The and its Committees annually.
non-Executive Directors are appointed for specified terms and Approval of the delegation of authority between the the details of their respective appointments are set out in the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer and the terms Remuneration Committee Report on page 57.
The biographical ofreference of all Committees of the Board.
details of the Board members are set out on pages 38 and 39.
Where appropriate, matters are delegated to a Committee John Nicholas is Chairman of the Board and the Nomination which will consider them in accordance with its terms of Committee.
Each of the three independent non-Executive reference.
Details of each Committees terms of reference are Directors performs additional roles: Charles Packshaw serves as available on the Diploma PLC website at www.
Senior Independent Director, Andy Smith is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Anne Thorburn is Chairman of Audit Committee the Audit Committee.
Chaired by Anne Thorburn Number of meetings in the year: Eight Activities of the Board The Companys governance framework is set out above Role of the Committee together with a summary of the formal terms of reference.
The The Audit Committee has responsibility for overseeing and core activities of the Board and its Committees are planned on monitoring the Companys financial statements, accounting an annual basis and this framework forms the basic structure processes, audit internal and external, internal control systems within which the Board operates.
and risk management procedures and also monitors issues relating to fraud, anti-bribery and corruption, sanctions and The Boards terms of reference also set out the separate and whistleblowing.
distinct roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer.
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2017 41 GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance continued The Chairman is responsible for the overall leadership and This exposure to the members of senior management from governance of the Board and ensures that the Directors across the businesses helps enhance the Boards understanding haveanunderstanding of the views of the Companys major of the businesses, the implementation of strategy and the shareholders.
The Chairman sets the Boards agenda and changing dynamics of the markets in which the businesses ensures that there is a healthy culture of challenge and debate operate.
Effectiveness The Board appoints the Chief Executive Officer and monitors Independent non-Executive Directors hisperformance in leading the Company and providing The non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board to operational and performance management in delivering the be independent in character and judgement and there are no agreed strategy.
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for relationships or circumstances which could affect, or appear to developing, for the Boards approval, appropriate values, culture affect, a Directors judgement.
The Chairman, John Nicholas and standards to guide all activities undertaken by the Company was considered independent by the Board both at the time of and for maintaining good relationships and communications his appointment as Director on 1 June 2013 and as Chairman on with investors.
In accordance with the Code, the ongoing test of independence for the Chairman is not relevant.
The approval of acquisitions, for the most part, is a matter reserved for the Board, save that it delegates to the Chief All non-Executive Directors are advised of the likely time Executive Officer the responsibility for such activities to a commitments at appointment.
The ability of individual specified level of authority.
Similarly, there are authority levels Directors to allocate sufficient time to the discharge of their covering capital expenditure which can be exercised by the Chief responsibilities is considered as part of the Directors annual Executive Officer.
Beyond these levels of authority, projects are evaluation process, overseen by the Chairman.
Any issues referred to the Board for approval.
concerning the Chairmans time commitment are dealt with by the Nomination Committee, chaired for this purpose by the Other matters reserved to the Board include treasury policies, Senior Independent Director.
internal control and risk management.
Each non-Executive Director is required to inform the Board To ensure that non-Executive Directors can constructively ofany changes to their other appointments.
challenge and support proposals on strategy, the Board has adopted a process of reviewing and approving the agreed During the year, the Chairman has also held meetings with strategy for the Company on a three-yearly basis.
The Board the non-Executive Directors, without the Executive Directors met for a formal review of the Companys strategy at the end of present.
The Board received a number of presentations and had thorough and challenging reviews with The appointments of non-Executive Directors are subject Executive management.
In 2017 as in 2016, the Board reviewed toformal, rigorous and transparent procedures which are progress against the objectives set at the Group strategy described more fully in the Nomination Committee Report session in June 2015. which is set out on page 50.
In normal circumstances, the Board would expect to hold the Diversity next formal review of the Companys strategy in 2018.
However The Board is committed to a culture of equal opportunity in light of the impending retirement of the Chief Executive anddiversity to attract and retain talented people to deliver Officer, this review is likely to be postponed until a new Chief outstanding performance and further enhance the success Executive Officer has been appointed.
Meetings of the Board In that culture, diversity across a wide range of criteria is valued, The Board has seven scheduled meetings during the financial including skills, knowledge and experience as well as gender, year but will meet more frequently if required.
ethnicity, religion and sexual orientation.
People are appointed on merit, in an equal opportunities environment and without Each Director is expected to attend all meetings of the Board or any form of positive or negative discrimination.
External Committees of which they are a member.
In addition, senior consultants, when used, are made aware of this policy.
management from across the Group and advisors attend certain meetings for the discussion of specific items in greater depth.
The Nomination Committee reviews the structure, size, diversity, balance and composition of the Board and makes The Board ensures that at least one of the scheduled meetings recommendations to the Board concerning the reappointment is held on site at one of the Groups facilities, where the Board of any non-Executive Director at the conclusion of their specified has an opportunity to both receive presentations from local term of office and in the identification and nomination of new management and meet employees of that business.
The principal objective of the Nomination Committee 2017, the Boards scheduled meeting was held at Kenteks new is to ensure that all candidates have appropriate knowledge, facility in Helsinki.
At this meeting the Board received ability and experience for the role.
presentations from senior management in Kentek and had an opportunity to view the new facility and meet with employees The Board supports the recommendations of the Davies review to gain a better understanding of the products and operation on gender diversity but believes that other types of diversity are managed from this facility.
The Board is currently diverse across a range of criteria but it is committed to strengthen that diversity, In September 2017 the Boards scheduled meeting reviewed the including gender and ethnic diversity, when appropriate Groups strategic objectives identified at the strategy session opportunities arise.
The Board will also take account of its held in 2015 and the Chief Executive Officer provided an update objective to meet the Davies review targets before the end on the progress achieved in implementing these objectives.
ofthe next Board rotation of non-Executive Directors.
42 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Information and professional development The issues identified in this evaluation were more broadly An induction programme is agreed for all new Directors aimed focused on matters that the Board believed should be further at ensuring that they are able to develop an understanding developed for later discussion at meetings of the Board or in andawareness of the Groups core processes, its people and thenext review of Company strategy.
There were no significant businesses.
The non-Executive Directors awareness of the issues identified that required immediate attention.
There were businesses is further developed through periodic visits to the also no negative performance issues identified from the principal business locations and presentations to the Board evaluation that related to individual Directors or the bysenior management of the businesses.
In 2017, the Board performance of the Board Committees.
received presentations from senior management of the Kentekbusiness.
The Board also received an update on progress made with implementing those recommendations arising from the internal Following the new appointments to the Board in 2015, a evaluations carried out in 2016.
These primarily related to the managed induction programme was set up which included a non-Executive Directors wishing to receive more information on visit by each of the new non-Executive Directors to the major the competitive factors facing the principal businesses in each business units in each of the Groups Sectors where they have Sector, on a review of the potential impact of innovative and or an opportunity to meet with senior management in these disruptive technologies on the Groups businesses and further businesses.
Meetings were also held individually between each discussions on strategies to manage the Group in a post Brexit of the non-Executive Directors and the Executive Directors and and particularly lower growth environment.
with some of the principal advisors to the Company.
The Board agenda during 2017 has included discussions to The Chairman, with the assistance of the Chief Executive Officer address these recommendations more generally.
However a and the Group Company Secretary, is responsible for ensuring comprehensive review of each of these topics will be included that Directors are supplied with information in a timely manner inthe next Board meeting on Company strategy.
that is in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable them to discharge their duties.
In the normal course of business, the The Senior Independent Director, together with the nonChief Executive Officer gives an oral report to the Board at each Executive Directors also carries out each year and has done so meeting and information is provided and reported through in2017, a performance evaluation of the Chairman, having taken formal Board reports that include information on operational account of the views of all of the Directors.
There are also reports onthe performance of the Groups businesses, financial Re-election performance relative to the budget, risk management, business All Directors of the Board are subject to election by the development and investor relations.
shareholders at the first AGM following their appointment by the Board and in accordance with the Code, all Directors will also The training needs of the Directors are periodically discussed at stand for re-election annually at the AGM.
Board meetings and where appropriate, briefings as necessary are provided on various elements of corporate governance and Liability insurance other regulatory issues.
In line with market practice, each Director is covered by appropriate directors and officers liability insurance D&O, The Chairman has reviewed and agreed the training and atthe Companys expense.
The D&O insurance covers development needs of individuals Directors and encourages theDirectors and Officers against the costs of defending them to continually update their skills, together with knowledge themselves in legal proceedings taken against them in that and familiarity with the Company to fulfil their role on the Board capacity and in respect of any damages resulting from those and Board Committees.
The Company also indemnifies its Directors and Officers to the extent permitted by law.
Neither the insurance The Group Company Secretary acts as an advisor to the Board nor the indemnity provides cover where the Director or Officer on matters concerning governance and regulatory issues and has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
ensures compliance with Board procedures.
All Directors have access to his advice.
The appointment and removal of the Group Professional advice Company Secretary and his remuneration are matters for the A policy is in place pursuant to which each Director may obtain Board as a whole.
independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
Infurtherance of their duties as a Director of Diploma PLC.
Board evaluation Noformal requests were made during the year, but post-year The Board undertakes an externally led evaluation of the end, advice was sought in relation to Board succession.
In effectiveness of the Board every three years, in accordance with addition, each of the Committees are authorised, through their the Code.
This exercise encompasses an evaluation of the Board Terms of Reference, to seek advice at the Companys expense.
as a whole, the Board Committee and of individual Directors.
During the year, advice was sought by the Remuneration The last externally led evaluation was carried out in July 2015 Committee in relation to the development of the Directors and the external facilitator concluded that the Boards Remuneration Policy.
effectiveness at that time was very strong.
A similar external evaluation exercise is scheduled to be carried out again in 2018.
Conflicts of interest Directors are subject to a statutory duty under the Companies In those years when an external evaluation is not performed, Act 2006 the Act to avoid a situation where they have, or the Board undertakes an internal evaluation of the Boards could have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly effectiveness using specially designed evaluation forms and could conflict, with the Companys interests.
The Act allows under the direction of the Chairman.
This exercise encompasses directors of public companies to authorise conflicts and an evaluation of the performance of the Board as a whole, as potential conflicts where appropriate, where the Articles of well as of each of the Committees and individuals.
Feedback on Association the Articles contain a provision to this effect.
Board performances is presented by the Chairman to the Board The Act also allows the Articles to contain other provisions for and actions and objectives are agreed for the following year.
dealing with Directors conflicts of interest to avoid a breach of duty.
The internal Board evaluation was carried out in August 2017 and results of this review were again satisfactory.
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2017 43 GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance continued Procedures adopted to deal with conflicts of interest continue The Groups website contains up-to-date information for tooperate effectively and the Boards authorisation powers are shareholders which includes the Annual Report & Accounts being exercised properly in accordance with the Companys of the past eight years, current and historic share price Articles.
information, news releases and presentations to analysts and key shareholders.
The website also contains factual data on the Accountability Groups businesses, products and services.
The Board is responsible for ensuring that the Annual Report &Accounts taken as a whole present a fair, balanced and The non-Executive Directors are given regular updates as to the understandable assessment of the Group and provides the views of institutional shareholders and an independent insight is information necessary to shareholders to assess the Groups sought through research carried out twice a year by the position and performance, business model and strategy.
This is Companys advisors, focused on both investors and analysts.
achieved through this Annual Report & Accounts, the Annual Review and through other periodic financial statements Through these processes, the Board is kept abreast of key andannouncements.
issues and the opportunity is available on request for shareholders to meet the Chairman or Senior Independent The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent Director, separately from the Executive Directors.
of the principal risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives and for maintaining sound risk management and Electronic communications to shareholders include the Notice internal control systems.
The Board is also responsible for of the AGM which is sent at least 20 working days prior to the monitoring the Groups risk management and internal control meeting.
The Company proposes a separate resolution on each systems and it reviews the effectiveness of these systems separate issue and for each resolution, proxy appointment through the work of the Audit Committee.
forms provide shareholders with the option to vote in advance of the AGM.
The principal risks which the Board has identified this year are set out in the section on Internal Control and Risk Management All shareholders have the opportunity to put questions at the on pages 32 to 35 of the Strategic Report.
Companys AGM, when the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer give a statement on the Groups performance during the Relations with shareholders year, together with a statement on current trading conditions.
The Company has a well-developed investor relations The Chairman of the Board and of the Remuneration and Audit programme managed by the Chief Executive Officer and Group Committees are available to answer questions at the meeting.
Through this programme, the Company maintains regular contact with major shareholders to The Board has resolved, in line with best practice, to conduct a communicate clearly the Groups objectives and monitors poll on each resolution proposed at the AGM.
The results of the movements in significant shareholdings.
AGM resolutions, including details of votes cast, are published on the Companys website.
During the past several years, these communications have been enhanced by the introduction of Investor Days, both in the UK With regard to shareholder meetings, other than AGMs, the and in Canada which were well attended.
In addition, Investor Board will continue, in ordinary circumstances, to provide as Roadshows are now held each year in the US and Canada as well much notice as possible and certainly no less than 14 working as in the UK and formal investor presentations are made twice a days.
However, the Board considers that it should still retain the year to groups of private client fund managers.
flexibility to reduce the timescale to 14 clear days in the case of non-routine business and where it is merited by the business of The Company also engages with existing and potential new the meeting.
For this reason, the Board has again proposed a investors through a formal Capital Markets Day at which resolution at the AGM to reduce the notice period for General attendees have an opportunity to meet with senior Meetings from 21 to no less than 14 clear days.
management in the Group to gain a better understanding of the businesses product portfolios.
In February 2017, a Capital Markets Day was held in London which was attended by over 50 members of the investment community.
This proved to be a very successful event for the Company and further details are set out on page 9 in the Chief Executives Review.
Most shareholder contact is with the Chief Executive Officer and Group Finance Director through presentations made twice a year on the operating and financial performance of the Group and its longer term strategy.
The Chief Executive Officer and Group Finance Director generally deal with questions from individual shareholders.
44 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2017
