Corporate governance report BOARD COMMITTEE STRUCTURE easyJet plc Board Responsible for the Groups long-term planning and providing the necessary resources and structure to achieve long-term objectives Safety Committee Nominations Committee Audit Committee Chair: Dr. Andreas Bierwirth Chair: John Barton Chair: Adle Anderson page 57 page 57 page 59 Key responsibilities: To examine Key responsibilities: To keep under Key responsibilities: To monitor specific safety issues as requested review the composition, structure the integrity of the Groups by the Board or any member of and size of, and succession to, the financial statements, the the Committee.
To receive, Board and its Committees.
To adequacy and effectiveness of examine and monitor reports on provide succession planning for the systems of internal control actions taken by departments.
To senior executives and the Board, including whistleblowing review and monitor the leading the process for all Board procedures, and the implementation of easyJets appointments.
To evaluate the effectiveness and annual safety plan.
balance of skills, knowledge, independenceof the internal experience and diversity on and external auditors.
Finance Committee IT Governance and Remuneration Committee Chair: Andy Martin Oversight Committee Chair: Charles Gurassa page 63 Chair: Andy Martin page 64 Key responsibilities: To review and page 63 Key responsibilities: To set monitor the Groups treasury Key responsibilities: To provide remuneration for all Executive policies, treasury operations and independent oversight over the Directors and the Chairman, funding activities, along with the governance and controls relating to including pension rights and any associated risks.
the IT business area, in particular compensation payments.
To covering the required resilience recommend and monitor the level and change.
and structure of remuneration for senior management.
Executive Management Team Responsible for implementing operational decisions which are within the framework and long-term strategy set by the Board ATTENDANCE AT SCHEDULED MEETINGS DURING 2017 FINANCIAL YEAR For further information regarding when Board members joined or stepped down from Committees during and after the 2017 financial year, please refer to the Committee changes sections in the relevant Committee reports pages 57 to 64.
IT Governance Audit Remuneration Finance Safety Nominations and Oversight Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Scheduled Meetings 10 4 5 5 4 4 4 Executive Directors Carolyn McCall DBE 10 10 2 3 2 Andrew Findlay 10 10 4 1 5 Non-Executive Directors John Barton 10 10 1 4 1 4 4 4 Charles Gurassa 10 10 5 5 5 5 1 4 4 Adle Anderson 10 10 4 4 5 5 4 4 1 4 4 1 Dr. Andreas Bierwirth 9 10 1 5 5 4 4 1 2 Keith Hamill OBE 10 10 4 4 1 4 4 4 4 3 4 Andy Martin 10 10 4 4 5 5 5 5 1 4 4 4 4 3 Franois Rubichon 7 8 3 4 3 3 4 Moya Greene 3 3 1 1 1 Not a member of the relevant Committee attendance at meeting by invitation.
1 Andreas Bierwirth missed one Board meeting in a two-day Board strategy offsite due to a prior commitment that could not be re-arranged.
2 Keith Hamill missed one IT Governance and Oversight Committee meeting due to a prior commitment.
3 Franois Rubichon stepped down from the Board on 22 July 2017 and informed the Board that he was unable to attend any meetings that July: his absences from meetings relate to that period.
4 Moya Greene joined the Board on 19 July 2017, and joined the Safety Committee on 1 September 2017 and the Remuneration Committee on 20 September 2017.
52 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2017 GOVERNANCE Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code The Group has, throughout the 2017 financial year, A.
4 Non-Executive Directors compliedwithout exception with the provisions of the 2016 Charles Gurassa is Senior Independent Director and Deputy UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
In this role, Charles provides advice and additional below details how the Company has complied with the Code, support and experience to the Chairman as required, and is available at http: www.
The following disclosures available to act as an intermediary for the other Directors if are ordered into the sections as they appear in the Code.
Charles is also available to address shareholders concerns that have not been resolved through the normal A.
LEADERSHIP channels of communication with the Chairman, Chief Executive A.
1 Role of the Board or other Executive Directors, and leads the appraisal of the The Board is responsible for providing effective leadership Chairmans performance annually in consultation with the other tothe airline.
It does this by setting strategic priorities and Non-Executive Directors in a meeting without the Chairman overseeing their delivery in a way that enables sustainable being present.
The Non-Executive Directors, together with long-term growth, while maintaining a balanced approach theChairman, also meet regularly without any Executive torisk within a framework of effective controls.
During the year, there were no unresolved concerns The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for regarding the running of the Group.
itsdecision which is available in the governance section of B.
EFFECTIVENESS easyJets corporate website: http: corporate.
1 Composition of the Board Day-to-day management responsibility rests with the As at 30 September 2017, the Board comprised seven ExecutiveManagement Team, listed on pages 50 to 51.
Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman and Theseindividuals are also the Directors and Company twoExecutive Directors.
Secretary of the principal operating company, easyJet AirlineCompany Limited.
After considering the matter, the Board considers Adle Anderson, Dr. Andreas Bierwirth, Charles Gurassa, Keith Hamill The Board meets regularly, with 10 scheduled meetings OBE, Andy Martin and Moya Greene to beNon-Executive having been held during the year.
The Directors attendance Directors who are independent in character and judgment.
The records at those meetings and Board Committee meetings Board reviews its Committee membership each year to ensure held during the year are shown in the table on page 52.
In that undue reliance is not placed on individuals.
addition tothose scheduled meetings, five ad hoc Board calls were also arranged during the 2017 financial year to deal with B.
2 Appointments to the Board matters arising between scheduled meetings as appropriate.
The Nominations Committee leads the process for Board Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to communicate appointments and makes recommendations to the Board.
For directly with each other and senior management between information on the work of the Nominations Committee and a Board meetings.
description of the Boards policy on diversity, please refer to the Nominations Committee report on pages 57 and 58.
The Group has purchased and maintains appropriate insurance cover in respect of Directors and Officers liabilities.
3 Commitment Following the Board evaluation process, detailed further below, The Group has also entered into qualifying third party the Board is satisfied that each of the Directors is able to indemnity arrangements for the benefit of all its Directors, in allocate sufficient time to the Group to discharge their aform and scope which comply with the requirements of the responsibilities effectively.
Contracts and letters of appointment with Directors A.
2 Division of responsibilities aremadeavailable at the Annual General Meeting or The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate, onrequest.
The standard terms and conditions of the setout in writing, clearly defined, and approved by the appointment of Non-Executive Directors are also available Board.
They are available on easyJets corporate website: inthe governance section of easyJets corporate website: http: corporate.
The Chairmans role is to http: corporate.
leadthe Board and ensure that it operates effectively.
TheChief Executives role isthe day-to-day running of the Executive Directors and the Executive Management Team are Groupsbusinesses and the development and implementation permitted to take up non-executive positions on a board of a of strategy.
listed company so long as this is not thought to interfere with the business of the Group.
Carolyn McCall DBE, the Chief A.
3 The Chairman Executive, has acted as Non-Executive Director at Burberry The Chairman, John Barton, sets the Boards agenda and Group plc since September 2014.
Andrew Findlay was ensures that adequate time is available for discussion of all appointed Non-Executive Director at Rightmove plc in June agenda items, including strategic issues.
Executive Directors appointments to such positions is inMay 2013, the Board considered John Barton to be subject to the approval of the Board which considers, amongst independent incharacter and judgment in accordance with other things, the time commitment required.
com Corporate governance report continued The Chairman conducted a process of evaluating the B.
4 Development On joining the Board, new members receive a tailored performance and contribution of each Director, which included a one-to-one performance evaluation and feedback discussion induction, organised by the Company Secretary, which covers amongst other things: the business of the Group, their legal with each of them.
and regulatory responsibilities as Directors, briefings and B.
7 Re-election presentations from relevant executives and opportunities to The Companys Articles of Association require the Directors visit and experience easyJets businessoperations.
tosubmit themselves for re-election by shareholders at least To update the Directors skills, knowledge and familiarity once every three years.
However, the Board has decided that withthe Group, visits to bases are organised for the Board all Directors will stand for re-election or election at each Annual periodically, to assist its understanding of the operational General Meeting in accordance with the Code.
issues that the business faces.
The Board was invited to C. ACCOUNTABILITY visitthe base in Gatwick in March 2017, and to attend a C. 1 Financial and Business Reporting presentation on Gatwick Airport, as well as a site tour which Please refer to: included a visit to the new bag drop area, and the new airside crew facility, with the chance to meet the base management page 88 for the Boards statement on the Annual report team and members of the crew.
andaccounts being fair, balanced and understandable: page 31 for the statement on the status of the Company A briefing paper is provided to Board members to update and the Group as a going concern: and them on relevant developments in law, regulation and best practice, usually two to four times per year.
Directors are the Strategic report on pages 4 to 21 for an explanation encouraged to highlight specific areas where they feel their ofthe Groups business model and the strategy for skills or knowledge would benefit from further development delivering the objectives of the Group.
aspart ofthe annual Board evaluation process.
C. 2 Risk Management and Internal Control B.
5 Information and support The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal All members of the Board are supplied with appropriate, clear risks facing the Group and how those risks affect the and accurate information in a timely manner covering matters prospects of the Group.
Please refer to pages 33 to 40 which are to be considered at forthcoming Board or forfurther information on the Groups principal risks and Committee meetings.
uncertainties and page 31 for their impact on the longer-term viability and prospects ofthe Group.
Should Directors judge it necessary to seek independent legaladvice about the performance of their duties with The overall responsibility for easyJets systems of internal theCompany, they are entitled to do so at the Companys control and for reviewing their effectiveness rests with the expense.
Directors also have access to the advice and services Board.
The Board has conducted an annual review of the of the Company Secretary, who is responsible for advising the effectiveness of the systems of internal control during the Board on all governance matters and ensuring that Board year, under the auspices of the Audit Committee.
Further procedures are complied with.
information on the Groups risk management processes is given on this page and on its internal control systems on The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is page56.
C. 3 Audit Committee and Auditors B.
6 Evaluation For further information on the Groups compliance with the A performance review of the Board, its Committees and Code provisions relating to the Audit Committee and auditors, Directors is carried out every year and is externally facilitated please refer to the Audit Committee report on pages 59 to 62. at least every third year.
Following the evaluation being externally facilitated in 2015, the 2017 Board and Committee D. REMUNERATION evaluation was conducted internally by the Company Secretary For further information on the Groups compliance with and Group General Counsel, Kyla Mullins, at the request of the theCode provisions relating to remuneration, please refer to: Chairman.
Kyla prepared surveys that were completed by the Directors remuneration report on pages 65 to 84 for Board members.
the leveland components of remuneration D. 1 : and The review extended to all aspects of Board and Committee page 64 the Remuneration Committee Report forthe performance including composition and dynamics, the procedure relating to remuneration D. 2.
Chairmans leadership, agenda and focus, time management, strategic oversight, oversight of risk and succession planning, E. RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS and priorities for change.
E. 1 Dialogue with shareholders The Group actively engages with investors and Charles Gurassa, as Senior Independent Director, led a review .
The Chairman and Deputy Chairman ofthe Chairmans performance and held a private meeting of met withshareholders during the year to help maintain the Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman present to  of their issues and concerns.
They discuss the Chairmans performance.
It was concluded that also attended a senior investor dinner in January and met with John Bartons performance and contribution are strong and the Companys top 10 institutional investors.
The Chairman has that he demonstrates effective leadership.
The Executive updated the Board on the opinions of investors.
The views of Directors and the Non-Executive Directors also reviewed and shareholders and market perceptions are also communicated were satisfied with the Chairmans time commitment to the to the Board via presentations by the Head of Investor Board and the business.
Relations at least every quarter.
54 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2017 GOVERNANCE easyJet has an investor relations department which E. 2 Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting runsanactive programme to facilitate engagement with The Annual General Meeting gives all shareholders the investors based around the financial reporting calendar.
opportunity to communicate directly with the Board and Thisyear theprogramme has included one-to-one meetings encourages their participation.
Shareholders are given the with , road shows and conferences, as opportunity to raise issues formally at the Annual General well as a Capital Markets Day at London Gatwick Airport.
Meeting or informally with Directors after the meeting.
All There isalso regularcommunication with institutional investors Directors normally attend the Annual General Meeting and onkeybusiness issues.
the Chairs of the Committees are available to answer questions at the Annual General Meeting.
During the year, the Chairman, Deputy Chairmanand Chief Executivemet withrepresentatives ofeasyGroup Holdings Limited, the Companys largest shareholder, to discuss relevant matters.
The Chief Financial Officer and General Counsel have also met separately with representatives ofeasyGroup Ltd an affiliate of easyGroup Holdings Limited to discuss matters relating tothe management and protection of the easyJet and easybrands.
BOARD INDUCTION IN ACTION: MOYA GREENE On joining the Board, new members receive a tailored induction, organised by the Company Secretary.
UNDERSTANDING THE CULTURE AND BUSINESS OF EASYJET A Board induction pack was provided in electronic form to assist with building an understanding of the nature of the Group, its business and markets, to help build a link with the Groups people and provide an understanding of the Groups main relationships and to ensure a thorough understanding of the role of Director and the framework within which the Board operates.
The documents that were provided in the pack included the Groups structure chart, Board and Committee calendar, previous minutes of meetings as well as key contacts of the organisation, procedure and policy manuals and briefings on the corporate governance framework.
MEET WITH SENIOR MANAGEMENT A day at the Groups headquarters at Hangar 89 was arranged for Moya to meet with key senior members of the Group.
This included a meeting with the Company Secretary and Group General Counsel to discuss the Board and Committee meeting process at easyJet, and a meeting with the Chief Financial Officer, to assist in the understanding of the Investor Relations schedule and the Groups approach to risk and risk management.
Other key activities during the day were a tour around the Hangar, a flight operations and safety induction and a meeting with our Head of Airport & Central Procurement to understand the challenges of our largest bases.
MEET WITH THE BOARD, ITS COMMITTEES AND OTHER EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS Further meetings took place over the course of the summer with other key members of management as well as the Chairman, Deputy Chairman and the Committee Chairs.
Additionally, Moya had the opportunity to meet with other key advisers and stakeholders, including the Companys brokers.
VISIT VARIOUS EASYJET SITES Moya has visited Hangar 89, the Groups main headquarters, to meet with key staff and had the opportunity to speak with management and administration employees.
Additionally, a Board site visit is currently scheduled to take place in June, which Moya will attend as a member of the Board.
com Corporate governance report continued RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL Internal Audit The Internal Audit functions key objectives are to provide The Board has overall responsibility for easyJets risk management and systems of internal control.
independent and objective assurance on risks and controls to the Board, Audit Committee and senior management, and to Risk management assist the Board in meeting its corporate governance and easyJet has an established risk management process to ensure regulatory responsibilities.
The audit plan is approved by the that significant risks are identified and mitigated where possible.
Audit Committee on behalfof the Board, and updated on a For further details of the risk management process, the rolling basis.
principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group and the Internal Audit reviews the extent to which systems of associated mitigating actions, please refer to pages 33 to 40. internalcontrol: To ensure that risks are managed effectively, a number of are designed and operating effectively: activities are undertaken: are adequate to manage easyJets key risks: and An Executive Management Team member is allocated as safeguard the Groups assets.
the risk owner for each principal risk, with responsibility for the day-to-day management of those risks.
During the second half of the year the Internal Audit and Risk Ongoing risk management and assurance is provided Management functions were merged to create a single Risk through the various monitoring reviews and reporting and Assurance team.
The Head of Risk and Assurance reports mechanisms that are embedded into the business directly to the Chief Financial Officer and continues to have operations.
The results of these reviews are reported to the direct access to the Chief Executive and the Chair of the Audit Audit Committee and the Board, which consider whether Committee.
The Head of Risk and Assurance is invited to, and these high-level risks are being effectively controlled.
attends, Audit Committee meetings throughout the year and Regular operational including safety, commercial, financial reports regularly on Internal Audit reviews to the Executive and IT functional meetings are held to review performance Management Team.
and to consider key risks and issues please refer to page During the year, an external effectiveness assessment of the 57 for details of the Safety Committee.
Internal Audit function was completed by Mazars LLP on The Executive Management Team meets regularly to behalf of the Audit Committee.
The role of the Internal Audit consider significant risks, status of risk mitigations and function and the scope of its work both continue to evolve overall business performance: this ensures key issues are totake account of recommendations from the external escalated through the management team and, as effectiveness review, changes within the business, and appropriate, ultimately to the Board.
A formal audit charter is in place.
The Directors review the effectiveness of internal controls, including operating, financial and compliance controls.
The Audit Committee undertakes an annual review of the appropriateness of the risk management processes to ensure that they are sufficiently robust to meet the needs of the Group please refer to pages 59 to 62 for details of the Audit Committees responsibilities.
Internal control The responsibility for establishing and operating detailed control procedures lies with the Chief Executive.
The internal control systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
By their nature, they can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The internal financial control monitoring programme, administered by Internal Audit, has continued to enhance the review process.
The internal control regime is supported by the operation of awhistleblower reporting function.
The system is operated by aspecialist external third party service provider and allows employees to report concerns anonymously and in confidence.
The Audit Committee has approved the processes and reporting structure for the function, and receives regular reportson its operation.
56 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2017 GOVERNANCE Board Committees BOARD COMMITTEE STRUCTURE The Committee reports that follow set out, amongst other things, the responsibilities and activities of the Committees in the past financial year.
The terms of reference of each Committee are documented and agreed by the Board.
The Committees terms of reference are reviewed annually and are available in the governance section of easyJets corporate website: http: corporate.
com The Chair of each Board Committee formally reports back to the Board on a regular basis.
Details of Directors attendance at Board and Board Committee meetings are set out on page 52.
SAFETY COMMITTEE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE JOHN BARTON DR. ANDREAS BIERWIRTH Chair of the Nominations Committee Chair of the Safety Committee In line with easyJets position that safety is our number one The Committee has been busy during the year in leading priority, the Safety Committee continues to ensure that the selection and appointment process for a new Chief safetyreceives the highest level of Board attention.
We are confident that the Board and the Committee have ensured a rigorous The Director of Safety, Security & Compliance has a direct and transparent process to find the most suitable reporting line tothe Chairman which reinforces the replacement for Chief Executive and someone who has independence of safety oversight.
In addition, the Chair of the skills and experience to implement the long-term the Committee has reported to the Board withhis own business strategy.
assessment of safety management within the airline throughout the year.
COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP members are independent Non-Executive Directors and COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP the Non-Executive Chairman of the Board members are all independent Non-Executive Directors John Barton Chair Dr. Andreas Bierwirth Chair Charles Gurassa Keith Hamill OBE Keith Hamill OBE Adle Anderson Andy Martin Moya Greene COMMITTEE CHANGES COMMITTEE CHANGES Franois Rubichon stepped down from the Board and the Moya Greene was appointed as a member of the Committee on 22 July 2017.
Turn to page 52 Turn to page 52 for meeting attendance for meeting attendance HIGHLIGHTS DURING THE 2017 FINANCIAL YEAR HIGHLIGHTS DURING THE 2017 FINANCIAL YEAR A range of safety-related matters have been reviewed by the Leading the recruitment process for a new Chief Executive Committee during the 2017 financial year involving all areas and overseeing appointment.
flight operations, cabin crew, ground services and engineering.
Overseeing the selection process and appointment of Some of these reviews followed requests from the Board to Moya Greene, a new independent Non-Executive Director.
carry out detailed assessments of specific operational Review and approval of updated Non-Executive Director incidents: others were reports of safety actions taken by appointment terms.
easyJet operational departments, and investigations by Consideration of the appointments to the Board national investigation authorities.
Committees following the change in Board composition.
com Corporate governance report continued of Moya Greene.
Other than supporting historic Board and SUCCESSION PLANNING senior executive appointments, Egon Zehnder has no The Board satisfies itself that plans are in place for orderly connection with the Group.
The detailed brief of the desired succession for appointments to the Board, to maintain candidate profile provided to Egon Zehnder included an appropriate skills and experience on the Board.
During the assessment of the time commitment expected and candidates year, it was discussed and agreed that management were interviewed by the Nominations Committee and other development plans for senior management would be put members of the Board.
The Nominations Committee in place.
considered a list of potential candidates and the balance of BOARD APPOINTMENTS skills, knowledge, independence, diversity including gender As reported in last years Annual report, last summer the and experience on the Board to ensure that a suitable balance Committee undertook a deep dive analysis in calibrating the was maintained.
Following this process, Moya Greene joined capability and skills of the current Board against the future the Board as a Non-Executive Director.
Moyas other significant requirements of the Board in terms of size, structure, commitments were disclosed to the Board before her composition and behaviour, with the support of an external appointment and are provided on page 49. consultant, Calibroconsult Limited.
The Committee adopts a DIVERSITY formal and transparent procedure for the appointment of new The Board recognises the benefits of having diversity across Directors to the Board both executive and non-executive.
For allareas of the Group and believes that this supports easyJets each recruitment process, the executive search consultant was continued success and advantage.
When considering the provided with a detailed brief of the desired candidate profile optimum make-up of the Board, the benefits of diversity of based on merit and against objective criteria.
The Committee theBoard are appropriately reviewed and balanced where worked closely with the executive search consultants in possible, and due regard given in terms of differences in skills, compiling long and short lists of candidates and members of industry experience, business model experiences, gender, the Committee identified and interviewed a range of gender expression, gender identity, race, disability, age, candidates from various backgrounds and industries, and all nationality, background and other contributions that individuals candidates were measured against criteria agreed at the start may make.
The list of ways in which diversity is considered is of each respective process.
Further details of each specific non-exhaustive, and subject to regular review.
The Committee search process is set out below.
A comprehensive induction continues to encourage diversity of business skills and was provided on Moyas appointment and is in train for Johan experience, recognising that Directors with varying skill sets, and more details of Moyas induction can be found on capabilities and experience gained from different geographic page55.
and cultural backgrounds enhance the Board.
In identifying Chief Executive appointment suitable candidates, the Committee will seek candidates from Chief Executive succession planning is regularly discussed and a range of backgrounds, with the final decision being based reviewed at the Committee which provided a helpful onmerit against objective criteria.
background to the recruitment process.
Following the easyJet works hard to create an environment where women announcement of Carolyn McCalls resignation as Chief have the opportunity to build careers in all communities and at Executive on 17 July 2017, the Committee immediately all management levels of the organisation, by ensuring there is commenced a rigorous recruitment process to appoint a new a pipeline of women coming up through the organisation.
JCA Group JCA were appointed to act as at 30 September 2017, the Company had three female easyJets executive search consultants with respect to the Directors at plc Board level, one being the Chief Executive, search for a new Chief Executive.
Other than supporting equating to a 33% female Board representation.
easyJets historic Board and senior executive appointments the Board policy on diversity applies across alllevels ofthe organisation, confirms that JCA has no other connection with the Group.
and further details can be found in the Corporate responsibility The Committee worked closely with JCA in compiling long and section on page 44, including further details of the Executive short lists of candidates, had weekly updates either via call or Management Team.
email from the Chairman, and a number of ad hoc Committee meetings took place to which all the Non-Executive Directors were invited and largely attended.
The final shortlisted candidates took part in a leadership assessment process by YSC, a leading assessment organisation with significant experience of CEO profiling.
The final shortlisted candidates also met all of the Non-Executive Directors individually or in small groups, and gave a presentation to the Non-Executive Board as a whole.
Following this process, Johan Lundgren was selected as the preferred candidate.
Non-Executive Director appointment In appointing Non-Executive Directors, the Boards practice is to use external search consultants.
Following a selection process, terms were negotiated with Egon Zehnder to act as easyJets search consultants with respect to the search for a new Non-Executive Director which resulted in the appointment 58 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2017 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE FINANCIAL AND BUSINESS REPORTING The Committee assesses whether suitable accounting policies have been adopted and whether management has made appropriate estimates and judgements.
For example, during thefinancial year, the Committee reviewed the level of provisions and accruals recorded which are judgemental in nature.
The Committee reviewed accounting papers prepared by management which provide details on significant financial reporting judgements.
The Committee also reviewed the reports by the external auditors on the full year and half year results which highlight any issues with respect to the work undertaken on the audit.
The Committee reviewed financial issues through discussion with management and the external auditors and comparison toother organisations.
The number of such issues currently ADLE ANDERSON Chair of the Audit Committee considered as significant are, however, limited given easyJets relatively simple business model and group structure which are unencumbered with legacy issues.
The significant issues The Committee has focused on the integrity of the considered in relation to the accounts are detailed below: Groupsfinancial reporting and ensuring the appropriate challenge and governance around risk management.
The The Committee considered whether the carrying value of Committee has continued to follow a detailed programme goodwill and landing rights held by easyJet should be of work and to respond to the increasing depth of review impaired.
The judgement in relation to impairment largely and reporting that is now required of audit committees.
relates to the assumptions underlying the calculation of the value in use of the business being tested for impairment: Accurate and informative financial reporting and an primarily whether the forecasted cash flows are achievable effective control environment are of critical importance and the overall macroeconomic assumptions which tothe Board and our shareholders.
The Committee has underlie the valuation process.
The Committee addressed established arrangements that enable it to ensure that the these matters using reports received from management information presented is fair, balanced and understandable.
outlining the basis for assumptions used.
The forecasted COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP cash flows used in the calculation were presented to the members are all independent Non-Executive Directors Board and they concluded no impact on impairment.
The Committee considered a detailed review of the Adle Anderson Chair assumptions underpinning aircraft residual value estimates Keith Hamill OBE along with the treatment of the sale of 10 A319 aircraft in Andy Martin December 2016 and their immediate lease back.
The sale and leaseback transaction led to reconsideration of the For the purposes of the Code, the Board considers the accounting policy for maintenance provisions on a mid-life Committee members financial experience to be recent and sale and leaseback, so that the maintenance catch-up relevant and the Board has determined that the current commitment crystallising was recognised immediately in the composition of the Audit Committee as a whole has income statement.
This accounting policy change resulted competence relevant to the sector in which the Company in a prior year adjustment of previous maintenance provision operates.
All the Committee members have had a catch-ups, which were historically held on the balance sheet significant amount of sector experience as Non-Executive and released over the lease term see page99.
Directors of easyJet for a number of years, and in addition Andy Martin has had executive sector experience in his The Committee considered changes to the presentation previous role at First Choice Holidays plc.
All three ofperformance measures and to the income statement Committee members are qualified accountants.
resulting from the separate reporting of non-headline items, being non-recurring material items of income and expense COMMITTEE CHANGES that are significant in either nature or amount, or items There have been no changes to the Committee during which are not considered to be reflective of the trading theyear.
This change provides readers with a clearer view of easyJets underlying performance.
Turn to page 52 The Committee reviewed the level and calculations of key for meeting attendance accruals and provisions which are judgemental in nature, specifically, the areas of customer flight delays or cancellation and air passenger duty claims and maintenance provision.
The Committee is satisfied that the judgements made by management are reasonable, and that appropriate disclosures have been included in the Annual report and accounts.
com Corporate governance report continued At the request of the Board, the Committee also considered In carrying out the above processes, key considerations whether the Annual report and accounts are fair, balanced and included ensuring that there was consistency between the understandable and whether they provided the necessary accounts and the narrative provided in the front half of the information for shareholders to assess the Groups position and Annual report, and that there was an appropriate balance performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee is between the reporting of weaknesses, difficulties and satisfied that, taken as a whole, the Annual report and challenges, as well as successes, in an open and accounts are fair, balanced and understandable.
this conclusion, the Committee considered the overall review The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely and confirmation process around the Annual report and to affect its future development, performance and position are accounts, including: set out in the Strategic report.
easyJets going concern the input of subject matter experts, the Executive statement and longer-term viability statement can be found Management Team and other senior management and, onpage 31. where applicable, the Board and its Committees: RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL the processes and controls which underpin the overall The Board, as a whole, including the Audit Committee review and confirmation process, including the verification members, considers the nature and extent of easyJets risk process being carried out by an internal financial controls management framework and the risk profile that is acceptable specialist independent of the Finance function : and in order to achieve the Groups strategic objectives.
The Audit Internal Audit providing assurance over the audit trailfor Committee has reviewed the work done by management, the material data points relating to the  Committee itself and the Board on the assessment of the aspects of the Annual report and accounts, and external Groups principal risks, including their impact on the prospects audit providing assurance over the accounts.
As a result, it is considered that the Board has fulfilled its obligations under the Code in relation to risk The Committee was provided with, and commented on, management and internal controls.
Further details on the adraft copy of the Annual report and accounts.
Groups principal risks and uncertainties and their impact on the prospects of the Group are set out on pages 34 to 40.
KEY RESPONSIBILITIES AND HOW THEY WERE DISCHARGED BY THE AUDIT COMMITTEE DURING THE 2017 FINANCIAL YEAR Internal financial controls and risk Internal Audit effectiveness Integrity of financial statements management systems and review of activities The Committee reviewed the The Committee reviewed the The Committee undertook an financial statements and adequacy and effectiveness of the assessment of the effectiveness announcements relating to the Groups ongoing risk management and independence of the Internal financial performance and systems and control processes, Audit function, which included governance of the Group at year through an evaluation of: consideration of: end and half year.
The Committee the risk and assurance plans: key Internal Audit reports: discussed and carefully considered Internal Audit reports: stakeholder feedback on the and reviewed the new Standards, quality of Internal Auditactivity: IFRS 9, 15 and 16, accounting risk assessments: policy implications.
Internal Audits compliance information security and business with prevailing professional continuity: The Committee also considered the standards: and material areas in which significant control themes: and the implementation of Internal judgements were applied based on internal financial control Audit recommendations.
reports from both the Groups assessments.
management and the external The Committee also commissioned auditors.
Further information is and reviewed an external quality provided in the Financial and assessment of the Internal Audit Business reporting section on function in February.
information is provided in the Risk Management and Internal Control section on pages 60 and 61.
60 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2017 GOVERNANCE easyJets system of internal controls, along with its design Since the review, a new Head of Risk and Assurance has been andoperating effectiveness, is subject to review by the appointed.
Looking forward, the Risk and Assurance team will AuditCommittee, through reports received from management, move towards a fully risk-based audit plan, with varying along with those from both internal and external auditors.
Any breadth and depth of reviews.
This will include greater focus control deficiencies identified are followed up with action plans on providing assurance over relationships with key third parties.
Further details of risk management In order to safeguard the independence of the Internal Audit and internal control are set out on page 56. function, the Head of Risk and Assurance who heads up the RISK AND ASSURANCE Internal Audit function is given the opportunity to meet The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing the work of privately with the Audit Committee without any other the Internal Audit function.
It reviews and approves the scope members of management present.
of the Internal Audit annual plan and assesses the quality of Further information on the Internal Audit function is provided Internal Audit reports, along with managements actions on page 56. relating to findings and the closure of recommended actions.
The Audit Committee also considers stakeholder feedback on EXTERNAL AUDITORS AND EFFECTIVENESS the quality of Internal Audits work.
OF EXTERNAL AUDIT PROCESS  LLP were reappointed auditors of The Corporate Governance Code requires organisations theCompany at the 2017 Annual General Meeting following a tohave a strong and effective internal audit function.
The tender process undertaken in 2015.
Senior management Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors IIA requires the monitors the auditors performance, behaviour and qualityof the internal audit function to be assessed by an effectiveness during the exercise of their duties, which informs independent external party every five years.
In order to the Audit Committees decision to recommend reappointment complywith these guidelines and to continuously improve, on an annual basis.
easyJet engaged with Mazars LLP to conduct an independent reviewof the Internal Audit function.
This report and its recommendations was presented to the Committee during theyear.
KEY RESPONSIBILITIES AND HOW THEY WERE DISCHARGED BY THE AUDIT COMMITTEE DURING THE 2017 FINANCIAL YEAR Relationship with external auditor independence, Systems and controls for prevention of bribery, detection objectivity, process effectiveness, engagement of fraud and whistleblowing policy The Committee reviewed and monitored the external The Committee reviewed whistleblower reports, reports on auditor independence and objectivity and the anti-bribery and corruption procedures, reports on procedures effectiveness of theaudit process, taking into on fraud and loss prevention and reports on credit card fraud consideration relevant UK professional and and monitoring and investigations.
The Committees objective regulatory requirements.
is to ensure that arrangements are in place for the proportionate and independent investigation of such matters There is regular engagement with the external auditors and for appropriate follow-up actions to take place.
during Committee meetings and ad hoc meetings when required, including meetings without any Other specific items looked at as part of main activities member of management being present.
At the end of the financial year, each Committee member completes Review and approval of the controls that the Group would an auditor effectiveness review questionnaire.
seek to implement to safeguard against any liability relating to the Criminal Finances Act 2017.
Further information on how the effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the external audit A detailed review of the assumptions underpinning process were assessed, isprovided in the External aircraft residual value estimates.
auditors and effectiveness of external audit The approval of an ongoing approach to auditing culture process section.
within the organisation, which was reported on by Risk and Assurance for the first time in the year.
See further The Committee implemented a revised non-audit detail in the Chairmans statement on corporate services policy to reflect updated regulation and governance on page 47. guidance.
More information on the external auditors non-audit services, and audit tendering, is provided in Review of easyJets exposure to fraud in contact centres the Non-audit services and theAudit tendering and associated mitigating controls and action.
Continued discussion and review of cybersecurity.
The Committee noted the principal findings of the Oversight of the appointment of the new Head of Risk FRC 2016 Audit Quality Review on the external auditor.
com Corporate governance report continued The Audit Committee also assesses the effectiveness, AUDIT TENDERING independence and objectivity of the external auditors by, amongst other things: considering all key external auditor plans and reports: in particular those summarising audit work performed on significant risks and critical judgements identified and 2006 detailed audit testing thereon: PwC having regular engagement with the external auditor during appointed Committee meetings and ad hoc meetings when required, including meetings without any member of management being present: the Committee Chair having discussions with the Senior Statutory Auditor ahead of each Committee meeting: and following the end of the financial year, each Committee member completing an auditor effectiveness 2015 review questionnaire.
Full competitive tender, PwC NON-AUDIT SERVICES To preserve objectivity and independence, the external re-appointed auditors do not provide consulting services unless this is in compliance with the Groups non-audit services policy.
During the year the Committee implemented a revised non-audit services policy to reflect the EU audit reform regulations and the FRCs Revised Ethical Standard 2016, which is available in the governance section of easyJets corporate website, http: corporate.
In the 2017 financial year,  LLP undertook work to provide a comfort letter in relation to the 2017 Company updating its Euro Medium Term Note Programme for which the fees were 32,000.
This was considered audit related work and the Committee approved this work under thenon-audit services policy.
Therefore, in the 2017 financialyear the Company incurred non-audit services of32,000 2016: audit related fees of 38,000.
AUDIT TENDERING  LLP were first appointed to audit the Annual report and accounts for the year ended 2024 2025 30 September 2006, and have therefore served an 11-year Competitive tender term.
Under EU audit reform legislation, companies are to take place unless required to have a mandatory rotation of auditors after required earlier 10 years, or 20 years if there is a compulsory retender at 10 years.
During the 2015 financial year, the Committee led a tender process for external audit services, following which the Audit Committee agreed to recommend that the Board reappoint  LLP as, on balance, they performed best against the Committees pre-agreed selection and assessment criteria.
2026 PwC cannot be reappointed in 2026 and a competitive tender will take place if not taken place prior to this date 62 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2017 GOVERNANCE FINANCE COMMITTEE IT GOVERNANCE AND OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE ANDY MARTIN ANDY MARTIN Chair of the Finance Committee Chair of the IT Governance and Oversight Committee The Finance Committee continues to provide effective The IT Governance and Oversight Committee provides oversight of the Groups treasury and funding policies and governance oversight, and gives independent validation activities, ensuring that activities undertaken will not subject and challenge, to one of the Groups key business areas.
the Group to undesired levels of risk, and that treasury COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP activities are appropriately aligned with Group strategy members are all independent Non-Executive Directors andsupport the Group financial performance.
Andy Martin Chair COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP Keith Hamill OBE members are all independent Non-Executive Directors Adle Anderson Andy Martin Chair Dr. Andreas Bierwirth COMMITTEE CHANGES There were no changes during the year to the Committee.
Charles Gurassa COMMITTEE CHANGES Turn to page 52 for meeting attendance There were no changes during the year to the Committee.
Turn to page 52 for meeting attendance HIGHLIGHTS DURING THE 2017 FINANCIAL YEAR HIGHLIGHTS DURING THE 2017 FINANCIAL YEAR Oversaw the issue of further Eurobonds under its Euro Provided independent oversight over: Medium Term Note Programme as well as an updating of The governance and controls relating to the IT that programme.
Reviewed and approved revised share warehousing policy The new e-commerce platform programme during its Provided a regulatory update on the current and future design and build phase.
regulation impacting Treasury and the impact this had The delivery of the front end new look bookingsystem.
Commissioned and reviewed independent assurance Reviewed a number of policies, including jet fuel hedging reports from consultants relating to certain IT programmes.
policy and foreign exchange hedging policy.
Reviewed the capabilities and resourcing required to deliver Reviewed sale and leaseback of 10 A319 aircraft to manage the IT programmes.
com Corporate governance report continued REMUNERATION COMMITTEE HIGHLIGHTS DURING THE 2017 FINANCIAL YEAR Reviewed the salaries and service contracts of the Executive Directors and senior management.
Assessed the level of performance in respect of 2016 financial year bonus and LTIP awards set in December 2013 and vesting in December 2016 to determine appropriate payouts.
Determined the bonus and LTIP targets for the 2017 financial year considering and debating alternative targets, investor expectations and internal business plans.
Reviewed pay-related governance and key themes arising from the 2016 2017 AGM seasons as well as specific easyJet investor and investor body feedback.
Completed a comprehensive review of Executive Directors CHARLES GURASSA remuneration policy in light of the current internal and Chair of the Remuneration Committee external environment.
Considered the results and implications of Gender Pay Gap The Board and the Committee are committed to ensuring Reporting and reviewed and commented on that easyJets remuneration framework is designed to recommendations to further enhance the Companys support the strategy, providing balance between motivating performance.
and challenging senior management whilst also driving the long-term success of the Group for its shareholders.
ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES UNDER THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE The remuneration policy has been designed to be straightforward and transparent, in alignment with For additional disclosures under the UK Corporate Governance Code in relation to the Remuneration Committees work and the Groups principle of having a simple and cost-effective approach.
remuneration consultants, please refer to the Directors remuneration report.
Turn to page 65 The full Directors remuneration report follows the Governance for Directors remuneration report Report on pages 65 to 84 COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP members are all independent Non-Executive Directors Charles Gurassa Chair Andy Martin Adle Anderson Moya Greene COMMITTEE CHANGES Franois Rubichon stepped down from the Board and the Committee on 22 July 2017.
Moya Greene was appointed as a member of the Committee on 20 September 2017.
Turn to page 52 for meeting attendance 64 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2017
