GOVERNANCE Nomination Committee Report Members of Committee Attendance The Committee has reviewed succession planning for the non-Executive Directors.
While the Board has been recently John Nicholas Chairman 3 3 refreshed, the Chairmans intention is to stagger retirement Charles Packshaw 3 3 among the non-Executive Directors in order to maintain Andy Smith 3 3 continuity and to preserve Board balance.
Anne Thorburn 3 3 As part of the review of the composition of the Board and the succession planning process set out above, both the Board and The Nomination Committee is chaired by John Nicholas, the the Committee recognise the importance of both gender and Chairman of the Company.
The Committee is chaired by the ethnic diversity throughout the Group.
Senior Independent Director on any matter concerning the chairmanship of the Company.
The Committee comprises the Committee evaluation non-Executive Directors and meets as necessary to discharge During the year, an evaluation of the performance of the its responsibilities.
Committee and its members was undertaken in line with the Committees Terms of Reference.
The evaluation of the The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to performance of the Committee concluded that the Committee the Committee.
Appointment of Directors The Committee will always appoint an external search Key Duties consultancy, which does not have any connection with the Company, to assess potential candidates to be considered as Full terms of reference are available on the prospective non-Executive Directors and where appropriate, Companys website.
As part of any appointment process, the Committee determines the selection criteria for each Director Reviews the size, composition and structure of the Board which takes account of diversity, including gender and sets out a and the Board Committees.
detailed description of the requirements for the role.
The Committee works closely with the external search consultancy Ensures the right balance of skills, knowledge, who draw up a long list of candidates from a range of industries experience and diversity on the Board.
and backgrounds for initial appraisal by the Committee.
From this, a shortlist is prepared of suitable candidates that most Identifies, evaluates and nominates candidates to fill closely meet the selection criteria and these candidates are Board and Committee vacancies.
interviewed by members of the Committee and Executive Directors.
Following these interviews, the Committee Reviews succession planning for the Board and senior recommends to the Board the appointment of a Director.
executives, taking account of experience, knowledge, skills and diversity.
Retirement of the Chief Executive Officer CEO On 26 September 2017, Bruce Thompson informed the Board of Reviews the Group policy on conflicts of interest and his intention to retire as CEO of Diploma PLC before the end of ensures there are no material conflicts of interest.
September 2018 and to terminate his employment with the Company with effect from 30 September 2018.
In compliance Reviews, as part of the annual evaluation exercise, the with the Committees procedures on appointment of Directors, time commitment of non-Executive Directors to the role the Committee, after appropriate consideration and review, and externally.
retained Ridgeway Partners Ridgeway a search consultancy to lead a process to recruit a new CEO.
Ridgeway does not provide any other services to, or have any connection with the Company.
Agenda 2017 The Committee is keen to find a successful senior business Evaluated the balance of skills, knowledge and experience executive with broad management experience of an international on the Board and its diversity, including gender.
The Committee has considered the challenges and opportunities facing the Group currently and in Considered succession planning in relation to the the future.
With this background, the Committee prepared and Executive Directors and senior management.
agreed a detailed specification for the role with Ridgeway, which identified the background, skills, knowledge and experience that Carried out a management mapping exercise.
will be required of the Companys CEO in the future.
A list of potential candidates has been prepared and provided to the Commenced process to recruit a CEO to succeed Bruce Committee and the search for a new CEO is progressing well.
Thompson on his retirement by 30 September 2018.
Further details of the process will be set out in the 2018 Annual Report & Accounts.
Reviewed and updated the Board diversity policy.
Succession planning Reviewed Board members register of conflicts of interest.
The Committee reviews succession planning, taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Group and Carried out a review of the Committees performance, the background skills and expertise that will be required by the using an evaluation questionnaire.
As part of this exercise development plans are agreed to target potential successor senior management in the Group over the next five years.
In January each year the Committee also reviews management succession planning processes in relation to the Companys senior executives, which comprise a cadre of ca.
90 senior managers across the Groups businesses.
50 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2017
