Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Effectiveness: Nominations Committee report The Nominations Committee currently comprises the Chairman of the Board and five independent Non-Executive Directors.
Dear shareholders, I took over as Chairman of the Nominations Committee in February 2017, after my appointment to the Board, and I am pleased to present my first report.
The Nominations Committee plays a fundamental role in ensuring we select and recommend strong candidates for appointment to the Board.
The Committee Mark Clare monitors the balance of skills, experience, independence and Committee Chairman knowledge of the Board and its Committees, with any changes recommended to the Board for its review and decision.
The Committee is also responsible for succession planning, and Attendance table monitors talent development at senior management level.
2017 Meetings was a particularly busy year for the Nominations Committee with Meetings eligible to Committee member Member since attended attend significant change to the Board and its Committees.
This report details the main activities we undertook during the year.
Mark Clare Committee Chairman February 2017 2 2 Key responsibilities Belinda Richards February 2014 2 3 The key responsibilities of the Committee are to: Tony Wray February 2014 3 3 Andrew Carr-Locke March 2015 3 3 review the size, balance and constitution of the Board, Rob Wilkinson May 2017 2 2 including the diversity and balance of skills, knowledge Justin Read March 2017 2 2 and experience of the Non-Executive Directors: Margaret Ford February 2012 to 1 1 consider succession planning for Directors and other February 2017 senior executives: identify and nominate, for the approval of the Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies: How the Committee spent its time review annually the time commitment required of Non-Executive Directors: and make recommendations to the Board, in consultation with Chairman succession 30% Non-Executive Director therespective Committee Chairmen, regarding membership succession and balance of the three Board Committees.
ofskills 20% Executive and senior management succession Process for Board appointments and pipeline 20% Before making an appointment, the Nominations Committee Committee composition 20% will evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and experience Governance 10% currently on the Board.
Following this we will draft a specification of the personal attributes, experience and capabilities required to perform the relevant appointment effectively.
In circumstances where external recruitment or benchmarking of an internal candidate is appropriate, we will engage an independent external search consultancy to help identify appropriate candidates for the role.
We will then make recommendations to the Board concerning the appointment of any Director.
The Committee alsosupports the Board in the appointment of the Company Secretary when required.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 51 Governance Effectiveness: Nominations Committee report continued Main activities of the Committee during the year Non-Executive Directors The Committee met formally three times during the year The Committee reviewed the composition of the Board, including to 30September 2017, supplemented by other less formal the range of skills, knowledge, level of experience and balance meetings and discussions to support the work of the Committee.
between the Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
We then At the formal meetings the Committee considered a number of agreed to search for an additional independent Non-Executive standing agenda items relating to its key responsibilities detailed Director with public company, financial and real estate experience.
In applying those responsibilities, the Committee made We appointed Zygos as advisers and unanimously recommended decisions on a range of matters during the year, the most to the Board that Justin Read join as an independent Nonsignificant of which are detailed below.
We announced changes Executive Director, and Justin subsequently joined the Board to the Board during the year in accordance with the Disclosure inFebruary 2017.
These changes have now Belinda Richards has served on the Board for over six years taken place or will take place by the time of the 2018 AGM, at thedate of this report, and therefore will be stepping down andfor completeness are also included below.
from the Board at the February 2018 AGM.
Consequently, Board changes Andrew Carr-Locke will be taking on the role of Senior Chairman Independent Director in addition to his role as Audit Committee Margaret Ford retired from the Board at the February 2017 AGM.
Chairman and Justin Read will become Chairman of the As a result the Nominations Committee oversaw the selection Remuneration Committee.
of Mark Clare as Non-Executive Chairman with effect from the February 2017 AGM.
Inaccordance with best practice, this was led Committee changes by Belinda Richards as Senior Independent Director and supported During the year under review there have been a number of by Non-Executive colleagues.
changes to the Committees of the Board.
They are set out below: As a result of Margaret Fords retirement as a Director, We appointed the Zygos Partnership, an independent executive she also stepped down as Chairman of the Nominations search consultancy, as advisers and asked them to compile a long Committee and as a member of the Remuneration list of candidates.
Zygos have worked previously with the Board Committee.
The Directors considered it in the interests of the on other appointments of Directors, and the Board confirms they Company, and in accordance with market practice, to appoint are not connected with the Company in any other way.
Mark Clare as Chairman of the Nominations Committee and The Committee determined that the candidate brief was for as a member of the Remuneration Committee in addition to abusiness leader in the property sector, with main Board his position as Chairman of the Board.
experience and strong credentials in strategic leadership and Membership of the various Board Committees was reviewed, driving business growth.
We agreed a short list of four looking at the balance of skills, knowledge and experience, candidates.
Each was interviewed by the Senior Independent and the relative size of the Board.
We subsequently decided Director and at least one other Non-Executive Director.
The Chief itwas in the best interests of the Company and the Executive was also involved in the process.
The Committee then effectiveness of the Board and its Committees to adopt a discussed the candidates.
The unanimous recommendation of policy whereby all Non-Executive Directors are members the Committee to the Board following this meeting was that ofeach of the Committees.
Thus, we made the following Mark Clare be appointed as Non-Executive Chairman effective appointments: from February 2017.
Rob Wilkinson joined the Remuneration and Nominations Committees as a member.
Property Director Justin Read was appointed as a member of the Audit, As previously announced and referred to on page 10, Graingers Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
Property Director, Nick Jopling, left the Board in September 2017.
The Committee met to consider the Chief Executives proposal for restructuring her senior team to align it more closely with the agreed PRS strategy to Originate, Invest and Operate.
The senior management team will include the Director of Investment, theDirector of Development and the Chief Operating Officer.
Asa result the role of Property Director became redundant.
TheCommittee supported this proposal and recommended to the Board that it be adopted.
Nick will remain with the business until the end of 2017 to help ensure an orderly handover.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 52 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Diversity Experience of the Board The Directors are committed to having a balanced Board whichincludes diversity of perspectives, skills, knowledge and Property experience background.
For gender diversity specifically, the Board supports the aspiration of the Hampton Alexander Review to promote greater female representation on listed company boards, and 75% notes the significant progress made in this area in FTSE 350 companies since the original Lord Davies report of 2010.
We make all appointments to the Grainger Board on merit, and within this context the Directors will continue to follow best Financial experience practice and the issue of diversity as it develops further.
At the leadership or audit date of this report, female representation at Board level was capacity 38%.
This is above the 33% level recommended by the Hampton Alexander Review and the objective for the Board is to maintain at least one-third of the Board being female Directors.
88% Page 33 contains details of the gender ratio of all Grainger staff.
Retail consumer The Board is also mindful of the Parker Review regarding ethnic business experience diversity on UK boards that was published during the year.
The Review recommends that each FTSE 250 board should have at least one director of colour by 2024.
The Committee will work 25% with the Board with a view to adopting this recommendation.
Balance of knowledge, skills and experience The Directors have wide-ranging experience as senior business people.
The Board has particular expertise in finance, property and the listed company environment.
Following the external Board evaluation process conducted during the year, wehave agreed that we will look to add retail consumer-facing skills to the Board when the opportunity arises, recognising the changing nature of Graingers business as it delivers its PRSfocused strategy.
Mark Clare Chairman of the Nominations Committee 30 November 2017 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 53
