Governance Leadership Governance framework Board Responsible to the Companys shareholders for the long-term success of the Group, its strategy, its values and its governance.
Provides leadership of the Group and, either directly or by the operation of Board Committees and delegated authority, applies independent judgement on matters of strategy, performance, resources including key appointments, the overall approach to risk management and internal control, culture and standards of behaviour.
Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee Responsible for overseeing the Responsible for determining the Reviews the structure, size and Companys financial statements and rewardstrategy for the Executive composition of the Board and its reporting.
Reviews the work of internal Directors to align their interests Committees.
Oversees succession and external auditors and matters of withthose of the shareholders.
planning for Directors and Executive significant judgement by management.
It leads the reviews the risk management framework process for appointing Board Directors.
and the integrity of the risk management and internal control systems.
Read more on pages 54 to 58 Read more on pages 62 to 78 Read more on pages 51 to 53 Executive Committee This Committee operates under the direction and authority of the Chief Executive.
It makes key decisions on matters to ensure achievement of strategic plans, reviews strategic initiatives, ratifies executive decisions and considers the key business risks.
It is supported by sub-committees, each focusing on an area of the business.
Management Investment Operations Development Finance Committee Committee Board Board Committee Responsible for the Reviews and Responsible Responsible for Responsible for day-to-day approves material forexecuting thestrategy financial matters management issues transactions, operations strategy, implementation, across the Group, of the business and allocates investment performance performance which include ensuring all senior capital and agrees management, risk management, risk accounting, financial leaders are briefed investment management and management and reporting, tax, onbusiness activity hurdle rates.
governance across governance in treasury, corporate and priorities.
the operating relation to the and commercial business.
development finance and financial business.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 44 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Roles and responsibilities of the Directors Role Responsibilities Chairman Responsible for running the Board and ensuring its effectiveness.
The Chief Executive reports to the Chairman, as does the Company Secretary, on matters of corporate governance.
The Chairman is the guardian of the Boards decision making process and is responsible for ensuring a constructive relationship between Executive and Non-Executive Directors and for fostering open debate with an appropriate balance of challenge and support.
In accordance with the Code, the posts of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate, with their roles and responsibilities clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
Chief Executive Responsible for running the business and implementing the Boards decisions.
She recommends the strategy to the Board and is responsible for implementing it.
She chairs a regular meeting with the Chief Financial Officer and the additional members of the Executive Committee.
Chief Financial Officer Responsible for the financial stewardship of the Groups resources through compliance and good judgement.
She provides financial leadership in the implementation of the strategic business plan and alignment with financialobjectives.
Non-Executive Directors Responsible for bringing independent and objective judgement and scrutiny to all matters before the Board andits Committees, using their substantial and wide-ranging skills, competence and experience.
The key responsibilities of Non-Executive Directors are set out in their letters of appointment and include requirements to: challenge and contribute to the development of the Companys strategy: scrutinise the performance of management in meeting agreed goals and objectives, and monitor the reporting of performance: and satisfy themselves that financial information is accurate, and that financial controls and systems of risk management are rigorous and secure.
A copy of the standard letter of appointment for a Non-Executive Director is available from the Company Secretary.
During the year, the Non-Executive Directors meet periodically without the Executive Directors present and also without the Chairman.
Senior Independent Acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and serves as an intermediary for the other Directors where Director necessary.
The Senior Independent Director will meet shareholders if they have concerns, and where contact through the normal channels has not resolved the issue or is inappropriate.
The Senior Independent Director leads the annual performance review of the Chairman.
Board meetings 2016 17 Board meeting Site visit Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sept Attendance table to 30 September 2017 Balance of Directors Meetings Chairman Meetings eligible to Executive Directors attended attend Executive Directors Helen Gordon 7 7 Vanessa Simms 7 7 Non-Executive Directors Nick Jopling 7 7 Non-Executive Directors Mark Clare 3 3 Belinda Richards 6 7 Tony Wray 6 7 Andrew Carr-Locke 7 7 Rob Wilkinson 7 7 Justin Read 3 3 Margaret Ford 2 3 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 45
