Governance Board of Directors The skills and experience to implement our strategy The Board is responsible to the Companys shareholders for the long-term success of the Group, its strategy, its values and its governance.
Mark Clare Helen Gordon Tony Wray Rob Wilkinson Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director N R E A N R A N R Appointment: Appointed Chairman in February 2017 Appointment: Appointed to the Board in November 2015 Appointment: Appointed to the Board in October 2011 Appointment: Appointed to the Board in October 2015 Skills, competence and experience: Mark has wide-ranging Skills, competence and experience: Helen is a highly experienced, Skills, competence and experience: Tony brings extensive experience Skills, competence and experience: Rob has substantial experience experience in a number of sectors and extensive knowledge of the proven and well-regarded real estate investor.
She has significant in a broad range of senior operational and strategic leadership roles, in in real estate and corporate finance.
He is a Chartered Accountant residential property market.
He has substantial plc-level experience experience working across a wide range of real estate asset classes, particular in public companies.
He was the chief executive of FTSE 100 and the chief executive of AEW Europe, a leading European real estate and is senior independent director of both United Utilities Group plc including residential property.
This is combined with an extensive water company Severn Trent plc from 2007 to 2014, having joined its investment manager.
Prior to joining AEW Europe in 2009, Rob was a and Ladbrokes Coral Group plc, and a non-executive director of Premier knowledge of the City.
Helen is a chartered surveyor and before joining board in 2005.
He has also held director roles within Transco and managing director with the Goodman Group and also held investment Marinas Holdings Limited.
Mark was previously chief executive of Grainger was global head of Real Estate Asset Management of Royal National Grid Transco, and was a member of the Water UK board.
banking positions at UBS and Eurohypo.
He is also chairman of the Barratt Developments plc from 2006 to 2015, and is a former trustee Bank of Scotland plc.
She previously held senior property positions at Green Rating Alliance.
of the Building Research Establishment and the UK Green Building Legal & General Investment Management, Railtrack and John Laing Tenure: 5 years and 11 months Council.
Prior to joining Barratt, he was an executive director of Developments.
Helen has held a number of non-executive board roles Tenure: 1 year and 11 months Centrica plc and held a number of senior roles within both Centrica plc over her career, including British Waterways and the Covent Garden and British Gas.
Mark has also been a non-executive director of BAA Market Authority.
She is also a junior vice president of the British plc, the airports operator.
Property Federation and an advisory board member of Cambridge Universitys Land Economy Department.
Tenure: 7 months Tenure: 1 year and 10 months Vanessa Simms Belinda Richards Andrew Carr-Locke Justin Read Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director E A N R A N R A N R Appointment: Appointed to the Board as Chief Financial Officer Appointment: Appointed to the Board in April 2011 and appointed Appointment: Appointed to the Board in March 2015 Appointment: Appointed to the Board in February 2017 in February 2016 Senior Independent Director in March 2015 Skills, competence and experience: Vanessa brings extensive Skills, competence and experience: Belinda has wide-ranging Skills, competence and experience: Andrew has substantial Skills, competence and experience: Justin has substantial experience financial experience to Grainger from the property sector in the UK.
experience and understanding of commerce, finance and business experience in senior finance positions in listed companies, particularly in real estate and corporate finance.
He was group finance director of She has particular expertise in leading and implementing strategic operations.
She has strong experience as a board member of other in the residential property sector.
He also has wide-ranging experience SEGRO plc from August 2011 to December 2016.
Between 2008 and change in businesses.
She has substantial experience in senior finance substantial listed companies.
Until 2010, Belinda was a senior partner as a non-executive director of public companies.
Andrew is a Fellow of 2011, Justin was group finance director at Speedy Hire plc.
Prior to this, leadership roles in a listed environment.
Vanessa has worked in finance and vice-chairman at Deloitte where she was head of Merger Integration the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants and was group he spent 13 years in a variety of roles at Hanson plc, including deputy since 1998 and immediately prior to joining Grainger held a number of and Separation Advisory Services.
Prior to this, she held senior roles at finance director at George Wimpey plc between 2001 and 2007.
He has finance director, managing director of Hanson Continental Europe, senior positions within Unite Group plc, including deputy chief financial KPMG and EY.
Belinda is a non-executive director of Wm Morrison previously held senior finance roles at Courtaulds Textiles plc, Diageo head of corporate development, head of risk management and group officer.
Prior to that Vanessa was UK finance director at SEGRO plc.
Supermarkets plc, The Monks Investment Trust plc and Phoenix Group plc, Bowater-Scott and Kodak.
More recently, Andrew was executive treasurer.
Justin has also held positions at Euro Disney SCA and Holdings plc.
She serves on the Advisory Group of Audit Committee chairman of Countryside Properties, where he led the refocus of the Bankers Trust Company.
Justin is also a non-executive director of Chairmen at the FRC and is a member of the Governing Council of the companys strategy.
Andrew stood down as a director of Countryside Ibstock plc.
Tenure: 1 year and 7 months Centre for the Study of Financial Innovation.
He is currently a non-executive director of Dairy Crest plc and previously held non-executive directorships at Royal Mail Tenure: 7 months Holdings, Venture Production and AWG.
Tenure: 6 years and 5 months Tenure: 2 years and 6 months Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 46 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Committee membership E R Executive Committee Remuneration Committee Committee Chairman A N Audit Committee Nominations Committee Tenure is as at 30 September 2017 Mark Clare Helen Gordon Tony Wray Rob Wilkinson Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director N R E A N R A N R Appointment: Appointed Chairman in February 2017 Appointment: Appointed to the Board in November 2015 Appointment: Appointed to the Board in October 2011 Appointment: Appointed to the Board in October 2015 Skills, competence and experience: Mark has wide-ranging Skills, competence and experience: Helen is a highly experienced, Skills, competence and experience: Tony brings extensive experience Skills, competence and experience: Rob has substantial experience experience in a number of sectors and extensive knowledge of the proven and well-regarded real estate investor.
Tenure: 6 years and 5 months Tenure: 2 years and 6 months Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 47
