Governance Board of Directors 52 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information Left to right Clive Adamson Independent Non-Executive Director Dr Teresa Robson-Capps Independent Non-Executive Director Paul Coby Independent Non-Executive Director David Duffy Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer Jim Pettigrew Chairman Adrian Grace Independent Non-Executive Director Tim Wade Independent Non-Executive Director Fiona MacLeod Independent Non-Executive Director Debbie Crosbie Executive Director and Chief Operating Officer David Browne Independent Non-Executive Director Ian Smith Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer David Bennett Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 53 Governance Board of Directors Board roles and responsibilities The Board has agreed a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
The Chairmans priority is to lead the Board and ensure its effectiveness and the Chief Executive Officers priority is to manage the day-to-day running of the Groups business.
The roles of the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and other Directors are clearly defined so that no single individual has unrestricted powers of decision.
Their key responsibilities are set out below.
Position Name Roles and responsibilities Jim Pettigrew Leading the Board and its effectiveness by organising its business Chairman and setting its agendas, ensuring that the Board as a whole plays a full and constructive part, being forward looking, and primarily focused on strategy, performance and key value creation issues.
Promoting the highest standards of corporate governance and ensuring that the Board receives accurate, timely and high quality supporting information.
Ensuring properly constructed Board induction, evaluation and development, and effective communications with the Groups shareholders.
David Bennett Deputy Chairman Supporting the Chairman, and when required, Deputy Chairman acting as the Chairmans delegate and ensuring continuity of and Senior Chairmanship, supporting the Chairman in representing the Board and Independent acting as spokesperson.
Being available to the Board for consultation and advising and representing the Groups interests at official enquiries Non-Executive and with review bodies.
Director Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Providing a sounding board for the Chairman and serving as a trusted intermediary between the Chairman and the other Directors when necessary, and ensuring that the views of all Directors are conveyed to the Chairman.
Being available to shareholders in the event of any matters which cannot be resolved through the normal channels of communication with the Chairman or the Executive Directors.
Maintaining contact as required with major shareholders to understand their issues and concerns, maintaining stability and cohesion within the Board particularly during periods of stress.
Meeting with the Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman present at least annually and leading the Non-Executive Directors in the ongoing monitoring and annual evaluation of the Chairman.
David Duffy Leading the day-to-day management of the Groups business Chief Executive ensuring its effective running.
Leading the Executive Leadership Team, Officer being responsible for developing, coordinating and proposing to the Board all activities to implement the Groups strategy and its overall objectives in accordance with the Groups risk appetite, and maintaining a close working relationship with the Chairman.
Clive Adamson, Bringing an external perspective, knowledge, experience and insight Independent David Bennett, from other industries and applying sound judgement and objectivity Non-Executive David Browne, to the business of the Board.
Developing and setting the Groups Directors Paul Coby, strategy and monitoring its implementation, reviewing the RMF, Adrian Grace, and supporting and constructively challenging Executive Directors.
Fiona MacLeod, Satisfying themselves on the integrity of financial information, Dr Teresa Robson-Capps considering and taking account of the views and concerns of the and Tim Wade Companys shareholders and other stakeholders.
Having a principal role in appointing and, where necessary, removing Executive Directors.
Devising appropriate succession plans and approving appropriate levels of remuneration for the Executive Directors following recommendations from the Remuneration Committee.
54 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information Re Key: Remuneration Committee Ri Risk Committee Au Audit Committee Go Governance and Nomination Committee Chair Jim Pettigrew David Bennett Chairman Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Go Re Non-Executive Director Au Go Re Ri Joined the Group Joined the Group September 2012 and became October 2015 Chairman in 2014 Key areas of expertise Key areas of expertise Finance, Governance, M&A Finance, M&A, Retail Banking Skills and experience Skills and experience Jim has over 30 years experience in David has significant experience in retail business and finance gained from banking gained from a career spanning executive and senior positions principally more than 30 years and including within financial services.
Jim was formerly executive and senior roles in both the Chief Executive Officer at CMC Markets UK and internationally.
David was Group PLC, Chief Operating Officer at Ashmore Finance Director of Alliance & Leicester Group PLC, Group Finance Director at plc for six years before becoming its ICAP PLC and Deputy Group Finance Group Chief Executive.
Following the Director and Group Treasurer at Sedgwick acquisition of Alliance & Leicester plc Group PLC.
He is a chartered accountant by Banco Santander he was appointed and has extensive Non-Executive Director Executive Director on the Board of Abbey experience in a listed environment.
His in-depth experience previously Non-Executive Director at of retail banking and involvement in Aberdeen Asset Management PLC, organisational, operational and structural Non-Executive Director at AON UK change is invaluable as we execute our Limited and Non-Executive Director at Group strategy.
He has significant Hermes Fund Managers Limited.
He is the Non-Executive Director experience in immediate past President of the Institute a listed environment which has included of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
being a Non-Executive Director of Bank His breadth of experience, credibility with of Ireland UK PLC, Non-Executive key stakeholders and strong leadership Director of easyJet plc, and Nonqualities make him an effective Chairman.
Executive Director of CMC Markets PLC.
Key external appointments Key external appointments Chairman of The Edinburgh Investment Non-Executive Director of Ashmore Trust PLC: Senior Independent NonGroup plc, PayPal Europe S. a. r. l et Cie, Executive Director of Crest Nicholson S. C. A: Chairman of Homeserve Holdings PLC: Senior Independent Membership Ltd. : and Non-Executive Non-Executive Director of Rathbone Director of various companies within the Brothers Plc and Rathbone Investment Together Financial Services Limited group.
Management Limited part of the Rathbone Brothers Plc group : Chairman of RBC Europe Limited, BlueBay Asset Management Services Ltd and BlueBay Asset Management LLP members of the RBC Group : Chairman of Scottish Financial Enterprise: and Co-Chair of the Financial Services Advisory Board.
CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 55 Governance Board of Directors Non-Executive Directors Clive Adamson David Browne Paul Coby Adrian Grace Fiona MacLeod Dr Teresa Robson-Capps Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Au Ri Au Re Ri Ri Re Go Ri Au Joined the Group Joined the Group Joined the Group Joined the Group Joined the Group Joined the Group July 2016 May 2012 June 2016 December 2014 September 2016 October 2014 Key areas of expertise Key areas of expertise Key areas of expertise Key areas of expertise Key areas of expertise Key areas of expertise Governance, Financial Services Regulation, Finance, Risk Information Technology, Strategy Finance, Financial Services Regulation, M&A, Marketing, Strategy Finance, Strategy Risk Strategy Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Clive has considerable experience of David has over 30 years experience in Paul is an accomplished IT professional Adrian has extensive financial, business Fiona has over 28 years international Teresa has extensive financial, customer UK and global economic, banking and debt capital markets, treasury and investor with significant e-commerce, international leadership and general management business experience in leading complex, service and general management regulatory matters gained from an relations.
He was previously Head of and technology experience.
In particular experience gained from a career which large-scale business transformation and experience from across a range of extensive career in banking and financial Group Funding and External Relations at his understanding of how technology has has spanned a range of consumer and in managing the commercial, human industries including telecommunications, services regulation.
He held senior Man Group PLC and spent a significant changed consumer behaviour, how commercial financial services sectors and resources and cultural aspects of change financial services and retail.
She is a executive and advisory positions with part of his career at JP Morgan where advances in digital technology can impact involved a variety of senior roles.
A substantial part of her chartered management accountant the FCA, the former Financial Services he held the positions of Assistant Vice customer outcomes and his appreciation experience of designing and implementing career was at BP Group plc where she and has a Doctorate in Accounting and Authority and the BoE.
He was previously President, Vice President and Managing of the end-to-end customer journey in substantial change programmes and held various executive positions including Management Control.
Teresa has a Head of Supervision and an Executive Director.
David is a founding partner of a strategic omni-channel context is delivering transformational growth latterly the role of President Retail, USA breadth of experience gained from Director of the Board of the FCA until Pinnacle Partners Limited, a treasury invaluable to the Group as we develop through simple customer focused visions & Latin America.
Fionas deep experience executive leadership roles with BT Mobile, May 2015.
His strong understanding of consulting firm.
new products and digital capability.
Paul and plans is aligned to the Groups of operational business leadership, Sears plc, Eagle Star Zurich Financial the UK and global banking industry and is the John Lewis Partnerships Chief strategy.
Having started his career with of transforming businesses and in Services, Cable & Wireless, Reality & related risks is invaluable to the Board.
Information Officer CIO, responsible for the Leeds Permanent Building Society understanding and managing the Accenture.
She joined HSBC Group in leading and coordinating IT across the and then Mercantile Credit, Adrian joined organisational design and people impacts 2006 and from 2010 was Deputy Head, John Lewis, Waitrose and JLP Group.
GE Capital where he spent time in the of business change are invaluable to the Direct Bank & First Direct.
Teresa also Prior to his CIO role, Paul was IT Director UK, Asia, and the Americas.
He became Group as we focus on building a high has strong board experience gained at John Lewis and previously CIO at British Managing Director of the Small Business performing, customer centric organisation from her previous roles as Chairman of Airways for 10 years.
Pauls previous roles Division at Sage Group plc.
He was Chief and continue our cultural transformation.
ACS Clothing Group Limited and Noninclude Non-Executive Chairman of the Executive at Barclays Insurance and Fionas experience of running retail Executive Director of Broker Network Societe Internationale fide Managing Director of Commercial Banking businesses serving millions of customers Holdings Limited, Paymentshield Group Telecommunications Aeronautiques SITA, within the Corporate Division of HBOS.
per day is also of particular relevance.
Holdings Limited, PowerPlace Insurance the global provider of systems, solutions Since 2011 Adrian has been Chief Fiona was formerly Senior Independent Services Limited and Towergate and telecommunications to the air Executive Officer at Aegon UK having Non-Executive Director of SThree plc.
transport industry, Non-Executive joined Aegon in 2009 as Group Business Director at Pets at Home Group PLC and Development Director.
He was previously at P&O Ferries Limited, Chairman of the on the boards of the Association of British eSkills UK CIO Board and Chairman of the Insurers and Scottish Financial Enterprise.
oneworld CIO Group which coordinated IT links across the 10 airline oneworld Alliance partners.
Key external appointments Key external appointments Key external appointment Key external appointments Key external appointment Key external appointments Chairman at JP Morgan International Director of Pinnacle Partners Limited and CIO of the John Lewis Partnership.
Director of various companies within the Non-Executive Director of Denholm Non-Executive Director of Hastings Bank Limited: Non-Executive Director Trustee and Director of London Youth Aegon Group and a member of the FCA Oilfield Services Limited.
Group Holdings PLC and Non-Executive of The Prudential Assurance Company Rowing Limited.
Practitioner Panel representing the life Director of Yorkshire Water Services Limited: Non-Executive Director at and pensions sector.
Ashmore Group plc: and senior adviser at McKinsey & Company.
56 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information Re Key: Remuneration Committee Ri Risk Committee Au Audit Committee Go Governance and Nomination Committee Chair Clive Adamson David Browne Paul Coby Adrian Grace Fiona MacLeod Dr Teresa Robson-Capps Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Au Ri Au Re Ri Ri Re Go Ri Au Joined the Group Joined the Group Joined the Group Joined the Group Joined the Group Joined the Group July 2016 May 2012 June 2016 December 2014 September 2016 October 2014 Key areas of expertise Key areas of expertise Key areas of expertise Key areas of expertise Key areas of expertise Key areas of expertise Governance, Financial Services Regulation, Finance, Risk Information Technology, Strategy Finance, Financial Services Regulation, M&A, Marketing, Strategy Finance, Strategy Risk Strategy Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Clive has considerable experience of David has over 30 years experience in Paul is an accomplished IT professional Adrian has extensive financial, business Fiona has over 28 years international Teresa has extensive financial, customer UK and global economic, banking and debt capital markets, treasury and investor with significant e-commerce, international leadership and general management business experience in leading complex, service and general management regulatory matters gained from an relations.
CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 57 Governance Board of Directors Executive Directors Tim Wade David Duffy Debbie Crosbie Independent Non-Executive Director Executive Director and Executive Director and Au Ri Chief Executive Officer Chief Operating Officer Joined the Group Joined the Group Joined the Group September 2016 June 2015 June 1997 Key areas of expertise Key areas of expertise Key areas of expertise Finance, M&A, Retail Banking, Risk Banking, Finance M&A, Strategy Information Technology, Retail Banking, Strategy, Operations Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Tim has over 20 years senior experience David has significant international finance Debbie has broad experience and in retail financial services, including retail and banking experience gained from a knowledge gained over 20 years in the banking in both the UK and internationally.
career spanning almost three decades.
banking sector, particularly around An Australian national, he is an Davids proven ability to build and information technology, complex project experienced Chief Financial Officer, a transform businesses and lead strong delivery, material outsourcing and strategy chartered accountant and a Fellow of the management teams brings significant value and planning.
She has significant Institute of Chartered Accountants of to all of the Groups stakeholders.
Prior experience at a senior management level Australia.
Tim was Managing Director at to joining the Group, David was Chief and is a strong advocate for customers and AMP International, responsible for AMP Executive Officer at Allied Irish Banks plc, improving the customer experience by Bank and the Virgin Direct now Virgin one of the largest retail and commercial driving a change and transformation Money joint venture.
He began his career banks in Ireland.
He was a former Chief journey which has the customer as its core at Arthur Andersen working in Melbourne Executive Officer of Standard Bank focus.
Since joining the Group in 1997 and Singapore, and in 1994 he joined International with responsibility for Debbie has held a variety of positions Colonial Limited, the mutual financial operations in the UK, Europe, Latin including Head of Technology Governance, services group, as Chief Taxation Counsel.
He was also previously Head of Strategic Projects and Head of He became Group Chief Financial Officer Head of Global Wholesale Banking the Groups Development Centre.
She in 1997 and Executive Director of State Network with ING Group and President was Chief Information Officer from 2008 Bank of NSW.
Tim subsequently oversaw and Chief Executive Officer of the ING to 2011, she became Operations and IT the IPO of Colonial and was involved in wholesale franchises in the United States Director in 2011, was appointed Executive Colonials subsequent acquisition by and Latin America.
David is a past Director in 2014 and Chief Operating Commonwealth Bank at the time the President of the Banking and Payments Officer in 2015.
Debbie was Acting Chief largest acquisition in Australian corporate Federation of Ireland and a past Director Executive Officer from February 2015 to history.
His previous Non-Executive of the European Banking Federation.
June 2015 and during this period led the Director board experience includes Friends Davids broad-based skills, leadership, preparation for the Groups demerger and Life Group Limited and Monitise plc.
energy and strategic vision are invaluable IPO and was part of the management team to the Group as it continues its strategic which completed the transaction.
She was journey and cultural transformation.
previously a Non-Executive Director of the Scottish Court Service and is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Bankers.
Key external appointments Key external appointments Key external appointments Chairman at Macquarie Bank International Non-Executive Director of NewTA Limited Vice-Chair of the Board of CBI Scotland Limited: Non-Executive Director of trading as UK Finance, the industry body and member of the Board of Glasgow companies within the Chubb European representing leading firms providing Economic Leadership.
Group Limited and The Access Bank UK finance, banking, markets and paymentsLimited groups: and Non-Executive related services in or from the UK.
Director of The Coeliac UK Trading Company Limited.
58 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information Company Secretary Ian Smith Lorna McMillan Executive Director and Company Secretary Chief Financial Officer Joined the Group Joined the Group November 2014 September 1994 Key areas of expertise Skills and experience Banking, Finance M&A, Strategy Lorna has responsibility for supporting the Skills and experience Chairman and the Board, as well as leading Ian has considerable experience in finance, the delivery of shareholder services.
She audit and advising on bank strategy from a has over 20 years experience gained from corporate transaction perspective gained various roles in the Group across retail and from a career spanning more than 20 years.
business banking, wholesale banking, risk He has held senior finance roles in HBOS management and legal and governance plc and Lloyds Banking Group plc and has areas.
Lorna was appointed Company provided advice to boards considering Secretary in October 2014 and led the significant corporate transactions.
He joined corporate governance preparation for the the Group in November 2014 from Groups demerger and IPO during 2016.
Deloitte LLP where he was a partner specialising in financial services.
Key external appointment Non-Executive Director of 67 Pall Mall Limited.
CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 59
