Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information Governance Audit Committee report Dear shareholder, As Chair of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to present the report from the Committee for the year ended 30 September 2017.
I became the Chair of the Committee on 23 November 2016, having been a member since 12 September 2016.
I would like to thank David Bennett, my predecessor as Interim Chair, for his invaluable guidance and insight to me as incoming Chair.
Highlights in 2017 During the year, the Audit Committee has fulfilled its responsibilities and met its key objectives, by overseeing financial reporting, including the adequacy of related disclosures as well as reviewing internal controls and the effectiveness of both internal and external audit.
The Committee is comprised of independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee continued to exercise its responsibilities for ensuring the integrity and quality of the Groups financial reporting and spent considerable time reviewing the Groups financial results.
The Audit Committee has fulfilled its It questioned management robustly on a number of key responsibilities to ensure the integrity accounting judgements relevant to the financial statements, and quality of the Groups financial including a focus on impairment losses on loans and advances, reporting.
PPI redress provision and other conduct matters, deferred tax assets, retirement benefit obligations and fair value of financial instruments full details are contained on pages 82 to 84 of this Report.
The Committee has focused closely on the analysis underpinning the ongoing Going Concern test, the longer-term Viability Assessment, and in particular, the presentation of the Annual Report and Accounts in a way that makes them Fair, Balanced and Understandable.
The Group continues to enhance its control environment.
The Committee, utilising its independent perspective, challenged constructively the operation of the Groups Three Lines of Defence model in relation to the Groups internal controls which is essential to ensure risks are appropriately managed and mitigated.
The Committee has worked closely with the Risk Committee in this process.
The Committee continued to oversee the performance and effectiveness of internal and external audit, the main independent assurance mechanisms that serve to protect shareholders interests.
CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 79 G Gove over rn na an nc ce e A Au ud diit t C Com ommi mit tt tee ee r re ep por ort t The Group Director Internal Audit provided regular updates to the Committee on enhancements made during the year to the Internal Audit function, following on from Deloitte LLPs external quality assessment of the Internal Audit Function in 2016.
These included a refresh of the Internal Audit strategy to align to the Groups strategy and clearly link the Internal Audit work to the key drivers of success for the Group.
Having considered feedback from stakeholders, peer benchmarking analysis, results of quality assessments and the Internal Audit reports provided to the Committee, it was concluded that Internal Audit activities were effective.
The Committee closely monitored the external audit process and the performance of the External Auditor, EY, through an annual effectiveness review against four themes in line with the FRC guidance: judgement: mindset and culture: skills, character and knowledge: and an assessment of quality control.
The Committee considered the review and concluded in terms of the themes assessed that the external audit process was effective.
Committee performance evaluation The independent, externally facilitated Board Performance Evaluation carried out during the year included an assessment of the Committees effectiveness.
Overall, the Committee was assessed as effective.
Further details are provided in this report.
Looking ahead The report sets out the areas the Committee focused on in 2017.
Many of these areas will again be areas of focus for the Committee in 2018.
In particular the Committee will monitor the application of the Three Lines of Defence Model, assess the Internal Audit oversight of the IRB project, and continue to provide oversight of the implementation of the new financial instruments accounting standard IFRS 9, which will be effective for the Group in the reporting period beginning 1 October 2018.
Tim Wade Chair, Audit Committee 80 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information Committee attendance Membership and meetings The core activities of the Committee were carried out in six The current members of the Committee are: scheduled meetings of the Committee.
Two additional ad hoc Tim Wade, Chair meetings were arranged for decisions required outside scheduled meetings.
The table below shows the Committee members during Clive Adamson the year ended 30 September 2017 and their attendance at David Bennett scheduled Committee meetings.
David Browne Number of scheduled Number of Dr Teresa Robson-Capps Committee scheduled meetings eligible Committee The Committee comprises five Independent Non-Executive to attend meetings attended Directors.
Tim Wade, Chair, has recent and relevant accounting Committee Chair and audit experience for the purposes of the Code, having held a Tim Wade 6 6 number of senior finance roles.
The other Committee members Committee members have significant current or recent experience in the financial Clive Adamson 6 6 services and banking industries details of which are contained David Bennett 6 6 within the biographies section on pages 55 to 58.
This depth David Browne 6 6 of experience enables the Committee to deal effectively with 1 Dr Teresa Robson-Capps 6 5 the matters within its remit and to challenge management Former Committee members and auditors when required.
2 Richard Gregory 2 2 In addition to the Committee members, the Chairman, Chief 1 Unable to attend the meeting due to a prior business commitment.
Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Group Head of Finance, 2 Richard Gregory retired as a Committee member on 10 January 2017.
Group Chief Risk Officer, Company Secretary, Group General Counsel, Group Director Internal Audit and the External Auditor are invited to attend Committee meetings.
The Chair is also a Committee role and responsibilities member of the Risk Committee.
During the year, the Committee revised its Charter which sets out the role and responsibilities of the Committee.
The Charter Private sessions are held with the External Auditor and Group of the Committee can be found on the Companys website Director Internal Audit at alternate Committee meetings to www.
provide additional opportunity for open dialogue and feedback without management being present.
The Chair of the Committee Committee performance evaluation also meets with the Group Director Internal Audit and the Senior The Committees performance was reviewed as part of the Statutory Auditor outside the formal Committee process at independent, externally facilitated Board Performance Evaluation regular intervals throughout the year.
during the year which included an assessment of the Committees effectiveness.
Alignment with Risk Committee The key area for development related to ensuring that the The Committee recognises the common interest in issues relevant Charters for the Audit and Risk committees were reviewed to to both the Risk Committee and Audit Committee and in particular mitigate duplications and overlaps.
This was an action already the responsibilities of both in relation to the effectiveness of identified by both committees.
Joint discussions by both committees for the financial year ended 30 September 2017 included: progress made As part of a handover to Tim Wade on his appointment as Chair towards the implementation of IFRS 9: the Companys fraud and of the Committee, the new Chair set out his priorities for the money laundering controls: assurance plans from the Three Lines Committee and these priorities have been incorporated into the of Defence: the Viability Statement: and bonus risk adjustments Committees annual work plan and informed the Committees and metrics to be recommended to the Remuneration Committee.
agenda throughout the coming year.
To support the coordination of information between the committees, the Chairs of each of the Audit and Risk Committees are members of both committees.
The Audit Committee and Risk Committee also hold at least one joint meeting per year.
CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 81 Governance Audit Committee report Matters considered and actions taken by the Committee The significant matters addressed by the Committee during the financial year ended 30 September 2017 and in evaluating the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts are described in the following pages.
Role of the Committee Key matters considered and actions completed Accounting, tax and financial reporting To review the appropriateness Understood the process for the production of the reports under the remit of the Chief of the Companys financial statements, Financial Officer and the level of involvement of cross-functional subject matter experts, including the content of the Interim including monitoring the procedures in place to ensure that all contributors attested to Financial Report, Annual Report and the completeness, accuracy and appropriateness of the disclosures provided.
Accounts, and related Preliminary Results Announcements, Interim and quarterly results announcements and supporting analyst presentations.
Accounting policies and practices Reviewed with both management and the External Auditor critical accounting estimates To review the critical accounting and judgements, significant accounting policies and disclosures for the Groups financial policies, disclosure obligations and statements during the year: and changes in accounting requirements.
Received regular updates from the Group Accounting Policy team and External Auditor on key developments in financial reporting requirements.
In particular, deep dives were presented on the Groups readiness to implement IFRS 9 to be adopted by the Group from 1 October 2018.
Significant issues and areas of judgement To consider where necessary, the actions, estimates and judgements of management.
Impairment losses on loans Reviewed regular reports from management in relation to impairment provisioning, with andadvances the key focus being on collective provisioning for SME lending where the judgemental The Groups loans and advances are element is most significant: subject to impairment losses, which Reviewed and challenged the inputs and resulting output of the base models, with are measured as the difference a particular focus on probabilities of default and the estimate of future recoveries: between the assets carrying amount Reviewed and challenged the level of overlays included within the collective provision and the present value of the and the rationale behind the requirement for overlays to be held that augment the estimated future cash flows collective provisioning modelled output: and discounted at the assets original Agreed that the judgements were appropriate at 30 September 2017. effective interest rate.
The disclosures relating to impairment provisions are set out in note 3.6 to the financial statements and in the Risk report from page 137.
The process of calculating the collective loan loss provision requires the use of significant estimates and judgements over the following: estimating the probability of default and estimates of future recoveries in Base Models: Model Risk Reserves: and the use of overlays.
82 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information Role of the Committee Key matters considered and actions completed PPI redress provision and other conduct Reviewed and challenged the assumptions made by management when determining the related matters level of provisions required for PPI and other conduct related matters: The level of provisions required for Reviewed in detail proposals in relation to PPI and other conduct scenarios including both redress and administration in potential redress and administrative costs presented by management which reflected relation to past conduct related alternative potential outcomes before concluding on the 190m provision increase matters requires assumptions to recorded in March 2017 and the 403m increase recorded in September 2017.
Under be made that are based upon a the terms of the Conduct Indemnity Deed in place with NAB, the impact of this on the combination of historical data Group income statement was 58m: and management judgement.
Considered the continued impact of Plevin together with PS17 3 issued in March 2017 relating to the August 2019 time bar for PPI complaints.
Based upon the most recent These judgements are inherently information the Committee concluded that the assumptions used by management complex as they involve making were supportable and that the PPI provisions recorded at 30 September 2017 were estimates based on multiple factors appropriate: and that incorporate expectations of Based upon the most recent information the Committee concluded that management future customer behaviour, the assumptions were supportable and that the other related conduct provisions recorded impact of regulatory rule making and at 30 September 2017 were appropriate.
the application of precedent from the The disclosures relating to provisions for conduct matters and the impact of the Conduct Financial Ombudsman Service.
Indemnity Deed are set out in note 3.14.
Deferred tax assets Reviewed the recoverability of deferred tax assets throughout the year: The largest elements of the Groups Considered the judgements made by management over the forecast future profitability deferred tax asset are historic losses of the Group and the time horizon over which the use of tax losses was foreseeable in and capital allowances.
light of the continuing and progressively tightening restrictions on their use: and Agreed that the recognition of a deferred tax asset balance of 154m at In determining that the deferred tax 30 September 2017 was appropriate.
asset balance remains on the balance The disclosures relating the Groups deferred tax asset position as at 30 September 2017 sheet, management has exercised are set out in note 3.11. judgement over the forecast future profitability of the Group: and the number of years over which to take account of future profits, i. e. the period over which profits can be reliably estimated.
Retirement benefit obligations Reviewed the discount and inflation rate assumptions proposed by management at The actuarial valuation of the Groups 30 September 2017 against a benchmark range provided by the external adviser and defined benefit scheme liabilities concurred with these key assumptions: and involves making several financial and Considered the mortality assumptions which were reflective of the position reported demographic assumptions, including: at the recent Triennial Review by the Scheme actuary.
discount rate: future inflation rates: The disclosures relating the Groups retirement benefit obligations at 30 September 2017 and future mortality rates.
CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 83 Governance Audit Committee report Role of the Committee Key matters considered and actions completed Fair value of financial instruments Reviewed the judgement made by management and concurred with the level of CRA Significant management judgement is applied at 30 September 2017. required for Level 3 measurements, The disclosures relating the Groups fair value loan portfolio and fair value measurements as one or more inputs are at 30 September 2017 are set out in notes 3.3 and 3.18 respectively.
The most significant Level 3 asset is the Fair Value Loan Portfolio, where management exercises significant judgement over future expectation of credit losses, through the application of a Credit Risk Adjustment CRA.
The Committee considered managements review of the disclosed critical accounting estimates and judgements.
The Committee concluded that, with the exception of the consideration of the carrying value of the Companys investment in Clydesdale Bank PLC which was not a critical estimate or judgement as at 30 September 2017 as there was no evidence that the asset was impaired, no changes were required to these in the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts.
The Committee considered whether critical estimates and judgements were involved in a number of other areas, including the effective interest rate method of accounting Note 2.2 and the capitalisation and impairment of intangible assets Note 3.10.
The Committee concluded that the impact of the sensitivity of judgement in these areas was low and consequently they were not critical estimates or judgements.
Going concern Reviewed and challenged the going concern assessment undertaken by management including evidence of the Groups capital, liquidity and funding position and confirmed to the Board that it was appropriate for the Groups financial statements to be prepared on a going concern basis.
Long-term viability Reviewed and challenged the viability assessment including the three year time horizon selected undertaken by management in the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts.
The Committee considered the process to support the viability statement in conjunction with an assessment of principal risks and strategy business model disclosures, taking into account the assessment by the Risk Committee of stress testing results and risk appetite.
The Committee recommended the draft viability statement as set out on page 125 to the Board for approval.
Assessment of the fair, balanced and Considered, at the request of the Board, the comprehensive review process which understandable reporting supports the Board and Committee in reaching its conclusion whether the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts was fair, balanced and understandable and whether it provided the necessary information for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
The process which enabled the Committee to reach this conclusion included: the production of the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts which was managed by the Chief Financial Officer, with overall governance and coordination provided by a cross-functional team of senior management led by the Group Head of Finance: cross-functional support to drafting the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts, which included input from Finance, Risk, Legal and Governance, Investor Relations, HR and the wider business: a robust review process of inputs into the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts by all contributors to ensure disclosures were balanced, accurate and verified, and further comprehensive reviews were conducted by senior management: a review by the Company Secretary of all Board and Committee minutes to ensure all significant matters discussed at meetings were appropriately disclosed in the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts as required: a formal review by the Committee of the draft 2017 Annual Report and Accounts in advance of final sign-off: and a final review by the Board of Directors.
After careful review and consideration of all relevant information, including principal risks, the Committee was satisfied that, taken as a whole, the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable and has affirmed that view to the Board.
This process was also undertaken in respect of all the Groups financial reporting during the year to ensure that, taken as a whole, based on the information supplied to it and challenged by the Committee, they were fair, balanced and understandable, and advised the Board to that effect.
84 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information Role of the Committee Key matters considered and actions completed Regulatory compliance Reviewed the integrity of the Pillar 3 Disclosures and recommended approval by Oversight of the Groups compliance the Board: with all necessary regulatory Considered the findings from Internal Audits review of COREP reporting as requested reporting.
by the PRA as part of an industry-wide exercise to examine the quality of COREP reporting across a number of banks and building societies: and Oversight of significant management judgement in the regulatory returns to the Groups regulators, the PRA, BoE and FCA.
Internal controls and RMF Reviewed in line with the Internal Audit plan, the output of Internal Audit reports Details of the internal controls and including thematic and focused reviews of prudential, credit, conduct and strategic risk management systems for the change risks to confirm the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk Groups financial reporting process management systems: and are provided within the Corporate Considered the findings of the External Auditor in connection with the Groups governance report on page 71 and control environment.
in the Risk report on pages 127-175.
Monitoring the effectiveness of the Considered periodic whistleblower framework reports covering the Groups Groups whistleblower framework whistleblowing arrangements, including monitoring the trends in reported and The Chair of the Committee is substantiated whistleblowing cases: the Whistleblower Champion in Obtained assurance on the completion of training by colleagues to raise awareness accordance with the Senior Managers across the organisation of the whistleblower framework: Regime with responsibility for the Agreed the transfer of responsibility of the whistleblowing policy standard and integrity, independence and framework from Internal Audit to Regulatory and Compliance Risk, with Internal Audit effectiveness of the Groups policies undertaking periodic assurance over its effectiveness and operation: and and procedures on whistleblowing Had oversight of updates to the whistleblowing policy standard to include slavery and and the Committee has oversight human trafficking concerns as a result of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and to reflect of the whistleblower policy standard the requirements set out in the FCAs Senior Management Arrangements, Systems and and framework.
Controls Sourcebook, the PRA Rulebook General Organisational Requirements and the Employment Rights Act 1996.
Fraud and anti-money laundering In conjunction with the activities of the Risk Committee, reviewed managements processes for identifying and responding to the risk of fraud and money laundering.
Specifically, this involved understanding and overseeing the adequacy of Internal Audit coverage of fraud and money laundering controls and External Audit coverage of fraud risks and controls relating to financial reporting: and Considered any instances in which control weaknesses, fraud or misconduct were highlighted and managements response in conjunction with any associated control deficiencies.
As a result, the Committee, in conjunction with the Risk Committee, is satisfied that internal controls for financial reporting and risk management systems were appropriate and fit for purpose throughout the year.
CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 85 Governance Audit Committee report Role of the Committee Key matters considered and actions completed Independence and assurance Approved revisions to the Internal Audit Charter which sets out the role and Internal audit responsibilities of the function in relation to recommendations made by Deloitte LLP Monitoring the role and effectiveness of in their external quality assessment EQA of the Internal Audit Function in 2016 the the Internal Audit function including the EQA is to take place at least once every five years and updated guidance in accordance role of the Group Director Internal Audit with the Institute of Internal Auditors.
The Internal Audit Charter can be found on the Companys website at www.
com about-us corporate-governance : Approved the audit plan and monitored progress to deliver the plan and material changes to it on a quarterly basis: Reviewed the outcomes of Internal Audits work, the actions agreed with management to address any issues raised and the status of previously agreed actions: Regular interactions with the Group Director Internal Audit during the year, including private sessions with the members of the Committee and specific workshops with Internal Audit and senior management to discuss audit planning and priorities: Assessed the annual performance of the Group Director Internal Audit.
The Group Director Internal Audit continued to report directly to the Chair of the Committee, with a secondary reporting line to the Chief Executive Officer for administrative purposes: Following the EQA in 2016, the Committee tracked the progress made during the year of the implementation by the Group Director Internal Audit of certain recommendations raised in the assessment to further enhance the Internal Audit function: and Reviewed the results of internal quality assurance reviews on the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function.
The Internal Audit function was Monitored the adequacy of Internal Audit resources, including the financial budget and sufficiently resourced and skilled to capability to draw on external specialists when appropriate.
This included a dedicated operate as a standalone entity peer benchmarking exercise conducted during the year.
External audit Approved the annual audit plan, approved the engagement letter and agreed the Responsible for overseeing the auditors remuneration.
The Committee was authorised by shareholders at the 2017 relationship with the External Auditor AGM to agree the remuneration of the External Auditors: Reviewed the findings of the external audit including key judgements and the level of challenge provided by the External Auditor: Reviewed the External Auditors representation letter: and Reviewed managements responses to control findings, non-compliance and any other findings identified by external audit.
Assessed the performance of the The Committee considered the effectiveness of the audit process and the External External Auditor Auditor performance as part of an annual performance review.
The assessment focused on the areas of judgement: mindset and culture: skills, character and knowledge: with an overarching assessment of quality control.
86 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information Role of the Committee Key matters considered and actions completed External Auditor independence and Both the Board and the External Auditor have safeguards in place to protect the objectivity, and remuneration for audit independence and objectivity of the External Auditor.
The Committee approved during and non-audit services the year revisions to the External Auditor Policy Standard Policy Standard to align it to the Groups Policy Management Framework aligned with the RMF in September 2017 and the FRCs Revised Ethical Standard 2016: The Policy Standard details the nature of the services that the External Auditor may not undertake and specifies that non-audit services may not be pre-approved and are subject to prior approval from the Committee or a delegate.
In certain cases, the External Auditor may be selected over another service provider due to their detailed knowledge and understanding of the Groups operations.
Any allowable non-audit service with a value above 100,000 requires approval from the Chair of the Committee.
The Policy Standard also specifies that the overall fee for non-audit services be continually monitored and should not exceed 70% of the average audit fee over the prior three-year period: The total amount paid to the External Auditor in 2017 was 1,766k 2016: 1,697k.
Payments by the Group for both audit and non-audit services provided in 2017 and 2016 are further detailed in note 2.4 to the financial statements: and The Policy Standard also regulates the appointment of former audit colleagues to senior finance positions in the Group.
This policy is reviewed at least annually and was refreshed during 2017.
Following the Committees review of the effectiveness of the external audit process and the assessment of the External Auditors independence and objectivity, it has recommended to the Board the reappointment of EY as the Groups External Auditor for recommendation to and approval by shareholders at the 2018 AGM.
The External Auditor, the Senior EY has been the External Auditor for Clydesdale Bank PLC and other Group entities Statutory Auditor and The Statutory since January 2005.
EY was appointed as the Companys External Auditor on Audit Services for Large Companies 14 January 2016 following an audit tender, shortly before the Company became the Market Investigation Mandatory Use of holding company of the Group and for the initial period post the demerger and IPO in Competitive Tender Processes and Audit February 2016, however, the Committee recommended that this be kept under review: Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 The Group has no current retendering plans.
The Committee undertook a competitive tender of the audit of the Group in early 2015.
In applying the CMAs requirements, the next mandatory tender would be in respect of the 2026 financial year: During the year, Steven Robb succeeded George Reid as the Senior Statutory Auditor and EY will continue to practice the rotation of the Senior Statutory Auditor responsible for the Group audit at least every five years, and all other audit partners and audit senior management will be required to rotate at least every seven years: The Committee continues to follow developments in the reform of the external audit regulations and the UK and European requirements on publicly listed banking groups: and The Committee confirms that the Group has complied during the period of financial review and to the date of this report with The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014, which relates to the frequency and governance of tenders for the appointment of the External Auditor and the setting of a policy on the provision of non-audit services.
CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 87
