Governance Risk Committee report Dear shareholder, As Chair of the Risk Committee, I am pleased to present the report from the Committee for the year ended 30 September 2017.
I became the Chair of the Committee on 11 January 2017, having been a member since 1 July 2016.
I would like to thank Richard Gregory, my predecessor as Chair, for imparting his knowledge and insight to me as incoming Chair.
Highlights in 2017 During the year, there have been a number of key priorities upon which the Committee has focused to enhance both its effectiveness and role.
In particular, the Committee has assessed how best it can support a strong and effective risk culture which drives customer centricity.
The Committee has continued to direct the enhancement of the Groups RAS and associated metrics to better align with the strategic planning process, with particular focus on defining the risk appetite for conduct risk and operational resilience.
It The Risk Committee has developed continued to consider stress and scenario analysis to provide its role in supporting a strong and comfort on the Groups ability to mitigate potential risks.
effective risk culture which drives The Committee developed its view and understanding of top customer centricity.
and emerging enterprise-wide risks as agreed by the Executive Leadership Team and the Board, which represent the most significant risks to the achievement of the Groups current business plan and strategy and or could result in material financial, reputational or regulatory impact.
The Group continues to operate in an environment subject to considerable change and during the year the Committee has been proactive in its review, oversight and challenge of risks arising from headwinds such as the recent political events, specifically the outcomes of the UK general election and the commencement of Brexit negotiations following the EU referendum and wider geo-political risks which have led to increased economic and political uncertainty.
In addition, there has been focus on a number of high profile cyber security breaches during the last few years at other UK corporates such as the recent WannaCry incident in May 2017, given the importance of digital capability to the Groups strategic focus and enhancing the Groups enabled omni-channel offering to customers.
The potential impact to the Groups business from various mandatory regulatory developments such as fulfilling the requirements of the General Data Protection Regulation GDPR, Payment Services Directive 2 PSD2, MiFiD II: ring fencing and any changes due to regulatory capital requirements as a result of the BCBS are also topical and subject to ongoing consideration by the Committee.
88 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information Following his appointment in September 2016, the new Group Chief Risk Officer, Mark Thundercliffe reviewed the Groups RMF and Three Lines of Defence Model and the Committee monitored the enhancement and embedding of these arrangements.
The following report sets out the principal risks and areas of emerging risk the Committee evaluated over the year.
More details on the wider risk profile and the RMF that the Committee oversees can be found in the Risk overview within the Strategic report on pages 18 to 19 and in the Risk report on pages 127 to 175.
Committee performance evaluation The independent, externally facilitated Board performance evaluation carried out during the year included an assessment of the Committees effectiveness.
Overall, the Committee was assessed as effective.
Further details are provided in the Committee report.
Looking ahead The Group has made significant advances this year towards its delivery on executing its three-year strategic plan to establish itself as the UKs leading full service challenger bank.
In support of the Groups strategy, the Committee will closely scrutinise developments and any impact on the RAS.
Clive Adamson Chair, Risk Committee CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 89 Governance Risk Committee report Membership and meetings Committee role and responsibilities The current members of the Committee are: During the year, the Committee revised its Charter which sets out the role and responsibilities of the Committee.
The Charter of the Clive Adamson, Chair Committee can be found on the Companys website David Bennett www.
David Browne Committee performance evaluation Paul Coby The Committees performance was reviewed as part of the independent, externally facilitated Board performance evaluation Fiona MacLeod during the year which included an assessment of the Committees Tim Wade effectiveness.
In common with the Audit Committee, the key area for development The Committee comprises six Independent Non-Executive related to ensuring that the Charters for the Risk and Audit Directors who have a variety of industry backgrounds, including Committees were reviewed to mitigate duplications and overlaps.
Membership of the Committee has This was an action already identified by both Committees.
been designed so that there is a deep understanding of the risk management, banking and financial sector expertise it needs to Following Clive Adamsons appointment as Chair of the fulfil its responsibilities.
Paul Coby and Fiona MacLeod joined the Committee, he set out his priorities for the Risk Committee and Committee on 30 December 2016 bringing valuable insights into these priorities have been incorporated into the Committees IT risk and strategic change, risk and control, respectively.
In annual work plan and will inform the Committees agenda addition to the Committee members, the Chairman, Chief throughout the coming year.
Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Group Chief Risk Officer, Company Secretary, Group General Matters considered and actions taken Counsel, and Group Director Internal Audit are invited to by the Committee attend Committee meetings.
The Chair is also a member of The significant matters addressed by the Committee during the Audit Committee.
the financial year ended 30 September 2017 and in evaluating the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts are described in the Committee attendance following pages.
The core activities of the Committee were carried out in six scheduled meetings of the Committee.
Two additional ad hoc meetings were arranged for decisions required outside scheduled meetings.
The table below shows the Committee members during the year ended 30 September 2017 and their attendance at scheduled Committee meetings.
Number of Number of scheduled scheduled Committee Committee meetings eligible meetings to attend attended Committee Chair Clive Adamson 6 6 Committee members David Bennett 6 6 David Browne 6 6 1 Paul Coby 4 4 2 Fiona MacLeod 4 4 3 Tim Wade 6 5 Former Committee members 4 Richard Gregory 2 2 1 Paul Coby was appointed as a Committee member on 30 December 2016 2 Fiona MacLeod was appointed as a Committee member on 30 December 2016 3 Unable to attend the meeting due to a prior business commitment 4 Richard Gregory retired as a Committee member on 10 January 2017 90 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information Role of the Committee Key matters considered and actions completed Enhancing the RAS and stress Conducted six-monthly reviews and recommended any updates to the Board for testing approval of the RAS taking into consideration the strategic objectives and target Reviewing and approving the Groups business model of the Group as well as the environment in which it operates: risk appetite Reviewed regular reports of performance against each RAS measure, and assessed and confirmed the adequacy of management actions in relation to actual or potential breaches of Red and Amber RAS thresholds: Fully refreshed the statements of appetite and limit settings for the material sources of risk during the year: and Requested and reviewed deep-dive analysis on a variety of risk matters including: B post implementation review, customer funding gap, and IT.
Reviewing the ICAAP and ILAAP and Reviewed and monitored the capital, funding and liquidity profile through the ICAAP and recommending approval to the Board ILAAP processes.
Embedding the risk framework Reviewed and approved proposals to enhance the RMF: and governance Reviewed and approved an updated Policy Management Framework which provides the Providing oversight and reviewing overarching principles and minimum control requirements that operate across the the application of the Groups risk Group to mitigate risks to within the Groups risk appetite: management, compliance and Received updates in relation to the Groups IRB application to the PRA and ongoing control systems compliance: Considered an annual review of the Groups anti-money laundering and counterterrorist policy, systems and controls: and Reviewed the policies and procedures for preventing and detecting fraud and bribery.
Supporting an effective Continually assessed risk culture, including considering risk events and undertaking root risk culture cause analysis: Ensuring that all colleagues operate Developed financial risk measures for bonus and long term incentive plan LTIP with the in line with the Groups risk focused Remuneration Committee for 2018: culture Recommended the levels of alignment of remuneration to risk performance: and Considered any risk adjustments to be taken into account by the Remuneration Committee when making remuneration decisions for 2017 and 2018.
Risk management Reviewed and challenged regular reports from the Group Chief Risk Officer that Overseeing the risk profile and risk considered matters of concern on the material sources of top and emerging risks to the management of the Group within the Group see the following pages and outlined the remedial activities initiated to ensure Board approved RAS that the risk was brought within risk appetite: Reviewed and challenged regular reports from the Chief Financial Officer to manage the risks related to Funding, Liquidity and Capital: Approved the annual Three Lines of Defence Oversight and Assurance Plans and received regular updates on the adequacy and effectiveness of the application of the risk and control framework: Received updates on the output of assurance activities from the Three Lines of Defence regarding internal control processes for risk management: Carried out an assessment of the Viability Statement in the draft 2017 Annual Report and Accounts and advised the Board and Audit Committee to that effect: and Alongside other risk categories, the Committee oversaw Conduct Remediation Programmes ensuring that they deliver the right outcomes for our customers.
CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 91 Governance Risk Committee report As part of the RMF, during the year the Committee maintained oversight of the following identified principal risks and associated top and emerging risks: Principal risk Examples of Risk Committee consideration Credit risk The Committee reviewed regularly the performance of the credit risk portfolio, The risk of loss of principal or interest including segmentations alongside changes in the economic environment to ensure stemming from a borrowers failure to that concentration risks were minimised.
An area of particular focus and attention is the meet contracted obligations to the Groups mortgage portfolio spread and the level of concentration of mortgage lending.
Group in accordance with the terms Emerging risk Macroeconomic environment.
The impact of the sustained low interest agreed.
Credit risk is evident at both environment places increased pressure on NIM and conversely, a sharp rise in interest rates a portfolio and transactional level.
leads to an increased risk of default rates and credit losses.
Maintaining awareness of the risk of significant unforeseen credit losses occurring within a short time period which has the potential to have a detrimental impact on earnings and profitability.
Balance sheet and Prudential The Committee monitored closely the Groups funding position giving due regulation risks consideration to any additional risks arising from increased market uncertainty following This covers a number of categories changes in the macroeconomic environment, including the triggering of Article 50 and of risk which, combined, affect the subsequent Brexit negotiations which continue to create significant economic manner in which the Group can uncertainty for the UK: and support its customers in a safe and At each meeting the Committee considered a report from the Treasurer which provided sound manner an update on the Groups exposure to balance sheet and prudential regulation risks.
Regulatory and The Committee obtained frequent briefings from management on forthcoming compliance risks regulatory developments and upstream risk, to allow members to consider and oversee This consists of regulatory strategy the implications of these on the Groups strategic objectives and operations, systems and change risk, regulatory and controls: relationship risk and the risk of failing Regular updates were received by the Committee from the Group Chief Risk Officer on to understand and comply with progress made towards achieving IRB accreditation: and relevant laws, regulations, licence The Committee reviewed regular reports detailing how regulatory changes were being conditions, supervisory requirements, integrated into business strategic execution see emerging risks below.
industry codes of conduct and Emerging risk Regulatory capital requirements Changes to regulatory capital voluntary initiatives.
requirements due to the BCBS consultation on changes to the standardised approaches for calculating credit risk and operational risk.
Emerging risk Banking reform, ring fencing and resolution Regulatory authorities in the UK and Europe have proposed reforms to certain aspects of banking sector regulation including ring fencing requirements and MiFID II.
Emerging risk Use of data The EU Commissions General Data Protection Regulation GDPR is to be introduced from 25 May 2018 meaning the Group will be subject to increased regulatory burden when processing customer, colleague and other data and may be subject to increased sanctions for breach.
Conduct risk Through the execution of the Group Conduct Strategy, the Committee oversaw the Defined as the risk of treating pro-active review of the business for potential conduct issues: customers unfairly and or delivering The Committee monitored progress to remediate key legacy conduct issues throughout inappropriate outcomes resulting the year, including PPI and other remediation programmes: in regulatory fines, compensation, The Committee received regular updates on the implementation and effective redress costs and or reputational execution of the Group Conduct Strategy including the bi-annual Conduct Framework damage.
assessment, This included review of product governance outcomes, obtaining assurance that product design and execution continued to deliver fair outcomes to customers: and The Committee oversaw performance against Conduct Risk Appetite including the introduction of additional and enhanced Conduct-related RAS measures and approved a new Conduct Risk Policy Statement.
92 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information Principal risk Examples of Risk Committee consideration Operational risk The Committee reviewed the current and target approaches to change management to The risk of loss resulting from ensure that the Operational risk elements inherent in the Groups strategic plans were inadequate or failed internal being effectively mitigated.
This included the oversight of the effectiveness of actions to processes and systems or from exit remaining TSAs with NAB.
The outcome of the EU referendum and subsequent triggering of Article 50 has created a period of economic uncertainty for the UK.
Financial crime risk The Committee maintained oversight of the effectiveness of the Financial Crime The risk that the Groups products Framework for monitoring, management and mitigation of financial crime and and services will be used to facilitate considered reports on the strength of the Groups cybercrime defence strategy.
financial crime against the Group, its Emerging risk Cybercrime.
There is a risk that the Group is unable to keep pace with customers or third parties.
the increased threat of cybercrime that digital expansion presents.
Strategic, business and financial The Committee reviewed a consolidated report outlining the triggers and exposure to performance risk strategic risk by the Group Chief Risk Officer.
The risk of significant loss, loss of Emerging risk Payment Services Directive 2 PSD2 A directive of the European earnings and or damage arising from Parliament, the rules of which will apply from 13 January 2018, which aims to further business decisions that impact the develop a better integrated internal market for electronic payments within the EU, and long-term interests of stakeholders which the Group will be required to comply with.
or from an inability to adapt to external developments.
People risk The Committee provided oversight of people risks which included the ability to manage The risk of not having sufficiently change, the availability of management resources against plan, and the culture skilled and motivated colleagues who embedded across the Group.
are clear on their responsibilities and accountabilities and who behave in an ethical way.
Further details on the Groups approach to risk appetite, risk culture, the RMF, and significant and emerging risks can be found in the Risk report beginning on page 127.
CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 93
