Corporate governance report The role of the Board at Sage is to provide strategic leadership and effective oversight of the Groups activities.
In order to achieve this, the Board in action: Atlanta engagement visit Board receives regular reports from the CEO and CFO, and each In May 2017, Drummond Hall visited our Atlanta CBC and Sage meeting's business aligns to an annual agenda which provides time to Summit as part of his engagement activities.
The visit started discuss broader themes and initiatives.
In particular, this year the Board with a site tour and walk around the sales floor, then a series of has focused on: meetings with the local senior management team which were themed around Sage's strategic pillars.
The Groups long-term strategy, and reviewing progress against strategic objectives: At Sage Summit, Drummond participated as a judge at the Big Give Live Philanthropitch, a social impact competition that Considering Sages business culture, and embedding our Values and provides high potential non-profit organisations with access to Behaviours: human and financial capital.
Three non-profits whose missions Our principal risks, risk appetite, and the manner in which the align with the Sage Foundation's priority funding areas pitched to changing external environment may affect Sages strategy: the Summit audience and judging panel for the chance to win up Our product portfolio, and our strategy for delivering new and to $15,000 in funding.
Later that day, Drummond joined customer innovative products together with continuous improvements in and Partner roundtable activities, providing the opportunity to product quality: get closer to our US operations through the voice of the customer Mergers and acquisitions, including the acquisition of Sage People and to understand the needs of our US Partners.
and Intacct and the divestment of the US Payments business: and Visits such as these have many benefits.
They help our directors Succession planning, both at Board and Executive Committee level, see parts of the business up close and meet Sage colleagues and talent development.
from sales through to senior management, with the chance to challenge and question the organisation in a constructive way.
The Boards activities and focus during the year are described in more Equally, our colleagues, customers and partners see and value the detail on page 72. effort we are making to engage with them and understand their challenges and opportunities.
Board composition and independence The Board composition is set out on pages 64 to 65.
These pages also include details of the Directors skills and experience.
The Directors have a range of experience and can bring independent judgement to bear on issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct.
This experience and judgement is considered vital to our success.
It is the balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of our Directors which ensures the duties and responsibilities of the Board and its committees are discharged effectively.
The Board has spent significant time over the past year sourcing suitable replacements for Ruth Markland and Inna Kuznetsova, who both retired at the AGM in February 2017.
Their replacements, Soni Jiandani and Cath Keers, were selected for their knowledge and experience in those areas identified as being of importance to Board balance, such as technology sector expertise.
You can read more about the nominations process in our Nomination Committee report on page 82.
The Board monitors the independence of its Non-executive Directors, particularly those who have given long service.
Having reviewed the current Board, the Non-executive Directors are all considered to be independent.
Donald Brydon was considered independent at the date of his appointment.
Drummond Hall accepted the appointment of Senior Independent Director upon the retirement of Ruth Markland.
Drummond joined the Board in 2014 and is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
The Board also considered the Chairmans role and determined that Donald Brydon has appropriate time and resource to devote to his role as Chairman of Sage.
All directors are subject to election or re-election by shareholders at each Annual General Meeting.
Board Associate In 2017, the Board took the innovative step of appointing a Board one year as an observer and a contributor, bringing a new voice and Associate from amongst a selection of high-performing nominees.
dynamic to the Board table, whilst allowing colleague insight into the Allnominees were considered by the Board and shortlisted candidates workings of the Boardroom.
Amy plans to share her experiences with were interviewed by the Chairman and at least one other NED.
colleagues, and has already published a blog post on Your Sage with Non-executive Director Amy Lawson, EVP Communications, took up her thoughts on the role of the Board, how colleagues can strengthen the position in September 2017.
Amy will attend all Board meetings for their understanding of Sages strategy, and what that means for them.
68 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Diversity Board and Committee meetings and attendance The Board has due regard for the benefits of diversity in its membership Audit & Risk Nomination Remuneration and strives to maintain the right diversity balance including gender, age Director Board Committee Committee Committee 1 and professional background, whilst ensuring that appointments reflect Donald Brydon 13 14 4 4 4 4 2 2 the most appropriate candidates.
The Chairman seeks to ensure that Stephen Kelly 13 14 the composition of the Board includes individuals with deep knowledge Steve Hare 14 14 and experience, bringing a wide range of perspectives to the business.
Drummond Hall 14 14 5 5 7 7 2 The Board, as at the date of this Annual Report & Accounts, comprises Jonathan Howell 14 14 4 4 3 3 7 7 25% women 2015: 25%.
Donald Brydon served on the Remuneration Committee until 28 February 2017, and was not in attendance at the Board meeting which dealt with his re-appointment.
Jonathan Howell served on the Nomination Committee until 28 February 2017.
Neil Berkett served on the Nomination Committee until 28 February 2017.
Soni Jiandani was appointed on 28 February 2017.
Cath Keers was appointed on 1 July 2017.
Inna Kuznetsova served on all committees until her resignation on 28 February 2017.
Ruth Markland served on all committees until her resignation on 28 February 2017.
The Board meets not less than six times per year.
During FY17, it met six times in person, with a further eight telephone meetings dealing with matters arising in between scheduled meetings, such as acquisitions.
Induction and professional development Executive Executive 25% During 2017, Sage welcomed its first new Non-executive Directors since Non-executive Non-executive 75% 2014.
We therefore took the opportunity to refresh our induction programme, to ensure that the new Non-executive Directors could develop a full understanding of how Sage works.
Each new Director was provided with a tailored programme, including meetings with management, external advisers and fellow Board members and briefings on all aspects of Sages activities.
You can read more about Soni Jiandanis experience of her induction in her first non-executive role in a FTSE-listed plc on page 83 of the Nomination Committee report.
To assist the Board in undertaking its responsibilities, training is available to all Directors and training needs are assessed as part of the Board evaluation procedure.
In addition to training and updates on industry and corporate governance developments, in 2017 we implemented a 0-3 years 37.5% formal Director engagement programme.
Directors were asked which Tenure 3-6 years 62.5% areas of the business they would most like to understand in more depth, 6 years 0% and they took part in visits to several locations including Newcastle, Dublin, Spain and Atlanta, where they met with local management teams, customers and partners and were provided with site tours.
Directors were able to gain greater understanding and insight into particular issues faced by the business in those regions or business areas.
Feedback from those involved was positive, with Directors feeling that they had been provided with an opportunity to improve the breadth and depth of their knowledge of Sage and its people, and senior Conflicts of interest management welcoming the chance to engage on an individual level The Board operates a policy to identify and, where appropriate, manage with the Directors.
Some Directors also attended Sage Summit, which conflicts or potential conflicts of interest.
At each Board meeting, the this year took on a roadshow approach across multiple locations.
At Board considers a register of interests and potential conflicts of Summit, the Directors also had the opportunity to directly engage with Directors and gives, when appropriate, any necessary approvals.
Sage partners and customers in attendance, as well as colleagues represented at the events.
Read more about Sage Summit on page 44.
There are safeguards which will apply when Directors decide whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict, with only those Directors who All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company have no interest in the matter taking the decision.
No conflicts of Secretary who ensures that Directors take independent professional interest have been identified during the year.
advice when it is judged necessary in order to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 69 Corporate governance report continued Our governance framework Board see pages 64 to 65 for the Boards composition Our Board provides leadership to the business as a whole to drive it forward for the benefit, and having regard to the views, of its shareholders and other stakeholders.
The Board sets Sages risk appetite has overall responsibility for risk management and internal controls systems ensures processes are in place to identify and manage the Groups principal risks Audit and Risk Nomination Remuneration Chief Executive Officer Committee Committee Committee responsible for management of the oversees the Groups reviews the determines the Group as a whole financial reporting, risk composition of the framework, policy and delivers strategic objectives within the management and Board and plans for its levels of remuneration Boards stated risk appetite internal control progressive refreshing and makes procedures and the with regard to balance recommendations to work of its internal and and structure as well as the Board on the external auditors succession planning remuneration of the Executive Committee Chief Executive Officer, see page 66 for the Executive considers wider Chairman, Executive Committees composition elements of succession Directors, the develops and implements strategy, planning below Board CompanySecretary operational plans, budgets, policies level, including diversity and senior executives and procedures, monitoring operating and financial performance: assessing oversees the creation and controlling risks: prioritising and and implementation allocating resources: and monitoring ofall-employee competitive forces in each area of shareplans operation under the direction of the CEO Key Delegates authority Reports back on progress Beneath the Executive Committee there exists a clearly defined Risk management and internal controls organisational management structure and a governance framework The Board retains overall responsibility for setting Sages risk appetite consisting of sub-committees, each of which reports directly or and for risk management and internal control systems.
indirectly into one of the Committees referenced above.
These In accordance with section C. 2.3 of the Code, the Board is responsible sub-committees operate within defined terms of reference and in for reviewing their effectiveness and confirms that: accordance with Sages suite of global governance policies, which include Finance, IT, Procurement, Legal and HR policies as well as Sages There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing Code of Conduct.
All decisions made by individuals or by committee and the principal risks faced by the Company: which involve financial spend or an associated risk, are governed by The systems have been in place for the year under review and up to Sages Delegation of Authority matrix DOA.
The DOA is structured to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts: ensure that day-to-day operational decisions can be taken efficiently, They are regularly reviewed by the Board: and whilst driving higher-risk and high-value commitments for approval through the appropriate channels.
By maintaining this structure we gain The systems accord with the FRC guidance on risk management, assurance that our operations are being run effectively and that internal control and related financial and business reporting.
decisions are made in line with our commitment to always do business There were no instances of significant control failing or weakness the right way.
The terms of reference of each Committee, which are You can read more about our risk management and internal controls reviewed on anannual basis, can be found on our website systems in our Strategic Report on pages 59 to 61 and the associated www.
work of the Audit and Risk Committee on page 76 to 81.
70 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Board roles Donald Brydon, Stephen Kelly, Chief Chairman Executive Officer Responsible for leading the Responsible for the Board, monitoring its formulation of strategy and effectiveness and running of the Group governance As Chairman I am responsible for leading the Board in challenging My responsibilities as Chief Executive Officer include: and agreeing the strategy proposed by the Chief Executive The design, development and agreement of strategy with Officer.
My role as Chairman also carries a particular responsibility theBoard: to monitor and assess Sages corporate governance practices and Delivering the Boards strategy through the the overall effectiveness of the Board.
ExecutiveCommittee: and To ensure a proper dialogue with Directors, I hold meetings with Managing the overall performance of Sage, concentrating on the Non-executive Directors without the Executive Directors to revenue and profitability.
In addition, the Non-executive Directors meet without me being present to appraise my performance.
These I also identify acquisitions and monitor competitive forces, as well meetings without me present are chaired by the Senior as ensuring an effective and motivated leadership team.
the Executive Committee and maintain a close working relationship with the Chairman.
I also ensure that shareholder engagement is discussed at each meeting of the Board and that all shareholders have access to the Non-executive Directors, through a request to the Chairman or the Company Secretary.
Drummond Hall, Senior Vicki Bradin, Independent Director Company Secretary Acts as a sounding board Ensures good information for the Chairman and flows to the Board and its discusses any concerns committees and between with shareholders that senior management and cannot be resolved through Non-executive Directors the normal channels of communication My role as Senior Independent Director is: In my role as Company Secretary, I am available to all Directors to provide advice and assistance, and I am responsible for providing To support the Chairman in the delivery of his objectives: governance advice to the Board.
I ensure Board procedures are To provide an additional point of contact for shareholders, complied with, that applicable rules and regulations are followed including those who may wish to raise issues with the Board, and act as secretary to the Board and all of the committees.
I also other than through the Chairman: and ensure minutes of all meetings are circulated to all Directors as well as facilitate the induction of new Directors and assist with Together with the other independent Non-executive Directors, professional development as required.
to evaluate the performance of the Chairman.
The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer are quite distinct from one another and are clearly defined in written terms of reference for each role.
These terms of reference are available on our website www.
com company about-sage leadership board-of-directors.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 71 Corporate governance report continued How the Board operates The Board has formally adopted a schedule of matters reserved to it for decision.
This schedule was last reviewed at the September 2017 Board meeting and is available via our website www.
The Boards activities throughout the year are underpinned by our external reporting calendar and our internal business planning processes.
A rolling annual agenda ensures that all important topics receive sufficient attention.
Standing items such as cybersecurity, KPIs and financial updates provide the Board with a consistent view of progress during the year, whilst sessions on other topics allow deeper insight.
Q1 2017 2017 Board Full-year results announcement, Annual Report & Accounts, Activities Succession Planning, Board objectives, Cybersecurity Q2 2017 Strategy day, Review of Sage Values and Code of Conduct, Sage Foundation presentation, AGM, Corporate Governance reform, Siteengagement visits Q3 2017 Half-year results announcement, Site engagement visits, US Payments sale, Communications strategy, Board Associate appointment Q4 2017 Strategy pulse-check, Acquisition of Intacct, UKI operations presentation, Product demo, FY18 Budget, Talent pipeline review, Culture review, Modern Slavery statement In order for the Board and Committees to operate at their best, it is Regular attendance at Board meetings by key executives ensures that essential that they receive, in a timely fashion, papers which are clear, the Board has the opportunity to discuss the risks and opportunities focused and relevant.
During FY17, focus has been given to improving within our business with leaders from across the Group.
It also helps the template paper structure and offering guidance to authors and foster a culture of ownership and accountability within the Executive presenters to help them better understand the Boards information Leadership Team and ensures that the Board are able to build strong needs.
Papers are circulated electronically via a secure portal, giving relationships over time with those individuals.
directors ample time to consider and digest their contents.
Directors can also use the portal to make annotations to papers, and store and share relevant content for reference at Board meetings.
72 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements How the Board spent the year The Board has adopted a written set of objectives for the financial year, against which it informally assesses progress at each meeting.
A formal review takes places as part of the annual Board evaluation process.
Board focus Sage Strategic Pillars Actions taken in FY17 One Sage Customer for Life Commissioned a culture review led by CPO which included a Group-wide Culture employee engagement survey, output to inform FY18 objectives One Sage Capacity for Growth Two new NED appointments Succession planning Annual Talent Review of senior leadership pipeline Winning in the Market Acquisitions of Intacct and Fairsail now Sage People Competitive advantage Capacity for Growth Board Strategy Day in January 2017 Growth strategy overall Revolutionise Business Acquisition of Compass, a highly innovative analytics and benchmarking Strategic platform, providing Sage's small business customers with high-quality technology analytics and real-time actionable insight, using the power of big data Winning in the Market Customer for Life Acquisition of Intacct USA growth strategy Divestment of US Payments business Winning in the Market Revolutionise Business Partnerships with GoCardless and Stripe Strategic partnerships Sage accounting software first to have a live banking feed with Lloyds Customer for Life Increased use of APIs Product quality Capacity for Growth Annual review of principal risks Principal risks Regular updates on risk management and assurance from the Audit & Risk Committee One Sage Regular Board updates Corporate governance Appointment of Board Associate Engagement with Government corporate governance reforms through BEIS and FRC Meeting is used to communicate with private and institutional investors Relations with shareholders and the Board welcomes their participation.
Sage has operated several Communication with shareholders is given high priority.
A full Annual all-employee share schemes over the years, and yet has had historically Report & Accounts is sent to all shareholders who wish to receive one low levels of employee shareholder attendance at the AGM.
In 2017, a and all information on Sages activities, published financial results and group of 20 attendees drawn from amongst our Newcastle colleagues, the Annual Report & Accounts can be found on our website.
There is including our apprentice population, were invited to attend the AGM.
regular dialogue with individual institutional shareholders and there are They were provided with a short briefing beforehand, explaining the presentations to analysts after our announcement of the year-end and purpose of the AGM, the order of business and what to expect.
Feedback was positive, and we hope that with the introduction in 2017 of At each meeting, the Board receives an update on presentations to the Sage Save & Share Plan, future AGMs may feature greater employee investors and communications from shareholders to ensure that the shareholder participation.
Directors have an understanding of their views.
The Annual General The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 73 Corporate governance report continued The Board evaluation process Conclusions from this years review The overall conclusion from this years evaluation was that the Board and its committees are working well and operating effectively.
Several key themes were identified, which have been fed into the Boards objectives for FY18.
As with any Board evaluation 2016 17 Board whose ambition is to be world-class, In FY17, the Secretariat reviewed a the Directors continue to seek to improve number of online evaluation tools on and evolve their standards of performance.
behalf of the Chairman, and selected a The Board will remain focused on the key tool which provided a comprehensive strategic priorities for the Company and suite of question banks and clear, measuring progress against them with Principles of evaluation engaging, reporting functionality.
It will devote time to The UK Corporate Governance Code question banks were tailored into six succession planning and reviewing the stipulates that boards should conduct a questionnaires, covering the Board, each skills needed within the Board to support formal and rigorous review of their of the Committees, the Chairman and the strategy, as well as focusing more on performance annually, and an externally individual Directors.
Questions were understanding the working culture within facilitated review at least every three designed to be as specific to Sage as Sage and how best to embed Sages stated years.
In recent years, the Board has possible and to enable the respondents values and behaviours within the context taken the view that the changes to to rate each question element on a of this culture.
The Chairman will lead on Board composition and the sliding scale, as well as focusing in on the delivering these objectives with support fundamental transformation of Sages elements of each topic that they felt from the CEO and the Company Secretary.
business warranted a more regular could be improved on or which they external evaluation, and so it has would like to discuss more.
Free text conducted an external comment boxes allowed them to expand evaluationbiennially.
on these thoughts as they saw fit.
All the Actions for 2017 2018 Directors, the Company Secretary and a Last year, the Board used an The Board has set new objectives selection of regular meeting participants independent third party to evaluate its for itself for FY18, taking account of were invited to respond to the performance and that of its committees the findings from the evaluation.
It was These will be reported on in the facilitated by Ffion Hague of The evaluation included the FY18 Annual Report.
Other areas of Independent Board Evaluation IBE.
The followingtopics: focus will include: review included observing two Board Board composition and the dynamics Ensuring the Directors get and committee meetings in April and of Board discussions: sufficient time to engage with the July 2016 and conducting in-depth talent pipeline within the Strategy: line of sight and the quality of interviews with each Board member business: information flows: against a tailored agenda in June 2016.
Enabling Directors to increase In addition, detailed interviews were Succession planning: Board and senior their understanding of the wider also conducted with other members of management: technology environment: the Executive Committee and senior Meeting logistics: timing, preparation managers within the Company, as well Building on the work undertaken and content of Board packs: as external advisers who work closely in 2017 to improve the Directors Effectiveness of the Chairman and with the Board and committees.
engagement plans and their each of the Committee chairmen: and Feedback was provided when the Board continuing professional Individual Director performance and met in September 2016 and each development: and development opportunities.
Committee was provided with a Driving further improvements in separate report.
Individual director the quality of the information that In September 2017, the Board received reports were also provided to the the Board receives.
and discussed a full report on the results Chairman, and the Senior Independent of the evaluation.
Director led the review of the Chairmans performance.
The conclusions from that years report formed the basis of the Boards objectives for FY17, and provided valuable insight into potential areas for improvement as the Board strives to provide world-class leadership and oversight of the Group.
74 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic report Go Gov vernance ernance Financial statements Intacct Intacct acquisition With a focus on growing Sages share of the cloud market, particularly in North America, any strategic acquisitions need to fulfil a number of criteria.
The Boards role in mergers and acquisitions is to challenge and test managements assumptions and leverage their particular skills and experience in this area.
The journey towards adding Intacct to the Sage family started over a year prior to completion, with initial meetings between the respective management teams to determine whether there might be a strategic and cultural fit.
IDC predicts that by 2020, over 50% of financial software in the scale-up segment will be in the cloud and the rate of growth in the US is large.
In FY18 alone it is expected to grow by $400m, more than the entire value of the UK cloud financial management market.
However, the market still remains fragmented with many legacy, on-premise vendors this was the time for Sage to act.
There is also a shift away from large, monolithic, hard to implement ERP systems, towards best-of-breed integrated solutions such as Sage Intacct and Sage Live.
The acquisition represented an amazing opportunity to capitalise on both of these market trends.
By January 2017, the M&A Committee had provided an in-principle approval and financial advisers had been engaged.
With a deal of this size and importance to Sage, thorough due diligence was critical.
The Board were kept apprised of progress, with regular project updates from the CEO, CFO and wider deal team at each Board meeting from January 2017 onwards.
Throughout this process Board members contributed to the strategic discussion, seeking clear evidence to support the argument that this acquisition was the logical next step in Sages strategy and would enhance its ability to grow at scale.
The Boards responsibility does not stop with completion of an acquisition.
Throughout 2018, the Board will continue to monitor and assess the progress of Sage Intaccts integration, and the long-term value creation we aim for it to create.
Amendment of the Companys Articles of Association Information included in the Directors report Appointment and replacement of Directors Certain information, fulfilling certain requirements of Powers of the Directors the Corporate Governance Statement, can be found in the Directors report and is incorporated into this Corporate Governance section by reference.
By order of the Board For reference, relevant sections of the Directors report are: Substantial shareholdings Deadlines for voting rights Vicki Bradin Company Secretary Repurchase of shares 21 November 2017 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 75 Corporate governance report continued Audit and Risk Committee We are committed to ensuring that Sage continues to apply rigorous risk management procedures across the Group as new processes and behaviours become embedded.
Audit and Risk Committee Membership: Meetings attended Jonathan Howell Chairman 4 4 Neil Berkett 4 4 Donald Brydon 4 4 Inna Kuznetsova until 28 February 2017 2 2 Ruth Markland until 28 February 2017 2 2 Jonathan Howell Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee Composition Dear shareholder, The Code requires that the Committee has at least one member with I am pleased to present the annual report of the Audit and Risk recent and relevant financial expertise and experience in accounting Committee the Committee for 2017.
This report explains the and auditing.
The Board is satisfied that the Chairman meets these Committees responsibilities and shows how it has delivered on them requirements, being a qualified chartered accountant and the Group during the year.
Key activities undertaken by the Committee during the Finance Director at Close Brothers Group plc.
In addition, the Board year include keeping under review and considering the impact of the considers that the Committee has the necessary competence and business transformation on risk assessment, the ongoing broad experience relevant to the sector in which Sage operates as effectivenessof internal controls, and the appropriateness of the required by the Code.
Neil Berkett and Drummond Hall are both former Groups going concern, viability assessment, financial reporting and Chief Executives with extensive experience of leading businesses that, accounting judgements.
like Sage, are customer focused.
This understanding of the challenges presented by the Groups transformation and customer-focused strategy The Committee operates in accordance with the principles of the enables them to contribute strongly to the Committees activities.
Financial Reporting Councils FRC UK Corporate Governance Code Further details of the background, knowledge and experience of the the Code and the associated recommendations set out in the FRCs Chairman and each of the Committee members can be found on pages Guidance on Audit Committees, as revised in 2016.
Role of the Committee Activities during the year The Committee is an essential element of Sages overall governance The Committee met four times over the course of the year in line with its framework.
The Board has delegated to the Committee the oversight of terms of reference.
All Committee members attended every meeting, Sages financial reporting, risk management and internal control and were joined at each meeting by the Chief Financial Officer, the Vice procedures, and of the work of Internal Audit and the external auditor.
President VP Risk and Assurance and the Executive Vice President These responsibilities are defined in the Committees terms of reference, EVP Finance Control and Operations.
The Chairman of the Board the latest version of which was updated during the year and reviewed and Chief Executive Officer were also present at all four meetings.
The and approved by the Committee in September 2017.
Chairman reported to the Board on key matters arising after each of these meetings.
At each meeting, the Committee met with the external auditor, and at certain meetings the VP Risk and Assurance, without management being present.
76 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements At each meeting, the Committee receives and considers: scheduled finance updates on financial reporting, including significant reporting and accounting matters: scheduled risk updates, including quarterly risk dashboards outlining both principal and any escalated local risks.
The Committee also received summary reports and supplementary briefings from Sage Risk and management on selected principal risks and other in-focus reviews: summary reports of escalated incidents and instances of whistleblowing, together with management actions: progress against the plan and results of Internal Audits activities, including Internal Audit and management reports on internal control including financial, compliance and operational matters, and the implementation of management actions to address identified control weaknesses: and updates on delivery of the external audit plan and reports from the external auditor on the Groups financial reporting and observations made on the internal financial control environment in the course of their work.
During the year the Committee also received updates on the legal and regulatory frameworks relevant to its areas of responsibility, including the Bribery Act and the responsibilities of Directors.
Specific items addressed by the Committee at each of its meetings since the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts were as follows: February April September 2017 2017 2017 Conflicts of interests Financial management and reporting Financial reporting Financial reporting In-Focus review Treasury strategy and controls Half year financial Significant reporting and reporting matters accounting matters Risk Management Policy Risk management and internal controls Interim financial Review of developments in IFRS Risk Report Incident management statements and results Draft version of the 2017 Annual Internal Audit update and whistleblowing announcement Report and Accounts Whistleblowing Policy 2017 principal risks update Tax strategy and risk IFRS 15 implementation Incident and assessment Fraud risk assessment project update whistleblowing update Risk management and Internal Audit Risk management External Audit internal controls Review of effectiveness of Internal Audit and internal controls 2017 Audit Plan Risk Report Risk and Compliance report Approval of Internal Audit Charter Interim Review Report Internal Audit update Internal Audit update Incident management and Update on European Update on Financial Shared whistleblowing Financial Shared Service Service Centres Incident and whistleblowing update Centre In-Focus review Draft Viability statement Data protection Other matters Legal and regulatory framework regulations Committee Terms of Reference, Bribery Act update In-Focus review Auditor Independence Policy Review of Information Management and Protection including cyber risk Payments risk, compliance and assurance strategy November 2017 Internal Audit Plan for 2018 Financial reporting Risk management Incident management and External Audit Year-end financial and internal controls whistleblowing Audit Update Report reporting matters Risk Report Whistleblowing update Other matters Going concern and long-term Internal Audit update External Audit Committee Terms of Reference viability assessment Draft 2018 principal risks refresh Year-end Audit Results Report Tax Strategy 2017 Annual Report Internal Audit and Accounts and Treasury Policy Other matters Control environment results announcement Companies Act 2006: effectiveness review Update on financial controls Director Duties Regulatory changes update The activities of the Committee are explained further in the rest of this report.
Outside these formal meetings, the Chairman meets regularly with the Chief Financial Officer, the external auditor, the VP Risk and Assurance and the EVP Finance.
Additionally, the Chairman attended the April meeting of the Global Risk Committee.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 77 Corporate governance report continued In performing its review, the Committee considered the work, Financial reporting, including significant reporting and judgements and conclusions of management and the group finance accounting matters team.
The Committee also received reports from the external auditor At each meeting the Committee received scheduled finance updates setting out its view on the accounting treatments included in the from the EVP Finance, including information on developments in financial statements, based on its review of the interim financial reporting and accounting matters.
The Committee considered how statements and its audit of the annual consolidated financial these matters were addressed in preparing the Groups financial statements.
The Committees review included assessing the statements.
Those matters which the Committee was particularly appropriateness of the accounting policies and practices, confirming focused on are set out below.
The Committee also assessed the compliance with financial reporting standards and relevant statutory overallquality of financial reporting through review and discussion of requirements, and reviewing the adequacy of disclosures in the the interim and annual financial statements.
received updates on the strategies and policies of the Groups Treasury and Tax functions and their approach to risks and controls in their areas As part of this activity, the Committee reviews and considers, at least of operation.
annually, reports from management in respect of uncertain tax positions and provisionsand thedeferred tax position.
In the current year, the Committee also reviewed managements assessment of the Groups operating and reportable segments following the change in management structure implemented from 1 October 2016.
Significant reporting and accounting matters The Committee considered how the following significant accounting and financial reporting matters were addressed in preparing the Groups financial statements.
Revenue Recognition Goodwill impairment testing The Group sells its products in different ways around the world.
The assessment of the recoverability of goodwill remains an area of Assessment of whether the Groups revenue recognition policies are focus for the Committee given the quantum of the Groups goodwill appropriate and consistently applied continues to be a key focus of balances and the evolution of Sages business model.
the Committee given the ongoing transition in business model to The Committee has considered the appropriateness of the cash selling software as a service, the increased focus on recurring generating units CGUs tested for impairment and the judgements revenue through software subscriptions and the growth in the level and assumptions applied in calculating their recoverable amounts.
of sales made via business partners and other intermediaries.
A summary of the key assumptions used in the impairment test is set The revenue recognition accounting policy is set out in note 3.1 to out in note 6.1 to the financial statements.
the financial statements and is referenced in the Groups significant accounting judgements.
The Committee reviewed and considered a report prepared by management that set out detailed analysis of the key inputs to The Committee continued to monitor the application of the Groups forecast future cash flows, including discount rates and growth rates, revenue recognition accounting policy and received reports from used in calculating recoverable amounts on a value in use basis.
The management on the processes in place to confirm adherence to the report also explained the rationale for combining Singapore and policy.
The Committee considered whether the work undertaken Malaysia into a single CGU following the changes to the way the supported that the policy was being applied on a consistent basis businesses were being managed.
The Committee considered the throughout the Group.
The Committee also received reports from appropriateness of the assumptions used and also reviewed the the external auditor on its findings.
As part of this, the Committee impact of a sensitivity analysis applying downside scenarios.
From considered the appropriateness of the accounting for a number of information provided in the report and discussion with management, sales arrangements where the accounting was complex.
the Committee obtained appropriate assurance that the change to The Committee discussed and challenged managements the CGUs was appropriate and an impairment to the carrying value conclusions, satisfying itself that a consistent approach had been of goodwill was not required.
In addition, the Committee received and applied to determine revenue recognised in 2017. considered a report from the external auditor setting out its procedures and conclusion in this area.
In addition, the Committee received progress updates for the project to implement IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
The The Committee also considered if there were any reasonably possible expected areas of impact of the new standard are explained in note 1 changes in assumptions that would result in a material impairment to the financial statements.
The Committee will continue to monitor and therefore require further disclosure in the financial statements.
the project closely as it progresses over the course of 2018.
The first The Committee was satisfied that no such disclosures were required.
year of reporting under the new standard will be the year ending 30 September 2019.
78 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Non-recurring items Business transformation Significant transactions Significant costs were incurred on the Groups major business During the year the Group undertook a number of business transformation activities during 2017 to transform the Group to the acquisition and disposal transactions.
The application of certain new operating model.
These have included internal transformations aspects of accounting policies to these transactions requires to create People Services HR and IT centres of excellence as well as judgement and estimation.
A summary of the accounting policies further rationalisation of the Groups property portfolio.
In Finance, applied is set out in note 16 together with disclosures for each of there has been further implementation of the X3 system across the thetransactions.
Group and the migration of more operations into the European The Committee received reports from management explaining the Financial Shared Service Centre.
The recognition of further costs accounting applied to business acquisitions and disposals and the during the year reflects the phased nature of the implementation disclosures required.
The Committee concentrated particularly on process and is consistent with the scale of the overall project.
the judgements and estimations applied to the following significant Therecognition and measurement of such costs and their transactions and considered whether they were appropriate.
presentationas non-recurring items has been a key area of focus forthe Committee.
Acquisition of Sage People Limited formerly Fairsail Limited The Groups accounting policy for non-recurring items is summarised Management reported to the Committee the basis on which the in note 3.6 to the financial statements.
acquisition was accounted for, including the identification and measurement of intangible assets acquired in the transaction.
In Management provided updates during the year of the amounts addition to the valuation of intangible assets, the Committee charged as non-recurring costs, including analysis of material considered the appropriateness of the revaluation of the investment elements of the costs.
The net costs incurred in 2017 were 73m.
of the Groups initial stake in the company and the resultant gain TheCommittee also received reports from the external auditor on recorded in the income statement of 13m.
Acquisition of Intacct Corporation The Committee considered the appropriateness of the measurement, recognition and presentation of these costs and Following acquisition of Intacct on 3 August 2017, management satisfied itself that the position taken was reasonable and in presented the provisional acquisition accounting to the Committee.
accordance with the Groups established accounting policy.
Where This consisted of an assessment related to the fair value of provisions were recognised for transformation costs, the Committee consideration transferred as well as the valuation of assets and reviewed the basis on which management had concluded that the liabilities acquired.
The Committee considered the appropriateness qualification and recognition criteria for restructuring provisions had of the valuation of consideration transferred including the been met in accordance with IAS 37, Provisions, Contingent Liabilities accounting for share options which were granted to the vendors of and Contingent Assets.
The Committees review confirmed that Intacct.
Consideration was also given to the approach used to value thecosts are appropriately presented as non-recurring items in the the intangible assets acquired, including the work being performed current year as they are one-time costs directly related to a major by an external valuation expert.
In future, the costs of implementing Disposal of the North American Payments business further efficiencies and simplification in the business will be business as usual and will not be presented as non-recurring items In advance of the disposal of the North American Payments business unless appropriate under the criteria in the Groups policy for such which completed in the second half, management presented an costs to be presented separately.
analysis to the Committee which outlined why the business was to be classified as an asset held for sale on the Groups balance sheet at 31 March 2017 and classified as a discontinued operation in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations.
The Committee considered the judgements made in this assessment which included the determination that the business was a major line of business.
Following the disposal of the business, management presented an analysis of the calculation of the profit on disposal of 25m.
The Committee considered the appropriateness of this calculation including the valuation of proceeds received.
Following the completion of each of these transactions, the Committee In addition, the Committee reviewed the process undertaken by was satisfied that the accounting policies, judgements and estimates management to assess the Groups longer-term viability in order to allow applied to these transactions, and the disclosures made about them in the Directors to make the Groups viability statement.
The Committee the financial statements, were appropriate.
considered, and provided input into, the determination of the period over which viability should be assessed, and which of the Groups The Committee also advised the Board on whether the Annual Report principal risks and combinations thereof should be modelled for and Accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and sensitivity analysis of liquidity and solvency.
It reviewed the results of provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess Sages managements scenario modelling and the reverse stress testing of position and performance, business model and strategy.
In reaching its these models.
conclusion, the Committee considered going concern, reviewed the Annual Report and Accounts as well as the results of processes The Groups viability statement can be found on page 58. performed by management to provide assurance to support the fair presentation of the Groups financial statements.
These included an analysis of how the key events in the year had been described in the Annual Report and Accounts and representations received from country management teams on a range of financial controls.
The Committee also considered the perspective of the external auditor.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 79 Corporate governance report continued Risk Management and Internal Controls Incident Management, Fraud and Whistleblowing The Committee, on behalf of the Board, monitors and reviews the The Committee considered the suitability and alignment of the Incident Companys internal control and risk management systems, reviewing Management and Whistleblowing policies, and confirmed their their effectiveness.
This monitoring includes all material controls, appropriateness in facilitating appropriate disclosure to senior executive including financial, operational and compliance controls, assessing that management and the Committee.
The Committee also received an any corrective action is taken where necessary, and that the systems are assessment of the Groups fraud risk during the year.
At each meeting fit for purpose.
the Committee received a summary report of escalated incidents and instances of whistleblowing, together with management actions.
As During the year, the Committee carried out the following: part of this reporting process, the Committee is notified of all whistleblowing matters raised, including those that relate to financial Reviewed the principal risks, the associated risk appetites and reporting, the integrity of financial management, and allegedfraud, metrics, and challenged and confirmed its alignment to the bribery or corruption.
achievement of Sages strategic objectives.
At each meeting the Committee considered the ongoing overall assessment of each risk Following its review of the Companys internal control systems, the and management actions and mitigations in place and planned.
This Committee considered whether any matter required disclosure as a review was supported through consideration of quarterly risk significant failing or weakness in internal control during the year.
dashboards outlining both principal and any escalated local risks.
Received and considered minutes of the Global Risk Committee Internal Audit including its performance in maturing and embedding risk and the Internal Audit is delivered by Sage Assurance.
The Internal Audit Charter outlines the objectives, authority, scope and Detailed In-Focus reviews on selected principal risks and other responsibilities of Internal Audit.
The Charter, performance against it, relevant and important issues see In-Focus Reviews section below.
and the effectiveness of Internal Audit, is reviewed by the Committee on Reviewed, considered and concluded upon an assessment of the an annual basis, and this was undertaken at the Committees February effectiveness of risk management as well as reviewing summary meeting.
The Committee also considers and evaluates the level of reports from Sage Compliance on the Group adherence to policies, Internal Audit resource, its quality, experience and expertise, to ensure it including Code of Conduct, Data Protection, Anti-Bribery and is appropriate to provide the required level of assurance over the Corruption and Anti-Money Laundering.
principal risks, processes and controls throughout the Group.
Received reports from Internal Audit and management on internal The Committee reviewed and approved the nature and scope of the control andmonitored the implementation of management actions work of Internal Audit, and the Internal Audit plan was approved by toaddress identified control weaknesses.
The Committee also theCommittee at the beginning of the financial year, along with any satisfied itself that managements response to any financial reporting subsequent quarterly updates.
or internal financial control issues identified by the external auditor wasappropriate.
Progress against the plan and the results of Internal Audits activities, including the quality and timeliness of management responses, is Reviewed at each Committee meeting escalated incidents and monitored at each meeting, with significant issues identified within instances of whistleblowingand associated management actions, Internal Audit reports considered in detail by the Committee.
and also assessed whether they demonstrated a significant failing or weakness in internal controls see Incident Management, Fraud and During the year, an assessment of Internal Audit was carried out by the Whistleblowing section below.
VP Risk and Assurance, based upon the criteria and methodology of the PwC assessment in 2015, which evaluated Internal Audit against IIA In-Focus Reviews standards.
This review considered progress against recommended areas The Committee alsouses in-depth reviews to consider selected for improvement from this evaluation, along with progress made against principal risks and other relevant, current and important issues.
During the pillars of the Assurance Strategy.
The assessment concluded that the year the Committee undertook a review of the Groups Principal Risk significant progress continued to be made and that Internal Audit Information Management and Protection including cyber in order to remains effective and meets the needs of the Group.
This report was understand and challenge its reported status, mitigating actions, and presented to the Committee, its findings discussed, and the Committee the progress made in the management of the risk.
The Committee also endorsed this conclusion.
received supplementary briefings and updates on the Shared Service The Committee considered the approach and findings of the Centres, enabling it to monitor progress of the consolidation of General assessment, including the development of a data analytics strategy and Ledgers for certain processes into X3.
In addition, the Committee the alignment of assurance activity with business initiatives such as considered Sage Assurance reports on the effectiveness of the control Excellence in Controls, and endorsed the areas of continued focus.
environment, internal control observations from the external auditor andan update on the implications of, and planned response to, the External auditor Ernst & Young EY upcoming General Data Protection Regulations to understand and The Committee reviews and makes a recommendation to the Board challenge our approach.
In addition, the Committee received papers with regard to the re-appointment of the external auditor.
In making this onConflicts of Interest, setting out Sages compliance obligations, and recommendation, the Committee considers auditor effectiveness, colleague conflict of interest register for consideration and approval, including its independence, objectivity and scepticism, and the and on the Company response to the management of risk in application of, and compliance with, the Auditor Independence Policy, in emergingmarkets.
particular with regard to any non-audit services.
The Committee also considers business relationships with the external auditor which primarily relate to the procurement of Sage software.
80 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further consideration is given to partner rotation and any other The Policy states that Sage will not use the external auditor for non-audit factorswhich may impact the Committees judgement regarding the services.
However, in certain circumstances, and as permitted by the external auditor.
Ethical Standard, non-audit services may be provided by the external auditor with pre-approval by the Committee unless clearly trivial.
This is This has been EYs third year as Sages external auditor following the provided that the approval process set out in The Auditor Independence formal tender process conducted in 2014.
The current audit partner is Policy is adhered to and that potential threats to independence and Alison Duncan and she has been in the role for all three years.
objectivity have been assessed and safeguards applied to eliminate or reduce these threats to an appropriate level.
The Committee confirms that Sage has complied with the Statutory Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of The Committee considered the application of the Policy with regard to Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Responsibilities Order 2014 non-audit services and confirms it was properly and consistently applied with regard to the requirement for formal tendering every ten years.
The Committee monitored the effectiveness, objectivityand The Policy also requires that the ratio of audit fees to non-audit fees independence of the external auditor during the year.
The Committee must be within Sages pre-determined ratio, and non-audit fees for the based its conclusion on its own observations and interactions with the year must not exceed 70% of the average of the external audit fees billed external auditor, and consideration of a number of areas: over the previous three years.
In 2017, the ratio of non-audit fees to audit fee was 6% principally reflecting the fee paid for the half year interim Experience and expertise of the auditor in its direct communication review.
A breakdown of total audit and non-audit fees charged by the with, and support to, the Committee: external auditor for the year under review is shown in note 3 to the Content, quality of insights and added value of the auditors reports: financial statements.
Scope, approach to and fulfilment of the agreed external audit plan: Robustness and perceptiveness of the auditor in its handling of key Evaluation of the performance of the Committee accounting and audit judgements: and The Audit and Risk Committee evaluation for 2016 17 was completed as part of the overall performance evaluation of the Board.
An explanation The interaction between management and the auditor.
of how this was conducted and the items identified for greater attention, The Committees own assessment of the effectiveness of the external focus and potential improvement is set out on page 74.
The Committee auditors was supplemented by a report from management evaluating has considered this in the context of the matters that are applicable to the effectiveness of the external auditor.
Managements report included the Audit and Risk Committee.
a summary of the findings of a survey of key Sage colleagues which assessed the quality of the auditors reporting to, and interaction with, the various finance teams across the Group.
Management concluded that the working relationship between finance functions and auditors across the Group was effective and the audit had been carried out in an independent, professional, organised and constructive manner.
Jonathan Howell At each Committee meeting, Committee members met privately with Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee the external auditor to provide additional opportunity for open dialogue and feedback from the external auditor without management being 21 November 2017 present.
In addition to these private meetings the Chairman meets regularly with the external auditor to facilitate effective and timely communication.
Further, the Committee received a report from EY evaluating its independence and a formal statement of independence as the external auditor.
Having considered all of the above, the Committee has recommended to the Board that a resolution to reappoint EY be proposed at the 2018 AGM and the Board has accepted and endorsed this recommendation.
Non-audit services The Auditor Independence Policy Policy specifies the role of the Committee in reviewing and approving non-audit services in order to ensure the ongoing independence of the external auditor.
A summary of non-audit fees paid to the external auditor is provided to the Committee on a quarterly basis.
The Policy was in place throughout the financial year and reflects the Financial Reporting Council FRC Revised Ethical Standard 2016, Revised Guidance for Audit Committees 2016 and UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 in relation to the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 81 Corporate governance report continued Nomination Committee The appointment of two new non-executives brings a fresh perspective and new skills and experience, to enhance the diversity of the Board.
Nomination Committee membership and meeting attendance: Meetings attended Donald Brydon Chairman 4 4 Jonathan Howell rotated off 28 February 2017 3 3 Neil Berkett rotated off 28 February 2017 3 3 Drummond Hall 5 5 Soni Jiandani appointed 28 February 2017 1 2 Ruth Markland resigned 28 February 2017 2 3 Inna Kuznetsova resigned 28 February 2017 2 3 Donald Brydon Chairman of the Nomination Committee Committee purpose and responsibilities Diversity The purpose of the Committee is to review the composition, skills and In considering appointments to the Board and to senior executive experience of the Board and to plan for its progressive refreshing, with positions, it is the policy of the Committee to evaluate the skills, regard to balance and structure.
The Committee also considers issues of experience and knowledge required with due regard for the benefit of succession.
The Chairman's other significant commitments are detailed diversity including gender diversity on the Board and at senior on page 64. management level, and to make an appointment accordingly.
The Board and the Committee have noted the recommendations of the Hampton-Alexander Review in November 2016 to increase female board Committee meetings representation to at least 33% by 2020.
Sage has voluntarily submitted This year the Committees main activity was focused on replacing two gender diversity data to the Hampton-Alexander Review for the second outgoing Directors: Ruth Markland and Inna Kuznetsova.
It is pleasing to be able to report that 30% of Sages senior Committee also considered Board succession planning more generally.
management population is now female.
During 2018, the Committee will In addition to the formal Committee meetings there were frequent consider the Parker ReviewCommittee's final report on ethnic diversity informal exchanges.
"and its ""Beyond one by '21"" recommendation."
We will consider not only The Committees annual evaluation was conducted internally and how we can ensure sufficient consideration is given to the ethnic origin concluded that the Committee continues to function effectively in of future Board candidates, but also how our People function addresses respect of its core purpose.
However, during 2018, consideration will be ethnic diversity in our hiring practices and senior management talent given to whether the Committee can also take a more structured role in pipeline.
Further details on diversity are provided at page 42. wider matters of executive succession.
82 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Management succession and talent pipeline The Committee has continued to work to put appropriate succession Focus on Induction: plans in place in order to ensure the right mix of skills and experience of Board members now and in the future.
In addition, the Board recognises the need for talent to be nurtured within executive and management Soni Jiandani levels and across the Group as a whole.
Following on from 2016s comprehensive talent review, the Board Q: How important was a thorough induction continued to focus on strengthening the pipeline of executive talent in for you?
In July 2017, the Board received an update on progress against actions identified from the 2016 review, and discussed the A: Its important to be able to make a valuable contribution effectiveness of initiatives such as the Leading@Sage development straight away, and to get a deep understanding of the Group is programme, which was introduced to 2000 Sage colleagues during 2017. key to that.
My induction programme has helped me to ensure The Chairman and the CEO, with assistance from the Chief People that I am armed with the information I need to navigate a new Officer, will continue to work on managing succession arrangements for environment.
Board changes Q: What skills do you bring to the Board table?
Ruth Markland and Inna Kuznetsova stood down from the Board at the A: I have spent many years in Silicon Valley, working with large Annual General Meeting on 28 February 2017.
On Ruths departure, multinationals as well as smaller start-ups, with a wealth of Drummond Hall took on the position of Senior Independent Director.
I hope I am bringing with me that our 2016 Annual Report, we reported that the Committee had reviewed innovation mindset and a view of the US technology industry in the Boards composition with respect to both skills and diversity and as a particular.
consequence engaged a specialist firm, Sciteb, to conduct a search for potential candidates for non-executive roles.
Sciteb undertakes no other business for the Company.
A number of potential candidates were Q: How will you be contributing as a member identified, but Soni Jiandani's background in driving industry of the Nomination Committee?
transformation through market disruption and her extensive technology experience made her an exceptional candidate and she was appointed A: I will be looking to ensure that we have effective conversations with effect from 28 February.
Cath Keers was appointed with effect from about what the future composition of the Board and executive 1 July.
An external search agency was not used in Cath's appointment.
We must remember that the business The Committee concluded, following formal interviews conducted by landscape is changing rapidly, and we want to stay ahead of the the whole Committee and other Board members and noting the curve with the skills and experience we look for.
strength of her digital and customer experience, that Cath Keers would be an appropriate candidate for the role of Non-executive Director on the Board.
Donald Brydon Chairman of the Nomination Committee 21 November 2017 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 83
