Governance Corporate governance report Matters reserved to the Board and delegated authorities Statement of compliance In order to retain control of key decisions and ensure there is a The Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended clear division of responsibilities at the head of the Company, the 30 September 2017 has been prepared in accordance with the Board has identified certain reserved matters that only it can UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 Code which was issued approve.
Other matters, responsibilities and authorities have been in April 2016.
The Code is publicly available at www.
delegated to its committees and the Chief Executive Officer.
The Board confirms that the Company has applied the main principles and complied with the provisions of the Code.
The matters reserved to the Board are set out in the Charter for the Board and this, as well as the Charters for each principal The Group has also adopted the British Bankers Association Board committee, is available to view on the Companys website Code for Financial Reporting Disclosure, which is available at www.
uk, and the financial statements have been are also available on request from the Company Secretary at the prepared in compliance with its principles.
During the year the Board and each of the Board committees reviewed its Charter.
Leadership The Board is the principal decision-making body of the Group The authorities delegated by the Board to the Chief Executive and is collectively responsible to shareholders for promoting Officer are set out in the Delegation of Authority Framework.
the long-term success of the Company.
Board and strategic planning The Boards role is to provide leadership to the business as a whole During the year the Boards focus was on supporting executive within a framework of prudent and effective controls which enable management to deliver the Groups strategy.
The strategy risk to be assessed and managed.
It sets strategy and oversees its communicated at our Capital Markets Day in September 2016 delivery and establishes its culture, values, ethics and standards.
It is unchanged and the Boards discussions throughout the year sets the Groups risk appetite, monitors operational and financial focused on overseeing delivery of the strategic priorities of performance and reporting, ensures the Group is adequately sustainable customer growth, improved efficiency and capital resourced and has effective controls and remuneration policies, optimisation.
and that there are appropriate succession planning arrangements.
A key objective during the year was to deepen and embed the In order to assist the Board in carrying out its functions and to strategy to align with the evolving competitive, economic and ensure that there is independent oversight of financial reporting, regulatory environment with a focus on execution and fide-risking internal controls, risk management, governance and remuneration delivery.
As part of this process the Board was engaged in three matters, the Board delegates certain clearly defined responsibilities in-depth strategic review and planning sessions with the to its four principal committees.
Reports from the Governance management team and received regular updates on the initiatives and Nomination Committee, the Audit Committee and the Risk under way to build core capabilities and support strategic delivery.
Committee are contained in this report.
A report from the Remuneration Committee is included in the Directors During the first half of the year the areas of focus for the Board remuneration report.
included discussing the impacts of the challenging external environment including the political uncertainty arising from the As required, the Board may also establish special purpose UKs exit from the European Union and the potential for a second Committees to assist the Board in the oversight of specific areas Scottish Independence Referendum.
It was also updated on that may require more detailed attention.
The Board established progress in transforming the distribution model and evolving a special purpose IRB and Credit IFRS 9 Committee to oversee channel capabilities, developments in building digital capability and the transition from a standardised approach to calculating capital improving customer service and the banking experience.
Potential requirements for credit risk to an IRB approach, and the inorganic strategic opportunities, including Fintech partnerships, implementation of the credit element of the IFRS 9 accounting to achieve scale and asset growth and to capitalise on existing standard which will be effective for the Group in the reporting operational leverage were considered, as was performance against period beginning 1 October 2018.
During the year, the activities of the target cost structure and our structured approach to cost the Committee included overseeing the submission of the Groups reduction.
The Board also monitored progress in delivering the application to the PRA for IRB accreditation and system changes refreshed people strategy, the simplification of the governance covering critical delivery of IFRS 9 and stress testing to embed an framework and on the cultural transformation to enable advanced Credit Risk Management capability.
The chart on page 132 of the Risk report illustrates the Board and management structure as at 30 September 2017.
62 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information Number of Number of In the second half of the year the Board continued its review scheduled Board scheduled Board and discussion of strategic performance in the context of the meetings eligible meetings economic, political and competitive environment.
In addition Director to attend attended the Board was deeply engaged in discussing the evolving UK Chairman banking landscape and the Groups future participation choices.
Jim Pettigrew 11 11 The Board also participated in an evaluation of the underpinning Non-Executive Directors fundamentals of the strategy in the context of the market Clive Adamson 11 11 environment and considered different growth alternatives to David Bennett 11 11 increase value for investors.
The Board also held a challenge David Browne 11 11 session on potential inorganic opportunities and alignment with Paul Coby 11 11 the Groups strategic priorities and broader market dynamics.
Adrian Grace 11 11 Each of these areas of strategic focus was informed by external 1 Richard Gregory 3 3 insights and input which strengthened the debate.
2 Fiona MacLeod 11 10 The Board also spent time considering updates from the Board Dr Teresa Robson-Capps 11 11 committees which informed the Groups strategy.
2 Tim Wade 11 10 The output of the review and planning sessions was a refreshed Executive Directors strategic and financial plan to be approved by the Board along with David Duffy 11 11 a revised RAS.
During the process the Board considered very Debbie Crosbie 11 11 carefully the issues informing the strategic and financial plan to Ian Smith 11 11 ensure that the business will be able to continue to drive sustained 1 Richard Gregory retired from the Board on 10 January 2017. performance for the benefit of all stakeholders, to be monitored 2 Unable to attend the meeting due to a prior business commitment.
by the Board through a set of key performance indicators.
Board attendance Board activity The core activities of the Board were carried out in 11 scheduled meetings of the Board.
Two additional ad hoc meetings of the Setting the Board agenda Board were arranged when matters required to be brought to There is a comprehensive and continuous process in place for the Boards attention or when decisions were required outside ensuring the Board has full and timely access to all relevant scheduled meetings.
information in an insightful format.
The Chairman is responsible for setting the Board agenda and is The attendance of Directors at scheduled Board meetings, assisted by the Chief Executive Officer and Company Secretary.
which they were eligible to attend, and the number of meetings The Board agenda is structured to ensure it covers each of the attended in the year ended 30 September 2017 is shown in the three strategic priorities and underpinning core capabilities to following table.
support strategy engagement and the challenge and debate on performance and delivery at Board level.
The Chairman reviews the time allocation with the Company Secretary to ensure adequate time is allowed to discuss material matters.
The Company Secretary keeps the Chairman informed of any agenda items requested by Non-Executive Directors.
In order to carry out its work, a yearly planner is prepared by the Company Secretary to map out the flow of key items of business to the Board and to ensure that sufficient time at the meeting is provided for debate and challenge.
Directors are sent papers for Board meetings up to five working days in advance of the meeting whether they are able to attend or not in order that they may have the time to consider the proposals put forward, seek clarification or, if required, request further information.
CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 63 Governance Corporate governance report At each main meeting the Board discusses: All Directors are expected to attend each Board meeting and committee meeting for which they are members, save for in the Chief Executive Officers report including performance exceptional circumstances.
Reasons for non-attendance are against the strategic plan, key developments in the external generally unavoidable conflicts with prior business commitments, environment, the economic outlook and impacts for the Group, personal reasons or illness, and non-attendance must always be business performance, product and proposition developments, notified in advance to the Chairman, relevant committee Chair stakeholder engagement and investor relations matters, or the Company Secretary.
In the rare event of a Director being material regulatory issues, and key matters relating to people, unable to attend a meeting, he she has the opportunity to discuss cultural and organisational transformation and capability: with, or notify, the Chairman, relevant committee Chair or the the Chief Financial Officers report including performance Company Secretary of any matters he she wishes to raise and to against the financial plan, key performance indicators, capital, follow up the decisions made at the meeting.
The Chairman and liquidity and funding matters: Company Secretary, together with members of the Executive Leadership Team, are available to discuss issues relating to the Chief Operating Officers report including delivery meetings or other matters with Directors.
against customer service commitments, operational efficiency, IT service and security, and the status of major investment During the year, the Chairman held a number of meetings programmes: and with Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors being present.
the Group Chief Risk Officers report including the risk profile and risk categorisation and principal and emerging risks, key risk Board committees issues and RAS performance and trends.
The Board delegates certain clearly defined responsibilities to its four principal Board committees, namely: the Governance How Board meetings are run and Nomination Committee: the Audit Committee: the Risk Prior to the start of a scheduled Board meeting, the Senior Committee: and the Remuneration Committee.
Independent Non-Executive Director meets with Non-Executive The committee Chairs report to the Board on the activities of Directors excluding the Chairman and then with the Chairman the committees at each Board meeting.
Each principal committee present to discuss matters of concern or focus.
Both the membership comprises Non-Executive Directors only and is Chairman and the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director chaired by an experienced Chair.
Committee memberships are report to the Board on issues to be brought to the Boards spread between the Non-Executive Directors, drawing on each attention at the commencement of each meeting and these are of their relevant skills and experience.
Only members of the recorded in the Board minutes.
The Chairman ensures Board committees are entitled to attend their meetings, but others meetings are structured to facilitate open discussion, debate and may attend at the discretion of the committee Chair.
challenge with dissenting views of Directors being freely expressed and discussed within the decision-making process, leading to Board decisions being made on a sound and well-informed basis.
64 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information Board focus in 2017 Regular agenda items The significant matters addressed by the Board during the Chairmans report financial year ended 30 September 2017 and in evaluating Senior Independent Non-Executive Directors report the Companys 2017 Annual Report and Accounts are Chief Executive Officers report Chief Financial Officers report described below.
Chief Operating Officers report Group Chief Risk Officers report Reports from committee Chairs Board administration and governance Strategy and financial Risk management Regulatory Monitored delivery of the Groups strategic Approved and received interim updates Approved the Groups recovery plan in plan and performance of the financial plan on the RAS the event of a significant deterioration in including the impacts of changes in the financial stability Approved the enhanced RMF economic, political, regulatory and Approved the Pillar 3 Disclosures Report Agreed and monitored principal and competitive environment emerging risks Reviewed compliance with the new Financial Development and monitoring of key Services Compensation Scheme rules Reviewed internal control systems performance indicators Received a presentation from the PRA on Monitored the IRB and Credit IFRS 9 Approved the Companys Annual Report and its Periodic Summary Meeting letter programme and related matters and Accounts, Interim Financial Report, related approved the submission of the Groups Considered the PRAs annual assessment announcements and supporting analyst IRB application to the PRA of the Conduct Indemnity Fund presentations Considered the outcome of an independent Kept informed of regulatory changes Reviewed the capital, funding and liquidity review of PPI control frameworks frameworks, and approved the Capital Plan and the Funding Plan Approved the Scheme triennial valuation Approved the Internal Liquidity Adequacy Approved Group insurance renewal Assessment Process ILAAP including a Directors and Officers Liability Insurance Policy Approved Internal Capital Adequacy Stakeholders Assessment Process ICAAP scenarios Approved a Debt Issuance programme and Agreed and received updates on the a Tier 1 capital instrument distribution stakeholder engagement strategy Approved the Group tax strategy Received investor relations updates Approved the submission and subsequent Approved results announcements Governance withdrawal of a preliminary non-binding Received briefings on AGM arrangements proposal to the Royal Bank of Scotland Approved Senior Independent NonReceived briefings on shareholder Group PLC in relation to its Williams Executive Director and Board committee engagement feedback & Glynn operations appointments Approved major capital and investment Approved the small holding sale facility Considered the Board and committee expenditure structure, size and composition Approved and recommended to Approved the Board and committee charters shareholders the reappointment and division of roles of Chairman and Chief of the External Auditor Executive Officer Approved and recommended to Approved revisions to the External shareholders a final dividend for FY2017 Directorship Policy Standard Considered the outputs of the external People, culture and values Board Effectiveness Review and agreed Approved a revised Board inclusion and actions to be taken diversity policy statement Customer focus Approved Non-Executive Director fees Reviewed succession planning and talent Monitored progress with the digitally enabled Considered Non-Executive Directors management omni-channel strategy and the customer independence Reviewed the results from the MyVoice journey programme Reviewed the Register of Directors Conflicts colleague engagement survey Reviewed progress of the PPI complaints of Interests Approved the outcomes of a strategic remediation programme Recommended the re-election by reward review, which included pension Monitored Conduct Framework progress shareholders of Directors at the Annual scheme reforms and outcomes General Meeting Reviewed health and safety updates Received updates on the actions to address Approved the Modern Slavery Act statement customer vulnerability in financial services Supported the launch of the new Values and Behaviours and Great Leadership framework CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 65 Governance Corporate governance report Deep dives and Board briefings Effectiveness The Board has a programme of deep dive sessions focusing Board size and composition on thematic updates aligned to the strategic priorities and core The Board comprises a Non-Executive Chairman, three Executive capabilities which give Directors the opportunity to engage with Directors and eight independent Non-Executive Directors.
The management in a more informal way outside of the structure of size of the Board is considered to be suitable in the context of a a Board meeting to gain insight on topics of interest or focus for highly complex commercial and regulatory operating environment the Board.
Additionally the Board receives briefings on regulatory with the appropriate combination of Executive and Non-Executive and corporate governance change.
Listed below are the deep dive Directors such that no individual or small group of individuals can topics and Board briefings during the year.
dominate the Boards decision making.
The names of the Directors together with their full biographical details, including the skills Deep dives and experience they each bring to the Board, are on pages 55 to 59.
Further details on the composition of the Board and Mortgage market and performance independence of the Non-Executive Directors are provided in UK banking landscape and strategic update the Governance and Nomination Committee report on page 77.
Small and medium business segments Brand Time commitments The Board recognises that it is vital that Directors should be able Customer journey programme to dedicate sufficient time to the Company to effectively discharge Current account market their responsibilities.
The time commitment is considered by the Board on appointment and kept under review.
The letters of appointment of the Chairman and of each of the Non-Executive Directors set out the minimum time commitment for their roles Board briefings and that they undertake to allocate sufficient time to the Company as is necessary for the effective discharge of their duties.
IRB and IFRS 9 The Chairman is expected to commit at least 60 days per year on Credit models Company business, the Deputy Chairman 45 days per year and Anti-bribery and corruption risk Non-Executive Directors at least 35 days.
Time commitment increases for other Board roles such as the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and committee Chairs and for involvement in a committee as a member.
Stakeholder engagement As described within the relevant sections of this Corporate Directors, either collectively or individually, undertook site visits governance report, the Non-Executive Directors preparation and met with customers and representatives from our wider for and attendance at Board and committee meetings is only communities.
Site visits provide an opportunity to get closer to part of their role.
business operations, current issues and customer service in an The other significant commitments of the Chairman and operational environment.
This provides insight into customer Non-Executive Directors are disclosed to the Board before experiences and allows Directors to connect with management appointment, with an indication of time involved.
During the year, and colleagues alike.
In April 2017, the Board visited Studio B, our the Governance and Nomination Committee kept under review new innovation lab in London which has been designed to inspire a the number of external directorships held by each Director and new way of thinking that could shape the future of banking.
It also considered the limits on the number of directorships which visited the new flagship Customer Banking Centre in Edinburgh Directors may hold as a result of PRA Rulebook General in July 2017, which has a modern design and facilities to reflect Organisational Requirements 5.4 having regard to General the new way in which the Group interacts with and serves its Organisational Requirements 5.5 and 5.6 and FCA Handbook customers.
In June, Directors met the winners of our annual Senior Management Arrangements, Systems and Controls SYSC Spirit of the Community Awards which are described in more 4.3A.
Details of detail on page 32. the Chairmans other significant commitments are set out on page 55.
Details of the Non-Executive Directors other significant commitments are set out on pages 55 to 58.
Any changes to the Non-Executive Directors time commitments were reported by the Governance and Nomination Committee to the Board.
The Board is satisfied that each Non-Executive Director is able to devote sufficient time to their role.
66 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information Executive Directors are encouraged to take non-executive Board induction positions in other companies and organisations to broaden their The Chairman ensures that each newly appointed Director experience.
The appointment to such positions is subject to the receives a full and formal induction on joining the Board which is approval of the Board which considers, in particular, the time tailored to reflect a Directors skills, experience and Board role.
The Company Secretary designs and facilitates the induction programme having consulted with the Chairman and having Board changes regard to the particular needs of the new Director.
Progress is Richard Gregory, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, reported to the Chairman and reviewed regularly by the Chairman retired from the Board on 10 January 2017. with each Director.
Further details about the Groups approach to succession planning The aim of the induction programme is to quickly provide a new and diversity can be found in the Governance and Nomination Director with an understanding of how the Group works and the Committee report on page 77.
Changes to committee key opportunities and challenges that it faces to enable them to memberships are set out on pages 76, 81 and 90. contribute fully in Board and Committee meetings and covers at least the following: Board independence It is the Companys policy that at least half the Board should be the Group and its strategy: independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Board assesses the key business drivers of performance and the competitive independence of Directors on an annual basis following a review environment and regulatory landscape in which the Group by the Governance and Nomination Committee.
The Board operates: considers each of its current Non-Executive Directors to be major strategic and investment programmes and priorities: independent in character and judgement.
The Chairman was considered independent on appointment.
Further information the key current and emerging risk issues and challenges for the is given in the Governance and Nomination Committee report business and risk appetite: on page 77. the organisational culture and capabilities, the role of the Board and its committees, and the Companys corporate governance Conflicts of interest practices: and Pursuant to the Companies Act 2006, the Directors have a statutory duty to avoid situations in which they have or can have training on the role and responsibilities of a Director, including a direct or indirect interest in the Company, unless that interest is statutory duties.
first authorised by the other Directors.
This duty is in addition to The induction programme is delivered through a combination of: the existing duty that a Director owes to the Company to disclose one-to-one briefings with the Chairman, Company Secretary, to the Board any transaction or arrangement under consideration current Directors and members of the Executive Leadership by the Company.
Prior to appointment, potential conflicts of Team: site visits to some of the Groups customer facing and interest are disclosed and assessed to ensure that there are no operational areas: and reading materials including archive Board matters which would prevent the incoming Director from taking and committee papers and other key corporate governance the appointment, and during their tenure Directors are asked to documents.
Meetings are also arranged with other selected consult with the Company Secretary and the Chairman before senior managers, including the Group Director Internal Audit, taking up any external appointment or responsibilities.
Any and with external stakeholders including the External Auditor.
changes to the commitments of Directors are reported to the Governance and Nomination Committee and the Board.
Directors Directors joining the Board to perform a specific role or holding a are reminded, at each Board meeting, of their duty to report any senior management function role, such as a committee Chair, are actual or potential conflict as soon as they become aware of any provided with additional in-depth training including meeting with such events.
If any actual or potential conflict arises, the relevant the outgoing role holder or committee Chair where possible and Director will excuse himself herself from any meeting or completing a documented handover.
Particular attention is given discussions where the potential conflicts are considered and all to the tailored components of the programme where a Director relevant material will be restricted including Board papers and is appointed from outside the financial services sector or where a minutes.
A Director with a potential or actual conflict will not be Director has not previously served on a UK listed company board.
permitted to form part of the quorum or vote upon the matter Directors who take on or change role during the year participate giving rise to the conflict.
Directors do not participate in decisions in an induction programme tailored to their new role.
concerning their own remuneration or interest.
All potential As described on page 68 the Board has in place a professional conflicts authorised by the Board are recorded in a Register development and training programme which ensures that Director of Directors Conflicts of Interests which is reviewed by the development continues after the initial induction programme has Board annually.
CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 67 Governance Corporate governance report Professional development and training 2017 review process Continuing professional development is an important aspect of a The Board performance evaluation was coordinated by the Directors role.
Skills and knowledge need to be kept up to date to Company Secretary and Fiona MacLeod, a Non-Executive ensure the effectiveness of the Board as a whole and allow every Director on the Governance and Nomination Committee, and Director to contribute fully in Board and committee meetings.
overseen by the Governance and Nomination Committee.
During the year the Board Development Programme was The Governance and Nomination Committee, with the support of refreshed so as to provide a more structured approach.
The Board the Board, agreed the themes to be assessed: use of Board time Development Programme includes components covering: Board and efficiency of meetings: quality of the information received by deep dive sessions details on page 66 : stakeholder engagement the Board: the Board as a team: succession planning, induction and see page 66 : opportunities for wider stakeholder engagement in training: and depth of engagement on areas including strategy, risk the community in which the Group operates: seminars, courses and customer related topics.
The evaluation was conducted against and roundtables to provide external insights on topical issues, the Financial Reporting Councils FRC best practice framework technical briefings and peer group debates: and Board briefings Guidance on Board Effectiveness March 2011 which is publicly see page 66. available at www.
uk The Chairman reviews with each Non-Executive Director their The 2017 process included various elements.
individual training and development need and progress at regular one:one meetings.
2017 review process The Company Secretary maintains a training and development log Briefing between Advanced Boardroom Excellence, the for each Director.
Company Secretary and Fiona MacLeod during March to agree the scope, process and timetable for the review Board performance evaluation During 2017, the Board engaged an external company, Advanced Structured one:one meetings between Helen Pitcher and all Boardroom Excellence, to facilitate the 2017 assessment of the Directors, in addition to senior leaders who regularly interface effectiveness of the Board and of its committees.
Advanced with the Board and Board committees Boardroom Excellence is an independent consultancy with Observation of meetings of the Board, Audit Committee extensive experience undertaking evaluations for publicly listed and Risk Committee companies and with no other connection to the Group.
The review was led by Helen Pitcher, the Chairman of Advanced Boardroom Facilitated roundtable discussions with the Governance Excellence, and took place between March and July 2017. and Nomination Committee and with the Remuneration Committee The key conclusion of the evaluation was that the Board and Review of the Board and Board committee charters, papers committees operate effectively with a high degree of integrity and and other key governance documentation appropriate challenge and support.
Significant progress has been made since the last external Board evaluation in 2015 before Draft discussion document discussed with the Governance listing.
Indeed the Board was recognised as having operated and Nomination Committee in May effectively to complete a successful demerger and IPO.
The key Presentation and facilitated discussion of key evaluation theme from the review was therefore evolutionary development outcomes, led by Advanced Boardroom Excellence of the Board recognising the changes to both Board and Board Committee composition during 2016, the integration of new Presentation by Advanced Boardroom Excellence to the members which continued through 2017 and the transition Chair of each Board committee to an independent publicly listed company.
Production of a final report of findings and recommendations Agreement by the Board of the key areas of focus and continuous improvement actions for the future development of Board effectiveness 68 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information The approach was designed to facilitate and encourage open Principal findings and constructive dialogue and the exchange of ideas and The conclusions of the 2017 review were positive and have viewpoints between the reviewer and participants.
As such, a confirmed that the Board and its committees operate effectively.
tailored discussion guide was used to structure the one:one A benchmark provided by Advanced Boardroom Excellence against meetings held with each Director, the Company Secretary, a FTSE 100 comparator group the Company is currently in the Group General Counsel, Group Chief Risk Officer, Group Human FTSE 250 showed a good balance of strengths and areas to Resources Director and Group Director Internal Audit.
The Board was found to be detailed in its one:one meetings participants were asked for their views on governance, committed to its continuous improvement and the elements of Board effectiveness identified by the FRC.
development and showed a desire to achieve best practice on all fronts.
The review recognised that the Board comprises a group While a formal assessment of each individual Director was not of accomplished individuals.
With a number of relatively new sought due to the relatively short period the current Board members at Executive Leadership Team and Non-Executive composition had been in place, the process elicited a number Director level there is a clear focus on further consolidating and of useful insights which were shared by the Chairman with building its own dynamic to become an even more integrated and each Non-Executive Director in his regular one:one meetings.
It was recognised that the team dynamic had been A more formal assessment of individual Directors will be well demonstrated at the successful IPO.
The four key areas for the future development of the Boards Due to evolving corporate governance best practice and effectiveness were: regulatory requirements impacting the remit of governance and nomination committees and remuneration committees, Board oversight Increase the opportunities for engaging the facilitated roundtable discussions were held with the Chair and full Board in evolving the Groups strategy including developing members of the Governance and Nomination Committee and the knowledge and insight of the whole Board and encouraging of the Remuneration Committee.
This approach enabled the Directors to bring external insights: committees to openly discuss how their areas of focus could Board development and engagement As the Board evolves it evolve over the next 1224 months and what should be the continues to focus on the development of the Board itself as principal areas of committee activity and priorities.
a cohesive unit able to continue to challenge consistently and The information gathered during the individual meetings, Board effectively while maximising the diversity of contribution, and committee observations, documentation review and expertise and knowledge on the Board: roundtable discussions was independently reviewed by Helen Leadership role of the Board Provide for greater engagement Pitcher to produce an analysis of strengths, challenges, of the Board with broader stakeholder communities, including development opportunities and recommendations which was set customers, in a more proactive and consistent way: and out in a draft discussion document reviewed by the Governance Board planning Continue to develop an efficient, effective and Nomination Committee.
This was followed by a facilitated and balanced governance support process including creating discussion with the Board at which Helen Pitcher presented the capacity for the Board to undertake reflective challenge and key outcomes of the evaluation and the Board agreed the key debate on strategic performance.
areas of focus and priority actions for the future development of Board effectiveness.
In addition a report on the evaluation of each principal Board committee was produced and discussed with the Chair of each committee.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director received a report on the Chairman which was shared with the Chairman individually and with the Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman being present.
CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 69 Governance Corporate governance report Continuous improvement actions providing the broader executive team with the opportunity to align The Board performance evaluation report from Advanced with the Board more closely the Chairman will encourage all Boardroom Excellence sets out a series of recommendations Non-Executive Directors to have more one:one time with the that have been carefully considered by the Board.
The Board has members of the Executive Leadership Team not limited to agreed a suite of priority actions aligned to the key areas for the those members who are Executive Directors on the Board future development of the Boards effectiveness.
Pleasingly a with progress to be discussed during the Chairmans regular number of these actions had already been discussed and in some scheduled one:one meetings with each Non-Executive Director cases instigated by the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
It and recorded on their individual training and development plan.
was positive to see these recommendations reinforced by external expert evaluation.
The priority actions agreed by the Board Follow up include: The Chairman and Board very much regard the Board performance evaluation as an opportunity for continuous ensuring the already robust strategy process allows greater time improvement, not a one-off event.
for input, debate, challenge and discussion at the Board prior to the evaluation the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer had The Governance and Nomination Committee, with the support agreed a full programme of Board engagement in relation to of the Company Secretary, prepared a detailed action plan the FY2018-FY2022 strategic planning process.
The Board incorporating the priority actions agreed by the Board and performance evaluation added some helpful suggestions addressing the other recommendations agreed by the Board around seeking an even broader suite of external insights: to be taken forward.
reviewing the Boards role in the process of both creating The Governance and Nomination Committee will coordinate the and monitoring culture and values to develop a programme of implementation of the actions which will be fully owned across effective feedback to the Board the Board is very engaged the Board and all Board committees.
around the culture and values of the organisation.
As agreed by the Board the Group Human Resources Director is working Information and support with the Governance and Nomination Committee and the The Board has processes in place to ensure that it is supplied in a wider Board to ensure a deep rooted and sustained Board timely manner with information in a form and of a quality to enable role in culture and values going forward: it to effectively discharge its duties.
The Chairman, through the Company Secretary, is responsible for ensuring communication ensuring that work on executive succession and pipeline is integrated flows between the Board and its committees with the support of into the activities of the Governance and Nomination Committee and the Executive Directors and management, and ensures that this more widely shared with the Board to this end the Governance information is of high quality in terms of its currency, clarity, and Nomination Committee has identified succession planning, accuracy, appropriateness and comprehensiveness.
All Directors including the Committees role in executive and senior have access to the advice of the Company Secretary in relation to management succession planning, as a further priority area the discharge of their duties and matters of governance.
The Board will review the senior talent and are able to seek clarification or further detail from management diversity, succession and development plans on an annual basis: where necessary.
The Company Secretary is also responsible for mapping in conjunction with Non-Executive Directors, facilitating communications with shareholders, as appropriate, and a programme of external input to strengthen the debate ensuring due regard is paid to their interests.
All Directors are and discussion on the key areas of the business strategy provided with sufficient resources to undertake their duties.
In and transformation: appropriate circumstances, Directors may obtain, at the Groups expense, independent professional advice where they judge it considering the development opportunities for the Board both from necessary to discharge their responsibilities as Directors.
The a business and Board dynamics perspective the Board annual appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter calendar will be refreshed to include more opportunities for the reserved for the Board as a whole.
Board members to spend informal time together.
The Chairman will continue to focus on further enhancing the strong Board Service contracts and letters of appointment culture and positive and constructive relations between the Details of Executive service contracts and letters of appointment Directors as a collective and between the Board and the of the Board are set out on pages 105 and 106 of the Directors Executive Leadership Team: remuneration report.
focusing specifically on further developing the Board members into a coherent, collective, innovative strategic oversight team the Board agenda has been restructured as recommended by Advanced Boardroom Excellence to provide more agenda space for effective debate and challenge at Board meetings on topics such as strategy, culture and stakeholder, including colleague, engagement: and 70 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information The Groups risk management and internal control systems are Internal control regularly reviewed by the Board and are consistent with the Board responsibility guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related The Board is responsible for the Groups systems of internal Financial and Business Reporting issued by the FRC and compliant control.
The internal control framework is designed to facilitate with the requirements of the Capital Requirements Directive IV effective and efficient operations, ensure a high quality of internal CRD IV.
They have been in place for the year under review and up and external reporting, and ensure compliance with applicable laws to the date of the approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Directors and management are committed to maintaining a robust control framework as the foundation for the Control effectiveness delivery of effective risk management.
Owing to the limitations A review of the effectiveness of controls is regularly undertaken inherent in any internal control framework, the controls have been across the Group, providing an assessment and statement on the designed to manage and mitigate, rather than eliminate, the risk of effectiveness of the Groups control environment.
This provides failure to achieve the Groups business objectives and can provide assurance to the Risk Committee that no new material control only reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material issues have been identified and that robust management actions misstatement or loss.
The Directors acknowledge their are in place to address specific known gaps.
responsibilities in relation to the Groups internal control framework and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Overall assessment Over the past year, the Group has further enhanced the RMF, The Board confirms that throughout the year ended simplifying and improving the risk categories and impact 30 September 2017 and up to the date of approval of this Annual classification.
The control environment remains stable with the Report and Accounts, there have been rigorous processes in place 2017 Control Effectiveness Statement providing assurance that to identify, evaluate and manage the principal risks faced by the ineffective controls are escalated appropriately and have adequate Group, including those that would threaten its business model, action plans in place.
future performance, solvency or liquidity, the likelihood of a risk occurring and the costs of control in accordance with the The Risk Committee, in conjunction with the Audit Committee, Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related concluded that the Groups risk management and internal control Financial and Business Reporting published by the FRC.
framework in relation to the Groups risk profile and strategy was effective and adequate, and was recommended to and approved In order to assist in the identification and management of the by the Board.
principal risks, the Board has established an RMF which is integrated into the Groups overall framework for risk governance Bribery and corruption and has developed a system of regular reports from management.
In compliance with the Bribery Act 2010, the Group has in place The Board has authorised the Risk Committee to oversee the risk assessments, policies and guidelines on interacting with Groups compliance with the Boards approved RAS, RMF and risk customers, suppliers and agents, including specific policies for gifts culture.
Further details can be found in the Risk report on pages and hospitality.
Certain Senior Managers are required to assess 127 to 175. money laundering risks and the adequacy of related internal controls within their areas of responsibility on an ongoing basis.
Reviews by the Board Formal anti-bribery and corruption training is required for all The effectiveness of the risk management and internal control colleagues, the Executive Leadership Team and Directors.
systems is reviewed regularly by the Risk Committee and the Audit Committee, including an annual review.
The Risk Committee is responsible for providing oversight and advice to the Board in Remuneration relation to current and potential future risk exposures.
The Audit The statement by the Chair of the Remuneration Committee and Committee assists the Board in discharging its responsibilities the Directors annual report on remuneration are set out on pages with regard to external and internal audit activities and controls 94 to 122. including reviewing audit reports, internal controls and risk management systems.
CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 71 Governance Corporate governance report Relationships with retail shareholders Shareholder relationships The Company Secretary oversees communication with retail The Board recognises the need for a programme of engagement shareholders and provides feedback to the Board and appropriate which offers all shareholders opportunities to receive information committees to ensure the views of retail shareholders are received from the Company and enables them to share their views with and considered.
In addition, the Board regularly receives feedback on shareholder sentiment and sell side analyst views of the Group The Groups Registrar, Computershare, provides a dedicated and the wider industry.
au in Australia through which The Board is committed to ensuring that there are effective shareholders can manage their shareholding online, receive channels of communication with the Companys shareholders.
Company communications and cast proxy votes for forthcoming The Groups website enables access to documents and general meetings.
communications as soon as they are published, including recordings of webcasts and other analyst presentations.
Small holding sale facility In May 2017, the Company announced the launch of a sale facility Relationships with institutional investors for eligible holders including shareholders and CDI holders for Engagement with institutional investors both existing and small holdings, defined in the Companys Articles of Association as potential investors took place throughout the year, in order to a holding of shares with an aggregate market value of less than update the market on our progress against the Groups long-term A$500 based on the closing price of a CHESS Depository Interest strategy and recent financial performance.
Investor roadshows CDI on the Australian Securities Exchange ASX.
This facility were held in key geographic locations reflecting the nature of provided eligible shareholders with an easy and cost-effective way the Companys institutional ownership and were attended by to sell all of their shares and enabled the Group to reduce the an appropriate mix of Directors and included the Chairman, ongoing costs associated with administering the security registers.
the Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Non-Executive The sale facility closed on 28 June 2017 at which point 5,187,747 Director and the Chief Executive Officer.
shares were sold pursuant to the facility which had been held by The Board receives regular feedback on share price performance, 139,846 eligible holders representing 0.59% of the total issued investor and analyst views and changes to the shareholder register share capital of the Company at the time.
via regular monthly reports, a quarterly detailed investor relations update and ad hoc intelligence.
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Reporting events Nov 2016 Jan 2017 May 2017 Aug 2017 2016 preliminary results 2017 AGM Half year results Q3 results announcement announcement Dec 2016 Jan 2017 2016 Annual Report and Q1 results announcement Accounts published Jan 2017 Aug 2017 Analyst briefings on Analyst briefings on Q3 Q1 results results Nov 2016 Feb 2017 May 2017 Sept 2017 Analyst briefings on Australian investment Analyst briefings on half Institutional investor Q1 results institutions meetings year results engagement on North American investor UK roadshows remuneration roadshow Stakeholder engagement 72 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information The annual general meeting Shareholders are invited to attend the Companys 2018 annual general meeting AGM, to be held at 10am GMT on Wednesday 31 January 2018 at the offices of Pinsent Masons LLP, 30 Crown Place, Earl Street, London, EC2A 4ES, United Kingdom, when they will have the opportunity to engage directly with Directors, who will be available to answer any shareholder questions.
Facilities are also available for shareholders to cast their votes electronically, or by post.
All resolutions at the 2018 AGM will be voted on a poll.
The procedure for voting on a poll follows best practice and allows the Company to count all votes rather than just those of the shareholders attending the meeting.
The resolutions to be proposed at the AGM, together with explanatory notes, are set out in a separate Notice of AGM which accompanies this Annual Report and Accounts and is on the Companys website www.
The Notice of AGM is circulated to all shareholders at least 20 working days before such meetings and it is the Companys policy not to combine resolutions.
As recommended by the Code, all resolutions to be proposed at the 2018 AGM will be voted on separately and the voting results will include all votes cast for, against and those withheld, together with all proxies lodged before the meeting.
A vote withheld will not be a vote in law and will not be used in calculating the votes for or against a resolution.
Details of the proxy votes cast will be made available on the Companys website as soon as is reasonably practicable after the meeting, by means of an announcement on the securities exchanges to which the Company is listed and on the Companys website www.
In the opinion of the Board, where the situation arises that a significant proportion of votes have been cast against a resolution at any general meeting, the Company will explain, when announcing the results of voting, what action it intends to take to understand the reasons behind the result of the vote.
CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 73 Governance Governance and Nomination Committee report Dear shareholder, As Chairman of the Board and Chairman of the Governance and Nomination Committee, I am pleased to present the report on the Committees activity during 2017.
The Committees role is to regularly review the structure, size and composition of the Board having regard to the balance of skills, experience, knowledge, independence and diversity on the Board.
It is also responsible for developing and maintaining a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for identifying and nominating for approval by the Board, candidates to fill Board and committee vacancies when they arise.
The Committee also: reviews the succession plans at Board and Executive level: leads the process for the periodic evaluation of the performance and effectiveness of the Board, committees and individual Directors: and makes recommendations to the Board to ensure that the Groups corporate governance arrangements are consistent with best practice and good corporate governance standards.
The Committee has evolved its role During 2017, the Committee spent considerable time overseeing and remains committed to being at the the annual performance evaluation of the Board and its committees which this year was externally facilitated by Advanced forefront of best corporate governance Boardroom Excellence.
I am grateful to Fiona MacLeod who led practice.
the process on behalf of the Committee and the Board.
The evaluation approach, process followed, principal areas of development and priority actions agreed by the Board are described on pages 68 to 70 of the Corporate governance report.
I am pleased to confirm that the key conclusion of the evaluation was that the Board and its committees operate effectively with significant progress made since the last external Board evaluation which was undertaken in 2015 in advance of the demerger and IPO.
Since the completion of the review the Governance and Nomination Committee has overseen the preparation and implementation of a detailed action plan incorporating the priority actions agreed by the Board and has kept the Board informed of progress.
74 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information As part of the annual performance evaluation, the Governance and Nomination Committee held a facilitated roundtable session with Advanced Boardroom Excellence to discuss openly how the Committee wanted to evolve its role consistent with best practice for listed company governance and nomination committees.
Following the IPO, the focus of the Committee in 2016 and early 2017 was principally on succession planning and refreshing capability and composition of the Board and its committees.
Having taken time to both fully reflect and to look ahead, the Committee has now agreed its principal areas of activity and priorities for 2018 as follows: evaluation of the skills, knowledge and experience on the Board particularly with regard to longer-term requirements and to inform future Board composition: succession planning, including the Committees role in executive and senior management succession planning, which is an area of growing shareholder and regulatory interest: developing the Committees and Boards role in the areas of talent management and leadership development: agreeing the Committees and Boards role in supporting management with the cultural transformation and diversity and inclusion agendas: and improving Director training and development.
In the year ahead, the Committee will continue to monitor the needs of the Board, its committees and the longer-term leadership of the business by ensuring that succession plans align to, and keep pace with, the strategic goals of the Group.
The Committee will continue to oversee the effectiveness of the corporate governance arrangements, particularly the impacts of corporate governance reforms, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the actions agreed by the Board following the performance evaluation of the Board and of its committees.
Jim Pettigrew Chair, Governance and Nomination Committee CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 75
