Governance Executive Leadership Team The Executive Leadership Team operates worked in six different blue chip under the direction and authority of the organisations in four industrial sectors, Chief Executive Officer and is responsible including financial services.
Prior to joining for supporting him in all aspects of his role.
the Group, Kate spent a decade with Each member has been assigned individual Lloyds Banking Group plc where she was accountability for delivery of the overall latterly the HR Director responsible for strategy and the principal risks outlined leading the group culture, capability and in the Strategic report.
accountability for delivering against the initiatives designed to underpin our Enda Johnson strategic priorities of capital optimisation, Group Corporate Development Director improving efficiency and driving sustainable Joined the Group customer growth.
September 2015 David Duffy Skills and experience Executive Director and Enda has responsibility for the Groups Chief Executive Officer strategic development, corporate affairs Debbie Crosbie and investor relations.
He has over 14 Executive Director and years experience in financial services and Chief Operating Officer before joining the Group he worked at Allied Irish Banks plc as Head of Corporate Fergus Murphy Ian Smith Affairs and Strategy and was a member Group Customer Value Director Executive Director and of the Executive Leadership Team.
Enda Joined the Group Chief Financial Officer previously worked in the banking unit of January 2016 the Irish National Treasury Management Skills and experience Agency NTMA, where he worked on Fergus has responsibility for the delivery the recapitalisation and restructure of of the Groups product suite, including Irish banks following the global financial pricing, propositions, customer liability crisis.
Before the NTMA he worked strategy, capital allocation and product internationally with Merrill Lynch in development.
He has over 20 years its investment banking and capital experience in financial services gained markets divisions.
from Allied Irish Banks plc, Rabobank Group, BNP Paribas Group and KBC Bank Ireland plc.
At Allied Irish Banks plc, he held roles including Director of Products and Capital Markets and latterly, Director of Corporate and Institutional Banking.
During his tenure with AIB, he redesigned the customer product offering to better meet customers needs and led the rebuilding of AIBs operating model.
He is a former CEO of Rabobank Asia and was responsible for the overall strategy and performance of Rabobank in the region.
Kate Guthrie Group Human Resources Director Joined the Group January 2016 Skills and experience Kate has responsibility for human resources and internal communications, focusing on talent and leadership development, colleague engagement and culture.
She has over 30 years domestic and international HR experience, having 60 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information principally within the financial services industry.
Helen spent eight years at Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc in a number of roles and was latterly Managing Director for Marketing and Innovation, with responsibility for all UK brands across the Retail, Commercial and Corporate divisions.
Helen was previously Head of Brand Marketing at Argos part of the Home Retail Group plc and prior to Argos, Gavin Opperman Mark Thundercliffe held a number of product and marketing Group Customer Banking Director Group Chief Risk Officer roles at Abbey National plc now Santander Joined the Group Joined the Group where she became Head of Marketing.
November 2015 September 2016 Skills and experience Skills and experience Gavin has responsibility for developing Mark is responsible for the management and leading the Groups customer banking of significant risks and opportunities strategy.
He is a senior executive with across the Group, including strategic, over 30 years of banking experience in reputational, operational, financial, credit leadership, risk, operations and customer and regulatory.
He has over 29 years facing roles across retail, commercial, international retail and business banking corporate and investment banking and experience.
Mark was previously Chief within a wide range of geographies.
Gavin Risk Officer at HSBC, responsible for has experience of different levels of management and oversight of risk for complexity, market and team dynamics.
HSBCs Retail Banking and Wealth He was previously Regional Head of Management business across the UK, James Peirson Consumer Banking for Standard Europe, the Middle East and Africa.
Group General Counsel Chartered plc, based in China, and prior Mark has also held a number of senior Joined the Group to that held a number of senior positions international positions in financial services November 2014 in a career spanning 20 years with Barclays firms up to Chief Executive Officer and Skills and experience Group including being Chief Executive Executive Director level.
James has responsibility for leading the Officer of Absa Bank Limited, a subsidiary Groups legal and governance strategy.
He joined NAB in 2005, where he led the NAB London Branch legal team.
James also held roles supporting NAB and Clydesdale Bank PLC Treasury activities as part of NABs capital and funding legal team in both Melbourne and London.
Prior to joining NAB he worked in private legal practice at Hogan Lovells International LLP.
Helen Page Group Innovation and Marketing Director Joined the Group December 2012 Skills and experience Helen has responsibility for the Groups marketing and customer innovation strategy.
She has over 25 years experience in marketing, product and customer innovation and brand strategy, CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 61
