Executive Committee From left to right Sanjay Almeida, Vicki Bradin, Blair Crump, Amanda Cusdin, Steve Hare, Stephen Kelly, Ron McMurtrie and Klaus-Michael Vogelberg 66 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Stephen Kelly 55 Vicki Bradin 39 Amanda Cusdin 40 Chief Executive Officer, Board of Directors General Counsel and Company Secretary Chief People Officer Interim For Stephen Kellys skills and experience see Vicki joined Sage in June 2016 and became Amanda became interim Chief People page 65.
General Counsel and Company Secretary in Officerin October 2017, having joined Sage October 2016.
Vicki previously worked for FTSE inMarch 2015.
250 software company Misys, where she was Amanda has 18 years of HR experience across Steve Hare 56 Associate General Counsel and had several global FTSE organisations in a variety Chief Financial Officer, responsibility for mergers and acquisitions, of sectors where she focused on supporting litigation, risk, intellectual property and more.
Board of Directors executive leaders to drive change and After graduating from Nottingham University, transformation.
During her career to date Vicki qualified as a solicitor in the City of For Steve Hares skills and experience see Amanda has built extensive experience across page 64.
Vicki spent her early career working the Americas, Asia and Europe.
"She has led as a corporate lawyer in global and ""magic specifically in M&A, growth in new circle"" law firms before moving in-house geographies and working across cultures and Klaus-Michael Vogelberg 52 working in large multinationals and UK public matrix organisations."
Amanda has also Chief Technology Officer limited companies, helping grow and specialised in talent development to executive transform businesses whilst managing their level.
Responsible for Sages technology strategy regulatory and litigation risk.
and software architecture, Klaus-Michael is Amanda has a Bachelors degree in History Chief Technology Officer.
From 2004 to 2007 from the University of Warwick and Blair Crump 55 he was Research and Development Director postgraduate qualifications in Human for Sage UK and Ireland.
Klaus-Michael joined President Resources Management.
us when Sage acquired the German KHK Software group in 1997, where he was Research Blair joined Sage as President in August 2016 Sanjay Almeida 44 and Development Director and a partner.
from PROS Holdings, where he had been COO since February 2014.
Previously, he led Chief Product Delivery Officer A software entrepreneur, Klaus-Michael set up Salesforce.
coms Global Enterprise business, his first business aged 19 while studying reporting to CEO and co-founder Marc Benioff.
Sanjay joined Sage as Chief Product Delivery aeronautical engineering and national Prior to that, he was Group President at Officer in October 2017, responsible for the economics.
Verizon Business, responsible for Worldwide product strategy and delivery of Sages full Sales & Consulting.
He began his career in suite of products.
Sanjay joined Sage from SAP, 1983 with MCI as its first sales representative where he had been Senior Vice President and Ron McMurtrie 52 in New York City where he worked for over 20 Chief Product Officer of the companys Ariba Chief Marketing Officer Interim years before Verizon acquired the company in business since October 2015.
Blair holds a Bachelors Degree in Ron McMurtrie joined Sage in 2017 and leads Prior to this, Sanjay spent ten years at Concur Economics from the Wharton School at the marketing across the Company, inspiring Technologies, before the company was University of Pennsylvania.
long-term relationships through creativity and acquired by SAP.
Here he held senior positions innovation.
in Research & Development, before being made Senior Vice President of Global Product Ron aligns the strategic direction of product, Management and Strategy.
brand, digital marketing and communications, and oversees key functional areas for new Sanjay has an MBA in General Management customer acquisition, building customers for from the Kellogg School of Management, life, and advancing Sages cloud strategy.
Before joining Sage, Ron was global Chief Marketing Officer at Recall, an information management company, leading worldwide marketing strategy and operations.
Previously, Ron has over 20 years experience in similar roles for brands including VCE the joint venture between Cisco, EMC and VMware First Data, Verizon and MCI.
Ron is a multi-dimensional leader with P&L and personnel responsibility spanning direct sales, marketing, enterprise consulting and professional services in private and publicsector markets.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 67
