Governance Governance and Nomination Committee report Membership and meetings Committee role and responsibilities The current members of the Committee are: During the year, the Committee revised its Charter which sets out the role and responsibilities of the Committee.
The Charter of the Jim Pettigrew, Chair Committee can be found on the Companys website David Bennett www.
com about-us corporate-governance Fiona MacLeod Committee performance evaluation The Committee is chaired by the Chairman of the Board and the The independent, externally facilitated Board Performance members of the Committee are Independent Non-Executive Evaluation carried out during the year included an assessment Directors, in accordance with the provisions of the Code.
If a of the Committees effectiveness.
The review identified that matter were to concern the Chairman, then he would leave the the Committee Charter reflected best practice and that the meeting and the remaining members would elect one of their responsibilities of the Committee set out in the Charter were number to take the Chair, unless the Chairman had designated consistent with the Code.
A key finding was that the Committee a member to do so.
needs to reflect on its responsibilities and to set its objectives and priorities for the year and agree the processes by which it will fulfil The Chief Executive Officer attends meetings at the invitation its responsibilities.
The Committee has now agreed its priorities, as of the Committee.
The Group Human Resources Director also set out on page 75, and is developing a work plan to address these attends meetings at the invitation of the Committee, particularly priorities in addition to its wider Charter responsibilities.
The when it is considering Executive succession planning matters.
Committees calendar of meetings has been refreshed to allow for Members of the Committee took no part in any discussions better planning and to ensure the Committees workload is spread concerning their own membership of the Board or appointment across the calendar year.
Matters considered and actions taken Committee attendance by the Committee The core activities of the Committee were carried out in four The significant matters addressed by the Committee during the scheduled meetings of the Committee.
One additional ad hoc year ended 30 September 2017 and in evaluating the 2017 Annual meeting was arranged for decisions required outside scheduled Report and Accounts are described in the following pages.
The table below shows the Committee members during the year to 30 September 2017 and their attendance at scheduled Committee meetings.
Number of Number of scheduled scheduled Committee Committee meetings eligible meetings to attend attended Committee Chair Jim Pettigrew 4 4 Committee members David Bennett 4 4 1 Fiona MacLeod 4 4 Former Committee members 2 Richard Gregory 1 1 1 Fiona MacLeod was appointed as a Committee member on 30 December 2016.
2 Richard Gregory retired as a Committee member on 10 January 2017.
76 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information Role of the Committee Key matters considered and actions completed Board and Board committee Reviewed the structure, size and composition of the Board and Board committees composition including skills, experience, independence, knowledge and diversity and considered the Membership of the Board and the longer-term succession of Board and committee members relative to tenure, mix and current and future composition diversity of skills and the Groups strategy, future challenges and opportunities: reported of its committees the outcome and recommendations to the Board: Reviewed the time commitment including external appointments of serving Directors: Undertook the annual review of the Conflicts of Interests Register: and When considering the recruitment of a new Director, the Committee adopts a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure with due regard to diversity, including gender.
Before commencing the recruitment process, the Committee evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge, experience, independence and diversity on the Board and, in light of this evaluation, prepares a description of the role and capabilities required.
In identifying suitable candidates, the Committee: uses open advertising or the services of external advisers to facilitate the search: considers candidates from different genders and a wide range of backgrounds: considers candidates on merit and against objective criteria ensuring that appointees have sufficient time to devote to the position, in light of other potential significant positions: and engages from time to time with the Groups major shareholders in future skills requirements and ideas for potential candidates.
Skills and independence Assessed the independence of Non-Executive Directors having regard to both the Code requirements on independence and factors such as length of tenure and the ability of Non-Executive Directors to objectively challenge the Executive, free from relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, the Directors judgement.
The Committee also took account of any relationships that had been disclosed and authorised by the Board.
Based on the assessment for 2017 the Committee is satisfied that, throughout the year, all Non-Executive Directors remained independent as to both character and judgement and that Jim Pettigrew, the Board Chairman, was considered independent on appointment.
At least half the Board comprised independent Non-Executive Directors: and Recommended to the Board the re-election of all Directors.
Executive succession planning and Had an update from and discussion with the Group Human Resources Director on the talent management succession plan for the Executive Leadership Team and their direct reports: and Had an update from and discussion with the Group Human Resources Director on the Groups talent management framework and talent pool and the opportunities for Board engagement in talent management and leadership development.
Diversity and inclusion The Board recognises the value of achieving diversity on the Board and throughout the Group.
Although new appointments are based on merit, careful consideration is given to the benefits of improving and complementing the diversity, skills, experience and knowledge of the Board.
The Board recognises and is committed to creating the conditions that foster talent for women to achieve their full potential by building strong female representation at Board level, Executive Leadership Team level and throughout the Group.
During the year the Committee reviewed and recommended to the Board an updated Board Inclusion and Diversity Policy Statement to include a target of 33% female representation on the Board by 2020, achieved through the natural cycle of Board renewal.
It is also the Boards intention to broaden diversity on the Board beyond gender diversity alone, to reflect the communities in which the Group operates and serves.
As at 30 September 2017, there were three female Directors 25% on the Board.
CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 77 Governance Governance and Nomination Committee report Role of the Committee Key matters considered and actions completed Board and Board committee Oversaw the annual performance evaluation of the Board and its committees which effectiveness review was externally facilitated by Advanced Boardroom Excellence.
The evaluation approach, process followed, principal areas of development and priority actions agreed by the Board are described on pages 68 to 70 of the Corporate governance report: Oversaw the preparation and implementation of a detailed action plan incorporating the priority actions agreed by the Board, actions of an administrative nature and actions specific to a Board committee: kept the Board informed of progress: and Undertook an assessment of the effectiveness of the externally facilitated independent performance evaluation of the Board.
Governance Participated in a facilitated roundtable session with Advanced Boardroom Excellence to openly discuss the evolving corporate governance best practice and regulatory requirements impacting the remit of the Governance and Nomination Committee: Discussed and agreed how the Committees areas of focus could evolve over the next 1224 months and what the principal areas of Committee activity and priorities should be: Received an update on proposed corporate governance reforms: and Reviewed and agreed an External Directorship Policy for adoption by the Board to govern the number of non-executive directorships an incoming or current Director is permitted to hold in the context of ensuring Directors are able to commit sufficient time to their role with the Group to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
78 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017
