Board of Directors Knowledge and experience Donald Brydon 72 Neil Berkett 62 Drummond Hall 68 Steve Hare 56 Chairman Independent Senior Independent Chief Financial Officer Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Executive Director N A R A N R Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board 6 July 2012 5 July 2013 1 January 2014 3 January 2014 Experience: Experience: Experience: Experience: Donald Brydon had a 20-year Neil Berkett has over 30 years Drummond Hall was previously Prior to joining Sage, Steve Hare career with Barclays Group, experience in a wide range of Chief Executive of Dairy Crest was Operating Partner and during which time he was highly competitive consumer Group plc from 2002 to 2006, Co-Head of the Portfolio Support Chairman and Chief Executive industries.
Most recently, he was having joined the company in Group at the private equity firm of BZW Investment Management, Chief Executive of Virgin Media 1991.
Prior to this the majority of Apax Partners, which he joined in followed by 15 years with the AXA Group from March 2008 to June his career was spent with Procter 2009.
Before his work at Apax Group, including the posts of 2013, having joined ntl, Virgin and Gamble, Mars and Pepsi Co. Partners, he built over 10 years Chairman and Chief Executive of Medias predecessor, as Chief Drummond was a Non-executive experience leading the finance AXA Investment Managers and Operating Officer in September Director of Mitchells & Butlers plc function for three listed UK Chairman of AXA Framlington.
Before ntl he was Managing from July 2004 to January 2010 companies culminating as CFO Director, Distribution, at Lloyds and Chairman from June 2008 to for FTSE 100 company Invensys He has formerly chaired the TSB plc.
His previous roles include November 2009. plc from 2006 to 2009.
Between London Metal Exchange, Chief Operating Officer at 2004 and 2006 Steve was Group Amersham plc, Taylor Nelson Prudential Assurance Company Finance Director for Spectris plc, Areas of expertise: Sofres plc, the ifs School of Ltd UK, Head of Retail at St the FTSE 250 precision Drummond brings a wealth of Finance, Smiths Group plc, George Bank, Senior General instrumentation and controls experience gained across a Royal Mail plc and EveryChild.
Manager at the Australian company, and from 1997 to 2003 number of customer-focused Donald has also served as division of Citibank Limited, Chief he was with Marconi plc, serving blue-chip businesses in the UK, Senior Independent Director of Executive at Eastwest Airlines as CFO from 2001.
His strong Allied Domecq plc and Scottish Australia and Financial Controller appreciation of customer service Power plc.
Steve qualified as a chartered at ICL Australia.
and marketing brings deep insight accountant in 1985 with into Sage as we focus on ways to Areas of expertise: Ernst & Whinney, now part Areas of expertise: expand our markets and delight of Ernst & Young LLP.
Donald brings to the Board his Neil has significant our customers with our wealth of experience gained as experienceinleading change technology and service levels.
Chairman of companies across Areas of expertise: within organisations whilst Drummond was appointed Senior awide range of sectors.
Since Steve has significant financial, retaining thefocus on customer Independent Non-executive beingappointed as Chairman operational and transformation experience.
He is able to bring Director on 28 February 2017. ofSage, Donald has overseen experience which includes this insight and knowledge to comprehensive changes to the drivingchange programmes thetransformation at Sage and Other current appointments: composition of the Board and in a numberof his previous roles.
WH Smith plc Committees and navigated the Thisexperience allows him to Senior Independent Company and Board through ensureSage continues to Other current appointments: Non-executive Director significant change.
performstrongly whilst delivering Guardian Media Group First Group plc the recent transformation Chairman Senior Independent and positioning Sage for Other current appointments: Non-executive Director continuedgrowth.
London Stock Exchange Group Plc Chairman Medical Research Council Chairman Key to committees A Audit and Risk Committee N Nomination Committee R Remuneration Committee 64 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Jonathan Howell 55 Soni Jiandani 51 Cath Keers 52 Stephen Kelly 55 Independent Independent Independent Chief Executive Officer Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Executive Director A R N R Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board 15 May 2013 28 February 2017 1 July 2017 5 November 2014 Experience: Experience: Experience: Experience: Jonathan Howell is currently An engineer by background, Soni Cath started her retail career with Stephen Kelly has over 30 years Group Finance Director of Close Jiandani has over 25 years Thorn EMI and, after marketing leadership experience in the Brothers Group plc, joining in experience in the technology and business development roles Small & Medium Business and February 2008, and previously industry, including 22 years at at Sky TV, Avon and Next, joined technology sectors.
He has held the same position at the Cisco where she held the position the BT Group in 1996, holding a previously served as Chief London Stock Exchange Group of SVP, Marketing.
During her number of commercial roles, Executive Officer of two highplc from 1999.
Jonathan has also time at Cisco, she led a team including Marketing Director O2, growth, public software been a Non-executive Director of which was responsible for Chairman of Tesco Mobile and companies: NASDAQ-listed EMAP plc and Chairman of establishing multi-billion dollar Customer Director O2, where she Chordiant Software, Inc. from FTSE International.
The early part revenue streams in the Switching, was in charge of refocusing the 2001 to 2005 and LSE-listed Micro of his career was at Price Storage Networking and Server organisations customer strategy.
Focus International plc from 2006 Waterhouse where he qualified markets.
She was also part of the to 2010.
In 2012 he was appointed as a chartered accountant.
team that established many Chief Operating Officer for the UK Areas of expertise: successful, company-funded Government where he was the Cath brings a wealth of digital and start-ups which were most senior executive responsible Areas of expertise: customer experience insights to subsequently acquired spin-ins for the UK Governments Jonathans significant financial the Board, together with a deep which provided access to Efficiency & Reform agenda, andaccounting experience, understanding of leveraging sales adjacent markets.
Prior to joining including Digital, Commercial, coupled with his role as Chairman and marketing activity to build Cisco, Soni held marketing IT and Small & Medium of the Audit and Risk Committee, successful brands.
executive positions at UB Business strategies.
allow him to provide substantial Networks and Excelan.
insight into the Groups Other current appointments: financialreporting and risk Areas of expertise: Royal Mail plc Independent management processes.
Areas of expertise: Stephen brings to the Board Non-executive Director: Soni has extensive experience in over30 years leadership TalkTalk Telecom Group marketing and driving industry experience in high-growth Other current appointments: plc Independent transformation through market technology businesses ranging Close Brothers Group plc Non-executive Director: disruption.
Her background of from start-ups to listed multiGroup Finance Director.
Liverpool Victoria Friendly bringing innovative technologies national companies, in the UK Society Limited Independent to market is a valuable addition to and USA.
His passion for Non-executive Director: and the Boards skills and experience.
entrepreneurs and technology, Ustwo Fampany Ltd and the role they play in driving Chairman.
economic prosperity, lies at the heart of the transformation we aredriving at Sage.
Changes to the Board Ruth Markland and Inna Kuznetsova stood down from the Board after the Annual General Meeting on 28 February 2017.
Soni Jiandani was appointed with effect from 28 February 2017, and Cath Keers was appointed with effect from 1 July 2017.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 65
