Corporate Governance Report This Corporate Governance Report explains how the Company has applied the main principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
We have used the key themes of the Code asa framework: Leadership and effectiveness are on pages 46 to 50.
Accountability: The reports of the Audit and Risk Committees are set out on pages 50 to 53.
Relations with shareholders on page 53.
Remuneration is covered in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 58 to 73.
Statement of compliance The Company continues substantially to comply with the Code.
Daily Mail General Trust plc DMGT has ceased to be the Companys majority shareholder but remains a significant shareholder in the Company and retains two Non-Executive positions on the Board which are not regarded as independent under the Code.
The Companys founder, president and ex-chairman, Sir Patrick Sergeant, remains on the Board but isnot regarded as an independent Director under the Code.
The Company therefore did not comply throughout the financial year ended 30 September 2017 with certain provisions of the Code as set out below.
The Company is making significant progress, including through changes made in2017, to bring itsBoard and committee structure more in line with Code requirements.
For example: since 2015, the majority of our Board has comprised Non-Executive Directors.
A number of changes have been made during the financial year: the Board appointed a Senior Independent Director: the CEO and a Non-Executive Director resigned from the Nominations Committee: a new Group Management Board was created: the Company has recently announced the appointment of three new, independent Non-Executive Directors, one of whom is expected to take on therole of Chairman of the Remuneration Committee after a suitable period: and following the decision of our Chairman, John Botts, to retire after our next AGM, we have announced our intention to commence a search for a new, independent Director to appoint as Chairman: the Nominations Committee has also appointed a search firm with a view to hiring a new Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 44 Euromoney AR2017 Governance-Proof 6. indd 44 12 11 2017 11:48:25 AM Governance These changes will provide the Board with the ability to alter the composition of certain of its committees in due course in order to achieve greater alignment with the Code.
Provision Code principle Explanation of non-compliance A.
3.1 Appointment of the John Botts did not meet the Codes definition of independence on appointment as Chairman Chairman due to his length of service.
However the Board believes that his length of service has enhanced his role as a Non-Executive Director.
The Board intends to appoint a new independent Director to serve as Chairman.
1.2 Composition of the Less than half the Board are independent Non-Executive Directors.
However, there Board are clear divisions of responsibility within the Board such that no one individual has unfettered powers of decision.
The Company reduced the number of Executive Directors following the 2015 AGM and the changes described on page 44 illustrate that the Company is making progress to achieve its aim of being more in line withCode requirements in the near term in relation to the number of independent Non-Executive Directors the number of independent Non-Executive Directors is now four compared to three in 2016 with an additional two new independent Non-Executive Directors joining the Board in the coming months.
2.1 Composition of The Nominations Committee does not comprise a majority of independent Nonthe Nominations Executive Directors.
The Committee now comprises five Non-Executive Directors Committee increased from three in 2016, including two considered independent under the Code compared to no independent directors in 2016.
All are considered by the Board to be the most appropriate members.
3.2 Terms and conditions John Botts, David Pritchard, Andrew Ballingal, Tristan Hillgarth and Imogen of appointment Joss have terms and conditions of appointment.
The Viscount Rothermere, Paul of Non-Executive Zwillenberg and SirPatrick Sergeant operate under the terms of their employment Directors contracts with DMGT and Euromoney respectively.
C. 3.1 Composition of the The Audit Committee does not comprise at least three independent NonAudit Committee Executive Directors.
The Committee comprises three members, only two of whom are considered independent under the Code: the other is the Chairman of the Company who is considered by the Board to be a valuable and independentlyminded member of the Committee.
Since the resignation of Stephen Daintith, who represented DMGT on the Committee, the Committee has lacked a member with recent and relevant financial experience.
The Company has mitigated this impact through reliance on internal and external expertise and DMGTs current CFO, who possesses the requisite experience, joined the Committee on21November 2017.
C. 3.2 Risk Committee The Risk Committee does not comprise at least three independent Non-Executive approach Directors.
The Committee comprises six members, none of whom is considered independent under the Code.
David Pritchard as Chairman of the Audit Committee and independent Non-Executive Director is invited to attend all meetings of the Committee.
The role and responsibilities of the Risk Committee, including its membership, are considered appropriate and well suited to reviewing the Companys risk management approach.
The Risk Committee and the Audit Committee work collaboratively and include members or attendees common to both committees, to ensure that the principles of the Code are achieved within thisstructure.
The Remuneration Committee does not comprise at least three independent D. 2.1 Composition and chairmanship of Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee comprises three Non-Executive Directors, the Remuneration onlyone of whom is considered independent under the Code and one is the Committee Chairman of the Company.
The Company has announced the appointment of an independent Non-Executive Director who is expected to become Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
E. 1.1 Dialogue with David Pritchard, the Companys Senior Independent Director, was appointed in shareholders January and is scheduled to have his first investor meetings in November 2017.
Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 45 Euromoney AR2017 Governance-Proof 6. indd 45 12 11 2017 11:48:25 AM Corporate Governance Report Continued Leadership and effectiveness Role of the Board and its committees BOARD MEETS EVERY TWO MONTHS CHAIRED BY JOHN BOTTS Approve and monitor strategy, identify, evaluate and manage material risks, review trading performance, ensure adequate funding, examine major acquisition possibilities and approve reports to shareholders.
Page 47 MATTERS RESERVED TO THE BOARD AND DELEGATED AUTHORITIES The Board has delegated certain aspects of the Groups affairs to standing committees, each of which operates within definedterms of reference available on the Companys website.
However, to ensure its overall control of the Groups affairs, theBoard has reserved certain matters to itself for decision.
Procedures are established to ensure that appropriate information iscommunicated to the Board in a timely manner to enable it to fulfil its duties.
NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE AUDIT COMMITTEE MEETS AS NEEDED MEETS THREE TIMES A YEAR MEETS AT LEAST CHAIRED BY JOHN BOTTS CHAIRED BY JOHN BOTTS THREE TIMES AYEAR  Reviews the structure, size Responsible for determining the andcomposition of the Board contract terms, remuneration Reviews and is responsible and makes recommendations andotherbenefits of Executive foroversight of the Groups financial tothe Board accordingly.
Directors, including performancereporting processes andthe related incentives.
This Committee integrityof the financial statements.
Page 50 alsorecommends and monitors Itscrutinises the workof the external theoverall level of remuneration and internalauditors and any andremuneration for senior significant accounting judgements management, including Groupmade bymanagement.
The wide share option schemes.
Committee reports on its operations tothe Board to enable the Directors Page 72 todetermine the overall effectiveness of the Groups internalcontrols system.
Page 50 GROUP TAX AND TREASURY COMMITTEE RISK COMMITTEE MANAGEMENT BOARD MEETS TWICE A YEAR MEETS FOUR TIMES A YEAR MEETS EACH MONTH CHAIRED BY COLIN JONES CHAIRED BY ANDREW RASHBASS A management board that Responsible for recommending Oversees the Groups risk operates under the direction policyto the Board.
andauthority of the CEO treasury policies are designed It reviews specific risks and monitors andcomprises the Groups to reduce the impact of short-term developments in relevant legislation divisional and functional currency movements giving greater and regulation, assessing the impact leaders.
It assists the CEO certainty and ensuring that the Group on the Group.
The Committee reports andFinance Director has adequate liquidity forworking on its operations to the Board to inimplementing strategy: capital and debt capacity for funding enable the Directors to determine monitoring financial acquisitions.
The Committee is also theoverall effectiveness of the performance: developing responsible for the Groups tax strategy.
Its theGroups approach to members are theCEO, Finance The members are the CEO, Finance managing employees: taking Director, Chief Information Officer, Director and General Counsel & joint responsibility for the MD Corporate Development, Company Secretary.
The Chairman Groupsapproach to corporate General Counsel &Company ofthe Audit Committee and the governance: and ensuring that Secretary and Head of Risk.
CFOofDMGTare also invited to theGroups best-of-both-worlds attendthemeetings.
The Chairman of the Audit operating model works.
Committee is also invited to Aprofile of each member attendthe meetings.
oftheGroup Management Page 53 Boardis included on page 13.
The discussions of the Committees are summarised and reported to the Board at the next meeting, following each Committee meeting together with recommendations on matters reserved for Board decisions Annual Report and Accounts 2017 46 Euromoney AR2017 Governance-Proof 6. indd 46 12 11 2017 11:48:25 AM MANAGEMENT COMMITTEES BOARD Governance Board composition and roles During the financial year the Board comprised a Non-Executive Chairman, two Executive Directors and six Non-Executive Directors.
There are clear divisions of responsibility within the Board such that no one individual has unfettered powers of decision.
There is aprocedure for all Directors in the furtherance of their duties to take independent professional advice, at the Companys expense.
They also have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
Their key responsibilities are set out in the table below: Executive Directors CEO Andrew Rashbass Strategy and Group performance Finance Director Colin Jones Group financial and operational performance Non-Executive Director Chairman John Botts Board governance and performance and shareholder engagement.
President Sir Patrick Sergeant As founder and president of the Support and constructively Company, his insight and external challenge the executive contacts remain valuable to Directors using their broad theCompany.
range of experience and Independent David Pritchard, Bring an external perspective, expertise.
Monitor the Non-Executive Directors Andrew Ballingal, sound judgement and objectivity delivery of the agreed Tristan Hillgarth to the Boards deliberations and strategy within the risk decision-making.
management framework Non-Executive Directors, The Viscount Rothermere, Bring the views of the Companys setby the Board.
also directors of DMGT Paul Zwillenberg largest shareholder to the Board.
Independence Effectiveness The Board has determined that David Pritchard Senior The Code requires an externally facilitated evaluation of the Independent Director, Andrew Ballingal and Tristan Hillgarth Board to be concluded every three years.
This was conducted are independent within the meaning of the Code.
John Botts has during the year and externally facilitated by Independent Audit been on the Board for more than the recommended term of nine Limited using their online assessment service.
Independent years under the Code and the Boardbelieves that his length of AuditLimited has no connection with the Company.
The scope service enhances his role as aNon-Executive Director and that of the review included both the Board and its main Committees.
However, due to his length The evaluation indicated that the effectiveness of the Board of service, John Botts wasnot considered to be independent at hasimproved since progress has been made in the course the time of his appointment.
Sir Patrick Sergeant has served on ofthechanges taking place at the Company since the the Board in various roles since founding the Company in 1969 appointment of Andrew Rashbass as CEO in October 2015 when and has been a Non-Executive Director since 1992.
Due to his the roles of CEO and Chairman weresplit and most Executive length of service, Sir Patrick Sergeant is not considered to be Directors resigned from the Board.
for the Board to continue focusing on.
Areas for development which were identified in thisyears evaluation process were: The Viscount Rothermere and Paul Zwillenberg are also theCompanys approach tosuccession planning: Board Executive Directors of DMGT, a significant shareholder of the composition, including diversity: and Board communications.
These Directors bring valuable experience and The Board is exploring ways to improve its performance in advice to the Company, although have no involvement in the theseareas.
The Senior Independent Director separately day-to-day management of the Company and the Board does co-ordinated a review of the performance of the Chairman.
not believe these Non-Executive Directors are able to exert undue influence on decisions taken by the Board, nor does itconsider their independence or objectivity to be impaired bytheir positions with DMGT.
However, their relationship with DMGT as a significant shareholder in the Company means theyare not considered to be independent.
Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 47 Euromoney AR2017 Governance-Proof 6. indd 47 12 11 2017 11:48:26 AM Corporate Governance Report Continued Board meetings and attendance The Board meets six times each year at least every two months and there is frequent contact between meetings.
At least once ayear, the Companys Chairman meets the Non-Executive Directors without the other Executive Directors being present.
The Non-Executive Directors either meet together or individually with the Companys Senior Independent Director, in both cases without the Companys Chairman present, at least annually to appraise the Chairmans performance and on other occasions as necessary.
Non-Executive Directors are also encouraged to meet senior management in the business without the Executive Directors present inorder to have access to a range of views and perspectives on the Company and its operation.
The number of Board and Committee meetings and their attendance by each Director during the year was as follows: Nominations Audit Remuneration Director Board Committee Committee Committee Executive Directors 1 Andrew Rashbass 6 6 Colin Jones 6 6 Non-Executive Directors John Botts 6 6 1 1 4 4 8 8 4 The Viscount Rothermere 4 6 1 1 1 Sir Patrick Sergeant 4 6 2 David Pritchard 6 6 1 1 4 4 8 8 Andrew Ballingal 6 6 2 Tristan Hillgarth 6 6 1 1 4 4 4 Paul Zwillenberg 4 6 1 1 6 8 3 Imogen Joss 5 Kevin Beatty 5 Tim Collier 1 Resigned from Nominations Committee on 27 September 2017 4 Resigned from the Board on 21 November 2017 2 Appointed to Nominations Committee on 27 September 2017 5 Appointed to the Board on 21 November 2017 3 Appointed to Board on 10 November 2017 Board activities Risk management and internal control The key areas of Board activity in 2017 either directly at the received reports from the Risk Committee on the Groups Board or through its Committees were: significant and emerging risks and with the support of the Risk and Audit Committees, reviewed Strategy principal risks and the effectiveness of the systems of internal monitored the implementation of the strategy as presented control and risk management and discussed the Groups risk bytheCEO appetite for 2017 received regular reports from the CEO and Finance Director which contained updates on the Groups financial performance, Financial performance discussion of any proposed corporate transactions, changes in considered the financial performance of the business and senior management and progress against the Group strategy: approved the annual budget approved the buyback of shares from DMGT and the execution reviewed the key financial judgements, all financial results of a new relationship agreement with DMGT announcements and approved the Annual Report approved terms of external borrowing facilities considered and approved the Groups going concern and viability statements, and dividend policy for 2017 attended the Groups General Meeting in December 2016 at which shareholders approved the share buyback considered longer-term financial projections as part of its regular discussions on the Groups strategy and funding requirements and attended the Companys AGM in January 2017 approved a new, progressive dividend policy with an increase reviewed the Groups performance against budget and inthe dividend pay-out ratio from approximately 33% to reviewed management presentations approximately 40% Governance Significant transactions approved appointment of David Pritchard as Senior approved the terms of the Companys buyback of shares IndependentDirector fromDMGT approved the Nominations Committees recommendation to approved the cancellation of the Groups debt facility appoint new Non-Executive Directors withDMGT discussed the output of the Board independent evaluation approved the implementation of a new Group debt facility andagreed on areas of focus withHSBC, aswell as a revolving credit facility approved updated list of matters reserved to the Board approved the terms of a new relationship agreement with approved updated terms of reference for the Risk Committee DMGTfollowing DMGTs sell down of its shareholding and approved the scheduling of meetings of the as part of the strategy, to manage the Groups portfolio, NominationsCommittee and approved the acquisitions of RISI, BroadGroup and Layer123, andthe disposals of HedgeFund Intelligence, Euromoney received reports from the chairs of the Audit, Nominations Indices, II Intelligence, LatinFinance and shortly after the andRemuneration Committees financial year-end Adhesion and World Bulk Wine Annual Report and Accounts 2017 48 Euromoney AR2017 Governance-Proof 6. indd 48 12 11 2017 11:48:26 AM Governance The Board has established procedures to ensure effective Leadership and people internal control.
These have been in place throughout the year discussed succession planning, talent development and and up to the date of this report, are as follows: diversityacross management discussed employee reward schemes and The Board of Directors discussed the creation of a new Group Management Board The Board has overall responsibility for the Group and there is a including the Groups divisional and functional leaders formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the Board.
The Board: Monitoring and oversight Fair, balanced and understandable reviews and assesses the Groups principal risks and The Directors have responsibility for preparing the 2017 Annual uncertainties at least annually and has performed a robust Report and Accounts and for making certain confirmations assessment of those principal risks concerning it.
In accordance with the Code provision C. 1.1 the seeks assurance that effective control is being maintained Board confirms that, taken as a whole, the 2017 Annual Report through regular reports from divisional management, and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable and theRiskand Audit committees and various independent provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess monitoring functions the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
The Board reached this conclusion after receiving approves the annual budget after performing a review of key riskfactors.
Performance is monitored regularly by way of advice from the Audit Committee.
variances and key performance indicators to enable relevant action to be taken and forecasts are updated each quarter.
The Internal control and risk management Board considers longer-term financial projections as part of its See pages 34 to 38 for the Groups principal risks and regular discussions on the Groups strategy and funding mitigating actions requirements and approves proposals for investments and capital expenditure The Board as a whole is responsible for the oversight of risk, the beyond specified limits Groups system of internal control and reviewing its effectiveness.
The Company aims to manage rather than eliminate risk and Risk and Audit Committee can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance The Board has determined that having separate Audit and Risk against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has Committees, with specific terms of reference, is useful to provide implemented a continuing process for identifying, evaluating challenge and review across the range of businesses the and managing the material risks faced by the Group.
has delegated the day-to-day responsibility for internal controls and financial risk to the Audit Committee and for operational The terms of reference for the Risk Committee were revised and risk to the Risk Committee.
changes agreed at the Risk Committee meeting in March 2017 toensure greater focus on the management not just the The Directors completed a review of the effectiveness of the reporting of risk.
An example of this is the Risk Committees Groups system of risk management and internal controls active participation in directing risk reviews and mitigation covering all material controls, including financial, operational planning related to the changes in the asset management and compliance controls.
The majority of controls operated segment affecting some areas of the Group.
throughout the year, though some additional controls were implemented during the year.
The review did not identify any The Audit, Risk and Remuneration Committees are made of significant weaknesses or failings in the system of internal members who possess the requisite skills and experience to control and risk management.
The Company is taking action to allow each Committee to meet its obligation and to provide the address any weaknesses or failings identified during the course relevant assurance to the Board.
TheCommittees collaborate of the review.
with one another and each is attended by at least one member from the other Committees.
This ensures that matters ofmutual The controls to prevent an information security breach or interest raised in any of the three Committees are discussed in cyber-attack are regularly reviewed and where appropriate the others and actioned in the operating businesses.
Cyber and other information security risks are increasing and the mitigation of these risks continues to be Entity level controls afocus for the Risk Committee and the Board.
Each segment, division or function is responsible for managing risks and operating controls within their area.
Each division The diverse range of products and the many geographic confirms the operation of key controls including with markets that the Group operates in makes regular testing of management to central management annually.
The purpose business continuity plans a challenge.
The Group is committed ofthe assessment is to confirm the operation of a framework to improving its testing regime including rolling out and ofinternal controls, including anti-fraud controls, which are enhanced testing programme.
expected to be in place in each business unit.
They are intended to provide standards against which the control environments of the Groups business units can be monitored.
Anannual bribery and fraud risk assessment is completed at the same time, detailing risks and mitigating controls.
In each case, the central management team follows-up these submissions as appropriate.
Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 49 Euromoney AR2017 Governance-Proof 6. indd 49 12 11 2017 11:48:26 AM Corporate Governance Report Continued The Group Management Board meets monthly to discuss Diversity strategic, operational and financial issues.
The Groups tax, The Committee recognises that diversity is important for Board financing and foreign exchange positions are overseen by effectiveness.
The Company has recently announced the theTax and Treasury Committee.
Controls and procedures appointment of three new female independent Non-Executive overthe security of data and disaster recovery are periodically Directors.
Diversity including but not limited to gender diversity reviewed and are subject to internal audit.
Accounting controls will continue to be a consideration when contemplating the and procedures are regularly reviewed and communicated composition and refreshing of the Board as well as senior and throughout the Group.
Attention is paid to authorisation levels wider management.
As part of its review of the composition of and segregation of duties.
the Board in 2018, the diversity position will continue to be monitored in light of best practice.
The Groups gender diversity Internal audit information is set out in the Strategic Report on pages 24 and 25.
The Group has invested in its own internal audit department which is described on page 52.
The department works closely Audit Committee with the Companys Finance Director, the Chairman of the Audit The Audit Committee is responsible for oversight of the Groups Committee as well as the Groups General Counsel & Company financial reporting processes and the integrity of the financial Secretary.
It undertakes internal control reviews across the statements.
It scrutinises the work of the external auditor and Group and reports its findings to the Audit Committee.
any significant judgements made by management.
The Committee reports on its operations to the Board to enable the Viability statement Directors to determine the overall effectiveness of the Groups internal controls system.
See page 39 for the viability statement Committee members Nominations Committee David Pritchard Chairman of the Committee, independent The Nominations Committee is responsible for proposing John Botts candidates for appointment to the Board having regard to the Tristan Hillgarth independent balance of skills, structure and composition of the Board and 1 Tim Collier ensuring the appointees have sufficient time available to devote to the role.
1 Appointed as a member of the Committee on 21 November 2017 Committee members Stephen Daintith resigned from the Committee in April 2017.
All current members are Non-Executive Directors and have a high John Botts Chairman of the Committee 1 level of financial literacy.
Stephen Daintith and Tristan Hillgarth Tristan Hillgarth independent are chartered accountants and members of the ICAEW, and 2 Andrew Rashbass David Pritchard has considerable Audit Committee experience.
2 Sir Patrick Sergeant Stephen Daintith was not considered to be independent or a 3 The Viscount Rothermere Non-Executive Director, but was the designated member with 3 Paul Zwillenberg recent and relevant financial experience.
Tim Collier, DMGTs 1 David Pritchard independent CFO, who possesses the requisite experience joined the 4 Committee on 21November 2017.
Kevin Beatty 4 Tim Collier Responsibilities 1 Appointed as a member of the Committee on 27 September 2017 The Committee meets at least three times each financial year and is responsible for: 2 Resigned as a member of the Committee on 27 September 2017 3 Resigned as a member of the Committee on 21 November 2017 monitoring the integrity of the interim report, the Annual Report 4 Appointed as a member of the Committee on 21 November 2017 and Accounts and other related formal statements, reviewing accounting policies used and judgements applied Key activities reviewing the content of the Annual Report and Accounts and The Committee recommended the appointment of three advising the Board on whether, taken as a whole, it is fair, newindependent Non-Executive Directors to the Board.
The balanced and understandable and provides the information Committee carried out an extensive search using Egon Zehnder necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position which has no connection with the Company.
Although only one andperformance, business model and strategy formal meeting was required this year, informal discussions were considering the effectiveness of the Groups internal control held at other times during the year and the Committee has systems decided to schedule meetings at least three times each year.
considering the appointment or reappointment of the external auditor and reviewing their remuneration, both for audit and Focus for 2018 The key activities for the year ahead will be: non-audit monitoring and reviewing the external auditors independence the recruitment of a new Chairman and CFO and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process reviewing the composition of the Board and its Committees, monitoring and reviewing the resources and effectiveness of including diversity, to ensure that the right skills and experience internal audit to support the Groups strategy are represented and to reviewing the internal audit programme and receiving periodic improvethe Companys ability to comply with the requirements reports on its findings ofthe UK Corporate Governance Code in terms of its reviewing the whistle-blowing arrangements available to staff Committeememberships reviewing the Groups policy on the employment of former audit the recruitment of at least one additional Non-Executive Director staff and who can take on the role of Chairman of the Audit Committee during the year and reviewing the Groups policy on non-audit fees payable to the external auditor an increased emphasis on succession planning Annual Report and Accounts 2017 50 Euromoney AR2017 Governance-Proof 6. indd 50 12 11 2017 11:48:26 AM Governance reviewing and discussing internal audit reports and Key activities investigations, and monitoring the resolution of issues raised and The Committee met four times and in addition met with the representatives from internal and external audit after each appointing a new in-house Head of Internal Audit meeting without executives present.
The Chairman of the Committee also held separate private meetings during the There was no interaction with the Financial Reporting Council yearwith the external auditor, representatives from internal FRC corporate reporting team during the year.
audit and the Finance Director and his team.
The key activitiesincluded: Looking ahead, the additional topics in 2018 will be to support the transition of the new CFO, evaluate the Groups roll-out identifying and assessing the matters which required significant ofnew financial systems and associated processes, and to judgement in 2017, including discussion and review of the increase the Committees direct interaction with finance staff exceptional items that may impact the performance of the across the Group to widen and deepen its knowledge of business people, processes and systems.
The Committee will continue towork closely with the Head of Internal Audit to monitor advising the Board on whether the Annual Report was fair, balanced and understandable theresources and effectiveness of the in-house internal auditdepartment.
reviewing the Groups system of internal control and risk management, including managements launch of a finance transformation project to improve quality and efficiency of financial reporting and tightening financial controls and processes Financial reporting and significant financial judgements The Committee, with input from the external auditor, assessed whether suitable accounting policies had been adopted, whether management had made appropriate estimates and judgements and whether disclosures were balanced and fair.
For the year ended 30 September 2017 the Committee reviewed the following main issues: Issue Review Fair, balanced and understandable At the request of the Board, the Committee Following the Committees review of the accounts and after applying its hasconsidered whether, in its opinion the 2017 knowledge of matters raised during the year, the Committee is satisfied Annual Report and Accounts is fair, balanced that, taken as a whole, the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts is fair, andunderstandable.
Presentation of adjusted and underlying performance Presentation of the adjusted and underlying The Committee reviewed the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts performance and adjusting items, including anddiscussed with management and the external auditor the identification and treatment of exceptional items.
appropriateness of the adjusted items including consideration of their Management considered the latest ESMA consistency and the avoidance of any misleading effect on the financial guidelines on alternative performance measures to statements.
TheCommittee challenged management to ensure that each ensure thatthe Annual Report and Accounts had item isappropriate to classify as an exceptional item.
The Committee beenupdated in line with best practice.
concluded that the presentation of the adjusted and underlying performance including discontinued operations is appropriate.
Goodwill and other intangibles The Group has goodwill of 400m and other The Committee has considered the assessments made in relation to the intangible assets of 194m.
As a result of the impairment of goodwill.
The Committee discussed the methodology impairment review at the half-year, the Group andassumptions used in the model supporting the carrying value.
The recognised an impairment charge for NDR Committee reviewed those businesses where headroom has decreased of27.4m.
or where management has identified impairments.
The Committee has also understood the sensitivity analysis used by management in its A sensitivity analysis for NDR has been included as review and disclosure of impairment.
further disclosures are required under IAS 36 if any reasonably possible change to a key assumption would cause the cash generating units carrying amount to exceed its recoverable amount.
Investments The Group holds material balances relating to The Committee reviewed the assessments made in relation to the investments in associates and available for sale Dealogic, Zanbato and Estimize for potential impairments at the half amounting to 30.4m.
As a result of the impairment year and year end.
The Committee is satisfied with the carrying value review at year-end, the Group recognised an recognised for Dealogic and that no impairment is required.
Committee recognised that Zanbato and Estimize businesses are still in start-up phase but based on progress to date the Committee agreed with management that an impairment at year-end of the investment in Estimize was appropriate.
The Committee also reviewed the Board presentation of Zanbato and the Groups further investment in convertible securities and concluded that no impairment was required at year-end.
Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 51 Euromoney AR2017 Governance-Proof 6. indd 51 12 11 2017 11:48:26 AM Corporate Governance Report Continued Issue Review Accounting for acquisitions and disposals The Group made a number of acquisitions and The Committee has reviewed the results of the work undertaken in this disposals during the year.
There were a number area, the disclosure in the financial statements and has sought further ofconsequential accounting considerations, explanation where necessary.
The Committee reviewed the inputs and including identification and fair values of assumptions into the calculation of the acquisition commitments liability intangible assets, fair value of other assets, at year-end.
goodwill arising, and gain on sale of disposal recognised.
The Group also has acquisition commitments on previous acquisitions.
Discontinued operations and assets held-for sale The Group announced in September 2017 its The Committee has reviewed managements assumptions in intention to explore strategic options for its Global accordance with the requirements of IFRS 5 and agree with the Markets Intelligence Division CEIC and EMIS.
classification as assets held-for-sale and discontinued operations in the Management has classified the assets of 45.3m Income Statement at 30 September 2017.
The Committee has reviewed and liabilities of 23.0m as held-for-sale at the disclosure and restated comparatives, including the presentation of 30September 2017 in accordance with IFRS 5. adjusted performance to include discontinued operations.
Sincethe businesses constitute a single division and twoindependent cash generating units andcontribute 11% to the Groups adjusted operating profit they have also been classified as discontinued operations in the Income Statement at 30 September 2017 with restated comparatives.
Taxation Taxation represents a significant cost to the Group The Committee reviewed the tax charge at the half year and full year, in both cash and accounting terms, and the Group including the underlying tax effect, deferred tax balances and the is exposed to differing tax regimes and risks which provision for uncertain tax positions for direct and indirect tax.
The affect both the carrying values of tax balances Committee also reviewed managements disclosure of tax-related including deferred tax and the resultant Income matters in the Annual Report and Accounts, including uncertain tax Statement charges.
The Committee requested matters in note 2 to the financial statements.
The Chairman also attends thirdparty advice to support its assessment of Tax and Treasury Committee meetings which provides valuable insight challenges by HMRC and the Canadian Revenue into the tax matters, related provisions and helps establish the Authority.
The Group is also exposed to similar risks appropriateness ofthe recognition of the deferred tax balances.
The Committee is satisfied that all issues have been addressed appropriately and in accordance with the relevant accounting standards and principles.
The internal audit plan follows a risk-based approach and Effectiveness of internal control systems isapproved annually by the Committee.
The plan takes into The Committee has responsibility for reviewing the process consideration the principal risks of the Group, previous foridentifying and managing risk and for reviewing internal internalaudit findings, results of management self-assessments controls.
It reviews reports on internal controls including reports and significant strategic Group projects such as the finance by the Risk Committee, Finance Director and the results from transformation project.
Internal audit also collaborate with the internal audits and any investigations performed.
In addition the external auditors to ensure an appropriate breadth of audit Committee reviews theexternal auditors assessment of the coverage is obtained.
Groups minimum financial controls framework.
The Head of Internal Audit is responsible for updating the Internal audit Committee on progress against the plan and any changes to Following DMGT ceasing to be a majority shareholder, a theplan are approved by the Committee.
At every meeting, newHead of Internal Audit was appointed to manage the asummary of work performed, key findings, and progress of Groups new in-house internal audit function from 1 April 2017. management action plans are presented to the Committee Thefunction isresponsible for providing independent which assists the annual internal audit effectiveness review assuranceto management and the Committee on the design performed by the Committee.
and effectiveness of internal controls to mitigate financial, operational and compliance risks.
The purpose, authority and In order to deliver the plan and any additional work, such responsibility of Internal Audit are defined in the Internal Audit asfraud investigations, internal audit makes use of external Charter which is reviewed on an annual basis by the Committee.
resources to supplement in-house expertise.
The Committee The Head of Internal Audit reports directly to the Chair of review internal audit resource requirements at every meeting theAudit Committee.
and the use of external support is considered a practical way toscale up the resources of the function when required.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 52 Euromoney AR2017 Governance-Proof 6. indd 52 12 11 2017 11:48:26 AM Governance External auditor Responsibilities  LLP PwC were appointed by The Committee is responsible for review and consideration of: shareholders as the Groups statutory auditor in 2015 following aformal tender process.
The lead audit partner, Giles Hannam, the risks which the Committee believes are those most has held the position for three years.
The external audit contract pertinentto the Group and its subsidiaries including emerging will be put out to tender at least every ten years.
The Company orpotential future risks and their likely impact on the Group has complied with the Statutory Audit Services for Large the impact of those risks and proposed remedial actions Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive whereappropriate Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 for the Group risk register and risk registers from each operating the financial year under review.
business including the applicable controls and reports on any material risk incidents and the adequacy of As part of its role in ensuring effectiveness, the Committee proposed action including managements responsiveness to reviewed PwCs audit plan to ensure its appropriateness for thefindings theGroup and has completed a review which focussed on the effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the external The Committee is responsible for review of the Groups overall audit.
The assessment of effectiveness is based on a framework risk assessment approach and methodology, including: setting out the key areas of the audit process for the Committee to consider, as well as the role that management has the Groups capability to identify and manage new risk types contributed to an effective process.
Results from tailored questionnaires sent to the Finance Director, Deputy Finance the Groups procedures for detecting fraud and for the Director, and Divisional Finance Directors and PwCs client prevention of bribery satisfaction survey were discussed by the Committee and no the adequacy and security of the Groups speak-up significant issues were raised by the assessment.
PwC confirmed arrangements and to the Committee that they maintained appropriate internal the principal risks and uncertainties disclosure and other relevant safeguards to ensure their independence and objectivity.
risk management disclosures for inclusion in the annual report TheCommittee recommends the reappointment of PwC at the2018 AGM.
The Committee also advises the Board on current risk exposures of the Group, future risk mitigation strategies and the overall risk Non-audit work appetite and tolerance.
The Committee completes an annual assessment of the type of non-audit work permissible and a maximum level of non-audit Key activities fees acceptable.
Any non-audit work performed outside this The Committee meets four times a year and this year met four remit is assessed and where appropriate approved by the times.
The activities during the year included: Committee.
Fees paid to PwC for audit services, audit-related services and other non-audit services are set out in note 5. reviewing the Groups risk management processes and the During 2017, PwC did not provide significant non-audit services.
Grouprisk register The Groups non-audit fee policy was updated in 2016 to ensure reviewing the Groups principal risks to align with the new strategy compliance with the FRCs Ethical Standard for Auditors.
assessment of the Groups cyber risk and information security governance and Risk committee assessment of the management of operational risk by the The Risk Committee oversees the Groups risk management Groupsdivisions processes and considers the Group risk register biannually.
Itreviews specific risks and monitors developments in relevant Looking ahead, the Risk Committee will continue to monitor key legislation and regulation, assessing the impact on the Group.
risks affecting operating businesses and the Group.
Key areas The Committee reports on its operations to the Board to enable will continue to include information security, data protection the Directors to determine the overall effectiveness of the including the new EU General Data Protection Regulation and Groups risk management.
Committee members Andrew Rashbass CEO Chairman of the Committee Relations with shareholders Christopher Fordham MD, Corporate Development The Companys Chairman, together with the Board, encourages Tim Bratton General Counsel & Company Secretary regular dialogue with shareholders.
Meetings with shareholders Colin Jones Finance Director are held, with the CEO, Finance Director and Chairman, to Andrew Pieri Chief Information Officer discuss annual and interim results and highlight significant Toby Smith Head of Risk acquisitions or disposals, or at the request of institutional shareholders.
Shareholders have the opportunity to participate in the AGM.
In line with bestpractice, all shareholders have at least 20 working days notice of the AGM at which the Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors and Committee chairs are available for questioning.
The Companys CEO, and Finance Director report tofellow Board members matters raised by shareholders andanalysts to ensure members of the Board develop an understanding of investors and potential investors views ofthe Company.
All Board members receive analysts reports about the Company to provide additional insight into how the market perceives the Company.
Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 53 Euromoney AR2017 Governance-Proof 6. indd 53 12 11 2017 11:48:27 AM
