British Empire Trust plc 75 Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Investment Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The Audit Committee met four times during the year.
In May, the Significant Issues Committee reviewed the Half Year Report for the period to 31 March In planning its own work, and reviewing the audit plan of the Auditor, the 2017 and recommended its approval to the Board.
In September, the Audit Committee takes account of the most significant issues and risks, Committee considered its terms of reference and reviewed the controls both operational and financial, likely to impact on the Companys financial reports issued by the Companys outsourced service providers, including statements.
those issued by the Companys Depositary, Custodian and Investment Manager.
The Depositary and Custodian also attended the meeting to The valuation of the investment portfolio is a significant risk factor.
explain in more detail the operations that they perform on behalf of the However, 97% of the portfolio can be verified against daily market prices Company and to answer questions from members of the Committee.
The and observable price movements.
The remaining 3% uses methodologies external Auditors plan for their audit of the year end financial statements based on observable inputs.
In November, the Committee reviewed the year end financial statements and discussed the findings of the external A further significant risk control issue is to ensure that the investment audit with KPMG.
More details are provided below.
portfolio accounted for in the financial statements reflects physical ownership of the relevant securities.
The Company uses the services Role of the Audit Committee of an independent Custodian JPMorgan Chase Bank, NA to hold the The Audit Committees main functions are: assets of the Company.
The investment portfolio is reconciled regularly To monitor the internal financial control and risk management systems by the Administrator to the Custodians records, and that reconciliation on which the Company is reliant.
is also reviewed by the Auditor.
The systems and controls operated To consider whether there is a need for the Company to have its own by the Custodian are also monitored by the Depositary.
The Company internal audit function.
has also appointed a Depositary J. P. Morgan Europe Limited, whose To monitor the integrity of the half year and annual financial statements responsibilities include oversight of the safekeeping of the Companys of the Company by reviewing and challenging, where necessary, assets.
The Audit Committee meets with the Depositary annually, the actions and judgements of the Investment Manager and the principally in order to review the work of the Depositary during the year, but Administrator.
also to consider the effectiveness of the internal controls at the Custodian.
To meet the independent Auditor of the Company to review their proposed audit programme of work and the subsequent Audit Report Financial statements issued by the Company need to be fair, balanced and to assess the effectiveness of the audit process, the nature of the and understandable.
The Audit Committee reviews the Annual Report non-audit work and the levels of fees paid in respect of both audit and as a whole and makes recommendations to the Board.
is aware that several sections of the Annual Accounts are not subject To make recommendations to the Board in relation to the to formal statutory audit, including the Strategic Report and Investment appointment, re-appointment or removal of the Auditor, and to Managers Review.
The checking process for the financial information in negotiate their remuneration and terms of engagement on audit and these sections is considered by the Audit Committee, and by the Auditor.
To monitor and review annually the external Auditors independence, The Companys Half Year Report is approved by the Audit Committee prior objectivity, effectiveness, resources and qualifications.
to publication, and is also reviewed by the Auditor.
The Audit Committee meets at least twice each year.
It operates within The Audit Committee assesses annually whether it is appropriate to defined terms of reference, which were reviewed and updated during the prepare the Companys financial statements on a going concern basis, year to reflect the latest guidance from the FRC.
The terms of reference are and makes its recommendation to the Board.
The Boards conclusions are available on the Companys website.
set out in the Report of the Directors.
Composition of Audit Committee The Audit Committees remit includes consideration of a statement by the The Audit Committee comprises the whole Board, being independent Directors on the long-term viability of the Company.
That statement can be Directors.
All members of the Committee have recent and relevant financial found on pages 48 and 49. experience and two are Chartered Accountants.
As explained below, the Audit Committee considers carefully the internal During the year the Board requested a third party to undertake control systems.
The Company relies heavily on third-party suppliers.
The an evaluation of the Audit Committee as part of the wider evaluation Audit Committee continues to monitor the services and control levels of of the Board.
There were no significant findings arising from the review.
During 2017, the Audit Committee again paid particular A small number of enhancements were made to the Audit Committee attention to the developing threat of cyber crime, and reports from the programme as a result of recommendations made, particularly in relation Companys suppliers were requested and reviewed.
No significant to the Committees review of third-party service providers controls over issues were identified.
The Audit Committee Chair met separately cyber security.
with a representative of the Custodians and Depositarys technology departments to understand the controls that they have in place to mitigate the threat of cyber crime.
76 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The Committee reviewed special dividends received to determine The following are the key components which the Company has in place to their allocation to the revenue or capital account in the Statement of provide effective internal control: Comprehensive Income.
The Board has agreed clearly defined investment criteria, which specify levels of authority and exposure limits.
Reports on compliance with Given the nature of the Companys investments, substantial funds these criteria are regularly reviewed by the Board.
can be received from corporate actions at investee companies.
The The Board has a procedure to ensure that the Company can continue implementation of the corporate actions can be complex and challenging.
to be approved as an investment company by complying with sections The Committee reviews such corporate actions, and takes advice where 1158 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010. necessary.
The Investment Manager and Administrator prepare forecasts and management accounts which allow the Board to assess the The Company suffers withholding tax on many of its dividends received, Companys activities and review its performance.
some of which is irrecoverable.
The Audit Committee aims to ensure that The contractual agreements with the Investment Manager and other any recoverable withholding tax is received in a timely manner.
However, third-party service providers, and adherence to them, are regularly such recovery can be difficult in some jurisdictions, and the Company has reviewed.
incurred professional service fees in this area.
In particular, in recent years, The services and controls at the Investment Manager and at other we have sought, with the assistance of Ernst and Young LLP EY, to third-party suppliers are reviewed at least annually.
The Audit recover some significant French withholding tax.
This led to the recovery, Committee receives and reviews assurance reports on the controls during 2016 2017 of 540,000 of withholding tax plus 29,000 of interest.
of the Custodian and Administrator undertaken by professional service providers.
The Audit Committee requested that EY review the Companys withholding The Audit Committee seeks to ensure that the Company is recovering tax recovery more generally.
Though there were no material issues arising withholding tax on overseas dividends to the fullest extent possible.
from the review, it was noted that there was potential to make claims The Investment Managers Compliance Officer continually reviews in respect of certain EU companies, and the Company subsequently the Investment Managers operations.
The Investment Manager also employed a consultant to examine the possibility of making further claims.
Compliance reports are submitted The Committee challenged the Custodian on its efficacy of making claims to the Committee at least annually.
for recovery and requested the Depositary to monitor progress closely.
Internal control systems are designed to meet the Companys particular The Audit Committee also considered the reports and controls required needs and the risks to which it is exposed.
They do not eliminate the risk of relating to the fixed-term debt assumed by the Company during the year.
failure to achieve business objectives and, by their nature, can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against mis-statement or loss.
Internal Controls The Board, through the Audit Committee, is responsible for ensuring As the Company has no employees, it does not have a whistleblowing that suitable internal control systems to prevent and detect fraud and policy and procedure in place.
The Company delegates its main functions error are designed and implemented by the third-party service providers to third-party providers, each of whom report on their policies and to the Company and is also responsible for reviewing the effectiveness procedures to the Audit Committee.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by the The Audit Committee believes that the Company does not require an Company in line with the FRCs Guidance on Risk Management, Internal internal audit function, principally because the Company delegates its dayControl and Related Financial and Business Reporting published in to-day operations to third parties, which are monitored by the Committee, September 2014 and the FRCs Guidance on Audit Committees published and which provide control reports on their operations at least annually.
This process has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of this report, and accords with the guidance.
In particular, it has reviewed and updated the process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks affecting the Company and policies by which these risks are managed.
The risks of any failure of such controls are identified in a Risk Matrix and a schedule of Key Risks, which are regularly reviewed by the Board and which identify the likelihood and severity of the impact of such risks and the controls in place to minimise the probability of such risks occurring.
The principal risks identified by the Board are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 10 and 11.
British Empire Trust plc 77 Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Investment Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information External Audit Process The Audit Committee is satisfied that KPMG remains independent.
The Audit Committee meets at least twice a year with the Auditor.
The Audit Committee confirms that the non-audit work undertaken by The Auditor provides a planning report in advance of the annual audit, the Companys Auditor satisfies, and does not compromise, the tests a report on the annual audit, and a report on their review of the half year of the Auditors independence, objectivity, effectiveness, resources and financial statements.
The Audit Committee has an opportunity to question qualification.
Given the assurance nature of the fees the cost of these and challenge the Auditor in respect of each of these reports.
services are considered by the Audit Committee to be proportionate in relation to the fees for audit services.
In addition, the Audit Committee Chairman discusses the audit plan and results of the audit with the external Auditor prior to the relevant Audit Audit Tender Committee meeting.
The audit was put out to competitive tender in 2016, following which KPMG were appointed as the Companys Auditor in respect of the financial In addition, at least once a year, the Audit Committee has an opportunity year ended 30 September 2017.
In accordance with the CMA Order, a to discuss any aspect of the Auditors work with the Auditor in the absence competitive audit tender must be carried out at least every ten years.
The of the Investment Manager.
Company is therefore required to carry out a tender no later than in respect of the financial year ending 30 September 2027.
After each audit, the Audit Committee reviews the audit process and considers its effectiveness.
The review of the 2017 audit concluded that CMA Order the audit process had worked well, and that the significant issues had British Empire has complied throughout the year ended 30 September been adequately addressed.
2017 with the provisions of the Statutory Audit Services Order 2014, issued by the Competition and Markets Authority CMA Order.
Auditor Assessment and Independence The Audit Committee has reviewed KPMGs independence policies and CM Thomson procedures including quality assurance procedures.
It was considered Audit Committee Chairman that those policies and procedures remained fit for purpose.
10 November 2017 Fees Payable to the Auditor Total fees payable to the Auditor were 33,000 2016: 67,000 paid to EY.
Of the total fees, the fees for audit services were 25,000 2016: 29,000 paid to EY.
The Audit Committee has approved and implemented a policy on the engagement of the Auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into account the recommendations of the FRC, and does not believe there to be any impediment to the Auditors objectivity and independence.
All non-audit work to be carried out by the Auditor must be approved by the Audit Committee in advance.
The cost of non-audit services provided by the Auditor for the financial year ended 30 September 2017 was 8,000 2016: 38,000 paid to EY.
This comprised: 6,000 in relation to the half year review and 2,000 in relation to review reports and filings required in respect of the Debenture and fixed-term debt.
The Auditor is no longer providing services in respect of tax compliance or iXBRL tagging.
These non-audit services are assurance related, and the Audit Committee firmly believes that KPMG have been best placed to provide them on a cost effective basis to the benefit of shareholders.
The fees for non-audit services are considered not material in the context of the accounts as a whole.
