Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Additional Information Corporate Governance Report 1.
Leadership GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK The Board Principal Committees Audit, Nomination, Remuneration Management Matters Reserved Supporting Roles and Committees for the Board Committees Responsibilities PLC Exec, Committee terms of reference Risk & Compliance, Marstons Beer Business Continuity, Company Assurance Data Security, Implementation Divisional Board, Internal controls, Corporate Responsibility Making Marstons ofStrategy Disclosure Committee Auditing, The Place to Be Monitoring Legal and regulatory performance compliance Enterprisewide risk management Ways of Working The Board is collectively responsible to BOARD COMPOSITION shareholders for the long-term success THE SCHEDULE OF Our Board currently comprises eight of the Group.
In addition to the Chairman Roger MATTERS RESERVED allows the Group to operate within a Devlin, there are five Non-executive Directors set of prudent and effective controls by FOR THE BOARD and two Executive Directors.
As previously establishing roles and responsibilities, announced, Nick Backhouse will retire from Main matters relate to: strategy, major accountabilities and risk management the Board at the conclusion of the 2018 capital expenditure, acquisitions processes thereby enabling the sustainable AGM.
He will be succeeded as Chairman of and disposals, capital structure and delivery of our strategic objectives.
the Audit Committee by Matthew Roberts.
financial results, internal controls, The principal decision-making body within When considering the need to appoint a governance and risk management, the Group is the Board and the schedule of new Director, the Nomination Committee committee membership and terms of matters reserved to the Board sets out the considers the balance of skills, knowledge reference.
The schedule, last reviewed extent of their responsibilities.
This schedule and experience on the Board to ensure it in September 2017, is available on the is reviewed annually.
Certain roles and remains relevant, appropriate and effective.
responsibilities have been delegated by the Board to its principal Committees, with the We consider all of our Non-executive The Management Committees meet on a Chairman of each Committee reporting to Directors NEDs to be independent and the regular basis to oversee the implementation the Board on decisions and actions taken.
charts below portray the balance and tenure of strategy and monitor performance.
The Terms of Reference for each Committee of the Board as at the date of this report.
The Supporting Committees provide are reviewed annually by the Board to ensure assurance to the Board on the operation of they remain fit for purpose and comply with internal controls, auditing and compliance the provisions of the Code.
with legal and other regulatory obligations.
This framework is supported and enabled by the risk management process see page 22 and our Ways of Working see page 12.
Balance between Executive and Male female representation on Tenure of Chairman and Non-executive Directors the Board Non-executive Directors Chairman 1 Male 6 03 years 1 Non-executive 5 Female 2 36 years 4 Executive 2 6 years 1 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 41
