Report of the Nomination Committee 56 During 2017, a number of important changes Dear Shareholders, have been made to the membership and The report below describes the main responsibilities of the Executive Committee, responsibilities of the Nomination Committee full details of which can be found on page 44 and how it achieved these in 2017.
The Nomination Committee like to draw your attention to what we achieved has overseen the changes made and reviewed in 2017 and what we will focus onin 2018. the long-term succession planning for the The Board is responsible for succession generally, members of the Executive Committee and but the Nomination Committee will advise keymanagerial promotions during the year.
the Board on appropriate succession planning I am pleased to report that the feedback from in the year ahead.
TheNomination Committee Committee Chairman the Board effectiveness evaluation process which reviewed the composition of the Board in David Howell you can read about on page 48 provided light of James Van Steenkistes resignation on confirmation that the Board, and the Board 5 June 2017.
They concluded that the Board Other members Committees, continues to operate effectively.
retained an appropriate mix of experience Amanda Burton and skills andthat no additional appointments Sally Morgan were necessary.
From 5 June 2017, the Board Federico Canciani David Howell andits Committees have been compliant with Richard Adam Chairman of the Nomination theCode.
The Nomination Committee willalso Committee Meetings held lead the search for a replacement for Richard 21 November 2017 Adam.
Role and responsibilities of the Nomination Committee Review of Board composition While no new appointments were made in the Determining the structure, size and financial year to 30 September 2017, there is The Nomination Committee leads the process composition of the Board arigorous and transparent procedure for for all Board appointments and is responsible appointments to the Board andits Committees, Making recommendations in relation for reviewing candidates and making a final involving undertaking an assessment of the skills to the re-election of Directors retiring recommendation to the Board, in compliance and capabilities required, drafting a description byrotation with the Code.
The Nomination Committee of the role, and carrying out an assessment of also reviews the structure, size and membership Conducting performance evaluations potential candidates, before making a of the Board itself, as well as Board Committees ofDirectors recommendation to the Board.
from time to time, to ensure an appropriate The Nomination Committees terms of mix of experience and skill, and orderly succession reference are located on Countrysides Annual evaluation of Nomination as required.
During 2017, thecomposition of website at: the Nomination Committee complied with the Committee performance investors.
com Code, comprising a majority of independent As part of the overall Board evaluation process, corporate-governance.
the Nomination Committee reviewed its effectiveness during 2017.
This evaluation The Nomination Committee recognises that Areas of focus in 2017 considered areas such as adherence to its terms diversity, in all its dimensions, across an organisation, of reference and whether it was operating Reviewing the balance of skills, knowledge including at Board level, is important to support effectively to keep under review the leadership and diversity of experience of the Board, innovation, strategic development and operational needs of the Company.
No significant issues in light of the resignation of James Van efficiency.
The Nomination Committee were raised and the Nomination Committee Steenkiste on 5 June 2017 willconsider candidates for appointment as concluded that it continues to operate effectively.
Non-Executive Directors from a wider pool, Ensuring that plans are in place for including those with limited or no listed Details of the Nomination Committees meetings orderly succession for appointments to company experience.
It is not the Boards during the 2017 financial year are set out below.
the Board and senior management, to policy to have specific voluntary targets, but it retain an appropriate balance of skills and will continue to recruit Board members based experience within Countryside and on on skills and experience, having regard to the the Board Committee attendance requirements of the Code in respect of diversity, The number of Nomination Committee Leading the process for the replacement including gender.
meetings attended by each member during of Richard Adam The Nomination Committee meets at least the 2017 financial year is as follows: Oversight of changes to the Executive once a year.
During 2017 it met twice, to agree Nomination Overall Committee during 2017 a succession plan strategy for the Directors, to Committee attendance agree changes to the membership, composition and responsibilities of the Executive Committee Number of meetings held 2 and to review the findings of the 2017 Board and Committee evaluation.
David Howell 2 2 100% Richard Adam 2 2 100% Amanda Burton 2 2 100% Federico Canciani 2 2 100% Sally Morgan 2 2 100% Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017
