Nomination Committee Report ATTENDEES MEMBERSHIP Other Executive Directors, senior Roger Devlin Chairman management and external advisers may be invited to attend meetings.
Ralph Findlay Roger Devlin Nick Backhouse TERMS OF REFERENCE Chairman of the Carolyn Bradley Full terms of reference of the Committee Nomination Committee can be found in the Investors section of Catherine Glickman the Companys website.
Neil Goulden until 24 January 2017 DEAR SHAREHOLDER KEY ACTIVITIES DURING Robin Rowland This year has seen some changes to THE REPORTING YEAR the Board.
As a consequence of the Matthew Roberts from 20 July 2017 Ensuring that succession planning is restructuring of our pub operations, Peter aligned with the ongoing leadership Dalzell left the Board and, as previously OUR RESPONSIBILITIES requirements of the business.
disclosed, Nick Backhouse our Audit Ensure the Board and its Committees Refreshment of committees and Committee Chairman, will retire from have the right balance of skills, appointment of Audit Committee the Board with effect from the AGM in knowledge and experience.
Chairman following the retirement of January 2018.
At its November meeting, Nick Backhouse.
the Nomination Committee considered the To plan for the orderly succession key roles affected by this and, as previously of Directors to the Board and other Reviewing the contribution and tenure announced, Matthew Roberts will assume senior managers.
of each Director before recommending the role of Chairman of the Audit Committee for re-election by shareholders.
To identify and nominate suitable following Nicks retirement.
Carolyn Bradley candidates for Executive and NonConsidering future succession planning will join the Audit Committee from the executive Director vacancies having for the Board.
regard to, amongst other factors, the benefits of diversity, including The Nomination Committee has considered gender diversity.
the skills and experience required to support the Board and Group in the context of strategy, the current climate and longerterm succession planning.
As a result the Committee has recommended and the RE-ELECTION AND CHANGES IN EXECUTIVE Board has accepted that no additional EVALUATION MANAGEMENT Directors are required at this stage.
In the interests of future refreshment and The Committee considered the time required As previously mentioned, Peter Dalzell left succession planning, the Committee will from each Non-executive Director, their the business at the end of the year as a however continue to have regard to suitable effectiveness and the experience brought to result of an internal restructuring.
The Board candidates for future appointments.
Noting that Nick Backhouse will has noted its appreciation to Peter for his 22 be retiring from the Board in January 2018, years of service to the Group.
The Committee I believe that the tenure of the remaining has considered whether a Board containing DIVERSITY POLICY Board members provides the right balance, two Executive Directors is appropriate and Our approach to diversity is unchanged: together with their broad range of skills and suffcient.
The rationale for the restructuring we continue to take note of the guidance relevant experience.
was to create a leaner structure with more provided and we require any search agency agility and greater pace by removing a In accordance with our terms of reference, that we engage to have signed up to their management layer.
To ensure good visibility the Committee has also considered its own industrys Voluntary Code of Conduct into operations and accountability for effectiveness during the year.
This allows addressing gender diversity.
We will continue performance, non-Board members will be the Committee to formally review the way to make appointments on the basis of merit invited to attend Board meetings from time we work and whether our strategy for and, as such, have not set a specifc target to time.
On this basis and in view of the discharging our duties remains appropriate.
for numbers of female Directors.
However, current economic climate the Committee The Committee is satisfed that it continues we do recognise the benefts that greater is currently satisfed that the Board will to perform its duties in accordance with its diversity can bring and take into account continue to effectively discharge its duties terms of reference.
such factors when considering any particular with two rather than three Executive appointment.
Currently, two of Marstons Directors.
The Committee will keep this Having discussed the personal effectiveness eight Board Directors are female.
and commitment with each Director in individual meetings, I have concluded that the performance of each Board member Roger Devlin continues to be effective and I therefore recommend to you the re-election of each Chairman of the Nomination Committee Director standing for re-election at the 2018 AGM.
48 | Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Additional Information DEVELOPING THE details of our governance arrangements and 3.
NON-EXECUTIVE TEAM We want Marstons to be the place for longAll shareholders have the opportunity to Senior Independent Director term investors who support our strategy.
communicate directly with the Board of In January, Carolyn Bradley took over as Engagement with our shareholders is Directors at the Companys AGM.
Prior to Senior Independent Director from Neil essential, supporting their understanding the formal business of the AGM the CEO Goulden when he retired from the Board.
and confdence in the development and presents an update on recent trading During the remainder of this year, Carolyn implementation of the medium and longerperformance and developments in the has met with advisers to better understand term strategy of the Group.
Shareholders are able to ask the key areas of focus for our major The investor relations programme focuses questions during the meeting, followed by stakeholders.
After the announcement of on institutional shareholders, fund an opportunity to meet with the Directors our results, Roger Devlin and Carolyn will managers and analysts and is managed by on an informal basis.
All of our Directors arrange meetings with our top investors the Executive Directors.
The CEO and CFO attend the AGM and the Chairman of the to gain direct insight and feedback on meet with private client fund managers Board and each Committee are available to the Group.
Carolyn brings to the role her on a quarterly basis to discuss strategy, answer shareholder questions during the experiences gained from her time at Tesco performance, management and governance, formal business of the meeting.
The senior as well as her other Non-Executive roles.
within the constraints of information which is management team also attend and meet Separately, Carolyn has met with Deloitte, already publicly available.
with shareholders before and after the remuneration advisers to the Remuneration meeting thus providing an opportunity for Committee, as part of her induction in The key topics discussed with investors each a deeper engagement.
The voting on all becoming a member of that Committee.
year are: resolutions at the AGM is conducted by way Remuneration Committee Chairman Current market conditions and of a poll.
This is to allow all shareholders Also in January, Catherine Glickman consumer behaviour.
who are present in person, by proxy or assumed the role of Remuneration unable to attend, to vote on all resolutions A review of the pub and beer strategy, Committee Chairman.
With her extensive in proportion to their shareholding.
experience in human resources at Genus The Company releases the results of voting, and Tesco, Catherine has the right skillset A review of performance in the year.
including proxy votes on each resolution, to succeed Neil Goulden.
During the year, on its website on the next business day Understanding the cost outlook.
Catherine has spent time with the Group at www.
co. uk investors and Secretary, Group People Director and announces them through a Regulatory News A review of financing and covenants.
Deloitte to understand the Groups approach Service.
Details of the 2018 AGM are set out This year, there was an additional discussion to remuneration as well as matters currently in the separate Notice of Meeting.
of the rationale behind the CWBB acquisition subject to consultation and external and the equity fnancing of the transaction.
factors relevant to a group of our size and complexity.
Catherine works closely with Formal written feedback from analysts and the Group People Director and Company institutional shareholders is received twice Secretariat to drive the Committee agenda each year following meetings with the CEO and ensure decisions are relevant and Analysis of shareholder register and CFO and this is reviewed by the Board appropriate for the Group.
by investor type to ensure that shareholder views and any issues of concern are heard by all Directors.
Audit Committee Chairman The Chairman and Senior Independent and membership Director make themselves available for The Committee considered the composition meetings with the Companys major and chairmanship of the Audit Committee institutional investors each year but none for when Nick Backhouse steps down from were taken up this year.
the Board at the conclusion of the AGM in January 2018.
Matthew Roberts is a The Group Secretary oversees Chartered Accountant and current CFO at communication with private individual Intu Properties Plc, and as such has strong shareholders on behalf of the Board.
current and relevant fnancial experience The investor section of the Marstons website that leaves him well placed to take over is the key source of information available as Chairman of the Audit Committee after to all shareholders and provides share the AGM.
Although Matthew only joined price information, results presentations % the Board in March, he has already made and announcements, fnancial calendars Private client fund managers 29.41 a valuable contribution to the role of the and general information on the business.
To ensure that the The Annual Report and Accounts is the Institutional investors 59.42 Audit Committee remains compliant with main communication tool providing a the Code, Carolyn Bradley will become a comprehensive review of the business, member following the AGM.
Shareholder engagement summary: key communication channels Institutional shareholders and analysts Private client fund managers Private shareholders Rolling investor relations programme.
Quarterly meetings with CEO and CFO.
AGM with full Board and senior management present.
Annual Report and Accounts and website.
Chairman and Senior Independent Director available to meet with our Group Secretary oversees communication largest shareholders.
Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 49
