GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT DEAR SHAREHOLDER On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Audit Committees Report for the financial year ended 30 September 2017.
In the pages which follow we give an insight into the activities and workings of the Committee during the year.
AREAS OF FOCUS As in previous years, our primary focus has been centred on key issues related to the Groups financial reporting, such as accounting judgements, internal control activities, compliance matters and the ongoing quality of related disclosures.
We have also covered other important areas, such as a review of the Companys Viability and Going Concern Statements, and performed the related financial stress testing in order to meet the requirements of the Code.
NON-FINANCIAL REPORTING INFORMATION Overseeing Earlier this year, the EU Non-Financial Reporting Directive was implemented into English law as the Companies, Partnerships and Groups Accounts and Non-Financial Reporting Regulations 2016. rigorous The Directive requires companies with financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2017 to disclose non-financial information necessary to provide investors and other stakeholders with a better and effective understanding of a companys development, performance and position and impact of its activity.
The Committee was able to offer advice to the Board on the reporting requirements of the Directive controls and will ensure that the Company is compliant with the Directive and includes the necessary disclosures in the 2018 Annual Report.
The Board recognises that a prudent EXTERNAL AUDITOR and robust approach to risk mitigation Mr Sykes has been the key senior audit engagement partner since KPMG LLP KPMG was appointed as the Companys external must be carefully balanced with a degree auditor in 2014 and will therefore rotate off the Companys audit of flexibility so that the entrepreneurial after the completion of the external audit of the Companys financial statements for the year ending 30 September 2018.
To ensure spirit which has greatly contributed to the a seamless transition, the Committee will oversee the succession success of your Company is not inhibited.
fromMrSykes as part of the audit process for the year ending 30September 2018.
The external auditor timeline can be found on page 59.
As part of our internal audit process, we continue to increase the use of technology to perform analysis in large populations of data and embed analytics in every phase of the audit process.
We are using analytics to select samples, ask the right questions, identify exceptions and share with management those analyses that can help them to monitor and provide insights to our business.
During the year, audits were conducted by the external auditor covering businesses which generated 96% of the Groups annual revenue for 2016-2017.
As Chairman of the Audit Committee and as a fellow shareholder, I am pleased to report that the external auditor has issued an unmodified audit opinion.
54 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 GOVERNANCE As set out in the Principal Risks section on pages 34 to 36, last RISK APPETITE, PRINCIPAL OPERATIONAL RISKS years risks continue to be pertinent, albeit that our perception of AND RISK ASSURANCE how these risks have, as appropriate, remained static, increased The Boards attitude to and appetite for risk are communicated to ordiminished may have changed.
the Groups businesses through the strategy planning process.
In determining its risk appetite, the Board recognises that a prudent The Committee continues to monitor the potential impact of the and robust approach to risk mitigation must be carefully balanced UKsdecision to leave the EU.
However, while there is still significant with a degree of flexibility so that the entrepreneurial spirit which has uncertainty about the withdrawal process, its timeframe and the greatly contributed to the success of the Company is not inhibited.
outcome of negotiations about future arrangements between the UK The Committee and the Board remain satisfied that the Companys and the EU, it is still too early to properly understand the impact on internal risk control framework continues to provide the necessary the business.
We are also closely monitoring the political landscape element of flexibility without compromising the integrity of risk in the USA where the Group has a significant operational presence.
management and internal control systems.
The new administration has signalled its intention to make broad policy changes, some of which are in respect of trade and tax, and We continue to develop and grow our business but, of course, in we will continue to assess the impact of any changes and the extent some of the territories where we operate, the concept of corporate to which they are passed.
In these regions in particular, it is important to have a clear, well-established system of risk FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE management and internal control to ensure that growth is The Code provides that through its financial reporting, the Board underpinned by solid business practice.
In this regard, we have should provide a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of continued to strengthen our Regional Governance Committees the Companys prospects.
At the Boards request, the Committee has RGCs with the aim of further embedding the Groups risk reviewed the 2017 Annual Report to determine whether it considered management culture within the business.
that the document, taken as a whole, meets this standard and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the In 2016, the Board established a Group Risk Management Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
Committee RMC to assist the Audit Committee with its work.
The Committee has concluded that this requirement has been met.
RMC membership comprises a multi-disciplinary team of key individuals who are involved with the day to day governance of On pages 26 and 27 and throughout this Report, we track our the Group.
The Chairman of the Committee is the Group Finance performance against a mix of financial and non-financial KPIs, which Director and the membership comprises the Group General Counsel the Board and executive management consider best reflect our and Company Secretary, the Director of Group Internal Audit, the strategic priorities.
The Committee has considered these KPIs and Investor Relations and Corporate Affairs Director, the Group HR issatisfied that the information that has been selected by the Board Director and the Group Director of Strategy.
The Committee is and the executive management will help to convey an understanding satisfied that the work being performed by the RMC, in conjunction of the culture of the business and the drivers which contribute to its with the efforts of their colleagues in the Groups RGCs, further ongoing success and will be of interest to stakeholders.
embeds the Groups risk management culture within the business.
Italso provides an additional layer of oversight to help underpin the THE YEAR AHEAD assurances given by the Committee to the Board in connection with The Committee continues to play a key role within the governance the appropriateness of the Groups financial reporting: the framework and, in the year ahead, the Committee will continue effectiveness of the internal and external audit functions: the to monitor the ongoing status and progress of action plans against management of the Groups systems of internal control and business key risks on a regular basis: review its activities in the light of risks: and related compliance activities.
regulatory and best practice developments: and report its findings to the Board.
The Committee had oversight of a robust annual review and assessment of the principal risks and uncertainties of the Group.
The review was conducted internally by a multi-disciplinary team.
The purpose of the review was to determine in the context of the macroenvironment and Group strategy: i if the principal risks and John Bason uncertainties disclosed in the 2016 Annual Report applied to the Chairman of the Audit Committee current financial year: ii if yes, whether there had been any year onyear variance to the status of each risk: iii if no, what should 21 November 2017 betaken out included?
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 55 GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED MEETINGS ATTENDANCE THE AUDIT COMMITTEE 1 NAME ATTENDANCE COMPOSITION John Bason 3 of 3 The Audit Committee comprises John Bason, Chairman, and all Carol Arrowsmith 3 of 3 of the non-executive directors in office at the date of this Report.
Stefan Bomhard 3 of 3 Members of the Audit Committee are appointed by the Board 2 Susan Murray 1 of 1 following recommendation by the Nomination Committee.
The Audit Committees membership is reviewed by the Nomination Committee Don Robert 3 of 3 and is assessed in the context of the range of skills, knowledge and Nelson Silva 3 of 3 experience required by the Code and also as part of the annual Ireena Vittal 3 of 3 Board performance evaluation.
The number of meetings attended out of the number of meetings each director The members of the Audit Committee have been chosen to provide was eligible to attend.
the wide range of financial and commercial experience needed to 2.
Stepped down from the Board and its committees at the conclusion of the Companys AGM on 2 February 2017. undertake its duties and each member of the Audit Committee brings an appropriate balance of senior level financial and The Audit Committee invites Paul Walsh, Chairman: Richard commercial experience in multinational and or complex Cousins, Group Chief Executive: Johnny Thomson, Group Finance organisations, combined with a sound understanding of the Director: the Group Financial Controller: and the Director of Group Companys business, and is therefore considered by the Board Internal Audit, together with senior representatives of the external tobe competent in the Companys sector.
The expertise and auditor, to attend each meeting although, periodically, it reserves experience of the members of the Audit Committee are summarised time for discussions without invitees being present.
Other senior on pages 48 and 49.
The Board considers that each member of the management are invited to present such reports as are required Audit Committee is independent within the definition set out in the forthe Audit Committee to discharge its duties.
Code and is capable of assessing the work of management and the The Chairman of the Audit Committee keeps in touch with key assurances provided by the internal and external audit functions.
individuals involved with the Companys governance, including the The Audit Committees Chairman, John Bason, is the Finance Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, the Group General Director of Associated British Foods plc and is therefore considered Counsel and Company Secretary, the Director of Group Internal Audit by the Board to have significant, recent and relevant financial and the external auditors lead engagement partner, and attends the experience and to be competent in auditing and accounting.
AGM to respond to any shareholder questions that might be raised All members of the Audit Committee receive an appropriate concerning its activities.
The remuneration of the members of the induction, covering the role and remit of the Committee and an Audit Committee and the policy with regard to the remuneration overview of the business, its financial dynamics and its risks and, ofthe non-executive directors are set out on pages 83 and 93. where appropriate, meetings with key individuals.
Audit Committee OBJECTIVES members are expected to have an understanding of the principles The Audit Committees key objectives are the provision of effective of, and recent developments in, financial reporting, including the governance over the appropriateness of the Groups financial applicable accounting standards and statements of recommended reporting, including the adequacy of related disclosures, the practice, key aspects of the Companys policies, financing, internal performance of both the internal and external audit functions, control mechanisms, and matters that require the use of judgement and the management of the Groups systems of internal control, in the presentation of accounts and key figures as well as the role of business risks and related compliance activities.
Members of the Audit Committee undertake ongoing training as required.
ACTIVITY DURING THE YEAR The key matters reviewed and evaluated by the Audit Committee The Audit Committee meets throughout the year and its agenda is during the year are set out below: linked to events in the Companys financial calendar.
Each member of the Audit Committee may require reports on matters of interest in Financial reporting addition to the regular items.
The Audit Committee met three times the appropriateness of the interim and annual financial during the year with an appropriate interval between each of the statements including the announcements thereof to the London meetings to ensure that work arising from Committee meetings Stock Exchange with both management and the external auditor, could be carried out and reported back to the Board, as appropriate.
including: Members attendance at the meetings is set out in the table.
at the Boards request, whether the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary forshareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy the clarity of disclosures and compliance with financial reporting standards and relevant financial and governance reporting requirements and guidelines, including the European Securities and Markets Authority Guidelines on Alternative Performance Measures which have applied to all publications of regulated information since 3 July 2016 56 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 GOVERNANCE discussing the critical accounting policies and use of the level of provisioning for liabilities including tax where assumptions and estimates, as noted in section B of the management, accounting and legal judgements are important.
accounting policies on pages 113 and 114 of this Annual The Committee discussed with management the key Report, and concluding that the estimates, judgements and judgements made, in particular, the policy efforts being led by assumptions used were reasonable based on the information the EU and OECD which may have a material impact on the available and had been used appropriately in applying the taxation of all international businesses, including relevant legal Companys accounting policies.
This included, for example, advice.
The external auditor also reports on all material theconsideration of any goodwill impairment assessments provisions to the Committee andhow these were addressed the Going Concern and Viability Statements the material areas in which significant judgements have been non-financial information applied, namely: OTHER MATTERS considering the nature and quantum of the purchasing income In addition to its key role in the financial reporting process, the Audit earned by the Group during the financial year.
It also assessed Committee also considered the following as well as developments in the extent to which the amounts recognised required estimation regulation, such as in relation to the retendering of audit services: and reviewed the recoverability of amounts accrued at the year end with reference to aged analyses and subsequent cash receipts.
Nothing arose during the course of this review to indicate that anything but limited judgement was required, or that purchasing income had not been accounted for in accordance with the Groups accounting policies NOV MAY SEPT ITEMS DISCUSSED 2016 2017 2017 INTERNAL AUDIT approval of the Groups internal audit plan, risk controls and the review of internal audit activity reports and updates consideration of Group internal audits review of key financial controls and rollout of key IT controls EXTERNAL AUDIT audit report on interim results approval and review of the proposed audit plan and procedures review of auditor effectiveness independence following KPMGs third year as external auditor agreement of external auditor fees for 2017-2018 review of the policy and update of the provision of non-audit services provided by the external auditor assessment of the deployment of the audit plan OTHER MATTERS litigation and contingent liabilities triennial actuarial valuation of the Groups UK post retirement obligations operation of the Groups Speak Up whistleblowing policy country and theme specific audit matters the RGC structure and the outputs from committee meetings tax matters, including provisioning for potential current tax liabilities and the level of deferred tax asset recognition as well as compliance with statutory tax reporting obligations certificates of assurance from local management terms of reference: annual review Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 57 GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED FRC REVIEW OF THE ANNUAL REPORT EXTERNAL AUDIT ANDACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, implementation and monitoring of the Companys policy on external 30SEPTEMBER 2016 audit.
The Committee reserves oversight responsibility for monitoring During the year, the Group received a letter from the FRC the auditors independence, objectivity and compliance with ethical, confirmingthat the Annual Report for the year ended 30 September professional and regulatory requirements.
The Audit Committee is 2016 had been subject to review by its Conduct Committee, which responsible for the retendering selection process and recommends is responsible for reviewing and investigating the annual accounts, the appointment, reappointment and removal of the Companys directors and strategic reports of UK public companies.
The only external auditor, and considers the risks associated with its substantive question included in this enquiry was a request for the withdrawal from the market in its risk evaluation and planning.
Company to provide further details supporting the recognition of the TheAudit Committee also reviews and sets the terms, areas of accounting surplus of the UK defined benefit pension scheme see responsibility and scope of the audit as set out in the external note 20.
As a result of the FRCs enquiry, we committed to auditors engagement letter: the overall work plan for the providing additional disclosures on the nature of the UK defined forthcoming year, together with the associated fee proposal and cost benefit pension scheme's accounting surplus and the rationale for effectiveness of the audit: the external auditors independence: any its recognition see page 118.
The FRCs enquiry closed with no major issues which arise during the course of the audit and their further questions.
resolution: key accounting and audit judgements: the level of errors The FRC noted that its role was not to verify information, but to identified during the audit: the recommendations made to consider compliance with reporting requirements, and it did not management by the auditor and managements response: and the takeresponsibility for reliance on its letter by any party.
EXTERNAL AUDITOR The Company operates a policy on non-audit fees which it reviews annually and discloses the ratio of audit to non-audit fees paid in KPMG has been the Companys auditor since 2014.
In line with each financial year.
applicable legislation and best practice, no one can act as an engagement partner for a listed company for more than five years The Audit Committee monitors the extent of non-audit work which and, thereafter, there has to be a five year gap before the same the external auditor can perform, to ensure that the provision of individual can undertake that role in the Company.
As noted on those non-audit services that can be undertaken by the external page 54, Mr Sykes will cease to be the senior audit engagement auditor falls within the agreed policy and does not impair its partner on completion of the audit of the Companys financial objectivity or independence.
Following the change of external auditor statements for the year ending 30 September 2018 and the in 2014, the Committee agreed that Deloitte LLP should continue to Committee will oversee the transition to Mr Sykes successor.
provide tax services to the Group and has amended its policy on the To ensure objectivity, key members of the audit team rotate off the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor accordingly, toexclude such services.
Therefore, the external auditor should be Companys audit.
To safeguard the independence of the Companys excluded from providing the Company with general consultancy and external auditor and the integrity of the audit process, the recruitment all other non-audit services, unless there is no other competent and of senior employees from the Companys auditor is not permitted for available provider.
Engagements for non-audit services that are not a period of at least two years after they cease to be involved in the prohibited are subject to formal approval by the Audit Committee provision of services to the Company.
based on the level of fees involved.
Non-audit services that are The Company is required to tender its auditors every 10 years and pre-approved are either routine in nature with a fee that is not the Committee currently intends to tender its auditors sometime in significant in the context of the audit or are audit related services.
2023-2024 with a view to the chosen firm being appointed in 2024.
Within the constraints of applicable UK rules, the external auditor has traditionally undertaken some due diligence reviews and other pieces of non-audit work.
The provision of non-audit services within such constraints and the agreed policy is assessed on a case by case basis so that the best placed advisor is retained.
Principal non-audit services provided by KPMG and approved by the Audit Committee during the year ended 30 September 2017 primarily comprised assistance on audit related services.
58 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 GOVERNANCE PREVIOUS FIVE YEAR TERM EXTERNAL AUDITOR OF CURRENT SENIOR AUDIT ENGAGEMENT PARTNER During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed KPMGs fees for EXTERNAL AUDITOR TIMELINE itsservices performed to 30 September 2017, its effectiveness and whether the agreed audit plan had been fulfilled and the reasons for any variation from the plan.
The review included a formal evaluation 2013 Final Audit process involving the use of questionnaires completed by finance Deloitte LLP carry out final audit teams around the Group.
in respect of year ended The Audit Committee also considered the robustness of the 2017 30September 2013 audit, the degree to which KPMG was able to assess key accounting, and audit judgements and the content of the management letter issued by the external auditor.
The Audit Committee concluded that 2014 AGM 6 February both the audit and the audit process were effective.
Approval sought for the The total fees paid to KPMG in the year ended 30 September 2017 reappointment of Deloitte LLP were 5.2 million of which 0.3 million related to non-audit work Reappointment of Deloitte LLP 2016: 5.1 million of which 0.7 million related to non-audit work.
as external auditor Further disclosure of the non-audit fees paid during the year can be found in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements on page 124.
2014 Casual vacancy filled 14 March FRC AUDIT QUALITY REVIEW KPMG LLP appointed to fill the casual vacancy in the office of During the year, the 2016 external audit of the Group by KPMG was reviewed by the FRCs Audit Quality Review team AQR.
The AQR external auditor routinely monitors the quality of audit work of certain UK audit firms Appointment of KPMG LLP senior through inspections of sample audits and related procedures at audit engagement partner individual audit firms.
The Committee and KPMG have discussed the review findings, which were incorporated into the 2017 audit 2015 AGM 5 February work.
The Committee does not consider any of the findings to have Approval sought for the had a significant impact on KPMGs audit approach.
reappointment of KPMG LLP REAPPOINTMENT OF AUDITOR Reappointment of KPMG LLP There are no contractual restrictions on the Companys choice of as external auditor external auditor and in making its recommendation to shareholders on the reappointment of KPMG, the Committee took into account, amongst other matters, the tenure, objectivity and independence 2016 AGM 4 February of KPMG and its continuing effectiveness and cost as well as the Approval sought for the availability of firms within the wider audit market.
KPMG has reappointment of KPMG LLP expressed its willingness to continue as auditor of the Company.
Reappointment of KPMG LLP Separate resolutions proposing KPMGs reappointment and determination of its remuneration by the Audit Committee will as external auditor beproposed at the 2018 AGM.
AGM 2 February 2017 Approval sought for the reappointment of KPMG LLP Reappointment of KPMG LLP as external auditor.
Review underway for senior audit engagement partner rotation 2018 AGM 8 February Approval sought for the reappointment of KPMG LLP KPMG LLP senior audit engagement partner carries out final audit in respect of the year ending 30September 2018 and the Committee oversees the transition to successor Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 59 GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED This is underpinned by the annual evaluation of the Board and DISCLOSURE OF RELEVANT AUDIT INFORMATION its committees.
More details of this years review can be found The directors confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is on pages 52 and 53. norelevant audit information of which KPMG is unaware and each director has taken all the steps that ought to have been taken as INTERNAL AUDIT adirector to be aware of any relevant audit information and to The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the Groups establish that KPMG is aware of that information.
internal audit function and its relationship with the external auditor, including internal audit resources, plans and performance as well as OUR STANDARDS the degree to which the function is free of management restrictions.
The Company remains committed to the highest standards Throughout the year, the Audit Committee reviewed the internal ofbusiness conduct and expects all of its employees to act audit functions plans and its achievements against those plans.
The Groups Speak Up policy an extension of the Code The Audit Committee considered the results of the audits undertaken of Ethics incorporated within the Groups Code of Business Conduct by the internal audit function and the adequacy of managements CBC which is available in 40 languages sets out arrangements for response to matters raised, including the time taken to resolve any the receipt, in confidence, of complaints onaccounting, risk issues, such matters.
internal controls, auditing issues andrelated matters which would, as appropriate, be reported totheAudit Committee.
Speak Up is a INTERNAL CONTROL standard review item onall internal audit work programmes.
The The Audit Committee also reviews the integrity of any material CBC and Code ofEthics are available on the Companys website at financial statements made by the Company.
The Corporate Responsibility Committee conducts a robust review of the effectiveness of the Groups internal retains overall responsibility for the Groups CBC programme, the control systems, accounting policies and practices and compliance training of employees and the way in which management obtain controls including key financial controls as well as the Companys assurance in this area, including the annual self certification process statements on internal control before they are agreed by the Board which saw more than 3,500 employees confirm their continued for each years Annual Report.
The Board retains overall compliance with the CBC and the Code of Ethics in the year ended responsibility for internal control and the identification and 30 September 2017. management of business risk and is assisted in this regard by a top The Audit Committee also receives updates on any allegations down and bottom up process of risk identification and management ofbribery and fraud in the business at every meeting, with individual which is the subject of regular interim review by RGCs.
The key updates being given to the Audit Committee, as needed, in more features of the Groups internal control and risk management serious cases of alleged bribery, fraud or related activities.
The systems that ensure the accuracy and reliability of financial reporting Groups theft and anti-fraud policies are a subset of the CBC, which include clearly defined lines of accountability and delegation of does not tolerate any activity involving fraud, dishonesty or authority, policies and procedures that cover financial planning and deception.
These policies, for which the Audit Committee retains reporting, preparing consolidated accounts, capital expenditure, overall responsibility, set out how allegations of fraud or bribery are project governance and information security and the Groups CBC.
dealt with, such as by the local human resources or finance team, The internal audit function is involved in the assessment of the and the frequency of local reporting that feeds into the regular quality of risk management and internal control and helps to updates, which are presented to the Audit Committee.
Reporting of promote and further develop effective risk management within these matters to the Audit Committee is managed and overseen by thebusiness.
Certain internal audit assignments such as those the internal audit function.
The Speak Up policy operates when the requiring specialist expertise continue to be outsourced by the complaint is received through the whistleblowing channel and that Director of Group Internal Audit as appropriate.
The Audit policy will redirect the alleged fraud or bribery for investigation at the Committee reviews internal audit reports and considers the most appropriate level of the organisation which may, for example, effectiveness of the function.
be by a member of the local human resources team or, on occasion, In a Group where local management have considerable autonomy to the Audit Committee itself.
run and develop their businesses, a well designed system of internal Each year, the Audit Committee critically reviews its own control is necessary to safeguard shareholders investments and the performance and considers where improvements can be made and Companys assets.
The directors acknowledge that they have overall in so doing it considers, amongst other things, those matters responsibility for risk management, the Groups systems of internal discussed by the Audit Committee, such as: control, for reviewing the effectiveness of those controls and for ensuring that an appropriate culture has been embedded whether the membership of the Committee meets the throughout the organisation.
In accordance with the guidance set requirements of the Code out in the FRCs Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control whether the Committees terms of reference are appropriate for and Related Financial Business Reporting 2014, and in the Code the particular circumstances of the Company and comply with itself, an ongoing process has been established for identifying, prevailing legislation and best practice managing and evaluating the risks faced by the Group.
This process whether the number and length of time of Committee meetings has been in place for the full financial year and up to the date on are sufficient to meet the role and responsibilities of the which the financial statements were approved.
Committee and coincide with key dates within the financial reporting and audit cycle 60 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 GOVERNANCE The systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk CONTROL PROCEDURES of failure to achieve the Groups strategic objectives, safeguard the The Board reviews its strategic plans and objectives on an annual Groups assets against material loss, fairly report the Groups basis and approves Group budgets and strategies in light of these.
performance and position, and to ensure compliance with relevant Control is exercised at Group, regional and business level through legislation, regulation and best practice including that related to the Groups MAP framework as well as through the RGCs, monthly social, environmental and ethical matters.
The systems provide monitoring of performance by comparison with budgets, forecasts reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material and cash targets, and by regular visits to Group businesses by the misstatement or loss.
Such systems are reviewed by the Board Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Group Chief todeal with changing circumstances.
A summary of the key financial risks inherent in the Groups This is underpinned by a formal major risk assessment process, business is given on pages 34 to 36.
Risk assessment and which is an integral part of the annual business cycle and is also a evaluation are an integral part of the annual planning cycle.
Each robust process adopted to support the Viability Statement.
Each of business documents the strategic objectives and the effectiveness the Groups businesses is required to identify and document major of the Groups systems of internal control.
As part of the review, each risks facing their business and appropriate mitigating activities and significant business and function has been required to identify and controls, and to monitor and report to management on the document each substantial risk, together with the mitigating actions effectiveness of these controls on a biannual basis.
These reports, implemented to manage, monitor and report to management on the together with reports on internal control and departures, if any, from effectiveness of these controls.
Senior managers are also required to established Group procedures prepared by both the internal and sign biannual confirmations of compliance with key procedures and external auditors, are reviewed by the Group Finance Director and to report any breakdowns in, or exceptions to, these procedures.
Group companies also submit biannual risk Summarised results are presented to senior management including and internal control assurance letters to the Group Finance Director to the RGCs and to the Board.
on internal control and risk management issues, with comments on the control environment within their operations.
The Group Finance These processes have been in place throughout the financial year Director summarises these submissions for the Audit Committee, ended 30 September 2017 and have continued to the date of this and the Chairman of the Audit Committee reports to the Board on Report.
Taken together, these processes and the reports they any matters that have arisen from the Audit Committees review of generate, which are considered by the Audit Committee, constitute the way in which risk management and internal control processes arobust assessment of key risks and the internal controls that exist, have been applied.
and are designed to mitigate these risks.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control for the The Board has formal procedures in place for the approval of client year under review and a summary of the principal control structures contracts, capital investment and acquisition projects, with clearly and processes in place across the Group is set out in this Report.
designated levels of authority, supported by post investment review processes for selected acquisitions, client contracts and major CONTROL ENVIRONMENT capital expenditure.
The Board considers social, environmental and Whilst the Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of ethical matters in relation to the Groups business and assesses internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, it has delegated these when reviewing the risks faced by the Group: further responsibility for the operation of the internal control and risk information regarding environmental and ethical matters is available management programme to the Executive Board.
The Board is conscious of the effect such review of internal control has been delegated to the Audit matters may have on the short and long term value of the Company.
The management of each business is responsible for internal control and risk management within its own business and The external auditor of the Company and the Director of Group for ensuring compliance with the Groups policies and procedures.
Internal Audit attend Audit Committee meetings and receive its Each business has appointed a risk champion whose primary role in papers.
Committee members meet regularly with the external auditor such capacity is to ensure compliance by local management with and with the Director of Group Internal Audit, without the presence the Groups risk management and internal control programme.
internal and external independent auditors have reviewed the overall There were no changes to the Companys internal control approach adopted by the Group towards its risk management overfinancial reporting that occurred during the year ended activities so as to reinforce these internal control requirements.
30September 2017 that have affected materially, or are reasonably likely to affect materially, the Companys internal control over financial reporting.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 61
