GOVERNANCE Shaftesbury Annual Report 2017 Corporate Governance Dear shareholder I am delighted to be writing to you following my first THE ROLE OF THE BOARD IN GOVERNANCE IS TO SET THE year as your Chairman.
STRATEGIC AIMS OF THE Corporate governance is embedded in our culture BUSINESS, PROVIDE LEADERSHIP AND SUPERVISION AND and the day-to-day running of your Company.
I am REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS committed to maintaining the high standards we ON ITS STEWARDSHIP have demonstrated for many years.
We pride ourselves on being open, transparent and engaged with our shareholders, stakeholders and our local community.
We have a well-balanced Board with a good range Compliance with the UK of skills.
It is important that I ensure there is a steady Corporate Governance and smooth rotation and refreshing of nonexecutive directors.
Code Oliver Marriott retired as a director in July having The Company has complied in full with the UK served for almost eight years.
I thank him, on behalf Corporate Governance Code during the year.
of the Board and shareholders, for his contribution The application of the principles of the Code is during this time.
contained in this report and in the individual Committee reports which follow.
We will appoint a new non-executive director, Richard Akers, on 28 November 2017.
His skills will complement those of his fellow directors.
He will be Employees proposed to shareholders for election at the AGM The knowledge, experience and commitment of our inFebruary 2018.
The process leading up to his employees is critical to the delivery of our strategy.
recommendation for election is contained in the Ihave spent time this year getting to know, not only Nomination Committee report.
We are delighted to my fellow Board members, but also everyone who welcome him to the Board.
In accordance with good governance, each of my This year, we have focussed on employee recruitment, fellow directors and I will stand for re-election at the training and development.
The Nomination Committee had recommended number of procedures around recruitment to ensure the re-election of Jill Little and Hilary Riva, who have we recruit from a diverse talent pool.
Training and both served on the Board for more than six years, development are important to ensure employees having considered the contribution that they make grow in their roles and that we continue to retain to the business and their continuing independence.
74 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Shaftesbury Annual Report 2017 We have recently formed an Executive Committee Culture Data protection comprising the executive directors, Company Culture is important in the operation of the In addition to the risk and control framework review, Secretary and the senior leadership team.
Its role Board and throughout the Group.
Our corporate particular attention has been focussed this year is to monitor operational matters and contribute to culture underpins the success of our business to ensure that we have appropriate data and the longer term evolution of the Groups strategy and is embedded throughout our long-term information governance processes, controls and and its implementation.
It provides senior employees business model.
policies in place ahead of the implementation of below Board level, greater engagement and the General Data Protection Regulation in May 2018.
The Board has an open and transparent culture experience in managing the Groups business.
which is facilitated and monitored by me.
This is Further information on our risks is contained in Further information can be found on page 70. particularly evident in Board meetings where we risk management on pages 59 to 63. engage in constructive and open dialogue.
As part of our July meeting, Board culture was Board performance discussed.
This was the first stage of our work, to evaluation articulate and document our culture and values, which has been extended throughout the This year, we have undertaken a full external organisation.
The process, recommendations made, and the actions to implement those recommendations, are summarised on page 77.
Jonathan Nicholls Chairman 27 November 2017 75 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Shaftesbury Annual Report 2017 DIVISION OF THE ROLE OF THE BOARD RESPONSIBILITY THE CHAIRMAN LEADERSHIP NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The Board BOARD MEETING ATTENDANCE six held Chairman There is a balance of executive and non-executive Each Committee provides a summary of business Jonathan Nicholls 6 directors, with a wide range of business skills, discussed to the Board and the minutes of all Executive directors including property, finance, retail and fund Committees are circulated to the Board.
Brian Bickell 6 management on our Board.
All directors Whilst strategy is considered at every Board, one Simon Quayle 6 contribute to constructive debate in the meeting each year is dedicated to this topic.
The boardroom and to the implementation of the Tom Welton 6 July 2017 Board meeting focussed on a strategy Groups strategy.
session which considered the impact of external Chris Ward 6 The Chairman was independent on his changes and developments and how the Groups Non-executive directors appointment to the Board.
He chairs the business model might be affected.
This included Jill Little 6 Nomination Committee, but, in line with the UK consideration of the Companys culture, Oliver Marriott 5 Corporate Governance Code, is not a member of succession, the impact of technology, changes in Dermot Mathias 6 the Remuneration or Audit Committees.
Each of consumer behaviours and the tourism market as the other non-executive directors is considered well as the resources and skills the business may Hilary Riva 6 by the Board to be independent.
Sally Walden 6 The Board meets regularly and there is an annual Employees below Board level are invited to present F ive meetings were held in the period prior to cycle of topics to be considered, including key to the Board on operational topics during the course his retirement on 5 July 2017 management and financial updates, as well as of the year.
Non-executive directors have direct approval of significant acquisitions and and open access to employees below Board level.
STRATEGY PERFORMANCE RISK SUSTAINABILITY BOARD AUDIT REMUNERATION NOMINATION DISCLOSURE BOARD COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEES Financial reporting Remuneration policy Succession planning C ompliance with market Terms of reference are abuse regulations available on our website M onitor external Annual remuneration R ecommend candidates auditors including bonus and to the Board LTIP awards Risk and internal control Bo ard performance S et annual performance evaluation Audit Committee report pages 82 to 84 objectives Diversity Remuneration report Nomination Committee pages 86 to 100 report pages 80 to 81 EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE SUSTAINABILTY COMMITTEE PENSIONS COMMITTEE MANAGEMENT Chaired by Chief Executive Chaired by Chief Executive Chaired by Finance Director COMMITTEES Members: Executive directors, Members: Company Secretary, Members: Chief Executive, Company Secretary, senior Portfolio Executive Company Secretary leadership team see page 70 Sustainability strategy and policy Pension scheme governance Evolution of long-term strategy Annual sustainability report Day-to-day operational matters Sustainability and stakeholders pages 28to 33 76 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Shaftesbury Annual Report 2017 APPOINTMENTS EVALUATION TO THE BOARD RE-ELECTION COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD INFORMATION AND SUPPORT DEVELOPMENT COMMITMENT EFFECTIVENESS All directors are subject to annual Close engagement with the business Board performance evaluation re-election.
Two non-executive and employees and an open-door No evaluation was undertaken last year due to the change of the Chairman directors have more than six years policy for non-executive directors.
but, the Board undertook to carry out a full  evaluation service and were subject to Good flow of information to the during the course of 2017.
Boardroom Dialogue was appointed to carry rigorous review by the Nomination Board.
Meetings were held with each director and the Company Committee which considered their Regular visits tours of the portfolio.
The report was discussed at the September contribution and independence.
Training and development of The conclusion of the evaluation was that the Board functions well.
directors including the The appointment of a new Chairman has been received positively by implementation of an e-learning stakeholders and he has settled well into the role.
There is an excellent working relationship at all levels of the Board.
Areas to focus on in the year ahead include: Continuing focus on succession planning for both executive and non-executive directors.
Increased training and development of employees.
Introduce a NED only session at every Board meeting currently held annually.
Streamline the volume and format of information to the Board.
The Senior Independent Director reviewed the performance of the Chairman.
The Chairman reviewed the performance of all other directors.
A review of each committee was undertaken by its members.
DIALOGUE WITH CONSTRUCTIVE SHAREHOLDERS USE OF GENERAL MEETINGS RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Board considers regular contact During the year, the Chief Executive Feedback from shareholder and with our shareholders to be an and executive directors held over analyst meetings is provided to important aspect of corporate 225 meetings with UK and overseas theBoard.
Investor relations is the institutional investors comprising Analysts capital markets day held responsibility of the Chief Executive.
both current and potential with a focus on Chinatown.
Meetings involved Tours are held with the UK All directors are present at the AGM either group or individual Shareholders Association, which and available to answer questions presentations and tours of the represents private investors.
The tours provide an format includes a presentation opportunity to see the Groups from the Chief Executive on the assets, understand management Groups business.
strategy, and to meet the senior leadership team and other Live audio webcasts with replay employees.
facilities are available for the annual and half year results Engagement with equity and market presentations to analysts.
