Executive Committee 44 OUR EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Ian Sutcliffe Rebecca Worthington Phillip Lyons Graham Cherry Group Chief Executive Group Chief Financial Officer Chief Executive, Housebuilding Chief Executive, PartnershipsSouth Full biography on page 42.
Phillip joined the Group in May 2017 Graham was appointed Chief as Chief Executive, Housebuilding, Executive of Partnerships South responsible forall the Groups on 2 May 2017 having previously Housebuilding and strategic land been Chief Executive of the New activities including Millgate.
He trained as a quantity surveyor and held positions of Commercial He joined the Group Director, Land Director and asagraduate trainee from the Managing Director prior to being University of Readingin 1980. promoted to Divisional Managing Hehad been Group Chief Director at Taylor Wimpey in 2007, Executive of Copthorn Holdings responsible for London and the Limited, a position he held since South East Division.
1996, and Head of Division of theGroups New Homes and Communities business.
Ian Kelley Nick Worrall Gary Whitaker Chief Executive, Group HR Director General Counsel and PartnershipsNorth CompanySecretary Ian was appointed Chief Executive Nick joined the Group in Gary joined the Group in of Partnerships North on2 May 2017 September 2014 as Group March2015 as General Counsel having previously been Managing HRDirector.
Director of the Partnerships Previously, he was General Previously he held senior North Region.
Counsel and Company Secretary HRpositions for over 20 years for Xchanging plc for 15 years, He joined the Group on 12August1996 inthe retail, energy and financial which specialised in technology as Associate Director for Business services industries including and outsourcing.
Ian was appointed rolesin Barclays, National Grid, Managing Director of Partnerships Centrica and BrightHouse.
He trained as a solicitor with North in October 2000.
Norton Rose, and qualified into the corporate finance team, Previously he had worked for working in their London and Wimpey Homes for a significant Moscow offices.
Prior to period of his career in both NortonRose, he served an openmarket housing and urban 11-year commission in the regeneration.
This was followed by a RoyalNavy fleet air arm.
two-year period with Lovell Partnerships in new business.
Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 45 The Countryside Board and Executive Committee are committed to ensuring that high standards of corporate governance are reflected across the business.
David Howell Chairman Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017
