RISK GOVERNANCE Shaftesbury Annual Report 2017 MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL ACCOUNTABILITY AUDIT COMMITTEE Audit AND AUDITORS FINANCIAL AND BUSINESS REPORTING committee report Dear shareholder KEY RESPONSIBILITIES Review in detail the work I am pleased to present the Committees report of the external auditor and valuer and any significant for the year.
financial judgement made by management.
Monitor the Groups reporting process and financial management.
The Committee is an important element of the Going concern Scrutinise the full and half Groups governance structure and provides effective The Committee reviewed whether it was appropriate yearly financial statements.
oversight of the performance, independence and to adopt the going concern basis in the preparation objectivity of the auditor and the audit process.
Consider the appointment of the results.
In considering this, we reviewed the Our role is to review and advise the Board on Groups five-year forecasts, availability of committed of the external auditor, their financial reporting including the processes around bank facilities and expected headroom under the reports to the Committee the portfolio valuation, which is the most significant financial covenants in our debt arrangements.
figure in the annual results.
This, and other judgements review included sensitivity analyses.
Following the made by the Board in the preparation of the financial review, it recommended to the Board that it was Review the risk statements, are discussed in detail below.
appropriate to adopt the going concern basis.
The management framework Boards confirmation is set out on page 102.
The Committee advises the Board on various and ensure that risks are statements made in the Annual Report, including those carefully identified and on viability, going concern, risk and controls and Viability statement assessed, and that systems whether, when read as a whole, the Annual Report is of risk management and At the request of the Board, the Committee reviewed fair, balanced and understandable and provides the the Viability Statement and the period for which the internal control are in place information necessary for shareholders to assess the Board should assess the prospects of the Group.
Groups performance, business model and strategy.
Last year, the Group considered a five-year period The Committee also oversees the Groups risk to be appropriate.
Following the review, the Review the Groups management framework and processes.
Committee concluded that this period remains arrangements by which appropriate.
The Committee reviewed a report from employees and our supply management which set out the basis for the conclusions chain may raise concerns in the Viability Statement, including scenario analyses.
about possible improprieties The Boards Viability Statement is set out on page 64. in financial reporting or other matters.
KEY ACTIVITIES Annual report Approved auditor fees Recommend Objectivity of auditors re-appointment of auditors Viability statement Committee report Going concern Risks and internal control NOVEMBER 2016 82 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Shaftesbury Annual Report 2017 Financial statements Significant judgements: The executive directors confirmed to the Committee that they were Valuation of investment properties not aware of any material misstatements in the Annual Report and the auditors confirmed that they had found no material misstatements in The valuation opinion provided by independent external valuers is one the course of their work.
of the critical components of the annual and half year financial results.
External valuations are subjective and require significant judgement to After reviewing the reports from management and, following its be exercised by the valuation firm.
discussions with the auditors and valuers, the Committee is satisfied that the financial statements appropriately address the critical To assist the Boards review of the valuation, management prepared judgements and key estimates, both in respect of the amounts a detailed analysis.
The valuers presented their valuation to the reported and the disclosures.
The Committee is satisfied that the Committee, providing comparable evidence for key judgements.
processes used for determining the value of the assets and liabilities Following the presentation, the Committee had a discussion with the have been appropriately reviewed, challenged and are sufficiently valuers without management present.
The auditors use in-house real estate specialists, who met with the valuers as part of their audit and report their findings to the Committee.
2017 annual report: The Board considered the valuation at its meeting to approve Fair, balanced and understandable the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report.
The Committee reported to the Board that the Annual Report: Other areas of judgement was fair, balanced and understandable: Whilst not material in the context of the Groups assets or net assets, provided the necessary information for shareholders to assess the the Committee reviewed the judgements made by management in Groups performance, business model and strategy: and calculating the charge for equity-settled remuneration.
had been written in straightforward language, without unnecessary repetition of information, and that the use of any adjusted measures, e. g. those set out in EPRA Best Practice Recommendations, had been adequately explained and reconciled COMMITTEE MEMBERS to the financial statements and not been given more prominence AND MEETING ATTENDANCE than a corresponding measure under IFRS.
three held The Committee considered the systems and controls around the preparation of the financial statements, the procedures to bring Dermot Mathias 3 relevant information to the attention of the preparers of the financial Chairman statements, and whether the report was in accordance with the Jill Little 3 information provided to the Board during the year.
Oliver Marriott 1 Hilary Riva 3 Sally Walden 3 Two meetings were held in the period prior to his retirement on 5 July 2017 Half year results Whistleblowing policy review Audit plan & strategy Considered need for internal audit function Review of auditors Reviewed risks and internal controls Approved non-audit fees framework Risk and controls Cyber security MAY 2017 SEPTEMBER 2017 83 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Shaftesbury Annual Report 2017 External auditors Internal audit The Committee is satisfied with the effectiveness of the external audit.
The In view of the focussed nature of the Groups business, the close Company has complied with the provisions of the Statutory Audit Services involvement of the executive directors in day-to-day decision making and for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive relatively simple structure, together with the regular independent reviews of Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014. the processes and controls of managing agents, the Committee has advised the Board that, at the present time, it considers that there is no need to This is the second year that Eamonn McGrath has been the lead audit establish an internal audit function.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Groups choice of external auditor.
In accordance with the current regulations, the Group The need for an internal audit function is reviewed annually.
will re-tender the audit at least every ten years.
Audit fees Annual auditor assessment Fees payable to the Groups auditors for audit and non-audit services are Annually, the Committee assesses the qualifications, expertise, resources, set out in note 4 to the Financial Statements on page 121. and independence of the Groups external auditors, as well as the Total fees related to non-audit services represented 41% of the total fees effectiveness of the audit process.
It does this through discussion with the for audit and assurance services 2016: 50%.
Finance Director, review of a detailed assessment questionnaire and The auditors were also paid 31,000 2016: 27,000 for their audit of confirmations from the external auditor.
The Chairman of the Committee Longmartin Properties Limited.
The Companys 50% share of this was and the Finance Director also met with an independent partner of Ernst & 15,500 2016: 13,500.
This is the second year that Ernst & Young LLP have been our auditor and following informal assessments, to date, the Committee is satisfied with the effectiveness of the external audit and the interaction between the auditors Dermot Mathias and the Committee.
Following completion of the current years audit, the Chairman Audit Committee Committee will carry out a formal assessment of the audit process.
27 November 2017 Ernst & Young LLP has confirmed to the Committee that: They have internal procedures in place to identify any aspects of non-audit work which could compromise their role as auditors and to ensure the objectivity of their audit report.
The total fees paid by the Group during the year do not represent a material part of their firms fee income.
They consider that they have maintained their audit independence throughout the year.
The Committee has satisfied itself as to their qualifications, expertise and resources and remains confident that their objectivity and independence are not in any way impaired by reason of the non-audit services which they provide to the Group.
Award of non-audit assignments to the external audit firm The policy of the Committee is that non-audit assignments are not awarded to the external audit firm if there is a risk that their audit independence and objectivity could be compromised.
Other than in exceptional circumstances, non-audit fees should not exceed audit and assurance fees in any year.
The award of any non-audit assignment to the Groups auditors in excess of 25,000 is subject to the prior approval of the Committee.
There was one non-audit assignment during the year relating to the issue of a First Mortgage Bond by Shaftesbury Chinatown PLC.
