Corporate governance report 46 The Board EXCELLENCE Responsible for the overall conduct of the Groups business including our IN GOVERNANCE long-term success: setting our values, standards and strategic objectives: The Board is responsible for maintaining a reviewing our performance: and strong and effective governance system ensuring a successful dialogue with our shareholders.
Read more on pages 42 and 43 Board role and composition The Board is responsible for reviewing and guiding corporate strategy, the establishment of key policies and objectives, understanding the key risks faced by the Company and determining the risk tolerance of the Company and the processes in operation to mitigate these.
The Board has overall responsibility for the management of the Company in order to maximise shareholder value.
In discharging its responsibilities, the Board issupported by its management together with specialist committees.
Incompliance with the Code, the Board has established three Committees: an AuditCommittee, a Nomination Committee and a Remuneration Committee.
Each Committee works from terms of reference which arereviewed annually and are available on the Companys website: investors.
The terms of reference for each Board Committees Committee were last approved by the Board on 16October 2017.
Delegated to by the Board These Committees have appropriately skilled members, senior management andresponsible for maintaining participation and access to specialist advice when considered necessary.
effective governance in the The minutes of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committee followingareas: audit, remuneration, meetings are sent to all Directors and oral updates are given at Board meetings.
The Report of the Audit Committee which includes an overview Board composition, succession of the Companys control and risk management framework can be found planning and corporate governance.
Page 56 describes the remit and activities of the Nomination Committee.
The activities of the Remuneration Committee Full details of the Committees are described in the Report of the Remuneration Committee on pages responsibilities and activities are 57 to 73.
The Board is also supported by an Executive Committee, detailed on the following page further details of which can be found on page 44. andinthe Committee reports.
Additional information Information on the impact on the Company as required by the Takeover Directive, and information required under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, is given in the Directors Report see pages 74 to 76 and forms part of this Corporate Governance Report.
The Board Board composition The Board currently consists of seven Directors, comprising a Non-Executive Chairman, two Executive Directors and four further Executive Committees Non-Executive Directors.
Richard Adam is the Senior Independent Director.
David Howell, our Chairman, and Richard Adam are available Responsible for implementing toshareholders who have concerns that cannot be addressed through strategic objectives and realising the normal channels.
As announced by the Company on 2 October 2017, competitive business performance Richard Adam will step down from the Board and its Committees on inline with established risk management 31December 2017.
The Board has commenced a formal search for his replacement and afurther announcement will be made as soon as the frameworks, compliance policies, details and commencement date of Richards successor have been agreed.
internal control systems and Forfurther information about communication between the Board reporting requirements.
andshareholders, please refer to communication with shareholders onpage 50.
The Board has recruited Non-Executive Directors of a See Countrysides website highcalibre with broad commercial and other relevant experience.
com Non-Executive Directors are expected to bring objectivity and independence of view to the Boards discussions, and to help provide the Board with effective leadership in relation to the Companys strategy, performance, risk and people management as well as ensuring high standards of financial probity and corporate governance.
Countryside believes that the Board has the appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge ofthe Group to support the long-term success of the Company.
Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 47 Chairman Senior Independent Non-Executive Group Chief Director Directors Executive Role and responsibilities Role and responsibilities Role and responsibilities Role and responsibilities Provides a sounding board Leads the Board, sets the agenda Contribute to developing Leads the business, implements totheChairman and appraises and promotes a culture of open ourstrategy strategy and chairs the hisperformance debate between Executive and ExecutiveCommittee Scrutinise and constructively Non-Executive Directors Acts as intermediary for other challenge the performance of Directors if needed Regularly meets with the Group management in the execution ChiefExecutive and other senior ofour strategy Available to respond to shareholder management to stay informed concerns when contact through the normal channels is inappropriate Ensures effective communication with our shareholders Role and responsibilities Company Secretary Supports the Chairman and Group Chief Executive in fulfilling their duties Available to all Directors for advice and support Audit Nomination Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Role and responsibilities Role and responsibilities Role and responsibilities Monitoring the integrity of the Determining the structure, size and Recommending to the Board the Groups financial statements composition of the Board Companys policy on executive remuneration Reviewing significant accounting Making recommendations in and reporting judgements relation to the re-election of Setting overarching principles and Directors retiring by rotation parameters and the governance Reviewing the effectiveness of framework of the Groups theinternal audit and external Conducting performance remuneration policy auditprocess evaluations of Directors Determining the individual Reviewing the Groups procedures Succession planning remuneration and benefits for detecting and preventing fraud, packageof each of the bribery and the governance of CompanysExecutive Directors anti-money laundering systems andits Company Secretary andcontrols Read more on pages 52 to 55 Read more on page 56 Read more on pages 57 to 73 Risk Management Health, Safety, Executive Committee Environment and Committee Quality Committee Role and responsibilities Role and responsibilities Role and responsibilities Monitoring and assessing the Determining the policy, objectives Responsible for identification of effectiveness of the Groups risk and targets for the Groups operational and strategic risks and control processes healthand safety compliance Responsible for ownership and andperformance Co-ordinating the implementation control of specific risks by management of Group policies Ensuring adequate training and Responsible for establishing and on risk and control communication to achieve the managing the implementation of Groups health and safety objectives Overseeing the administration of appropriate action plans the Groups insurance arrangements, Determining the policy, objectives providing assurance to the Audit and targets for the Groups quality Committee that such monitoring and environmental compliance and assessment of the Groups andperformance internal control systems is Ensuring adequate training and beingundertaken communication to achieve the Groups quality and environmental objectives Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017 Corporate governance report continued 48 Board and Committee attendance The number of Board and Committee meetings attended by each Director during the 2017 financial year is as follows: Audit Remuneration Nomination Overall Board Committee Committee Committee attendance Number of meetings held 10 4 4 2 David Howell 10 10 4 4 2 2 100% Ian Sutcliffe 10 10 100% Rebecca Worthington 10 10 100% Richard Adam 10 10 4 4 4 4 2 2 100% 1 Amanda Burton 9 10 4 4 4 4 2 2 95% Federico Canciani 10 10 2 2 100% Baroness Morgan 10 10 4 4 4 4 2 2 100% 2 James Van Steenkiste 6 7 86% 1.
Amanda Burton was unable to attend a Board meeting which was called at short notice due to a prior engagement.
James Van Steenkiste resigned as a Director on 5 June 2017 so the attendance covers his period of office.
Board analysis Composition Length of tenure Gender diversity Non-Executive Non-Executives Chairman 4 1 3 years 23 years Male Female 5 2 57% 43% Executives 2 Review of Board effectiveness The 2017 Board and Committee evaluation process started with a written A list of specific actions was agreed to address the comments made questionnaire for all Directors, followed by individual interviews during byDirectors, including the continued improvement of senior management which Board members were invited to evaluate and comment on the succession plans.
During the 2017 evaluation process, the Non-Executive operation of the Board and its Committees.
The Chairman and Company Directors in the absence of the Chairman met with Richard Adam, as Secretary met to discuss the results of the process and a report was Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, to review the performance submitted to the Board setting out the principal issues raised and of David Howell during 2017.
Mr Adam later debriefed the Chairman.
AllNon-Executive Directors and the Chairman then met to evaluate theperformance of the Group Chief Executive, Ian Sutcliffe.
Finally, the The principal issue raised in the 2017 performance evaluation was Board and Group Chief Executive joined the meeting to brief the Board on the Executive succession planning which was discussed at the September 2017 performance of the Group Chief Financial Officer, Rebecca Worthington.
Based on the feedback received, the Board concluded performance of the Non-Executive Directors during 2017 was reviewed by that the Board and its Committees continue to operate effectively.
David Howell, taking into account the views of the other Directors.
STAGE 1 STAGE 2 STAGE 3 STAGE 4 STAGE 5 Comprehensive One-on-one Evaluation Reporting and Non-Executive questionnaire interviews discussion with Directors meeting theBoard with Senior Independent Following a briefing by The Company Secretary Having prepared a draft The Board discussed the Director the Company Secretary interviewed each Director report of the principal content of the report of the requirements of on the content of their issues and observations atits meeting on The Non-Executive the Code, eachDirector questionnaires and further made, the Chairman and 13September.
The Directors met with the completed a questionnaire explored issues raised or Company Secretary met Board discussed the Senior Independent on the process, composition, comments made.
to prepare the report and effectiveness of actions Director to evaluate the content, performance proposed actions for taken following the 2017 performance of the and effectiveness of consideration by review and agreed actions Chairman, taking into theBoard and each of theBoard.
for improvement for 2018. account the views of itsCommittees.
Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 49 The Board continued BOARD SITE VISIT TO GATEACRE Relationship Agreement ANDBELGRAVIA, LIVERPOOL withOaktree For so long as Oaktree qualifies as a controlling shareholder according to the Listing Rules LR6.1.
4D, the Company is required to have CREATING PLACES OF REAL in place a written and legally binding agreement QUALITY AND DEVELOPING which is intended to ensure that Oaktree complies with the independence provisions set out in ASENSE OF COMMUNITY.
Details of the Relationship Agreement entered into with Oaktree are set out in the Directors Report on page 74.
During 2017, the Board visited 11 different executive team, followed by a tour of the Role and responsibilities of theBoard development sites, including at least one in two sites, led by Ian Kelley and his each business region as outlined on pages respective site managers.
The Board is collectively responsible to 50 and 51. shareholders for creating and sustaining The prior evening, the Board was joined by shareholder value through the management On 13 September 2017, the Board visited senior management representatives from ofthe Groups businesses, and the long-term twosites in our Partnerships North Region the Liverpool, Manchester and the new success of the Group.
It sets the Groups Gateacre and Belgravia both inLiverpool.
West Midlands businesses, to discuss the strategic plan and budgets, monitors their The visits started with a presentation by Groups performance and expansion plans implementation and, with the assistance of Ian Kelley Chief Executive of Partnerships inthe North West and the Midlands.
theAudit Committee, ensures that executive North and members of his senior management maintains a system of internal operational, financial and regulatory controls that identify and manage appropriately the risksset out on pages 38 and 39.
Summary of matters reserved forthe Board The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision, which includes the approval of half-year and full-year financial statements, changes to the Companys capital structure and significant investments, contracts, acquisitions, mergers and disposals.
These reserved matters were last reviewed by the Board on 20 November 2017.
Other specific responsibilities are delegated to the Board Committees, which operate within clearly defined terms of reference.
Full details of the schedule of matters reservedfor decision by the Board and theresponsibilities delegated to the Board Committees can be found on the Groups website at investors.
The roles of the Chairman Formal papers are circulated to the Directors Directors inductions, before each Board meeting, which enable them andtheGroup Chief Executive  to make an informed decision on the issues under The roles of the Chairman and the Group Countryside has a structured induction programme consideration.
In addition to formal Board meetings, Chief Executive are clearly segregated and the for all newly appointed Non-Executive Directors during 2017 the Chairman maintained regular division of responsibilities between them is set which includes visits to the business divisions contact with the Group Chief Executive, the out in writing and was last agreed by the Board and their respective management teams in each Group Chief Financial Officer and other senior on 16October 2017.
The Chairman is responsible of Countrysides business sectors and meetings executive management to discuss specific issues.
for leadership of the Board, and ensuring its with members of the Executive Committee.
The Company Secretary acts as an advisor to effectiveness by facilitating debate and the The Non-Executive Director selected to replace the Board on matters concerning governance contribution of Non-Executive Directors.
Richard Adam will undergo Countrysides induction and ensures compliance with Board procedures.
Meeting agendas are set by collaboration programme.
Newly appointed Directors have All Directors had access to the Company Secretarys between the Chairman, the Group Chief access to theCompany Secretarys assistance advice and during 2017 this was sought from Executive and the Company Secretary.
both inorientation and guidance around the time to time.
Directors may also take independent TheGroup Chief Executive is responsible for Countryside Group, in addition to the exposure professional advice at the Companys expense.
running Countrysides business, and providing gained at regular Board meetings.
In the event that any Director has concerns strategic leadership to the Group, in All Directors receive ongoing updates on the about the running of the Company, or a proposed consultation with the Board.
Companys projects and activities and onlegal action, which cannot be resolved within the and regulatory changes.
In 2017 thisincluded Board forum, such concerns may be reflected briefings on the requirements andimplementation in the Board minutes.
Minutes of each Board of the new General Data Protection Regulation meeting are circulated by the Company Secretary effective from May 2018 and the Criminal following the meeting to allow such comments Finance Act, and changes to the Consumer to be raised.
Code for Home Builders in April 2017.
Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017 Corporate governance report continued 50 The Board continued Communications withshareholders The Board places importance on communication with shareholders and gives them the opportunity to Directors interests meet the Chairman and Directors as appropriate.
Shareholders will continue to be given the opportunity Under Countrysides Articles of Association, to meet the Chairman and Directors in the coming 12 months.
Arrangements can be made for major the Board may authorise any actual or potential shareholders to meet with any newly appointed Directors.
The Companys Investor Relations team conflicts of interest for Directors.
Each Director organises an ongoing programme of dialogue and meetings between the Group Chief Executive provides the Company Secretary with information and Group Chief Financial Officer and institutional investors, fund managers and analysts.
Brokers regarding any actual or potential interests that reports and investors feedback are circulated regularly to the Board, who discuss these and any may conflict with those of Countryside, such other key matters relating to investors.
In each case the Board, in conjunction with advisors where asother directorships, and any other potential appropriate, determines the strategy to address significant issues raised.
interests that each thinks may cause a conflict requiring prior Board authorisation on a The Companys Annual General Meeting on 25 January 2018 will provide a valuable opportunity for semi-annual basis.
If the circumstances of any the Board to communicate with private investors.
We encourage shareholders to attend the meeting ofthese disclosed interests change, the relevant and to ask questions of any of the Directors following the conclusion of the formal part of the meeting.
Director is required to update the Company Details of proxy voting by shareholders, including votes withheld, will be made available onrequest Secretary promptly.
The register setting out each and will be placed on the Companys website following the meeting.
Directors current disclosures where relevant was last reviewed and approved by the Board at its meeting on 16 October 2017.
In each such situation, the Director under consideration didnot vote on the matter.
The Board will continue to review the register of interests What the Board did in 2016 17 regularly to ensure the authorisations, and any In the year ended 30 September 2017, significant discussions, transactions and appointments conditions attached to them, are appropriate approved by the Board over and above the scheduled matters outlined on page 49 included: for the relevant matter to remain authorised.
The Company Secretary maintains a list of all authorisations granted to Directors, setting out the date of authorisation and its expiry and October 2016 January 2017 scope and any limitations imposed as applicable.
Housebuilding Millgate site visits Annual General Meeting Tenure, election and Review of health and safety re-appointment of Directors Review of operational All Non-Executive Directors, excluding the efficiencyprogramme Chairman, have three-year appointments from 17 December 2015.
The Chairmans three-year Briefing on proposed changes to UKcorporate governance appointment started on 14 December 2015.
All Non-Executive Director appointments may Review of anti-slavery procedures be terminated by either party upon three months or in the case ofDavid Howell, six months written notice, or by shareholder vote at the AGM.
The Non-Executive Directors do not have any entitlement to compensation if their office is terminated.
Full details of the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors can be found on page 67 of the Remuneration Report.
Under the Articles of Association, all Directors are subject to re-election at the AGM at intervals of no more than three years.
In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors 2016 except for Richard Adam, given his resignation will be put forward for re-election atthe 2018 AGM.
The Board believes thateachof the November 2016 February 2017 Directors makes a valuable contribution to Approval of 2016 year-end results Housebuilding site visits Countryside, and supports their re-election Succession planning ineach case.
Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 51 Major shareholders www.
Oaktree Capital Management Private Equity 23.0% 2.
Aviva Investors Global Services Ltd. 8.6% 5.
Ruffer LLP 5.4% March 2017 June 2017 September 2017 Review of Market, Product and Housebuilding site visits Partnerships North site visits Groupstrategy Review of investor Approval of 2018 Budget roadshowfeedback Approval of Principal Risks Approval of insurance renewalprogramme Review of Board and Committeeevaluation 2017 July 2017 May 2017 Review of cyber risk Partnerships South site visits mitigationmeasures Review of five-year forecast Risk review Approval of 2017 Interim results Review of fire control materials andprocedures Corporate governance review Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017
