GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT DEAR SHAREHOLDER On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Nomination Committees Report for the financial year ended 30 September 2017.
Last year, I shared my thoughts with you on the resilience of the Board and its committees to respond and adapt to the changing needs of the business.
Whilst succession planning is a matter for thewhole Board, the Nomination Committee has an important role to play in ensuring that there is an appropriate balance of diversity, skills and experience so that the Board makes an effective contribution to the success of the Company.
CEO SUCCESSION Succession planning at Board level has, and continues to be, a key area of focus for Committee discussions and activities.
On 21 September 2017, we announced a significant change in the Maintaining Groups Board.
Richard Cousins, who has been an outstanding Chief Executive for the past 11 years, will step down from his role on 31 March 2018 and retire from the Group on 30 September 2018. continuity It has been a huge pleasure to work with Richard and, on behalf of the Board, I want to thank him for his extraordinary contribution to the Group.
Richard has transformed Compass into a sustainable, and building industry-leading organisation that delivers excellent food services to our customers, attracts and develops great people and generates significant returns for shareholders.
diversity of The Board employs the services of executive search firms as part ofthe external search process to identify potential Board and senior skills and management candidates.
In preparation for the Group Chief Executive succession, the Committee considered the credentials of anumber of providers before recommending the appointment of the experience international recruitment firm considered best placed to meet the brief.
The recruitment firm chosen, Korn Ferry, was considered to beindependent of, and had no other links with, the Company or Richard Cousins will retire from the Board on 31 March itsdirectors in connection with the brief.
2018 after nearly 12 years as Group Chief Executive.
The candidate assessment process included the development I am delighted that Richard will be succeeded by Dominic ofasuccess profile, an assessment of senior Compass executives Blakemore, our former Chief Operating Officer, Europe.
andaparallel mapping of external candidates.
The Committee andImanaged the assessment process.
Dominic became Deputy Group Chief Executive Officer on1 October 2017, and will take over as Group Chief The initial key element of the process was to build consensus and Executive Officer on 1 April 2018.
In the ensuing period, he clarity on the major challenges and opportunities to face the next and Richard will work closely to ensure a smooth transition.
Group Chief Executive and to translate this into a profile of the ideal candidate.
Internal potential successors were assessed against this Dominics appointment was the result of a rigorous profile which was also used as a yardstick against which to measure succession process.
He is exceptionally well qualified and compare possible external nominees.
The profile covered tolead the business, and has already contributed fourimportant elements of leadership: past experience, leadership significantly to the Group, for four years as Group Finance competences, personality traits and individual motivations Director and, for the past two years, managing our anddrivers.
Dominic has the leadership skills combined with the industry and operational experience Each of the non-executive directors, including myself, as well as tolead Compass to continued future success.
He also MrCousins, completed a survey in which we selected key past benefits from the support of a very strong senior experiences and leadership competencies that we all felt were management team and together they will continue to build important to see in the next Group Chief Executive.
Interviews were on the Groups strong track record under Richards tenure.
also conducted with each of the contributors to gain their views on the future challenges and opportunities facing the next Group Chief The Board looks forward to working with Dominic in his Executive and, in light of that, to review their selection of experiences new role.
Directors were also asked to provide their views as to the nature of the role and culture of the Group.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 65 GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED A detailed success profile was then developed which was discussed Accordingly, Mrs Vittal will seek re-election as a director of the and agreed by the Committee.
Senior executives identified by the Board as possible successors In May 2017, Stefan Bomhard completed his first full year as a were individually assessed.
The assessment comprised the non-executive director and, having completed her nine year tenure, followingelements: Susan Murray stepped down from the Board at the conclusion of the Companys 2017 AGM.
Mrs Murray was succeeded by Nelson Silva a benchmark interview of past experiences and career conducted as Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
Mrs Murrays by two executive search experts retirement from the Board means that we are currently falling short a behavioural interview of leadership competences conducted of the voluntary target set by Lord Davies to have 33% female byan advisory coaching expert representation on the Board by 2020, but this will be taken into completion of multiple online personality, aptitude and consideration as will the voluntary target set by Sir John Parker on  diversity by the Committee when next recruiting a director.
an assessment of leadership potential However, our primary consideration is to have the right blend 360 degree feedback ofskills, knowledge, experience and independence and for that reason, recommendations for any future appointments will continue a two day simulation exercise using a detailed case study to be made on merit.
In parallel with the assessment of the internal candidates, a detailed ACTIVITY DURING THE YEAR global scan was conducted to identify possible external nominees.
Over 500 possible companies that met scale and sector criteria were The markets in which the Company operates are intrinsically identified and from that an initial set of over 100 possible nominees dynamic.
The Board and its committees must therefore adapt and was created.
This was refined down to a target group of 35 which evolve to ensure that they have the optimum composition to make was further reduced to a shortlist of 10 external potential nominees.
the most effective contribution to help the Company achieve its strategic goals.
After detailed discussions and careful debate, the Committee concluded, having taken all of the feedback into consideration, During the year, the Committee together with the Board itself thatnone of the external potential nominees was sufficiently continued to focus on succession planning for both executive and strongerthan the internal senior executives.
In doing so, it considered the tenure, mix and diversity of skills and experience of existing Board members and When Mr Cousins notified me of his intention to retire from the those required of prospective Board members in the context of the Company, the Committee was, therefore, in a position to be able Groups medium and long term strategy.
tomake a recommendation to the Board for his succession.
The recommendation, which the Board approved, was that Dominic THE YEAR AHEAD Blakemore should be appointed as Deputy Group Chief Executive Compass has a strong Board of Directors with a broad range of from 1 October 2017 and that he should succeed Mr Cousins from experience which has driven the Companys success.
1 April 2018 to enable a smooth transition.
The Committee and the Board believe that our directors are well OTHER CHANGES TO THE BOARD qualified to further advance the interests of the Companys In the run up to the Companys 2017 AGM, votes were lodged by shareholders, as well as its employees, customers, partners and shareholders against Mrs Vittals reappointment as a director based communities and that Dominic Blakemore, as Richard Cousins on concerns that she held too many other directorships such that successor, has the leadership skills, combined with the industry and she could not devote sufficient time to her duties at Compass.
The operational experience, to build on the Groups strong track record.
Company sought through positive dialogue to engage and address In the year ahead we will continue to keep succession planning shareholder concerns, but, unfortunately, Mrs Vittal received only under review to ensure that we can retain and attract the best 63.45% of the votes cast in favour of her re-election.
talent to support our corporate strategy to deliver sustainable On 3 February 2017, the Company issued a statement confirming organic growth.
that Mrs Vittal would review her portfolio and seek to reduce her number of directorships, notwithstanding that Mrs Vittals time commitment and contribution to Compass had not been adversely affected by her other roles.
Paul Walsh Mrs Vittal has now concluded the review of her non-executive Chairman of the Nomination Committee portfolio which she had agreed to undertake after the 2017 AGM.
Mrs Vittal has stepped down from one of the private Indian 21 November 2017 companies of which she was a director and is in the process of relinquishing her directorships of two further public Indian companies.
These will become effective by 30 June 2018, by which time she will remain a director of five Indian companies.
I very much welcome Mrs Vittals proactive review of her portfolio which I trust will address shareholders concerns about potential overboarding.
66 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 GOVERNANCE The Nomination Committee has standing items that it considers THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE regularly under its terms of reference: for example, the Committee COMPOSITION reviews its own terms of reference annually, or as required, to The Nomination Committee comprises Paul Walsh, Chairman, reflectchanges to the Code or as a result of changes in regulations Richard Cousins, Group Chief Executive and all of the non-executive or best practice.
directors in office at the date of this Report.
SUCCESSION PLANNING AND DIVERSITY The Nomination Committee meets on an as needed basis.
The The Company adopts a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure Committee met twice during the year and members attendance for the appointment of new directors and senior executives with due isset out in the table below.
regard to diversity and gender.
Prior to making an appointment, the MEETINGS ATTENDANCE Nomination Committee will evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge, 1 NAME ATTENDANCE independence, experience and diversity on the Board and, in light of Paul Walsh 2 of 2 this evaluation, will prepare a description of the role and capabilities Carol Arrowsmith 2 of 2 required, with a view to ensuring that the best placed individual for John Bason 2 of 2 the role is recommended to the Board for appointment.
In identifying suitable candidates, the Nomination Committee normally: Stefan Bomhard 2 of 2 Richard Cousins 2 of 2 uses open advertising or the services of external advisors to 2 Susan Murray 0 of 0 facilitate the search Don Robert 2 of 2 considers candidates from different genders and a wide range Nelson Silva 2 of 2 of backgrounds Ireena Vittal 2 of 2 considers candidates on merit and against objective criteria, ensuring that appointees have sufficient time to devote to the 1.
The number of meetings attended out of the number of meetings which each director member was eligible to attend.
position, in light of other potentially significant commitments 2.
Stepped down from the Board and its committees at the conclusion of the The Board continues to believe that gender based or other types of Companys AGM on 2 February 2017. targets are inappropriate and that the blend of skills, knowledge and OBJECTIVES experience is of paramount importance.
The Nomination Committees key objective is to review and monitor the Boards composition and to ensure that the Board comprises individuals with the right blend of skills, knowledge and experience to maintain a high degree of effectiveness in discharging its responsibilities.
RESPONSIBILITIES The Nomination Committee reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board and its committees and makes recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes considered necessary in the identification and nomination of new directors, the reappointment of existing directors and appointment ofmembers to the Boards committees.
It also assesses the roles ofthe existing directors in office to ensure that there continues to bea balanced board in terms of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity.
The Committee reviews the senior leadership needs of theGroup to enable it to compete effectively in the marketplace andadvises the Board on succession planning for executive directorappointments, although the Board itself is responsible .
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 67
