Report of the Audit Committee 52 The Committee also ensured that Dear Shareholders, recommendations for internal control During the year, the Committee continued improvements were being implemented by inits oversight role on behalf of the Board, management on a timely basis.
The Committee protecting the interests of shareholders by continued to monitor the integrity of the monitoring the Groups internal control Groups financial statements, including the framework, financial management and the keyjudgements and estimates applied by integrity of published financial information management, and scrutinised the scope, aswell as the effectiveness of the internal performance and effectiveness of the external andexternal audit processes.
Particular areas of focus were To ensure that the Group received the best Committee Chairman the Groups taxation strategy ahead of support in managing its risk framework, it Richard Adam itspublication on the Groups website in was decided to undertake anexternal tender September 2017, profit recognition, carrying Other members process for the Groups internal audit services.
value of inventory and shared equity loans, The Audit Committee reviewed high-quality Amanda Burton Viability Statement testing and presentation proposals from KPMG and Mazars, and Sally Morgan ofnon-underlying items.
considered the alternative ofbringing the As well as the activities described above, Meetings held Internal Audit function in house, deciding theCommittee is provided with a number 4 ultimately torecommend the appointment ofcomplementary reports by management ofKPMG from 1October2017.
Thisdecision Role and responsibilities of the and the internal and external auditors.
was subsequently approved bythe Board.
AuditCommittee TheCommittee has regularly met both The Committee determined the scope of theinternal and external auditors without Monitoring the integrity of the internal audit activity for the 2017 financial management being present and I have discussed Groupsfinancial statements year and reviewed the findings of audits various matters with the Group Chief Financial  performed during the year.
Officer and Company Secretary in relation Reviewing significant accounting and toissues relevant to the Committees work.
reporting judgements Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness Richard Adam of the Companys internal audit function Chairman of the Audit Committee Making recommendations in relation to 21 November 2017 the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external auditor The financial reporting process and control Composition Monitoring auditor independence system which includes the preparation of the During 2017, the composition of the Audit consolidated financial statements is monitored Developing and implementing policy Committee complied with the Code and and maintained through the use of internal control onnon-audit services provided by the comprised three Independent Non-Executive frameworks which address key financial reporting external auditor Directors: Richard Adam, Amanda Burton and risks, including risks arising from changes in the Sally Morgan.
The Board considers Richard Adam, Reviewing the Groups risk management business or accounting standards.
Effectiveness the Chairman, to have recent and relevant financial framework and key internal controls is assessed through self-certification and experience working with financial and accounting Reviewing the Groups procedures for independent testing of the controls.
The Audit Committee maintains a detecting and preventing fraud, bribery formal agenda for each year to ensure compliance and the governance of anti-money with the requirements of the Code, and met Whistleblowing laundering systems and controls four times during the year.
The Groups whistleblowing policy is supported by an external helpline.
All cases of whistleblowing The Audit Committees terms of reference Details of attendance at the Audit Committee are investigated by the Company Secretary and are located on Countrysides website at: meetings during the 2017 financial year are set the results of any investigations are reported investors.
com out on page 53. tothe Audit Committee.
satisfied that the policy and its administration Internal controls Areas of focus in 2017 remain effective.
The Board, assisted by the Audit Committee, Reviewing the key judgements and isresponsible for regularly reviewing the estimates relating to the Groups interim Risk management operation and effectiveness of the Groups and full-year results The successful management of risk is critical internal controls.
The internal control system is toachieving Countrysides strategic objectives.
Considering the presentation of designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk The Board has delegated responsibility for non-underlying items of failure to achieve business objectives and can reviewing and maintaining effective risk only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance Reviewing the forecasts and sensitivity management systems and internal controls to against material errors, losses or fraud.
The Board analyses underlying the Groups the Audit Committee.
Day-to-day management is also responsible for ensuring that appropriate ViabilityStatement of the Groups risk management framework is systems are in place to enable it toidentify, conducted by the Risk Management Committee.
Considering applicable taxation and assess and manage key risks.
Its membership and role are detailed on page 47. accounting matters Leading the tender process for the provision of internal audit services, with the selection of KPMG endorsed by the Board on 16October 2017 Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 53 The Board reviews the Group risk register annually, The Audit Committee Chairman reported its Group Chief Financial Officer, but has the right with the last review occurring on 16 October 2017. findings to the Board at the 20 November to report to the Audit Committee Chairman In managing risk we analyse the nature and extent 2017 Board meeting.
It considered all material independently of the Executive Directors.
of risks and consider their likelihood and impact, controls in accordance with the Turnbull Allsignificant Internal Audit reports are reviewed both on an inherent and a residual basis, after guidance.
Following this review no significant by the Executive Committee and the Audit taking account of mitigating controls.
This allows weaknesses or failings were identified and noted Committee and all reports are made available us to determine how we should manage each improvement areas are being addressed by to the external auditor.
During the year the risk in order to achieve our strategic objectives.
Theinternal control environment Audit Committee approved the internal audit will continue to be monitored and reviewed plan, reviewed the findings from audits and At the quarterly meetings of the Risk Management bythe Board and the AuditCommittee.
monitored the follow-up of actions identified Committee, management discusses the key risks inaudits.
along with the mitigating action plans.
Following Fair, balanced and understandable sign off by the Executive Committee, the output Oversight of the external audit At the request of the Board, the Audit Committee of this review is presented to the Audit Committee.
considered whether the 2017 Annual Report Following a tender for external audit and audit-related The Groups key risk management procedures was fair, balanced and understandable and whether services in 2016, the Audit Committee and have been in place throughout 2017 and up to it provided the necessary information for the Board selected  LLP the date of approval of this Annual Report.
shareholders to assess the Groups performance, PwC.
PwCs appointment was approved business model and strategy.
TheAudit Committee byshareholders at the 2017 AGM.
The Overview of risk took into account its own knowledge of the Committees oversight of the external auditor managementprocess Group, its strategy andperformance in the includes reviewing and approving the annual Internal control year and comprehensive reviews undertaken at audit plan.
In reviewing the plan, the Committee The Groups key internal control procedures different levels in the Group to ensure consistency discusses and challenges the auditors assessment include the following: and overall balance.
A similar detailed review of materiality and financial reporting risk areas undertaken by senior management and the most likely to give rise to material error.
review of the Groups strategy and the results of the external audit were also taken performance of principal subsidiaries, PwC reported to the Board and confirmed its into account by the Audit Committee.
through a comprehensive system of independence in accordance with ethical standards reporting based on variances to annual Prior to the publication of both the interim and that it had maintained appropriate internal budgets, key performance indicators andfull-year results for the Group, the Audit safeguards to ensure its independence andregular forecasting: Committee undertook a detailed assessment andobjectivity.
ofthe appropriateness of the adoption by a quarterly business review for each business The Committee considered the findings of theGroup of the going concern basis in division.
This covers financial performance, a theFRCs Audit Quality Review AQR teams thepreparation of the financial statements.
detailed range of strategic risks, report into the conduct of PwC audits generally.
Forfurther information in respect of going opportunities and KPI metrics which Inaddition, the AQR team selected to review concern, please refer to the Directors Report measure the overall performance of the the audit of the Groups 2016 financial statements onpages 74 to 76. business sector.
This process also identifies as part of its annual inspection of audit firms.
the key operational issues and actions Shortly before publication of the full-year financial The chairman of the Committee received a copy required to address any deficiencies: results for 2017, the Audit Committee undertook of the findings of the AQR team and has discussed a detailed assessment of the Viability Statement this with PwC.
Whilst there were no significant well defined Group policies and processes, and recommended to the Board that the findings, some areas of PwCs audit procedures communicated through the Group Financial Directors can believe that they have a reasonable were identified as requiring improvement and Reporting Procedures Manual and the intranet, expectation that the Company will be able to we are satisfied with the responses implemented and a defined process governing the approval continue in operation and meet its liabilities as by PwC in the audit of the Groups 2017 financial of sales opportunities and capital expenditure: they fall due over the three-year period of their statements.
None of the findings related to the assessment.
For the detailed Viability Statement, Groups accounting policies.
a defined organisational structure with appropriate delegation of authority across please refer to our risk section on page 37 of the Strategic Report.
alllevels of the organisation: Committee attendance formal authorisation procedures for Internal Audit The number of Audit Committee meetings allinvestments with clear guidelines on The work performed by Deloitte, which attended by each member during the 2017 appraisal techniques and success criteria: and financial year is as follows: performed Internal Audit services throughout formal authorisation procedures for all the year, focused on areas of greatest risk to the Audit Overall significant sales opportunities and bid Group, including those matters identified Committee attendance management, with clear guidelines on through the risk management framework and success criteria and contracting practices.
Number of any significant change projects occurring within meetings held 4 the business.
The Audit Committee has, on behalf of the Richard Adam 4 4 100% Board, conducted an annual review of the The objective of Internal Audit is to provide effectiveness of the Groups internal control independent assurance to the Audit Committee Amanda Burton 4 4 100% systems for 2017 and the period prior to over the financial, operational and compliance Sally Morgan 4 4 100% approval of this Annual Report.
controls and to assist the Audit Committee in its assessment of the effectiveness of internal controls.
Internal Audit reports directly to the Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017 Report of the Audit Committee continued 54 Non-audit services policy During the year the Group obtained the following services from the Groups auditor as The total of non-audit fees paid to PwC during detailedbelow: the year is set out in the table opposite.
In order to maintain its independence and objectivity, 2017 2016 PwC undertook its standard independence m m procedures inrelation to each of these assignments.
Fees payable to the Groups auditor and its associates for the audit of parent The Audit Committee has received a report at and consolidated financial statements 0.1 0.1 each meeting describing the extent of such services provided by PwC.
Fees payable to the Groups auditor and its associates for other services: The award of non-audit services to the Companys Audit of subsidiary companies 0.1 0.1 external auditor is subject to controls agreed Audit of joint ventures 0.1 0.1 by the Audit Committee to monitor and maintain the objectivity and independence of the external Audit-related services 0.1 0.1 auditor.
In order to comply with the Ethical Other advisory services 0.1 Standard for Auditors, the Audit Committee considered, and re-approved, the Groups policy Audit-related assurance and transaction services in relation to the IPO 1.3 for auditor independence and the provision ofnon-audit services at its meeting on 0.4 1.8 3October2017.
The policy provides details of permitted, prohibited and audit-related services in accordance with the Ethical Standard.
Services including, inter alia, those relating to taxation, internal audit, the design or implementation of internal controls and HR services are prohibited.
Authority to approve permitted non-audit services has been INFORMATION delegated to the Group Chief Financial Officer SECURITY REVIEW where the services are considered to be clearly trivial, defined as those with a fee of less than 50,000.
Where the services are not clearly ENSURING THAT THE GROUPS trivial, or where the cumulative fee in the financial year exceeds 100,000, pre-approval is required INFORMATION IS SECURE AND from the Audit Committee.
Further Audit Committee approval is required when non-audit MANAGED CORRECTLY HAS BEEN fees reach 70 per cent of the average audit fees AKEYFOCUS IN 2017. over the last three years, although this cap will not formally apply to the Group until the financial year beginning on 1October 2019.
As part of Countrysides review of risk A presentation of the results was made to management, a thorough information security the Board on 27 July 2017 and a detailed review was conducted between 28June and roadmap of improvements is being put in 13 July 2017.
Overseen by the Groups IT place with the support of our security Management Committee, the project was partners and the Board.
led by the Group IT Director, with the An internal audit by Deloitte, to confirm the supportof our security partners, Saepio Groups assessment of cyber risk readiness, andPenTestPartners.
was carried out in October with the results The review consisted of an internal and reviewed by the Executive Committee and external penetration test followed by an the Audit Committee during November 2017.
Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 55 Annual evaluation of Audit Committee performance As part of the overall Board evaluation process, the Audit Committee reviewed its effectiveness during 2017.
This evaluation considered areas such as its composition, its effectiveness in reviewing the work of the internal and external auditors and the Groups internal control systems, the quality of reporting and the management of risk.
No significant issues were raised and the Audit Committee concluded that it continues to operate effectively.
Areas of significant judgement considered by the Audit Committee in 2017 The Audit Committee considered the following matters in respect of the Groups financial statements, based upon its interaction with both management and the external auditor during the year.
Significant matters considered Our response to these matters The Audit Committee has reviewed and approved the Groups Estimation of site profitability accounting policy in relation to profit recognition.
As disclosed in Note 1 to the financial statements, gross profit is recognised as homes are sold based on a profit margin for the development taken as a whole.
The external auditor regularly examines the allocation of revenue Calculating this margin includes forecasting revenue and costs for the development and costs as a routine part of the external audit and no significant as well as allocating land and infrastructure costs on a pro-rata basis.
issues have been identified in this regard.
Profit recognition in relation to commercial land transactions can be subjective and dependent on contractual terms.
The accuracy of allocation is monitored at Board level via the monthly management accounts and quarterly forecasts, with any judgements being discussed with the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee considered managements review of the Carrying value of inventory carrying value of inventory and the appropriateness of the level Inventory is material to the Groups balance sheet and there is a risk that the ofprovisions held.
carrying value will exceed its net realisable value, particularly in challenging market conditions.
The external auditor reported on this matter to the Audit Committee at the half-year review and again for the final audit.
Management regularly reviews the carrying value of all sites under development and other inventory such as undeveloped land.
These reviews have regard The Audit Committee was satisfied that the carrying value tothe latest cash flow forecasts for the relevant development or land parcel ofinventory is appropriate.
and comparable market valuations for land where applicable.
The Audit Committee reviewed the fair value methodology and the Carrying value of shared equity loans assumptions applied in determining the fair value of the shared equity The Groups shared equity loan portfolio is held at fair value as an available-for-sale portfolio and has agreed that the carrying value is appropriate.
The fair value is calculated using a discounted cash flow forecast based on likely future redemptions and defaults, taking into account future The valuation methodology has also been audited by the external auditor.
house price inflation and discounted using an interest rate equivalent to a second charge mortgage.
Management reviews the carrying value regularly and takes into account third party evidence where available.
The Audit Committee reviewed the assumptions applied by Viability Statement testing management in arriving at the conclusion on the Groups viability The Viability Statement testing performed by management was based on the and agreed that they were reasonable.
To ensure that the financial position of the Group was robust, downside sensitivity testing was performed by applying arange of overlays including reduced sales rates and average selling prices, areduction in land sales and reduced affordable housing sales.
We also included operational inefficiency downsides including delays to the delivery ofkey sites and enhanced cost inflation.
Each of the above assumptions was based on managements assumption ofareasonable downside outcome.
Having discussed the presentation of these items outside adjusted Presentation of non-underlying items profit with the external auditor, the Committee accepted During the year, the Group presented certain restructuring costs and the managements view that the costs presented as non-underlying items impact of a change in the discount rate applied to deferred land and overage were non-recurring in nature and that it was appropriate to present payments as non-underlying items and excluded them from adjusted them outside adjusted profit.
The Committee expects that the presentation of items outside adjusted profit will be infrequent.
Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017
