GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE If a director is unable to attend a Board or committee meeting, the DIRECTOR EFFECTIVENESS AND TRAINING Chairman of the Board and or committee chairman are informed The Board meets regularly during the year as well as on an ad hoc and the absent director is encouraged to communicate comments basis, as required by business needs.
The Board met six times and opinions on the matters to be considered.
Each director also during the year and director attendance for each meeting is shown attends the AGM to answer shareholder questions.
Board activities are structured to help the Board achieve its goals and MEETINGS ATTENDANCE 1 to provide support and advice to the executive management team on NAME ATTENDANCE the delivery of Group strategy within a robust governance framework.
Carol Arrowsmith 6 of 6 John Bason 6 of 6 Throughout the year, the Board received presentations from Dominic Blakemore 6 of 6 colleagues from across the Group and regularly reviewed the periodic financial results, market consensus, competitor updates, Stefan Bomhard 6 of 6 merger and acquisition opportunities, capital expenditure and other Richard Cousins 6 of 6 matters.
We have set out some highlights from the Boards calendar Gary Green 6 of 6 during 2016-2017 below.
2 Susan Murray 2 of 2 Meetings between the non-executive directors, both with and without Don Robert 6 of 6 the presence of the Group Chief Executive, are scheduled Nelson Silva 6 of 6 in the Boards annual programme.
During the year, non-executive Johnny Thomson 6 of 6 directors met on several occasions without the presence of executives.
Ireena Vittal 6 of 6 These meetings were encouraged by the Chairman and provide the Paul Walsh 6 of 6 non-executive directors with a forum in which to share experiences and to discuss wider business topics, fostering debate in Board and 1.
The number of meetings attended out of the number of meetings eligible toattend.
committee meetings and strengthening working relationships.
Stepped down from the Board and its committees at the conclusion of the Companys AGM on 2 February 2017.
A Boards Eye View NOVEMBER 2016 FEBRUARY 2017 MAY 2017 review of HSE performance review of HSE performance review of HSE performance review of financial performance review of financial performance review of financial reviewed the draft final results announcement attended the Companys AGM performance considered the likely level of final dividend for the received a presentation related reviewed the draft interim year ended 30 September 2016 to digital and other technological results announcement and appointed a committee of the Board to deal with advancements used, or to be provisional recommendation matters related to the Companys 2016 Annual used, in the business with regard to the rate of Report and Accounts including: Education sector update interim dividend recommendation of the final dividend reviewed further details approval and release of the final results of Shareholder Return and announcement Share Capital Consolidation consideration of the Audit Committees advice as options including a draft MARCH 2017 towhether the Annual Report and Accounts, taken shareholder circular review of HSE performance as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable participated in the internal review of financial performance and provides sufficient information for shareholders evaluation of the Board reviewed shareholder return options toassess the Companys position and including the quantum, mechanics, performance, business model and strategy funding and timing ofreturn oversight of the preparation and approval of the attended offsite Board and committee Annual Report and Accounts together with the meetings which were held in San Notice of Annual General Meeting and Proxy Card Francisco and Palo Alto, giving the received a business presentation from a Board an insight into the cultural tone senior colleague of the Groups Latin American of the organisation in the USA both at business Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia client sites and elsewhere and Mexico considered the Groups biannual major risk assessment review 50 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 GOVERNANCE In addition to routine financial and operating reports and updates the Chairman ensures that the Board is kept properly informed including health and safety the Board spends time debating and andis consulted on all issues reserved to it.
Board papers and other formulating Group strategy, its performance and review.
information are distributed in a timely fashion to allow directors to beproperly briefed in advance of meetings.
In accordance with the Each year, the Board aims to hold two meetings at Group locations.
Companys Articles of Association, directors have been granted an By going out into the business, the directors are able to meet with a indemnity issued by the Company to the extent permitted by law in diverse group of colleagues on a more informal basis which greatly respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
The indemnity assists in the succession planning process.
These visits provide an would not provide any coverage where a director is proved to have opportunity to assess local management performance and potential, acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
The Company has also arranged to gain further insight into how the business works on a day to day appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal action against its basis and to speak first hand to local management and listen to directors and officers.
In accordance with best practice, the Chairman addresses the The format of visits often comprises a macroeconomic overview developmental needs of the Board as a whole, with a view to further of the country: its social and political systems: challenges and developing its effectiveness as a team, and ensures that each opportunities: a review of the competitive landscape: and a detailed director refreshes and updates his or her individual skills, knowledge review of the relevant business sectors in which the business and expertise.
operates, its people, as well as the three year plan.
A formal, comprehensive and tailored induction is given to all The Board has established a procedure for directors, if deemed non-executive directors following their appointment, including necessary, to take independent professional advice at the access to external training courses, visits to key locations within Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties.
Every director theGroup and meetings with members of the Executive Board and also has access to the Group General Counsel and Company other key senior executives.
The induction also covers a review of Secretary, who is charged with ensuring that Board procedures are the Groups governance policies, structures and business, including followed and that good corporate governance and compliance are details of the risks and operating issues facing the Group.
Together with the Group Chief Executive and the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, appointed a committee JUNE 2017 SEPTEMBER 2017 ofthe Board to agree and review of HSE performance review of HSE to deal with matters related review of financial performance performance to the half year ended attended the General Meeting related to the 1 billion review of financial 31 March 2017 and also Shareholder Return and Share Capital Consolidation, which was performance the Shareholder Return and approved by shareholders on 7 June 2017 and subsequently reviewed and agreed the Share Capital Consolidation, completed on 17 July 2017 2017-2018 budget and including approval of the three year plan covering interim accounts prepared matters such as revenue in accordance with section trends across 838 of the Companies Act geographies, the impact JULY 2017 2006 CA 2006 of foreign exchange, review of HSE performance received a presentation cashflow and likely capital review of financial performance from a senior colleague investment update on the Shareholder Return and Share Capital Consolidation regarding the Groups annual litigation update received a business review from senior colleagues of the Groups DACH business Germany, from the Group General Iberian business Spain and Portugal including a review of the Austria and Switzerland Counsel and Company demographics of the Iberian geographies, macroeconomics, Secretary sectoral mix, revenue and profit projections and a preview of considered the Groups a video used by the Spanish business to raise HSE awareness biannual major risk amongst colleagues assessment review reviewed the outcome of the internal Board evaluation which took review of the Canteen place in May 2017 vending business in treasury update and financing proposal for 2017-2018 from the the USA Head of Group Treasury, including a summary of key policies Business & Industry and the control framework sector update tax update from the Head of Group Tax Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 51 GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Succession planning is a matter for the whole Board, rather than for All of our shareholders are invited to attend our AGM which provides a committee.
The Companys Articles of Association provide that one a forum in which shareholders can put questions to the Board and third of the directors retire by rotation each year and that each the committee chairmen.
It also provides shareholders with an director will seek re-election at the AGM every three years.
However, opportunity to meet with directors on a more informal basis after in accordance with the Code, all directors submit themselves for the meeting.
New directors may be appointed by the Board, but are subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment.
The Articles of Association limit the number of directors to not less than two and not more than 20, save where shareholders decide otherwise.
Non-executive directors are normally appointed for an initial term of three years, which is reviewed and may be extended by two further three year terms.
It is Board policy that non-executive director appointments should last for no more than nine years.
Don Robert acts as the SID.
His role includes providing a sounding board for the Chairman and acting as an intermediary for the non-executive directors, where necessary.
The Board believes that Don has the appropriate experience, knowledge and independence to continue in this role.
There were a number of changes made to the composition of the Board during the year.
On 21 September 2017, we announced that Dominic Blakemore would become Deputy Group Chief Executive The Board would like to thank all those shareholders who took time with effect from 1 October 2017.
Dominic will succeed Richard to attend shareholder meetings during the year.
The Notice of Cousins as Group Chief Executive on 1 April 2018 and Richard will Meeting for the 2018 AGM, which is due to be held on Thursday retire from the Group on 30 September of the same year.
8February 2018 at Twickenham Stadium, can be found on pages 185 to 194.
We look forward to seeing you there.
On 2 February 2017, Susan Murray retired from the Board having completed her nine year tenure as a non-executive director and was BOARD EFFECTIVENESS succeeded as Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee The Chairman is responsible, with assistance from the Nomination by Nelson Silva.
Committee, for ensuring that the Company has an effective Board MAINTAINING A DIALOGUE WITH SHAREHOLDERS with a suitable range of skills, expertise and experience.
Every year, The Chairman ensures that the Board maintains an appropriate a performance evaluation of the Board and its committees is carried dialogue with shareholders.
The Group Chief Executive, Group out to ensure that they continue to be effective, that each of the Finance Director and the Investor Relations and Corporate Affairs directors demonstrates commitment to his or her respective role and Director regularly meet with institutional investors to discuss strategic has sufficient time to meet his or her commitment to the Company.
issues and to make presentations on the Companys results.
An independent external evaluation was conducted by As well as full and half year results and quarterly trading updates, EquityCommunications Limited ECL in May 2016 in line with the mandated triennial external requirement set out in the Code.
the Company publishes Regulatory News Service announcements through the London Stock Exchange and runs an active investor This was the second occasion on which ECL had conducted an independent, externally facilitated Board evaluation.
The Group General Counsel and Company Secretary also acts as an The 2016 evaluation undertaken by ECL took the form of one-on-one important focal point for communications on corporate governance interviews with all members of the Board and the Group General matters throughout the year, but with a particular intensity leading Counsel and Company Secretary.
It covered questions about Board administration, strategy and operations, Board composition, up to, during and after shareholder meetings.
committee structure and succession planning.
ECLs report on The Companys website provides an excellent means of theoutcome of the evaluation was presented to the Board at its communicating with and receiving communications from September 2016 meeting and was summarised in the 2016 Annual shareholders, potential investors and the wider stakeholder Report and Accounts.
The website contains an archive of information on This year, an internal performance evaluation was conducted by the the Companys history, leadership, governance, policies, financial results, dividend history and up to date share price information.
Chairman and the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, taking into account the principal themes which had emerged Although the non-executive directors are not formally required from the preceding external evaluation, notably, the increasing to meet the shareholders of the Company, their attendance at contribution of the newer non-executive directors to utilise their presentations of the interim and annual results is encouraged.
skill sets for the greater benefit of the Group.
52 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 GOVERNANCE The recruitment of future non-executive directors and their need for COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD PLC experience was also considered to be important with a view to As noted on page 44, the Board has established a number of replenishing the extensive PLC experience that will be lost in the committees to assist in the discharge of its duties.
medium term as non-executive directors reach their nine year The formal terms of reference for the principal committees, maximum tenures.
The 2016 Report noted that the then prospective approved by the Board and complying with the Code, are available retirement of Susan Murray would present a challenge as it would from the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary and can mean that the Company was some way short of achieving the latest also be found at www.
Terms of reference are voluntary target set by Lord Davies to have 33% female representation on the Board by 2020 and this would need to be reviewed annually by their respective committees and updated when given close consideration when recruiting a new director.
Prior to necessary to reflect changes in legislation or best practice.
making an appointment, the Nomination Committee evaluates the Directors who are not members of individual Board committees may balance of skills, knowledge, independence, experience and be invited to attend one or more meetings of those committees diversity on the Board and, in light of this evaluation, will prepare a during the year.
description of the role and capabilities required, with a view to making a recommendation to the Board of the best placed individual The Group General Counsel and Company Secretary acts as for the role.
However, the Board and the Nomination Committee will Secretary to all Board committees.
The chairmen of each of the take the 2020 target set by Lord Davies, as well as Sir John Parkers principal committees attend the AGM to respond to any shareholder initial recommendations on diversity, into consideration when questions that might be raised on a committees activities.
In addition to the principal committees, the Board has established It is the view of the Board that each of the non-executive directors the following committees: brings considerable management expertise and an independent DISCLOSURE COMMITTEE perspective to the Boards deliberations and that they are considered The Disclosure Committee ensures the accuracy and timeliness to be independent of management and free from any relationship ofpublic announcements of the Company and monitors the or circumstance that could affect, or appear to affect, the exercise Companys obligations under the UKLA Rules and the DGTR.
Overall, the Board considered the performance of each director to be effective and concluded that Meetings are held as required.
At the date of this Report, the both the Board and its committees continue to provide effective Disclosure Committee comprises Johnny Thomson, Group Finance leadership and exert the required levels of governance and control.
Director: Mark White, Group General Counsel and Company The Board will continue to review its procedures, effectiveness and Secretary: the Group Financial Controller: the Director of Group development in the year ahead.
Internal Audit: the Group Director of Strategy and the Investor Relations and Corporate Affairs Director.
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST As part of their ongoing development, the executive directors may seek EXECUTIVE BOARD one external non-executive role on a non-competitor board, for which The Executive Board is the key management committee for the they may retain the remuneration in respect of the appointment.
In Group and, at the date of this Report, comprises the executive order to avoid any conflict of interest, all appointments are subject to directors of the Company and Robin Mills Group HR Director : Board approval and the Board monitors the extent of directors other Sandra Moura Investor Relations and Corporate Affairs Director : interests and the time commitment required to fulfil those interests to Alfredo Ruiz Plaza Regional Managing Director, Latin America : ensure that its effectiveness is not compromised.
Mark van Dyck Regional Managing Director, Asia Pacific : and Mark White Group General Counsel and Company Secretary.
Each director has a duty under the CA 2006 to avoid a situation in which he or she has or can have a direct or indirect interest that The Executive Board meets regularly and is responsible for conflicts or possibly may conflict with the interests of the Company.
developing the Groups strategy, capital expenditure and investment This duty is in addition to the obligation that he or she owes to the budgets.
It reports on these areas to the Board forapproval, Company to disclose to the Board an interest in any transaction or implementing Group policy, monitoring health and safety, financial, arrangement under consideration by the Company.
The Companys operational and customer quality of service performance, Articles of Association authorise the directors to approve such purchasing and supply chain issues, succession planning situations and to include other provisions to allow conflicts of interest and dayto day management of the Group.
The Board follows an established procedure when GENERAL BUSINESS COMMITTEE deciding whether to authorise an actual or potential conflict of The General Business Committee comprises all of the executive interest.
Only independent directors i. e. those who have no interest directors and meets as required to conduct the Companys in the matter under consideration will be able to make the relevant business within clearly defined limits delegated by the Board decision and, in making the decision, the directors must act in good andsubject to those matters reserved to the Board.
faith and in a way they consider will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
Furthermore, the directors may, if appropriate, AUDIT COMMITTEE PAGE 54 impose limits or conditions when granting authorisation.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE PAGE 62 Any authorities are reviewed at least every 15 months.
The Board NOMINATION COMMITTEE PAGE 65 considered and authorised each directors reported actual and REMUNERATION COMMITTEE PAGE 68 potential conflicts of interest at its July 2017 Board meeting and considers any changes on an ad hoc basis throughout the year.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 53
