APPOINTMENTS GOVERNANCE Shaftesbury Annual Report 2017 RE-ELECTION TO THE BOARD COMPOSITION EVALUATION OF THE BOARD Nomination DEVELOPMENT COMMITMENT INFORMATION AND SUPPORT committee EFFECTIVENESS report Dear shareholder KEY RESPONSIBILITIES The primary role of the Committee is to consider Review the structure, size Board composition and orderly succession, both for and composition of the Board and its Committees including executive and non-executive directors.
skills, experience, independence and diversity and make During the year, Oliver Marriott retired following eight recommendations to the Board accordingly.
years service and Richard Akers will join the Board.
Lead the process for new Board appointments and review succession for directors and senior management.
Succession planning and Search for a non-executive Review the time commitment expected from the Chairman development director and non-executive directors.
As Chairman of this Committee, my focus is on As part of the evolution of Board membership, and Board succession and talent development to ensure following the retirement of Oliver Marriott, a search Ensure an effectiveness review that there is a pipeline of able and experienced was undertaken to recruit a non-executive director.
of the Board, its Committees people in the business for potential future senior The Board considered the skills required and and directors is conducted executive and Board appointments.
appointed The Zygos Partnership, to undertake the annually.
They have worked with us on a number of The Committee ensures that the evolution of the appointments and appreciate our business, strategy, Boards membership is planned and properly managed, culture, diversity policy and the skills we were seeking.
and that in the event of unforeseen changes, Shortlisted candidates were interviewed by myself management and oversight of the Groups business and the Senior Independent Director.
The final and long-term strategy would not be disrupted.
interview was with the Chief Executive, executive To manage executive director succession, we address directors and the Company Secretary.
continuity in, and development of, the management The Committee recommended to the Board the team below Board level.
Current executive directors appointment of Richard Akers, who joins us on 28 have a long tenure and there are no immediate November 2017.
We are delighted with his vacancies at Board level.
However, we recognise that appointment, which brings his broad range of it is important to develop internal talent.
Our experience to complement the overall skill set of the development planning encourages employees to Board.
He has wide experience within the real estate fulfil their potential and grow in their roles.
The Committee was careful to ensure that his other roles did not give rise to any conflicts of interest and that he has sufficient time to devote to his directorship.
A detailed induction programme has commenced tofamilarise Richard with the business.
We will continue to keep the composition of the Board under review.
KEY ACTIVITIES Committee Report Proposed directors for election and re-election Succession planning for executive directors and non-executive directors Review skills of directors for re-election with more than 6 years service NOVEMBER 2016 MAY 2017 SEPTEMBER 2017 80 GOVERNANCE NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Shaftesbury Annual Report 2017 The Group is a member of Real Estate Balance whose Directors standing for Diversity objective is to achieve a better gender balance, at The Board recognises the importance of diversity, election and re-election board and executive management level, in the real both in its membership, and in the Groups estate industry, by supporting the development of Richard Akers will be proposed for election to the employees.
It has a clear policy to promote afemale talent pipeline across the sector.
Jill Little and Hilary Riva have been on the Board for The Board considers that quotas are not appropriate more than six years.
The Committee has concluded in determining its composition and has therefore EFFECTIVENESS that they continue to bring to the Board the chosen not to set targets.
COMMITTEE MEMBERS appropriate range of skills and expertise to operate AND MEETING ATTENDANCE All aspects of diversity, including but not limited to effectively and maintain their independence.
The gender, are considered at every level of recruitment.
three held Committee therefore recommends that they remain All appointments to the Board, and elsewhere in on the Board for a further year.
Therefore, on the Jonathan Nicholls 3 the Group, are made on merit.
Gender diversity of advice of the Committee, the Board proposes the Chairman the Board and Group is set out below, re-election of each director.
Board tenure is set Jill Little 3 out opposite.
DIRECTORS Oliver Marriott 1 Dermot Mathias 3 Hilary Riva 3 Jonathan Nicholls 7 70% 3 30% Chairman - Nomination Committee Sally Walden 3 T wo meetings were held in the period prior to 27 November 2017 his retirement on 5 July 2017 SENIOR LEADERSHIP TEAM EXCLUDING EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Chairman induction TENURE OF DIRECTORS The Senior Independent Director, assisted by the at 30 September 2017 Company Secretary, led a detailed induction, 3 43% 4 57% Chairman summarised below, which commenced prior to Jonathan Nicholls 1 year the Chairmans appointment to the Board on 1 September 2016.
It took place over several Non-executive directors 1 months and ensured that he had a thorough Jill Little 7 2 years ALL EMPLOYEES understanding of the Group, its business and Dermot Mathias 5 years operations, and met key stakeholders.
1 Hilary Riva 7 2 years Tours of the Groups portfolio with the director Sally Walden 5 years 12 41% 17 59% and executive responsible for each area.
Executive directors Meetings with executive and non-executive Brian Bickell 31 years directors.
Simon Quayle 20 years Meetings with key corporate advisors.
3 Chris Ward 5 4 years Meetings and introductions to employees.
Tom Welton 20 years Provision of detailed induction pack.
Period of Board membership Meetings with major shareholders.
The Group supports initiatives to promote Attendance at Committee meetings as an diversity within the real estate sector.
Bickell is a board member of Freehold, Attendance at year end results presentation.
a forum for LGBT real estate professionals.
The Group has committed to the RICS Inclusive Employer Quality Mark scheme which aims to drive behaviour changes by encouraging businesses in the real estate sector to look carefully at their employment practices and to ensure inclusivity is embedded in their operations.
During the year, we have appointed three new employees and these principles have been applied in the recruitment process.
Unconscious bias training has been held for all employees.
Diversity policy Succession planning for executive directors and non-executive directors NOVEMBER 2016 MAY 2017 SEPTEMBER 2017 81
