Board of Directors 42 OUR BOARD OF DIRECTORS Our Directors bring together considerable experience and expertise andarecommitted to practising and promoting good  Group.
David Howell Ian Sutcliffe Rebecca Worthington Non-Executive Chairman Group Chief Executive Group Chief Financial Officer APPOINTMENT DATE: 14 December 2015 19 November 2015 19 November 2015 David joined the Group in Ian joined the Group in Rebecca joined the Group CAREER ANDSKILLS: April2014 as a Non-Executive October2013 as Executive inAugust 2015 as Chief Director of Copthorn Holdings Chairman of Copthorn Holdings FinancialOfficer of Copthorn Limited and was appointed Limited and was appointed Group Holdings Limited.
Non-Executive Chairman of that Chief Executive in January 2015.
She qualified as a company in January 2015.
He previously held a number charteredaccountant with He is a chartered accountant with ofsenior roles at Shell before  LLP extensive experience working across being appointed UK Managing in1997.
She subsequently a number of different industry Director of George Wimpey and workedat Quintain Estates and sectors as either an executive subsequently UK Chief Executive Development plc for 15 years, ornon-executive director.
His last and a board member of Taylor first as Finance Director and three executive roles were as Wimpey.
He followed this with latterly as Deputy Chief Executive.
Chairman of Western & Oriental asimilar role at SEGRO, before Following that she spent two years plc, Chief Financial Officer and becoming Chief Executive of as Chief Executive of Lodestone amember of the board of Keepmoat Limited.
Capital Limited, abusiness advising lastminute.
com plc and Group on operational real estate assets.
Finance Director of First ChoiceHolidays plc.
He also was a Non-Executive Director of The Berkeley Group Holdings plc for over ten years where he chaired theaudit committee until 2014.
EXTERNAL David is Non-Executive Chairman Ianis a Non-Executive Director of Rebecca is a Non-Executive Director of Confidential Incident Reporting Ashtead Group plc.
On APPOINTMENT: & Analysis Service Limited.
10November 2017 it was announced that Rebecca will join the Board of The British Land Company PLC as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 1 January 2018.
As a result of this appointment Rebecca will step down from the Board of Hansteen Holdings plc in the first quarter of 2018.
COMMITTEE N R E E MEMBERSHIP A Audit Committee N Nomination Committee R Remuneration Committee E Executive Committee Chair Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 43 Richard Adam Amanda Burton Federico Canciani Baroness Morgan Senior Independent Independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Director ofHuyton Non-Executive Director Director Independent Non-Executive Director 17 December 2015 17 December 2015 17 December 2015 17 December 2015 Richard joined the Group in Amanda joined the Group in Federico joined the Group in Baroness Morgan joined the April2015 as a Non-Executive October 2014 as a Non-Executive April2013 as a Non-Executive Group in October 2014 as a Director of Copthorn Director of Copthorn Director of Copthorn Non-Executive Director of HoldingsLimited.
He is a chartered accountant with She joined Clifford Chance LLP in His prior experience includes She had a long and successful nearly 30 years of experience as 2000 and she left in December corporate finance and mergers career in Central Government, finance director of private and listed 2014 as its Global Chief Operating and acquisitions with Goldman serving as Director of Government businesses having gained a wealth Officer.
Prior to this, she was at Sachs International in London and Relations at 10 Downing Street of experience from executive and Meyer International plc where she private equity positions with from 2001 to 2005.
Prior to this, non-executive roles spanning the was a Director and Chairman of Nomura Principle Finance Group she was Political Secretary to the media, infrastructure, construction its Timber Group.
She also served and Terra Firma Capital Partners Prime Minister from 1997 to 2001 and services sectors.
From 2007 nine years on the Board at Galliford Limited.
He received a Laurea and was appointed Minister for until retiring in 2016 Richard Try plc as a Non-Executive Degree in Business Administration Women and Equalities in 2001. wasGroup Finance Director of Director from 2005 and as Senior from the Universit Commerciale She was made a life peer in the Carillion plc, the integrated support Independent Director from 2008.
Luigi Bocconi in Milan, Italy, in 1999. same year.
She previously served services and construction business.
as a Board member for the Prior to this, he was Group Finance Olympic Delivery Authority, Director of Associated British asChairman of Ofsted and Ports Holdings plc and a asamember of the advisory Non-Executive Director and committee of Virgin Group Chairman of the Audit Committee Holdings Limited.
Richard is a Non-Executive Director Amanda is Senior Independent Federico is a Managing Director of Baroness Morgan is Senior and Chairman Designate of the Audit Non-Executive Director of HSS Oaktree Capital, having joined the Independent Non-Executive Committee of BMTGroup Limited.
Hire Group plc, a Non-Executive firm in 2006 from Matlin Director of Carillion plc, Vice He is also currently a Non-Executive Director of Skipton Building Society Patterson Advisers Europe LLP.
Chairman of Kings College Director and Chairman of the and Chairman and Trustee of He is a Director of Breeze Midco London, Chairman of Royal Audit and Risk Committee Battersea Dogs and Cats Home.
TNC Limited, Breeze Bidco Brompton and Harefield NHS ofCountrywide plc and a TNC Limited, Nanclach Holdco Trust, an advisor tothe board of Non-Executive Director Limited, NanclachMidco Limited the childrens charity ARK and a andChairman of the Audit and Broadhaven Distribution Ltd. trustee of a number ofcharities.
A N R A N R N A N R Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017
