Audit Committee Report Having reviewed the external audit 4.
Accountability process, the Committee believes that Fair, balanced and understandable  PwC continue assessment to provide an effective audit service and It is a requirement of the Code that the recommends their re-appointment to Board should consider whether the Annual shareholders.
As previously mentioned, the Nick Backhouse Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, Group conducted a full tender of the external is fair, balanced and understandable.
audit during the year and it is our intention Chairman of the To support this assessment, comprehensive to appoint KPMG at the conclusion of the Audit Committee reviews are undertaken at regular intervals FY19 audit.
Details of the tender process and throughout the year-end process by senior the timing of the appointment of the new management.
The preparation of the Annual external auditor are set out on page 52.
DEAR SHAREHOLDER Report and Accounts is coordinated by the During the year, the Company received a As Chairman of the Audit Committee, Company Secretariat team with signifcant request for information from the Financial I am pleased to present the Audit input from the Finance team and support Reporting Council FRC in respect of the Committees Report for the period ended from other contributing colleagues across 2015 16 Annual Report and Accounts.
Drafts of each section of the Having explained all matters raised to the Annual Report and Accounts are submitted The Committee is comprised of three satisfaction of the FRC no adjustments to to Board meetings prior to publication, NEDs, all of whom are independent.
The review was allowing suffcient time to review and provide Each Committee member contributes their helpful in highlighting certain areas that an opportunity for challenge and discussion, own fnancial and business experience to would beneft from clearer communication ahead of approving the fnal documents.
effectively assess the external and internal and, as a result of the review, we have In addition, the external Auditors review the audits of the Group and the internal control included additional disclosure in this years consistency between the narrative reporting and risk management systems.
The Board Annual Report and Accounts.
Further details and fnancial disclosures.
is satisfed that both Matthew Roberts and I are set out on page 52. meet the requirements of the Code as having Compliance Finally, I should like to take this opportunity recent and relevant fnancial experience.
Marstons Risk & Compliance Committee, a to say that I have thoroughly enjoyed serving supporting committee within our governance Throughout the year, we have continued on the Board and Audit Committee of framework, monitors all areas of legal and our focus on the integrity of fnancial Marstons for the last six years and, when regulatory compliance across the Group.
reporting and internal controls, challenging I hand over the chairmanship of the Audit The Committee meets quarterly, and and debating the reports, statements and Committee to Matthew Roberts after the includes representatives from across the fndings presented to us.
In addition, we 2018 AGM, I am confdent that the fnancial business, in order to consider the impact continue to monitor changes in regulation scrutiny and challenge will continue to of any emerging areas of legislation, the and the potential impact on the Groups ensure Marstons remains focused on effectiveness of our internal systems and fnancial reporting and assurance processes.
maximising its return on capital investment challenges to current compliance processes.
The Committee has reviewed the assurance and delivering sustainable growth.
process and risk management framework Risks and internal controls to ensure that it remains appropriate The Groups approach to risk management, and provides a robust assessment of the systems and internal controls is explained Nick Backhouse principal risks to the business.
This review as part of the Strategic Report on pages Chairman of the Audit Committee and assessment is further supported by the 22 to 24. internal audit function where, this year, we have appointed a new Head of Internal Audit, reporting to the Corporate Risk Director.
The Committee has worked closely with both in developing the internal audit strategy and the detailed audit plan for the next 12 months.
The strategy and plan provide independent and objective assurance using a risk-based methodology targeted to help the business achieve its strategic objectives.
50 | Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Additional Information SIGNIFICANT FINANCIAL TERMS OF REFERENCE JUDGEMENTS MEMBERSHIP Full terms of reference of the Committee In recommending the Interim Results and Nick Backhouse Chairman can be found in the Investors section Annual Report and Accounts to the Board of the Companys website Robin Rowland for approval, the Committee reviewed in www.
co. uk particular the accounting for and disclosure Matthew Roberts from 1 March 2017 of the following key matters: Neil Goulden until 24 January 2017 KEY ACTIVITIES DURING Valuation of the estate.
THE REPORTING YEAR The Committee considered managements Reviewing the main corporate risks and OUR RESPONSIBILITIES view of the carrying value of property the outcomes from testing the systems assets at the period end based on a Reviewing the integrity of the Groups and processes for managing and consideration of market indicators and financial statements including the mitigating those risks.
The Committee other possible triggers of impairment in Interim Results and the Annual Report has satisfied itself that the Risk value since the last external valuation and Accounts.
Management Framework provides of the entire property portfolio in sufficient assurances.
The Committee are satisfied the internal controls and risk with the methodology and agree with Approving a viability statement that management system.
managements view that there are no assesses the prospects of the Group over significant impairments or fair value an appropriate period.
The Committee Reviewing the Groups systems for uplifts required to the property estate, considers that the Groups existing five detecting fraud, preventing bribery and noting that the next valuation will be year financial planning horizon makes allowing employees to raise concerns in undertaken in 2017 18.
The Committee that time period most appropriate.
are also satisfied that the valuation policy remains appropriate.
Overseeing the relationship with the Considering the Annual Report and external Auditors, specifically reviewing Accounts and Interim Results prior to Accounting for the acquisition of the and approving their fees and the terms review by the Board.
Development of the Internal Audit The Committee reviewed managements strategy, review of the Internal Audit Considering and recommending the valuation methods for the acquired plan and appointment of a new Head of appointment of new external Auditors.
assets and liabilities of the Charles Wells Internal Audit.
Beer Business, noting in particular the Reviewing and monitoring the external methodology applied to the brands and Review of accounting policies and Auditors objectivity and independence working capital.
The Committee support standards, and ongoing preparation and the effectiveness of the the accounting approach, acknowledging for the new lease accounting standard audit process.
that the Company has twelve months in effective 2020. which to finalise these numbers.
Adoption of a policy on the provision of ATTENDEES Non-underlying items.
non-audit services by the external The Committee noted the importance of The Corporate Risk Director and external Auditors.
maintaining consistent and appropriate Auditors attend each meeting.
Review of compliance with the Pubs treatment of items disclosed as nonOther individuals, such as the CEO and Code Regulations.
underlying to maintain comparability of CFO are usually invited to attend all or part performance year on year.
Taking into of the Committees meetings.
account the quality of earnings, the Committee are satisfied that the treatment is consistent with prior periods and the COMMITTEE MEETINGS Groups accounting policy.
The Committee The Corporate Risk Director attends each also noted the classification of certain Committee meeting providing ongoing property-related transactions and assurance and regular updates on the concurred with managements treatment.
Groups main risks and the scope and fndings of internal audit.
A number of standing items were reviewed by the Committee during the period including an updated Whistleblowing Policy, matters arising from internal audits and compliance and legal developments.
Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 51 Audit Committee Report continued AUDITORS AUDIT TENDER The Company continues to value the current relationship with PwC.
The new The external Auditors attend each meeting, As previously stated, the Group conducted a regulations require an audit tender every which allows the Committee the opportunity tender of its external audit this year.
Prior to ten years and a rotation of auditors at to review and challenge the integrity of the commencement of the formal tender least every 20 years.
Under the transitional the Groups fnancial reports.
The external process, the Audit Committee Chairman rules Marstons is required to appoint new Auditors also present their audit strategy, and CFO met with relevant individuals from auditors no later than 2021. fndings and conclusions in respect of the the other Big 4 and certain mid-tier audit The Board accepted the recommendation Annual Report and Accounts and Interim frms to assess the suitability of the various of the Audit Committee and approved the Results.
In addition, at least once a year, potential service providers.
At the end of this intention to appoint KPMG as the Companys the external Auditors meet the Committee process the Audit Committee concluded that new external auditor after the conclusion of without any Executive Director present to EY, KPMG and Deloitte should be invited to the 2018 19 audit.
provide an opportunity for open dialogue formally tender.
The current auditors, PwC, and feedback.
were excluded from the process due to the length of their tenure which prevents them In assessing the work of the external FINANCIAL REPORTING continuing after 2020.
Auditors, the Committee continues to COUNCIL REVIEW OF be satisfed with the scope of their work The tender process was managed by the 2015 16 ANNUAL REPORT and their effectiveness, and recommends Head of Group Tax and each of the frms ANDACCOUNTS their re-appointment to the Board.
receiving a formal invitation to tender were The Committee has satisfed itself that the offered access to a data room, brewery and During the year, the FRC reviewed the independence and objectivity of the external pub visits, an information gathering day with Groups 2015 16 Annual Report and Accounts Auditors, and the safeguards to protect it, senior management, as well as sessions as part of their normal ongoing role in remain strong noting the following: with the Audit Committee Chairman, the monitoring the quality of corporate reporting CFO and the current audit partner from and compliance with reporting requirements.
The external Auditors conduct an annual PwC.
The written tender submissions were review of their independence identifying Correspondence was concluded within considered by a panel of fve before receiving all services provided to the Group a short timeframe and no changes in a presentation from each of the three frms.
and assessing whether the content accounting were deemed necessary.
The panel was comprised of the Audit and scale of such work is a threat to However, the FRC did highlight a relatively Committee Chairman, the CFO, the Group their independence.
small number of areas where they felt Financial Reporting Manager, the Group that the disclosures in the Annual Report Secretary and the Head of Group Tax.
The Committee accepts that some and Accounts could be enhanced, and non-audit work is most appropriately The panel assessed the written tender consequently these have been addressed undertaken by the external Auditors.
document and presentations based on the in the current years Annual Report The Committees terms of reference key criteria that had been circulated at and Accounts.
and policy on non-audit services set out the start of the process to all participating what is permissible and where such The FRC has requested that we advise parties.
The criteria covered effectiveness work is expected to be in excess of a shareholders that their review provides and effciency, business understanding, specified amount, the Chairman of the no assurance that the Annual Report and transition arrangements, independence and Audit Committee must approve the work.
Accounts are correct in all material respects, governance and fees.
The panel considered Both documents are available on the as its purpose is not to verify the information that each of the frms demonstrated the corporate website.
Below that amount, provided, but to consider compliance with ability to meet all of the criteria with the the CFO has authority to approve such reporting requirements.
As such, the FRC only distinguishable point being the panels work once he is satisfied that the Auditors and its offcers, employees and agents assessment of how effectively Marstons are the most appropriate providers.
accept no liability for any reliance on its could work with each frm.
On this point In 2016 17 PwC were engaged to assist review by third parties, including but not the panel and the Audit Committee in a data mapping exercise undertaken limited to shareholders and investors.
were unanimous in recommending the by the Group.
The Group has used other appointment of KPMG.
accounting firms for some non-audit work.
In each case, consideration is The Committee then considered the timing given to the need for value for money, of the appointment and for the reasons experience and objectivity required in the set out below, they recommended that particular circumstances.
the change to KPMG be effective after the conclusion of the 2018 19 audit.
The audit partner is changed at least once every five years.
Mark Smith was The new lease accounting standard, appointed during the 2012 13 financial IFRS16, applies from 2019 20 and, given reporting period and will rotate off after the extensive nature of the changes the 2016 17 financial year and be replaced arising from implementation of this by Andrew Lyon for the period until standard, this represents an appropriate handover to KPMG.
Over the next two years the Company will be working to Fees paid to the external Auditors are ensure that it is suitably prepared for the disclosed in Note 3 of the Financial implementation of this new standard with Statements on page 86. regular reviews by KPMG: The external property valuation in 2018 necessitates a more extensive audit in what would otherwise be the auditor transition year: 52 | Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017
