Nomination Committee report Chair of Nomination Committee Introduction Composition Dear Shareholder Mike Evans, the Chairman of the Board, The Nomination Committee is the Chair of the Nomination Committee.
evaluates the balance of skills, The other members are Alex Chesterman, experience, independence Sherry Coutu, Robin Klein, Duncan Tatton-Brown and, from September onwards, andknowledge on the Board.
Kevin Beatty, who is It leads the process for Board appointed to the Board of the Company as appointments and makes one of the two DMGT-nominated Directors, is an observer on the Nomination Committee.
2.1 of the Governance Board to meet the demands Code recommends that a majority of the ofthe business.
Nomination Committee be Non-Executive This year, the Nomination Directors, independent in character and This year, the Nomination Committee judgement and free from any relationship Committee placed particular placed particular focus on succession or circumstance which may, could or would be focus on succession planning planning within the Company and on likely to, or appear to, affect their judgement.
compliance with the Governance Code within the Company and As such, the Board considers that the in terms of Board composition.
It has also oncompliance with the Company complies with the Governance worked hard to discharge its responsibilities GovernanceCode in terms Code in this respect.
The Company considers by keeping under review the balance ofBoard composition.
that the attendance of an observer at of skills, knowledge and experience on Committee meetings will not prejudice the Board to ensure the orderly evolution the independence or proper functioning of the membership of the Board and to of the Nomination Committee.
make recommendations to the Board on composition and balance.
Roles and responsibilities In this report, I explain how the Nomination The Nomination Committee assists the Board Committee has discharged its responsibilities in discharging its responsibilities relating to in greater detail.
the composition and make-up of the Board The Nomination Committee operates and any Committees of the Board.
It leads within agreed terms of reference and these the process for Board appointments and were updated this year to reflect the latest makes recommendations to the Board.
requirements of the Governance Code.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for The revised terms of reference for the evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge Nomination Committee have been and experience and the size, structure and published on the Companys website composition of the Board and Committees www.
of the Board, retirements and appointments Under its terms of reference, the of additional and replacement Directors and Nomination Committee is required to meet Committee members and makes appropriate at least twice in each year at appropriate recommendations to the Board on such times in the reporting and auditing cycle.
It is also responsible for appropriate The Nomination Committee followed the succession planning for both the Board and terms and met three times during the year.
The Nomination Committee has evaluated each Director and has As part of the externally facilitated annual recommended to the Board that there is Board evaluation this year, the performance an appropriate balance of skills, knowledge of the Nomination Committee was reviewed.
and experience within the Board and that I am pleased to report that there were no the size, structure and composition of the areas of concern and the results of the Board and its Committees are appropriate.
evaluation showed that the Committee was operating effectively.
Mike Evans Chair, Nomination Committee 64 ZPG Plc Annual Report 2017 Corporate governance In accordance with provision B.
2.3 of the Committee would recommend that the Diversity Governance Code, all Non-Executive Directors Board consider determining Grenville The Company believes that diversity, are appointed for three year terms subject as independent for the purposes of the including gender diversity, within ZPG is to re-election and to statutory provisions Governance Code from the conclusion of paramount importance.
This extends to relating to the removal of a Director.
of its Board meeting in July 2017 onwards.
diversity within the Board since, amongst Having taken into account the value of ensuring Further details of the Board's determination other things, the Board believes it is that the membership of the Board and its of Grenville's independence can be found important in ensuring effective engagement various committees is refreshed and that in the Corporate Governance Statement with key stakeholders, it leads to more undue reliance is not placed on particular on page 52.
Following the Boards approval, effective decision making and it enhances individuals when making the decision to the Nomination Committee also recommended the ability to deliver the Companys business extend appointment periods and to maintain that Grenville be appointed as a member of the strategy, as well as being crucial to achieving or rotate the membership of the Committees, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
the Company extended the appointments The only new appointment to the Board The Boards policy on diversity is to ensure of Mike Evans, Duncan Tatton-Brown, during the year was made under the terms that the Directors on the Board have a broad Grenville Turner, Sherry Coutu and Robin Klein of a relationship agreement Relationship range of experience, skills and knowledge, as their initial three year appointment terms Agreement with Daily Mail and General with diversity of gender, culture, thinking were reached during the year.
All appointments Trust Plc DMGT, the ultimate parent of and perspective.
The Nomination Committee were extended by an additional three the Companys current principal shareholder, therefore gives careful thought to Board year period.
The main purpose balance and diversity when making new Details of each Directors service agreement of the Relationship Agreement is to ensure appointments to the Board and the search are set out in the Directors remuneration that the Company and its subsidiaries are for Board candidates is conducted, and report on page 80. capable of carrying on their business appointments to the Board are always made, independently of DMGT, that transactions on merit against objective criteria, having The Nomination Committees terms of and relationships with DMGT are at arms regard to the benefits of diversity, including reference were updated this year to reflect length and on normal commercial terms, gender diversity, on the Board.
the latest requirements of the Governance and that the goodwill, reputation and Code.
The full terms of reference of the The Board, which consists of two female commercial interests of the Company Nomination Committee are available on Directors 20% of the Board, endorses the are maintained.
Under the terms of the the Companys website www.
aspirations of the Davies Review on Women Relationship Agreement, DMGT can appoint on Boards, and is currently in line with the two Directors to the Board, providing it Activities of the Nomination Committee recommendations contained in this review.
ultimately holds more than 25% of the Last year, it was explained that the Company The Hampton-Alexander Review has now votes exercisable at general meetings of recommended a voluntary target of a minimum had applied all of the main principles and the Company, and one Director, providing complied with all of the relevant provisions of 33% female representation on FTSE 350 it holds more than 10% of those votes.
boards by 2020 and, although the Board of the Governance Code with the exception Stephen Daintith, who was a Director of Provision B.
1.2, which recommends that has not committed to any specific gender appointed by DMGT, stepped down from or diversity targets, it will give due regard at least half of the Board of Directors of a the Board on 1 January 2017.
James Welsh UK-listed company, excluding the Chairperson, to this target going forward.
replaced Stephen as a Director appointed should comprise Non-Executive Directors by DMGT under the terms of the The Board will continue to engage executive determined by the Board to be independent.
For this reason, search firms which have signed up to the At the time, the Board comprised a James appointment was dealt with by the voluntary code of conduct setting out the Non-Executive Chairman and nine other Nomination Committee and it was not seven key principles of best practice to abide Directors, of whom four were considered subject to the usual formal, rigorous and by throughout the recruitment process and to be wholly independent.
Therefore, the transparent procedures for the appointment will continue to follow a policy of appointing Company did not fully comply with the of new Directors to the Board.
However, talented people at every level to deliver requirements of the Governance Code James performance is subject to the Boards high performance.
at the time and we set out our intention formal and rigorous evaluation procedures.
to explore avenues to resolve this one For further information on diversity within The Company has continued to develop ZPG, see the Our People and Corporate remaining non-compliant element in the and refine its approach to succession planning current financial year.
Social Responsibility section on page 44. within the Executive Directors and the During the year, the Nomination Committee Senior Management Team using performance carefully monitored and reassessed and potential matrices.
This is a well-developed Grenville Turners independence.
Following process led by ZPGs Chief Talent Officer, careful analysis accompanied by external who presented succession planning material Mike Evans professional advice, it was agreed that, since for the consideration of the Nomination Chair, Nomination Committee Grenville stepped down as the Chairman of Committee twice over the course of the year.
Countrywide Plc, a customer and previously The Executive Management of the a major shareholder in the Company, in Company has been strengthened following April 2016 and since Countrywide ceased the acquisition of Hometrack, which to be a shareholder of the Company from resulted in a further addition to the September 2016 onwards, the Nomination Executive Management Team.
