Board of Directors The Board Mike Evans Alex Chesterman OBE Andy Botha Duncan Tatton-Brown Sherry Coutu CBE Non-Executive Chairman Founder & Chief Financial Officer Senior Independent Independent ChiefExecutive Officer Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointment date May 2014 April 2014 April 2016 May 2014 May 2014 Committee membership A N R A N R A N R A N R A N R Mike became Chairman Alex founded ZPG in Andy joined ZPG as Duncan became a Director Sherry became a Director of ZPG in 2014.
Previously qualified actuary with over the Company as its Previously, Andy was Duncan was CFO of she chaired Interactive 30 years experience in CEO.
Previously, Alex Chief Commercial and Fitness First Plc and prior Investor International Plc the financial services co-founded LOVEFiLM, Financial Officer at to that was Group Finance and served as a Director industry.
He was formerly Europes leading online e-commerce business Director of Kingfisher Plc.
of LSEG Plc, Jarvis Plc and a Non-Executive Director DVD rental service, which notonthehighstreet.
com He has held senior finance RM Plc, where she was of esure Group Plc and was successfully sold to and, prior to that, Andy positions at B&Q Plc, SID.
Sherry was awarded Chief Operating Officer Amazon.
Alex is recognised spent five years at Virgin Entertainment Group a CBE in 2013 for Services at Skandia UK Limited.
as one of the UKs leading Betfair Plc, one of the and Burton Group Plc and to Entrepreneurship.
digital entrepreneurs and UKs most successful was also a Non-Executive He has been Chairman of She currently chairs has been a winner of the internet businesses, where Director of Rentokil Hargreaves Lansdown Plc The ScaleUp Institute Ernst & Young Entrepreneur he held senior commercial Initial Plc.
since 2009, which he joined and Founders4Schools and of the Year Award as well and financial roles.
Prior as a Non-Executive Director He is currently CFO of serves on the board of the as having been awarded to Betfair, Andy was in 2006.
He is also the Ocado Group Plc, which London Stock Exchange Plc, an OBE for Services to UK Finance Director Senior Independent he joined in 2012.
Raspberry Pi and the Digital Entrepreneurship.
Finance Committee of the Duncan holds a masters Alex holds an honours Andy is a qualified University of Cambridge.
He holds a BSc in degree in Engineering from degree in Economics from Chartered Accountant.
Mathematics from the Kings College, Cambridge, She holds an MBA from London University.
and is a member of the Harvard, an MSc from Chartered Institute of the London School of Management Accountants.
Economics and a BA from the University of British Columbia in Canada.
50 ZPG Plc Annual Report 2017 Corporate governance A Member of the Audit Committee N Member of the Nomination Committee R Member of the Remuneration Committee Committee Chairman Robin Klein Vin Murria Grenville Turner James Welsh Kevin Beatty Independent Independent Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointment date May 2014 July 2015 May 2014 January 2017 July 2016 Committee membership A N R A N R A N R A N R A N R Robin became a Director Vin became a Director Grenville became a James became a Director Kevin became a Director of ZPG in 2014.
She has Director of ZPG in 2014. of ZPG in 2017.
After of ZPG in 2016. previously a venture partner 25 years experience He was formerly the Chief working at PwC, he He serves as CEO of at Index Ventures.
Robin is of working with private Executive and Chairman moved to Dixons Retail, DMG Media, the consumer a serial entrepreneur and equity-backed and publicly of Countrywide Plc where he spent 15 years media operation of Daily angel investor in a number listed companies, focusing and Chief Executive working across the UK Mail & General Trust Plc, of the UKs leading high on the software sector.
and Europe in a number which publishes the Daily growth internet businesses.
Until March 2015 Vin was He previously served of commercial finance, Mail, the Mail on Sunday, Companies he has backed the Chief Executive Officer as a Director of M&A and change roles.
Metro, Mail Online, Mail at an early stage include of Advanced Software St Jamess Place Plc, James joined DMG Media Plus, Metro digital editions ZPG, lastminute.
com, Group Plc, an AIM-listed Sainsburys Bank Plc in February 2010 as and Elite Daily.
He is a Agent Provocateur, healthcare and business and Rightmove Plc.
CFO with functional board member of the LOVEFiLM, Wonga, management software He is a Non-Executive responsibility across NMA and represents Secret Escapes, Fizzback, solutions company she Director of DCLG, the division, taking the UK publishing Tweetdeck, Graze, founded in 2008.
Chairman of Watkin on responsibility for industry as Second Vice FreeAgent, Skimlinks Named Quoted Company Jones Plc, Chairman operations in 2013.
President on the Board and Moo.
Entrepreneur of the Year of Bellpenny Ltd and of WAN-IFRA.
Kevin is James gained the ACA He is a founding partner 2014 and Woman of the Chairman of Titlestone also a Non-Executive qualification with PwC.
of LocalGlobe, a leading Year in the 2012 Cisco Ltd. Grenville is also Vice Director of the PA Group seed venture capital firm.
Everywoman Technology Chairman of the English and the Chairman of the Awards, Vin is a successful National Ballet.
RFC, the body that funds entrepreneur with a the Independent Press Grenville qualified as a strong background in Standards Organisation.
Chartered Banker and technology-based holds an MBA from international business.
