Audit Committee report Chair of Audit Committee Introduction considering annually whether there should Dear Shareholder be an internal audit function and making I am pleased to present the a recommendation to the Board: Audit Committee report for considering and making recommendations theyear.
to the Board on the appointment, re-appointment, resignation or removal Stephen Daintith stepped down from the of the Companys external auditor, to be Board on 1 January 2017 and was replaced put to shareholders for approval: by James Welsh, who now acts as an observer on the Audit Committee as of the overseeing the selection process for and same date.
There were no other changes relationship with external auditor: and to the composition of the Audit Committee reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness from last year and the Audit Committee still of the Companys internal financial consists of at least three Non-Executive controls and internal control and risk This report describes the key Directors determined by the Board to be management systems.
tasksundertaken by the Audit independent in character and judgement Committee, its major areas of and free from relationships or circumstances We carried out an evaluation of the which may affect, or could appear to affect, performance of the Audit Committee this activity and how it discharged its the Directors judgement.
year which concluded that it was effective, responsibilities during the 2017 it maintained its independence and created financial year, with reference to Each member is considered to possess constructive challenges, and it adequately up-to-date and appropriate financial or thevarious requirements of the covered financial reporting and judgements, accounting experience and continues to Governance Code.
risk management, compliance requirements be independent for the purposes of the and cyber security.
I am satisfied that the Audit Committee, as a whole, has sufficient This report describes the key tasks competence relevant to the sectors in which undertaken by the Audit Committee, its ZPG operates.
Biographies of the members major areas of activity and how it discharged of the Audit Committee are set out on its responsibilities during the 2017 financial pages 50 to 51. year, with reference to the various requirements of the Governance Code.
The Audit Committee plays an important It will explain how the Audit Committee role in ensuring the effectiveness of the assessed external audit effectiveness and Companys internal controls and risk safeguards in relation to the provision of management process.
Under its terms non-audit services by the Companys auditor of reference, which were updated this year, and the recommendations it provided to the Audit Committee is to assist the Board the Board, and it will refer to the significant in fulfilling its financial oversight and audit issues that the Audit Committee considered responsibilities by: in relation to the financial statements and monitoring the integrity of the how these issues were addressed.
Companys financial statements: I look forward to meeting with you at the reviewing significant financial returns Annual General Meeting in January 2018 to to regulators and any significant financial answer any further questions you may have information contained in other documents: about the work of the Audit Committee.
Duncan Tatton-Brown Chair, Audit Committee 58 ZPG Plc Annual Report 2017 Corporate governance Composition of the Audit Committee Companys financial performance, Activities of the Audit Committee reviewing any significant financial reporting There was one change to the composition In May 2017, the Audit Committee was judgements contained in them, including of the Audit Committee during the year.
introduced to the Companys new Risk reviewing and discussing the reports from Stephen Daintith, who was a Director and Internal Audit Manager, who had the external auditor.
appointed by DMGT and who was an been hired to lead the ongoing work within observer on the Audit Committee, stepped the Company to ensure that controls are It also reviews the Companys internal down from the Board on 1 January 2017. appropriately designed, fit for purpose financial controls and internal control James Welsh replaced Stephen as the and operating effectively across ZPG.
and risk management systems and assists DMGT observer on the Audit Committee Whilst the Company would continue to use the Board in discharging its responsibilities as of the same date.
The Company considers third parties, where appropriate, to address with regard to internal audit including that the attendance of an observer at the high risk, specialist or focus areas, as considering annually whether there Audit Committee meetings will not prejudice appropriate, the Audit Committee believed should be an internal audit function.
the independence or proper functioning that this hybrid approach was appropriate The Audit Committee reviews and approves of the Audit Committee.
to address the existing levels of risk facing the annual audit plan and ensures that it the businesses within ZPG and that the The Audit Committee comprises four is consistent with the scope of the audit recruitment of a dedicated internal audit Independent Non-Executive Directors.
engagement, reviewing and monitoring the resource demonstrated Managements It is chaired by Duncan Tatton-Brown, the extent of the non-audit work undertaken intention to increase its focus and activities Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, by the external auditor, advising on the in this area.
Following this introduction, the and its other members are Sherry Coutu, appointment of the external auditor, Risk and Internal Audit Manager was invited Vin Murria and Robin Klein.
overseeing the Companys relationship to attend all Audit Committee meetings with its external auditor and reviewing the The Audit Committee remained in full throughout the year and to provide updates effectiveness of the external audit process.
compliance with Provision C. 3.1 of the to the Audit Committee.
It also reviews and monitors the external Governance Code throughout the year, At each Audit Committee meeting throughout auditors independence and objectivity.
which recommends that an audit committee the year, the Audit Committee considered should comprise at least three Independent The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and updates to its risk management procedures Non-Executive Directors.
In addition to this, approving the Annual Report and Accounts to comply with the Governance Code.
the provision requires at least one member and the half-yearly reports remains with the It also received updates from the Risk and of the Audit Committee to have recent and Board: however, the Audit Committee gives Internal Audit Manager on ZPGs internal relevant financial experience.
The Board due consideration to laws and regulations, controls and internal audit procedures.
considers that, by virtue of his current and the provisions of the Governance Code and Further specific details of the Audit former Executive and Non-Executive roles, the requirements of the Listing Rules.
Committees agenda items are below.
Duncan Tatton-Brown possesses recent and The Audit Committee reviews the content relevant financial experience to comply with On 24 November 2016, the Audit of the Annual Report and Accounts and advises the requirements of the Governance Code.
Committee met to discuss the full-year the Board on whether, taken as a whole, Due to the various experience and results for 2016: a risk management it is fair, balanced and understandable backgrounds of each of the Directors within and internal audit update: a review by and provides the information necessary the Audit Committee, including within the Deloitte, the Companys auditor which for shareholders to assess the Companys digital media, property and software sectors, also attended the meeting: a regulatory performance, business model and strategy.
the Board also considers that the Audit update and a cyber update from the Committee as a whole possesses the Companys Chief Technology Officer: Full reports and updates are provided to the competence relevant to the sector in which and ZPGs viability statement.
Board throughout the year on how the Audit ZPG operates.
Biographical details of the Committee has discharged its responsibilities.
On 22 May 2017, the Audit Committee Directors on the Audit Committee, setting reviewed the Companys half-year The Audit Committee operates within agreed out their backgrounds and experiences, are results, a risk management and internal terms of reference and these were updated laid out on pages 50 to 51. controls update, a cyber security review this year to reflect the latest requirements The attendance of each member at the by the Companys Chief Technology of the Governance Code, the Financial Audit Committee meetings is shown on Officer, a regulatory update and the Reporting Councils FRC Audit Committee page 55.
The Chairman of the Company, updated terms of reference.
Guidance, the Financial Conduct Authoritys the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules On 6 July 2017, the Audit Committee met Financial Officer attend meetings of the and the EU Audit Directive and Regulation.
to consider the auditors FY17 Audit Plan, Audit Committee by invitation, as do The full revised terms of reference for the a risk management and internal audit Deloitte LLP, the Companys external Audit Committee have been published on update and the Audit Committees auditor, and other members of Management the Companys website www.
evaluation results, which concluded that or the Board as appropriate.
the Audit Committee was operating Under its terms of reference, the Audit effectively and adequately covered Committee is required to meet at least Roles and responsibilities financial reporting and judgements, risk three times in each year at appropriate The principal function of the Audit Committee management, compliance requirements times in the financial reporting and audit is to assist the Board in discharging its and cyber security.
The Audit Committee followed the responsibilities with regard to financial meeting, the Audit Committee also terms and met three times during the reporting and to monitor the integrity of the discussed the effectiveness of Deloitte year.
The attendance of each meeting financial statements of the Company and as ZPGs auditor.
is disclosed on page 55. any formal announcements relating to the www.
co. uk 59 Audit Committee report continued Activities of the Audit Committee External auditor effectiveness review continued On 22 November 2017, the Audit Committee reviewed and approved for consideration by the Board the financial The Audit Committee considered whether the external Qualification results for the financial year ended Resources auditor had appropriate resources and expertise to conduct andexpertise 30 September 2017.
review process, the members of the Audit Committee reviewed the Annual Report, the adequacy of the disclosure The Audit Committee received comments from the CFO with respect to reporting on a going and Management on the objectivity of the external auditor.
concern basis and the viability statement, Independence Non-audit Non-audit services provided by Deloitte were reviewed and, andobjectivity services and whether the Annual Report taken as described below, are not considered to have affected the as a whole was fair, balanced and auditors independence.
understandable as set out below.
The Audit Committee considered the The Audit Committee considered the effectiveness and appropriateness of preparing the accounts organisation of the planning process for the audit and on a going concern basis and the viability Planning and post-audit evaluation.
Quality of the Company, including consideration organisation of forecast plans and supporting The Audit Committee also reviewed the quality of reporting assumptions, and concluded that the from the external auditor and its recommendations.
Companys financial position was such that it continued to be appropriate for accounts to be prepared on a going For the Property division, the majority of The acquisitions of concern basis.
The Companys viability revenue is derived from recurring subscriptions statement can be found on page 35.
 which are predictable in nature and invoiced During the year ZPG completed its monthly.
The principal area of focus within this acquisitions of Hometrack, ExpertAgent, Fair, balanced and understandable division relates to software revenues deriving Ravensworth and TechnicWeb.
The process The Audit Committee reviewed a draft from contracts with multiple obligations.
of determining the fair value of assets and of the Annual Report 2017 and Managements Judgement is required in determining the liabilities acquired is inherently judgemental accompanying paper which considered the fair value of multiple contractual obligations, and there is a risk that inappropriate fair balanced and understandable nature principally the allocation of revenue to be methodologies or assumptions could lead of the report.
In particular, the Committee recognised on installation and set-up, and to a misstatement in the valuation of acquired considered internal consistency throughout that which relates to ongoing services.
The size of the Hometrack the report, appropriate prominance of Management performed an exercise during and ExpertAgent acquisitions means that statutory and non-statutory measures, the the Period to demonstrate that any potential the judgements involved are material to accounting judgements and estimates and misallocation of fair value between installation the Companys consolidated results.
transparency of both good and bad events.
and ongoing services could not be material.
The Hometrack acquisition also includes The Audit Committee also received advice The external auditor has reviewed the contingent consideration in the form of from external advisers during the drafting results of this exercise.
The value of the expected process in order to assist the Board in payment is highly uncertain and therefore determining that the report is fair, balanced Revenue for the Comparison division is there is a significant amount of judgement in and understandable at the time that it was recognised at the point at which a transaction the valuation of this potential liability at the approved, and that it provides the information or interaction on the Companys website is acquisition date and its ongoing fair value.
necessary for shareholders to assess the completed and a lead is generated.
An element Companys position and performance, of judgement is required in calculating The Audit Committee has reviewed the business model and strategy.
a revenue accrual, which estimates the disclosure in the financial statements in number of likely successful switches that relation to the acquisitions and has discussed Significant issues considered in will occur from the leads generated.
the accounting for the transaction and the relationto the financial statements Management performs a month-on-month valuation of intangibles and other assets analysis which demonstrates that the with both Management and the Companys The Audit Committee, together with the accuracy of accruals continues to improve external auditor.
The Audit Committee notes Executive Directors and ZPGs external over time.
An analysis of post-year end that a third party valuation specialist was auditor, considered the following significant receipts further supports the immaterial engaged to assist with the purchase price matters in relation to the financial statements nature of any over or under accrual at the allocation exercise.
Certain inputs into the and how these were addressed.
model, including forecast cash flows, are Revenue recognition prepared by Management.
The Audit Committee is therefore comfortable ZPGs revenue recognition is limited in that the recognition of revenue during the The Audit Committee is satisfied that complexity: however, the addition of four Period is appropriate.
the judgements and estimates made by new businesses during the Period increases Management are appropriate and that these the level of judgement.
assumptions have been subject to sufficient review by the Companys external auditor.
60 ZPG Plc Annual Report 2017 Corporate governance Impairment of goodwill and intangibles The Audit Committee oversees the In accordance with proper standards, external relationship with ZPGs external auditor, auditors are required to adhere to a rotation The Group holds a significant amount of goodwill and intangible assets on the Deloitte LLP.
Deloitte attends meetings policy whereby the audit engagement partner of the Audit Committee by invitation and is rotated after five years.
The previous audit Statement of Financial Position as a result of acquisitions.
These assets are subject to remains in constant communication with engagement partner was appointed in 2012 members of the Audit Committee, as well but, due to his previous role as the audit an annual impairment review, which requires an estimation of the recoverable value.
as the Executive Directors and other engagement partner for certain of the members of the Board, as appropriate.
Companys significant operations, could As many of the assets have been acquired through recent acquisitions there is an serve as the audit engagement partner for The Audit Committee also makes only two years after the Company became increased risk if the acquired entities do recommendations to the Board, for it to not meet the projected forecasts identified listed.
Therefore, in accordance with put to the shareholders for their approval independence requirements, a new audit at acquisition.
The impairment analysis is at the AGM, in relation to the appointment performed using the Companys three year engagement partner was appointed in the of the external auditor and to approve the previous financial year.
The Chair of the plan for the expected future cash flows remuneration and terms of engagement and the Audit Committee notes that this Audit Committee met with the new of the external auditor.
As part of this engagement partner on a regular basis plan has been scrutinised by the Executive responsibility, the Audit Committee Team and approved by the Board.
Other throughout the year and the new approved the audit plan for the year engagement partner attended every assumptions in the analysis, including the ended 30 September 2017 and reviewed long-term growth rate and discount rate Audit Committee meeting, along with the auditors findings and Management her team, in the year.
assumptions are in line with the representation letters.
Prior to recommending expectations of the external auditor.
the appointment of Deloitte at the The Audit Committee has authority to take forthcoming AGM to the Board, the Audit independent advice as it deems appropriate The Audit Committee notes that although the available headroom is lower for the recent Committee reviewed the external audit in order to resolve issues on auditor process, the performance of the auditor independence.
No such advice has been acquisitions as a result of the proximity of the impairment analysis to the initial recognition and its ongoing independence, objectivity required to date.
and effectiveness, taking into account input of the assets at fair value, available headroom The external auditor is also required periodically exists for each cash-generating unit and the from Management, responses to questions to assess whether, in its professional opinion, from the Audit Committee and the audit Audit Committee is comfortable that these it is independent and those views are shared assets are not impaired.
The Committee findings reported to the Audit Committee.
It was concluded further notes that a reasonable decrease Based on this review, the Audit Committee that the external auditor assessed itself to in the forecasted cash flows for the concluded that the external audit process be independent.
Property Software Group could eliminate had been run efficiently and that Deloitte LLP current headroom and that this sensitivity has remained effective in its role as Independence assessment has been adequately disclosed in the external auditor.
Based on the fact that the auditor and audit Revenue recognition, judgements around Approach to appointing the external engagement partner rotation policy has been acquisitions and the impairment of goodwill auditor and how objectivity and complied with, the Audit Committee is satisfied and intangibles were each discussed with independence are safeguarded that the independence of the external auditor the Audit Committee at both the May and The Audit Committee has adopted a policy is not impaired.
Furthermore, the level of November 2017 Audit Committee meetings fees paid for non-audit services does not covering the independence of the external in the presence of the external auditor.
auditor consistent with the ethical standards jeopardise its independence.
Audit and non-audit fees are set out in Note 5 to published by the Audit Practices Board and Assessment of effectiveness the engagement of the external auditor for the financial statements.
oftheexternal audit process the provision of non-audit services.
This The Audit Committee noted that the auditor ZPGs current auditor is Deloitte LLP.
policy is available on the Companys website has not provided any non-audit services, other Deloitte LLP was appointed as the Companys www.
This policy highlights the than the interim review, during the Period.
The Audit Committee notes Audit Committees preference to engage The Audit Committee has assessed the that FTSE 250 companies should put the audit with parties other than the external auditor, out to tender at least every 10 years.
To avoid with regards to non-audit services, unless performance and independence of the external auditor and recommended to the Board the significant disruption, the FRC has provided there is a considerable benefit to doing so details of transitional arrangements which and any activity is within the restrictions of re-appointment of Deloitte LLP as auditor until the conclusion of the AGM in 2018. would mean that as Deloitte became the all relevant legislation and ethical standards.
auditor after 2000, the Company would not need to undertake a tender review until 2020. www.
co. uk 61 Audit Committee report continued Internal audit During the year, ZPG has continued to perform During the year, ZPG carried out risk internal audit reviews as well as work with management workshops with key members Provision C. 3.6 of the Governance Code states third parties to bring in independent of Management and the Executive that where there is no internal audit function specialist expertise.
Audits conducted during Management Team.
This involved rigorous within a company, the audit committee the year include areas such as the control identification, assessment and scrutiny of should consider annually whether there is a environment surrounding the Companys what are considered to be operational and need for an internal audit function and make new finance system, part of the customer strategic risks to the Company.
The relevant a recommendation to the board, with the billing process and cyber security.
key individuals contributed to the discussions reasons for the absence of such a function involving these risks and the extensive to be explained.
An internal audit plan for the 2018 financial feedback collected from the workshops year has now been created which was Last year, the Audit Committee recommended was provided to the Audit Committee approved by the Audit Committee in to the Board that it was not necessary to for consideration and review.
November 2017. appoint a permanent internal audit function Further details of ZPGs risk management but, rather, there should be a focus on specific It is expected that ZPG will continue to framework and the principal risks and areas supplemented with ad hoc reviews.
work with third parties, where appropriate, uncertainties facing the business can be in order to obtain sufficient assurance on However, as the Company has grown, found on pages 31 to 35. the effectiveness of the Companys Management, the Audit Committee and internal controls.
ZPG has operating policies and controls in the Board recognise the value that a place covering a range of issues including permanent internal audit function can financial control and reporting, business Internal control and risk management provide in strengthening ZPGs internal continuity, information technology and control framework.
The Board is responsible for the overall security and appropriate employee policies.
system of internal controls for ZPG and for As such, the decision was taken to recruit The Board is ultimately responsible for the reviewing its effectiveness.
In accordance a Risk and Internal Audit Manager to Companys system of internal controls and with the FRC Internal Control: Guidance to continue to develop ZPGs risk management risk management and discharges its duties Directors publication, it carries out a review framework and establish an in-house in this area by: of its suitability and effectiveness at least internal audit function.
This role currently annually, covering all material controls including holding regular Board meetings to reports into Management and the Audit financial, operational and compliance consider the matters reserved for Committee considers this arrangement controls and risk management systems.
its consideration: to be proportionate to the current level of risk and risk appetite of ZPG.
ZPGs internal control framework is aligned receiving regular Management reports to the three lines of defence model as set which provide an assessment of key An Internal Audit Charter Charter has been out on page 31. risks and controls: developed which reflects these arrangements and outlines the purpose and the respective The system of internal controls is designed scheduling annual Board reviews responsibilities of the internal audit function to manage and diminish rather than of strategy including reviews of the and the Audit Committee.
The Charter was eliminate the risk of failure to achieve material risks and uncertainties facing approved by the Audit Committee at its business objectives and can only provide the business: July 2017 meeting.
reasonable and not absolute assurance ensuring there is a clear organisational against material misstatement or loss.
Management and the Audit Committee will structure with defined responsibilities assess the effectiveness of this arrangement and levels of authority: and the internal audit function on an annual ensuring there are documented policies basis and the Audit Committee will continue and procedures in place: and to consider the need for an internal audit function independent from Management scheduling regular Board reviews going forward.
of financial budgets, forecasts and covenants with performance reported to the Board monthly.
62 ZPG Plc Annual Report 2017 Corporate governance In reviewing the effectiveness of the system Whistleblowing ZPGs Modern Slavery Statement, which of internal controls, the Audit Committee sets out details of ZPGs policies in relation ZPG has in place a whistleblowing policy, carries out the following duties: to slavery and human trafficking as well as the Speak-Up Policy, which encourages its due diligence processes with its partners, employees to report any malpractice or reviews ZPGs Company Strategic Risk has been published on the Companys illegal acts or omissions or matters of similar Register CSRR compiled and maintained website www.
concern by other employees or former by Management within the various employees, contractors, suppliers or advisers businesses of ZPG and questions and ZPG has published its Tax Strategy Statement using a prescribed reporting procedure.
challenges where necessary: on the Companys website www.
co. uk The policy facilitates the reporting of any in compliance with its duty under the regularly reviews the system of financial ethical wrongdoing or malpractice or Finance Act 2016, which sets out details and accounting controls: and suspicion which may constitute ethical of the Companys attitude to tax planning wrongdoing or malpractice.
reports to the Board on the risk and and tax risk.
control culture within the Company.
Examples include bribery, corruption, fraud, Accountability dishonesty and illegal practices which may In respect of ZPGs financial reporting endanger employees or third parties.
There The Board is required to present a fair, processes, the finance department is have been no instances of whistleblowing balanced and understandable assessment of responsible for preparing its financial during the year under review.
the Companys financial position and prospects.
statements using a well-established The responsibilities of the Directors and consolidation process and ensuring that This is facilitated through an independent external auditor are set out on pages 95 and accounting policies are in accordance with and external organisation, SeeHearSpeakUp, 103.
As set out in the Directors report, the International Financial Reporting Standards.
which maintains a confidential hotline for all Directors consider the Companys business All consolidated financial information individuals within ZPG to report any to be a going concern.
The Companys published by the Company is subject to malpractice or illegal acts or omissions or viability statement can be found on page 35. recommendation by the Audit Committee matters of similar concern.
An email address to the Board for approval and external audit.
is also provided and a reporting process on SeeHearSpeakUps website is available, both During the year, ZPG changed its finance as alternative options to make such system to accommodate the business anonymous reports.
growth with its functionality providing a Duncan Tatton-Brown significantly improved control environment Chair, Audit Committee Control environment in respect of key areas such as user access, monitoring and reporting.
In addition, it has The Board is committed to business successfully migrated the customer billing integrity, high ethical and moral values process for portal services from the legacy and professionalism in all its activities.
built customer relationship management ZPG has policies in place for: CRM system, to the new finance system.
anti-bribery and corruption: These projects were subject to internal audit review and any recommendations raised working with third parties: were tracked and followed up by ZPGs gifts and entertainment: and internal audit function.
The integration of acquisitions into ZPGs internal control environment continues to The Company is currently reviewing its be an area of focus and is an area which payment practices and a report will be features prominently within its internal published next year in line with its obligations audit plan for 2018. under the Reporting on Payment Practices and Performance Regulations 2017.
The The Board, with advice from the Audit Company is also reviewing its practices and Committee, is satisfied that an effective processes in order to ensure that reasonable system of internal controls and risk prevention procedures are in place to management is in place which enables the prevent the facilitation of tax evasion in line Company to identify, evaluate and manage with the new Criminal Finances Act 2017. key risks and which accord with the guidance provided by the FRC Internal Control: Guidance to Directors.
