Corporate governance statement The Company has applied all of the main principles of, and complied fully with therelevant provisions set out in, theGovernance Code During the year, the Board carefully The role of the Board Statement of compliance reassessed Grenville Turners independence The Board is collectively responsible The Board remains fully and it was agreed that since Grenville stepped for the long-term success of the Company committed to promoting down as the Chairman of Countrywide Plc, and provides leadership to the business.
a customer and previously a major shareholder It sets the Companys strategic aims, values andmaintaining the in the Company, in April 2016 and since and standards, and is responsible for the higheststandards of Countrywide ceased to be a shareholder conduct of ZPGs business and development corporategovernance.
of the Company from September 2016 whilst reviewing the performance of the onwards, Grenville would be considered Management Team.
All Directors make This Corporate Governance Report, which independent for the purposes of the decisions in accordance with their statutory incorporates reports from the Audit and Governance Code from the conclusion duties, acting in a way in which they consider, Nomination Committees on pages 58 to 65 of the Board meeting in July 2017 onwards.
in good faith, would be most likely to promote together with the Strategic report on pages A key part of the Boards determination is the success of the Company for the benefit 01 to 47, the Directors Remuneration that there is no longer any commercial of its shareholders as a whole, and, in doing Report on pages 66 to 91 and the Directors relationship or interaction between Grenville so, have regard amongst other matters to Report on pages 92 to 94, explains how the and Countrywide.
In addition to this, there various other stakeholders and considerations.
Company complies with the UK Corporate are no ongoing relationships between Grenville This is achieved through continuous Governance Code Governance Code and and the directors or senior employees discussions and evaluations of the impact the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing of Countrywide.
Grenville does not currently of Board decisions, transactions and other Rules and Disclosure and Transparency hold any shares in Countrywide, however matters within the Boards responsibility Rules throughout the year.
he is due to receive a minimal amount on these various stakeholder groups and of deferred Countrywide shares in 2018 For the year ended 30 September 2017, the considerations.
The Board is also collectively as a result of his historic involvement with Company was subject to the edition of the responsible for ensuring that a thorough the company.
The Board does not deem this Governance Code published by the Financial system of internal control and risk management to be a determinative factor in considering Reporting Council in April 2016, which can including financial, operational and compliance his independence.
The Board also considered be found at www.
controls is in place and for the approval of any Grenvilles contributions to the Board changes to the capital, corporate and or In the Corporate Governance Report last since stepping down as the Chairman management structure of ZPG.
The Board year, it was explained that the Company of Countrywide to be of the highest quality convened 10 times this year to discharge its had applied all of the main principles and and is comfortable that Grenville exercises duties, which included discussions of various complied with all of the relevant provisions independent judgement and oversight, and, matters relating to the business of the of the Governance Code with the exception that his decision-making and views are in no Company and in relation to the acquisitions of Provision B.
1.2, which recommends that way influenced by his historic relationship of TechnicWeb, Hometrack, ExpertAgent, at least half of the Board of Directors of a with Countrywide, notwithstanding that Ravensworth and Money.
UK-listed company, excluding the Chairman, he stepped down from its board less than should comprise Non-Executive Directors There is a formal schedule of matters three years ago.
determined by the Board to be independent reserved for the Boards approval whilst it Therefore, full compliance with the Governance in character and judgement and free from has delegated other specific responsibilities Code has now been achieved and I can relationships or circumstances which may to its Committees.
The following schedule confirm that, from July 2017, the Company affect, or could appear to affect, the sets out key aspects of the affairs of the has applied all of the main principles of, and Directors judgement.
Company which the Board does not complied fully with the relevant provisions delegate.
These have not changed from At the time, the Board comprised a set out in, the Governance Code issued by previous years.
Non-Executive Chairman and nine other the Financial Reporting Council in April 2016.
Directors, of whom four were considered Where the Board does delegate its The Companys auditor, Deloitte LLP, is to be wholly independent.
Therefore, the responsibilities, whether to its Committees required to review whether the above Company did not fully comply with the or to Management, it maintains oversight statement reflects the Companys compliance requirements of the Governance Code at all times.
with the Governance Code specified for its at the time and we set out our intention review by the Listing Rules and to report where to explore avenues to resolve this one the above does not reflect such compliance.
remaining non-compliant element in the Deloitte has made no such report.
52 ZPG Plc Annual Report 2017 Corporate governance THE ROLE OF THE BOARD u Responsibility for the overall management of ZPG.
u Approval of ZPGs business strategy and objectives, budgets and forecasts and any material changes to them.
u Monitoring the delivery of ZPGs business strategy and objectives and responsibility for any necessary corrective action.
u Oversight of operations, ensuring adequate systems of internal controls and risk management are in place, ensuring maintenance of accounting and other records and ensuring compliance with statutory and regulatory obligations.
u Approval of any extension of ZPGs activities or any decision to cease to operate any material part of ZPGs business.
u Approval of any changes relating to ZPGs capital structure and material changes to ZPGs Strategy Day Management and control structure.
In addition to this, the Board and the u Approval of the financial statements, Annual Report and Accounts, material contracts Executive Management Team participated and major projects.
in a Board Strategy Day which reviewed and u Approval of the dividend policy.
challenged the plans of various businesses and divisions within ZPG.
u Ensuring a sound system of internal control and risk management.
u Approval of any major capital projects.
u Approval of communications with shareholders and the market.
Board composition u Determining changes to the structure, size and composition of the Board.
The Board consists of a Non-Executive u Determining remuneration policy for the Directors and the Leadership and Senior Chairman, five Independent Non-Executive Management Teams and approval of the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors.
Directors, two Non-Executive Directors and u Approval of all major policies within ZPG, including the share dealing, anti-bribery two Executive Directors.
Short biographies and health and safety policies.
of each member of the Board appear on THE ROLE OF THE CHAIRMAN pages 50 and 51.
The Board is satisfied that, between the Directors, it is of an appropriate u To run the Board effectively by ensuring meetings are held with appropriate frequency.
size and has an effective and appropriate u To ensure the frequency and depth of evaluation of the performance of the Board and its balance of independence, knowledge of the Committees is in compliance with best practice.
Company, diverse skills and experience, u To chair the Nomination Committee, to lead the process for Board appointments and to including without limitation in the areas identify and recommend candidates for the approval of the Board.
of marketing, digital media, software, data, retailing, finance, international trading u To promote a culture of openness and debate, in particular by facilitating the effective operations and e-commerce, in order contribution of Non-Executive Directors, and ensuring constructive relations between to enable it to discharge its duties Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
u To ensure the Board receives accurate, clear and timely information to support sound decision making and enable individual Directors to fulfil their duties as Directors.
Board Committees u To hold meetings with the Non-Executive Directors without Executive Directors The Board delegates a set of defined or Senior Management present.
responsibilities and decision-making authority u To ensure effective communication by the Company with its shareholders, including to the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit discussing governance, remuneration and strategy with major shareholders.
Committees so that it can devote its time u To ensure that shareholders views are communicated to the Board as a whole so that efficiently and resourcefully to any relevant all Directors develop an understanding of their views.
matters reserved for the Board.
THE ROLE OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER The composition of each Committee is compliant with the Governance Code and u To manage ZPG on a day-to-day basis within the authority delegated by the Board.
each Committee operates with written terms u To ensure, with the Executive Team, that Board decisions are implemented effectively.
of reference, all of which were updated this u To identify and execute strategic opportunities for ZPG.
year and are available on the Companys website www.
co. uk and isolated u To develop and propose strategy for ZPG, annual plans and commercial objectives to the Board.
reports for each Committee are included u To advise and make recommendations in respect of Board nominations in this Annual Report from pages 58 to 91. and succession planning.
All Committee chairpersons report back u To keep the Chairman informed of all important matters.
to the Board on the proceedings of their u To make recommendations on remuneration policies, Executive remuneration and terms Committees, including requesting the of employment for senior employees.
approval of the Board, where required, u To ensure that Management puts procedures in place to ensure compliance with on recommendations put forward by applicable legislation and regulation.
u To review regularly ZPGs operational performance and strategic direction.
u To maintain a dialogue with the Chairman and the Board on important and strategic issues facing ZPG.
co. uk 53 Corporate governance statement continued The role of the Chairman The Board has concluded that Duncan Information, meetings and attendance Tatton-Brown, Sherry Coutu, Robin Klein andChiefExecutive Officer The Board met 10 times during the year to and Vin Murria were independent Directors review the operational performance of the There is a clear division of responsibilities throughout the Period.
Mike Evans was at the head of the Company between the Company.
At these meetings, the Board independent on appointment as Chairman reviewed the Companys long and short-term running of the Board and the executive and has remained independent throughout responsibility for the running of the strategic direction and financial plans and the Period.
As already mentioned, Grenville monitored the Companys performance Companys business.
Turner was determined to be independent against the agreed strategy and business The Board is chaired by Mike Evans, by the Board in July 2017. plan.
Due to the various acquisitions carried who was independent on his appointment out in the year, the Board met more often At the time of the Companys initial public in May 2014.
Mike is responsible for the than the anticipated number of times, offering IPO, the Company entered into effective leadership of the Board, having and delegated some responsibilities to a a relationship agreement Relationship regard to the interests of all stakeholders Transaction Committee, which met twice Agreement with Daily Mail and General and promoting high standards of corporate during the year, to make certain decisions Trust Plc DMGT, the ultimate parent of the governance.
On the other hand, Alex relating to the transactions.
Companys current principal shareholder, Chesterman, the Chief Executive Officer, DMGZ Limited DMGZ.
The main purpose The Chairman is responsible for ensuring is responsible for implementing the Boards of the Relationship Agreement is to ensure strategy, overseeing the day-to-day that the Directors receive accurate, timely that the Company and its subsidiaries are and clear information.
Prior to each scheduled management of ZPG and leading the capable of carrying on their business Executive Management Team.
Board meeting, a pack of documents is independently of DMGT, that transactions circulated in respect of the corresponding The two roles are different and distinct from and relationships with DMGT are at arms financial period, which includes updates on one another.
The division of responsibilities length and on normal commercial terms, corporate governance, investor relations, between the Chairman and Chief Executive and that the goodwill, reputation and key performance targets, trading performance Officer is clearly established to ensure that commercial interests of the Company against the agreed budget and detailed no single position holds unfettered powers are maintained.
Under the terms of the financial data and analysis.
These divisions have Relationship Agreement, DMGT can appoint Board packs are distributed five working been established by the Board, are set out two Directors to the Board providing it in writing and can be viewed on page 53. days prior to each meeting to provide ultimately holds more than 25% of the sufficient time for the Directors to review votes exercisable at general meetings of their papers in advance.
If Directors are The role of the the Company, and one Director, providing unable to attend a Board meeting for Senior Independent Director it holds more than 10% of those votes.
any reason, they nonetheless receive the Provision A.
4.1 of the Governance Code The Relationship Agreement will remain relevant papers and are consulted prior provides that the Board should appoint one in force for so long as a the shares of the to the meeting and their views are made of the Independent Non-Executive Directors Company are listed on the premium listing known to the other Directors.
to the role of a Senior Independent Director segment of the Official List and b DMGT SID to provide a sounding board for the All Directors have access to the advice or any of its associates together are entitled Chairman and to serve as an intermediary and services of the Company Secretary, to exercise or to control the exercise of 10% for the other Directors when necessary.
who advises the Board, through the Chairman, or more of the votes which are generally on all governance matters and who has exercisable at general meetings of the Duncan Tatton-Brown has remained as responsibility for ensuring compliance Company.
The two Directors appointed by the SID of the Board and is available to with the Boards procedures.
The Company DMGT are Kevin Beatty and James Welsh shareholders if they have concerns which Secretarys responsibilities also include who was appointed on 1 January 2017 the normal channels through the Chairman, ensuring good information flows within following Stephen Daintiths resignation CEO or other Executive Directors have the Board and its various committees and from the Board.
The Company confirms failed to resolve or are inappropriate.
between the Senior Management Team that the terms of the Relationship Agreement and the Non-Executive Directors, as well have been fully complied with during the year.
Non-Executive Directors as facilitating the induction process for new As part of their role as members of a Directors and assisting with the Directors Length of appointments unitary board, the Non-Executive Directors professional development.
There is a formal, rigorous and transparent constructively challenge and help develop Each of the Directors has the right to have procedure in place within ZPG for the proposals on ZPGs strategy.
appointment of new Directors to the Board.
his her opposition to, or concerns over, any The Governance Code sets out the Board decision noted in the minutes.
Further details are set out in the Nomination circumstances that should be relevant to Committee Report on pages 64 to 65.
Directors may take independent professional the Board in determining whether each advice at the Companys expense in the Non-Executive appointments to the Non-Executive Director is independent.
Board are for a period of up to three years, performance of their duties.
extendable by no more than two additional three year periods.
The Company extended the appointments of those Non-Executive Directors where their three year appointment terms were reached during the year.
These were extended by an additional three year period.
54 ZPG Plc Annual Report 2017 Corporate governance Board and Board Committee meetings attendance Audit Remuneration Nomination Transaction Date of appointment Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Total meetings 10 3 4 3 2 Alex Chesterman 23 April 2014 10 10 3 3 2 2 Andy Botha 18 April 2016 10 10 2 2 Mike Evans Chair 1 May 2014 10 10 4 4 3 3 2 2 Duncan Tatton-Brown 1 May 2014 10 10 3 3 4 4 3 3 Sherry Coutu 1 May 2014 10 10 3 3 4 4 3 3 Robin Klein 1 May 2014 10 10 3 3 2 3 Grenville Turner 21 May 2014 8 10 1 1 James Welsh 1 January 2017 8 9 2 2 3 3 1 Kevin Beatty 1 July 2016 8 10 1 3 1 1 Stephen Daintith 21 May 2014 1 1 1 1 1 1 Vin Murria 1 July 2015 10 10 2 3 4 4 1 Observer.
Conflicts of interests Development The duties to avoid potential conflicts and The Non-Executive Directors have all to disclose such situations for authorisation met key members of Senior Management by the Board are the personal responsibility and advisers to the Company, many of whom of each Director.
All Directors are required have given presentations to the Board and to ensure that they keep these duties under Committee members during various Board review and to inform the Company Secretary and Committee meetings this past year, on an ongoing basis of any change in their in order to enable the Directors to familiarise respective positions.
There was a scheduled timetable of presentations The Companys conflict of interest procedures throughout the year.
are reflected in its Articles of Association Articles.
In line with the Companies Act During the year, the Chairman reviewed 2006, the Articles allow the Directors to and agreed with each Non-Executive authorise conflicts and potential conflicts Director his her individual training and of interest, where appropriate.
Our new induction process to authorise a conflict can only be made Under the guidance of the Chairman, the by non-conflicted Directors.
The Board Company Secretary established a formal considers conflicts or potential conflicts induction training process for new Directors at each Board meeting.
who will receive an induction briefing from The Articles require the Company to the Company Secretary on their duties indemnify its officers, including officers and responsibilities as Directors of a of wholly owned subsidiaries, against liabilities listed Company.
arising from the conduct of ZPGs business, to the extent permitted by law.
ZPG has therefore purchased Directors and Officers liability insurance during the year.
co. uk 55 Corporate governance statement continued Board evaluation In accordance with the provisions of the Governance Code, the Board carried out a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committees and individual Directors this year.
The Board review involved three distinct processes.
Step 1: The Board commissioned an externally facilitated review carried out by the Center for Board Excellence CBE which involved the completion of a bespoke questionnaire, the results of which were analysed by CBE, which produced a formal written report to the Board, including a comparison of results with various peer groups.
STEP 1 The questionnaire covered various areas including: BESPOKE QUESTIONNAIRES leadership of the Board: COMPLETED AND FORMAL WRITTEN REPORT WITH ethics and accountability: COMPARISON OF RESULTS risk, financial monitoring and crisis control: Board composition and culture, including balance of skill: strategy: effectiveness: performance measures and remuneration: and STEP 2 the Boards relations with shareholders.
MEETINGS TO ENSURE THE Step 2: At the end of a number of the Board meetings, the Chairman and Non-Executive ONGOING EFFECTIVENESS OF Directors met without the Executive Directors present to discuss the Executive Directors THEBOARD AND ITS PROCESSES performance during the meeting and the quality of the papers and to raise any concerns about the running of the business to ensure the ongoing effectiveness of the Board and its processes.
Step 3: The Chairman met with each individual Non-Executive Director to evaluate his her performance on a face-to-face basis to discuss his her performance, identify any training needs and also to discuss the overall performance of the Board.
Following these performance evaluations, it was concluded that all Directors possessed appropriate skill, experience, knowledge and expertise to be effective, and that they had all demonstrated commitment STEP 3 to the role.
It was also concluded that all Directors had allocated sufficient time to the ONE-TO-ONE INTERVIEWS WITH Company to discharge their responsibilities and duties effectively.
THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD The consensus view from these three processes was that the Board and its Committees are operating effectively.
Three specific development areas were identified: the need for continued focus and reporting, including detailed information relating to the cross-sell opportunities resulting from the acquisitions: ensuring that Management succession planning reflects the increased breadth of the Company: and ensuring that strategy sessions are more broadly focused.
The SID, Duncan Tatton-Brown, together with the Independent Non-Executive Directors, evaluated the performance of the Chairman based upon input from other Board members.
Re-election of Directors External appointments None of these companies are part of the FTSE 100.
These appointments are not All directors of FTSE 350 companies During the year, Mike Evans announced his deemed to adversely impact the Directors should be subject to annual election intention to step down from his position as ability to carry out their roles.
the Chairman of Hargreaves Lansdown Plc.
This will become effective once his successor The Non-Executive Directors appointment The Companys next AGM will be held on is appointed following regulatory approval.
letters anticipate a time commitment of 30 January 2018.
In accordance with the 10 days per year, recognising that there is Governance Code, all Directors will be offering The Executive Directors may accept always the possibility of an additional time themselves up for election at the AGM to outside appointments provided that such commitment and ad hoc matters arising be held at the Companys head office, full appointments do not in any way prejudice from time to time, particularly when the details of which are set out in the notice of their ability to perform their duties as Company is undergoing a period of meeting accompanying this Annual Report.
Executive Directors of the Company.
The average time As noted above, following the formal internal Alex Chesterman is currently a Director commitment inevitably increases where evaluation process of the effectiveness of of Devalink Limited, Hoopla Limited and a Non-Executive Director assumes the Board, the Board is satisfied that each Barcote Park Management Limited.
None of additional responsibilities such as being Director remains committed to his her role these companies are part of the FTSE 100. appointed to a Board Committee.
and is competent to discharge his her Andy Botha is currently a Director of Geek responsibilities as a member of the Board.
Vintique Limited and Orange Grove Limited.
56 ZPG Plc Annual Report 2017 Corporate governance Relations with shareholders The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the views of the Companys shareholders are communicated to the Board and he is assisted in this task by the Head of Investor Relations and the Company Secretary.
Shareholders are able to communicate directly with the Company through the Companys Head of Investor Relations and the Company Secretary, who report regularly back to the Board.
Furthermore, as part of its investor relations programme, the Executive Directors have maintained an active dialogue with key stakeholders, including institutional investors, to discuss issues relating to the performance of ZPG including strategy and new developments.
The CEO and CFO undertook investor roadshows around the UK and the US in December 2016 and June 2017.
In addition to this, the Company hosted a number of Product demonstration product demonstrations and teach-ins at The Company hosted a number of product demonstrations and teach-ins at the Companys the Companys head office throughout the head office throughout the year for investors to attend.
year for investors to attend.
This enabled them to review and understand the suite of new products that have been integrated into ZPGs business following the various Constructive use of the AGM acquisitions.
In this way, the Board was able The Board uses the AGM to communicate with its shareholders and to encourage their to develop an understanding of the views participation.
Therefore, separate resolutions on each substantially separate issue will of major shareholders about the Company.
be proposed and resolutions at the AGM will be conducted on a poll, enabling the views The Non-Executive Directors are always of the widest number of shareholders to be taken into consideration.
For each resolution, available to discuss any matter stakeholders proxy appointment forms will be provided to shareholders with the option to direct their might wish to raise.
proxy to vote on the resolutions or to withhold their vote.
After the end of the financial year, The Board encourages shareholders to attend and vote at the AGM and the Company will the Company consulted with its largest be providing a facility for electronic proxy voting.
The proxy forms which accompany this shareholders on proposals to change its Annual Report contain further details on voting at the AGM.
Remuneration Policy, including an extension of the Value Creation Plan VCP for a further Investor activity during the year two years with a view to retaining the service of Alex Chesterman for a further period.
November 2016 Full-year results This consultation was led by Sherry Coutu, December 2016 Investor roadshows as Chair of the Remuneration Committee, supported by the Companys external February 2017 AGM advisers.
More details on the extension May 2017 Half-year results of the VCP can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report.
June 2017 Investor roadshows Investor relations activity and a review October 2017 VCP consultations of the share register form an active part November 2017 Full-year results of the Boards agenda.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors have attended, December 2017 Investor roadshows and are available to attend, investor relations Throughout the year Product demonstrations and teach-ins meetings and have the ability to request meetings with investors or analysts Throughout the year Investor meetings independent of the Companys Management, if required.
