Directors report Share capital The Boards responsibilities in respect of the The Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 30 September 2017 Company include: comprised a single class of ordinary shares of which 422,548,604 shares Determining the overall business and commercial strategy were in issue and listed on the London Stock Exchange 24 September 2016 413,624,294 shares.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Identifying the Companys long-term objectives ordinary shares of the Company are contained within the Companys Reviewing the annual operating budget and financial plans and Articles of Association.
Of the issued share capital, no shares were held monitoring performance in relation to those plans in treasury and the Companys employee share trusts held 1,748,942 shares.
Details of movements in the issued share capital can be found in Determining the basis of the allocation of capital note 4.7 to the financial statements on page 131.
Each share carries the Considering all policy matters relating to the Companys activities right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
The notice of the including any major change of policy Annual General Meeting specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights in relation to the resolutions to be put to the Annual General Meeting.
For the Companys latest financial information All issued shares are fully paid up and carry no additional obligations go to: www.
com investors or special rights.
There are no restrictions on transfers of shares in the Company, or on the exercise of voting rights attached to them, other The Directors present their report and the audited financial statements than those which may from time to time be applicable under existing for the 53 weeks ended 30 September 2017.
The Business review of laws and regulations and under the Articles of Association.
In addition, the Company and its subsidiaries is given on pages 14 to 17 which, pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, together with the Corporate governance statement and Audit Directors and certain officers and employees of the Group require Committee report, are incorporated by reference into this report and, the prior approval of the Company to deal in the ordinary shares accordingly, should be read as part of this report.
Details of the Groups policy on addressing risks are given on pages Participants in the Share Incentive Plan SIP may complete a Form 36 to 40 and 60 and 61, and details about financial instruments are shown of Instruction which is used by Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited, in note 4.4 to the financial statements.
These sections include information the SIP Trustee, as the basis for voting on their behalf.
about trends and factors likely to affect the future development and During the year, shares with a nominal value of 35,705 were allotted performance of the Groups businesses.
The Company undertakes under all-employee schemes as permitted under Section 549 of the no obligation to update forward-looking statements.
Companies Act 2006, and shares with a nominal value of 726,579 Key performance indicators for the Groups businesses are set out were allotted pursuant to the Scrip Dividend Scheme.
No securities on pages 28 and 29. were issued in connection with a rights issue during the year.
This report has been prepared under current legislation and guidance The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders in force at the year end date.
In addition, the material contained on that restrict the transfer of shares or voting rights attached to the shares.
pages 1 to 43 reflects the Directors understanding of the requirement Interests of the Directors and their immediate families in the issued share to provide a Strategic report.
capital of the Company as at the year end are on page 83 in the Report This report has been prepared for, and only for, the members of the on Directors remuneration.
Company as a body, and no other persons.
The Company, its Directors, employees, agents or advisers do not accept or assume responsibility to Dividend any other person to whom this document is shown or into whose hands The Board recommends a final dividend for the 53 weeks ended it may come or who becomes aware of it and any such responsibility or 30 September 2017 of 5p per share to be paid on 6 February 2018 to liability is expressly disclaimed.
shareholders on the register at close of business on 15 December 2017.
This makes a total dividend for the year of 7.5p per share FY 2016 7.5p Areas of operation per share.
As set out in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting sent Throughout FY 2017 the Group had activities in, and operated through, to shareholders with this Annual Report, the Company will seek authority pubs, bars and restaurants in the United Kingdom and Germany.
from its shareholders at that meeting to offer a scrip dividend alternative to a cash dividend.
More details of that scrip dividend alternative are set out in the explanatory notes which accompany that Notice.
Shareholders who hold share certificate s will need to complete a Scrip Dividend Mandate Form, which can be found on our website www.
com or by contacting Equiniti on 0371 384 2065.
The completed Scrip Dividend Mandate form should be returned to the registrars no later than 5pm on 16 January 2018.
Shareholders who hold their shares in CREST and who wish to elect for the Scrip Dividend should complete an election through CREST no later than 5pm on 16 January 2018.
Please refer to the elections process document available at www.
co. uk info reinvest Shareholders who do not hold their shares in CREST and who have already submitted a Scrip Dividend Mandate form do not need to submit a new mandate form.
The existing Mandate form will continue in force for those shareholders who do not hold shares in CREST unless and until notice of cancellation is received by the Companys registrars not less than 15 working days before the date on which the dividend is to be paid.
48 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | Annual report and accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 43 GOVERNANCE 44TO87 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 88 TO 139 OTHER INFORMATION 140 TO 144 Interests in voting rights Piedmont.
Having taken into account the Financial Reporting Councils As at the date of this report, the Company was aware of the following report of August 2014 Towards Clear & Concise Reporting and the significant holdings of voting rights 3% or more in its shares: views expressed previously by certain of the investor representative bodies, the Board considers that such an agreement would be merely Ordinary % of one of form rather than substance and not in the interests of Shareholder shares share capital shareholders generally.
As a result, the Board does not propose currently Piedmont Inc. 113,026,256 26.74 Direct holding that the Company should enter into such an agreement with Elpida, and Elpida Group Limited 98,969,081 23.42 Direct holding Elpida has not to date sought such an agreement.
The Board considers Standard Life that the Company is acting in accordance with good governance Aberdeen plc 60,288,713 14.26 Indirect holding principles in working with our significant long-term shareholders towards Smoothfield Holding our common goals and the achievement of the Companys strategy, with Limited 18,668,553 4.42 Direct holding continued stability at Board level.
Using the total voting rights figure announced to the London Stock Exchange for Directors indemnity 31 October 2017 of 422,639,413 shares.
As permitted by the Articles of Association, each of the Directors has the benefit of an indemnity, which is a qualifying third-party indemnity Directors as defined by Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006.
The indemnity Details of the Directors as at 22 November 2017 and their biographies was in force throughout the tenure of each Director during the last are shown on pages 46 and 47.
The Directors at 30 September 2017 and financial year, and is currently in force.
The Company also purchased their interests in shares are shown on page 83.
There were no changes and maintained throughout the financial year Directors and Officers to the Board of Directors during the year nor subsequent to the year end, liability insurance in respect of itself and its Directors.
No indemnity up to the date of this report.
is provided for the Companys auditor.
The Company is governed by its Articles of Association and the Articles of Association Companies Act 2006 and related legislation in relation to the The Articles of Association may be amended by special resolution appointment and removal of Directors.
The powers of the Companys of the shareholders of the Company.
Directors are set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association which are Conflicts of interest in line with best practice guidance of the UK Corporate Governance The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to consider Code, all the Directors will retire at the AGM and will offer themselves and, if it sees fit, authorise situations where a Director has an interest for re-election.
that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the interests of the Company Situational Conflicts.
The Board has a formal system Under a Deed of Appointment between Piedmont Inc. and the in place for Directors to declare Situational Conflicts to be considered Company, Piedmont Inc. has the right to appoint two shareholder for authorisation by those Directors who have no interest in the matter Directors to the Board whilst it owns 22% or more of the issued share being considered.
In deciding whether to authorise a Situational Conflict, capital of the Company, and the right to appoint one shareholder the non-conflicted Directors are required to act in the way they consider Director to the Board whilst it owns more than 16% of the Company would be most likely to promote the success of the Company for the but less than 22%.
In the event that Piedmont Inc. owns less than 16% benefit of all shareholders, and they may impose limits or conditions of the Company any such shareholder Directors would be required when giving authorisation, or subsequently, if they think this is appropriate.
The Board believes that the systems it has in place for reporting and The Companys two largest shareholders, Piedmont Inc. and Elpida considering Situational Conflicts continue to operate effectively.
Group Limited, have nominated representatives on the Board.
Piedmonts appointment rights are formalised in the Deed of Related party transactions Appointment referred to in this report but there is no equivalent Internal controls are in place to ensure that any related party transactions agreement in place between the Company and Elpida.
The Elpida involving Directors or their connected persons are carried out on an representatives were appointed with the approval of the Board in March arms-length basis and are properly recorded.
The Board has carefully considered whether it would be appropriate to enter into a formal agreement with Elpida that is similar to the existing agreement between the Company and Annual report and accounts 2017 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | 49 Directors report continued Change of control provisions The Group is responsive to the needs of its employees.
As such, should There are no significant agreements which contain provisions entitling any employee of the Group become disabled during their time with us, other parties to such agreements to exercise termination or other rights we will actively retrain that employee and make reasonable adjustments in the event of a change of control of the Company.
to their environment where possible, in order to keep the employee with the Group.
There are no provisions in the Directors or employees service agreements providing for compensation for loss of office or employment Employee engagement occurring because of a takeover.
Mitchells & Butlers engages with its employees continuously and in The trustee of the Companys SIP will invite participants on whose behalf a number of ways to suit their different working patterns.
This includes: it holds shares to direct it how to vote in respect of those shares, and, line manager briefings: if there is an offer for the shares or other transaction which would lead to a change of control of the Company, participants may direct it to communications forums and roadshows held by functions or brands accept the offer or agree to the transaction.
The trustee of the Mitchells across the Company: & Butlers Employee Benefit Trust may, having consulted with the a dedicated intranet for the Retail Support Team: Company, vote or abstain from voting in respect of any shares it holds or accept or reject an offer relating to shares in any way it sees fit, and Mable, the M&B online learning system: it may take all or any of the following matters into account: the long-term email news alerts: interests of beneficiaries, the non-financial interests of beneficiaries, the interests of beneficiaries in their capacity as employees or former focus groups: employees, the interests of future beneficiaries and considerations weekly bulletins specifically targeted at retail house managers of a local, moral, ethical, environmental or social nature.
and mobile workers: The rules of certain of the Companys share plans include provisions employee social media groups: and which apply in the event of a takeover or reconstruction, as set out below.
a monthly magazine poster, Frontline News, for the retail estate.
Provisions which apply in the event of a takeover or Details of the financial and economic factors affecting the performance reconstruction of the Company are shared with all employees at the appropriate time Share plan Provision in the event of a takeover using the methods listed above.
2013 Performance Restricted Awards vest pro rata to We provide opportunities for employees to give their feedback Share Plan performance and time elapsed to the Company in a number of ways, from team or shift meetings and lapse six months later in restaurants and pubs and engagement surveys for all employees 2013 Short Term Deferred Bonus shares may be released to the Mitchells & Butlers annual Business Forum.
Business Forum Incentive Plan or exchanged for shares in the representatives collect questions from employees across the Company new controlling company and put them to members of the Executive Committee.
The questions and answers are published in Frontline News and online.
2013 Sharesave Plan Options may be exercised within Since Mable was launched in July 2017, the STAR programme, a six months of a change of control universal training needs analysis and learning resource for all retail roles, Share Incentive Plan Free shares may be released or has now been used by over 8,800 new team members as an integral part exchanged for shares in the new of the businesses induction process.
STAR is supported by coaching controlling company material that has been produced for every technical task associated with a job in hospitality, the visual training library enables our teams to access up to date and relevant information from any hand held or desk top Employment policies device, and a progress report enables every member of the organisation The Group employed an average of 45,891 people in FY 2017 FY 2016 to understand the skills and progress of our people.
Through its diversity policy, the Company seeks to ensure that Mable, the businesss social learning platform, has enabled the business every employee, without exception, is treated equally and fairly and that to direct key training messages contained within STAR quickly and all employees are aware of their responsibilities.
efficiently to the front line.
Our policies and procedures fully support our disabled colleagues.
Mitchells & Butlers operates the Challenge 21 policy in all our businesses We take active measures to do so via: across England and Wales and a Challenge 25 policy in our Scottish businesses.
The policy requires that any guest attempting to buy alcohol a robust reasonable adjustment policy: who appears under the age of 21, must provide an acceptable form of disability-specific online resources accessible via the Groups online proof of age ID to confirm that they are over 18, before they can be recruitment system : and served.
This policy forms part of our regular training for our employees on their responsibilities for serving alcohol.
processes to ensure colleagues are fully supported.
50 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | Annual report and accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 43 GOVERNANCE 44TO87 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 88 TO 139 OTHER INFORMATION 140 TO 144 Mitchells & Butlers is keen to encourage greater employee involvement Going concern in the Groups performance through share ownership.
It operates two The financial statements which appear on pages 88 to 139 have been HMRC approved all-employee plans, which are the 2013 Sharesave prepared on a going concern basis.
The Directors have reviewed the Plan and the Share Incentive Plan which includes Partnership shares.
Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: The Company also operates two other plans on a selective basis, which its financial risk management objectives: its financial instruments and are the 2013 Performance Restricted Share Plan and the 2013 Short Term hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Further details on the plans are set out in the The Groups financing is based on securitised debt and unsecured bank Report on Directors remuneration.
facilities and, within this context, a robust review has been undertaken of projected performance against all financial covenants.
As a result of During the year, the Company has remained within its headroom limits this review the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group for the issue of new shares for share plans as set out in the rules of the has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the above plans.
The Company uses an employee benefit trust to acquire foreseeable future.
See section 1 of the financial statements on page 101 shares in the market when appropriate to satisfy share awards in order for the Companys going concern statement, and page 40 for the to manage headroom under the plan rules.
No shares in the Company Companys long-term viability statement.
were purchased by the employee benefit trust during FY 2017.
Annual General Meeting Political donations The notice convening the Annual General Meeting is contained in The Company made no political donations during the year and intends a circular sent to shareholders with this report and includes full details to maintain its policy of not making such payments.
It will, however, of the resolutions proposed.
as a precautionary measure to avoid inadvertent breach of the law, seek shareholder authority at its 2018 AGM to make limited donations Auditor or incur limited political expenditure, although it has no intention of Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office as auditor using the authority.
of the Company and its reappointment will be put to shareholders at the AGM.
Funding and liquidity risk In order to ensure that the Groups long-term funding strategy is aligned Post-balance sheet events with its strategic objectives, the Treasury Committee regularly assesses There are no post-balance sheet events to report.
the maturity profile of the Groups debt, alongside the prevailing financial projections and three year plan.
This enables it to ensure that funding Disclosure of information to auditor levels are appropriate to support the Groups plans.
Having made the requisite enquiries, so far as the Directors are aware, The current funding arrangements of the Group consist of the there is no relevant audit information as defined by Section 418 3 of the securitised notes issued by Mitchells & Butlers Finance plc and Companies Act 2006 of which the Companys auditor is unaware and associated liquidity facility and 150m of unsecured committed bank each Director has taken all steps that ought to have been taken to make facilities.
Further information regarding these arrangements is included themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that in note 4.2 to the financial statements on page 118.
The terms of the the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
securitisation and the bank facilities contain a number of financial and operational covenants.
Compliance with these covenants is monitored Greenhouse gas GHG emissions statement by Group Treasury.
The Group generates GHG emissions throughout its estate of bars and restaurants for heating, cooling, lighting and catering including The Group prepares a rolling daily cash forecast covering a six-week the refrigeration and preparation of food and drink.
period and an annual cash forecast by period.
These forecasts are reviewed and used to manage the investment and borrowing GHG emissions per m turnover were reduced by 8.1% during the requirements of the Group.
A combination of cash pooling and zero 2016 17 tax year in comparison to 2015 16 in response to a range of balancing agreements is in place to ensure the optimum liquidity position behavioural change activities.
This reduction has been achieved despite is maintained.
Committed facilities outside of the securitisation are sized increasing sales although it should be noted that conversion factors have to ensure that the Group can meet its medium-term anticipated cash also reduced, particularly for grid supplied electricity due to a reduction flow requirements.
in coal generation which has been balanced by an increase in cleaner gas and renewables generation.
Annual report and accounts 2017 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | 51 Directors report continued Assessment parameters Assessment year 2016 17 Tax Year Consolidation approach Financial control Boundary summary All bars and restaurants either owned or under operational control during the 2016 17 tax year were included.
Scope General classifications of greenhouse gas emissions scopes based on the GHG protocol and ISO14064-1:2006 within the context of the Groups operations are as follows: Scope 1 direct greenhouse gas emissions from sources that are owned or controlled by the Group, e. g. fuel combustion of varying types, occurs during kitchen activity and to generate heating and domestic hot water most commonly through natural grid supplied gas, but also some LPG Liquefied Petroleum Gas and oil.
Real fires fuelled by logs or coal are also used to supplement customer comfort and enhance ambience.
Scope 2 GHG emissions from the generation of purchased electricity used during kitchen activity and for lighting, heating and cooling.
Scope 3 indirect emissions as a consequence of the activities of the Group, but occurring from sources not owned or controlled by the Group.
This assessment focuses on scope 1 and 2 emissions only scope 3 is optional under the current regulations.
Consistency with the financial statements Scope 1 and 2 emissions are reported for the 2016 17 and 2015 16 tax years to retain consistency with reporting of our carbon emissions under the Carbon Reduction Commitment CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme.
Scope 1 and 2 emissions from sites with landlord supplies are not included in the CRC submission.
Franchise sites are excluded as they are responsible for arranging and paying for their own energy.
Alex sites in Germany are included.
Emissions are based on UK average emissions multiplied by the number of Alex sites.
Exclusions Scope 1 Vehicle fleet emissions are excluded as they have been calculated to account for 1% total emissions which falls below the materiality threshold.
Scope 1 Fugitive emissions within refrigeration and cooling equipment are not included as detailed records are not yet held.
Outside of scope Logs are outside of scope because the scope 1 impact of these fuels has been determined to be a net 0.
However, the CO e value 2 of logs has been calculated to be 1% and would be excluded in any case as this falls below the materiality threshold.
Emission factor data source All carbon emission factors used are taken from the Government emission conversion factors for greenhouse gas company reporting published by BEIS formerly DEFRA.
The 2016 version of the factors has been applied to the 2016 2017 consumption data set and the 2015 version has been applied to the 2015 2016 consumption data set.
Assessment methodology Defra Environmental Guidelines 2013.
Materiality threshold All emission types estimated to contribute 1% of total emissions are included.
Intensity threshold Emissions are stated in tonnes CO e per m revenue.
This intensity ratio puts 2 emissions into context given the scale of the Groups activities and enables comparison with prior year performance.
Target Emissions during the 2015 16 tax year are provided for comparative purposes.
It should be noted that the 2015 16 emissions have been re-calculated with electricity transmission and distribution losses removed as these are now classed as Scope 3 emissions.
52 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | Annual report and accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 43 GOVERNANCE 44TO87 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 88 TO 139 OTHER INFORMATION 140 TO 144 2015 16 2016 17 Change from previous year % movement Greenhouse gas emissions source tCO e tCO e m tCO e tCO e m tCO e tCO e m in tCO e m 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 Scope 1 96,014 46.0 95,993 45.4 21 0.6 1.3% Scope 2 183,183 87.8 163,960 77.6 19,223 10.2 11.6% Statutory total Scope 1 & 2 279,197 133.8 259,953 123.0 19,244 10.8 8.1% Statutory carbon reporting disclosures required by the Companies Act 2006.
Modern Slavery Act 2015 In accordance with the requirements of the Modern Slavery Act, the Board has approved and the Company has accordingly published its compliance statement on its website.
This can be accessed at www.
com By order of the Board Greg McMahon Company Secretary and General Counsel 22 November 2017 Annual report and accounts 2017 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | 53
