Board of Directors Knowledge and experience Bob Ivell Phil Urban Tim Jones Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director Aged 65 Aged 54 Aged 54 Appointed to the Board in May 2011, Bob has Phil joined Mitchells & Butlers in January 2015 Tim was appointed Finance Director in over 30 years of extensive food and beverage as Chief Operating Officer and became Chief October 2010.
Prior to joining the Company, experience with a particular focus on food-led, Executive in September 2015.
Phil was he held the position of Group Finance Director managed restaurants, pubs and hotels.
He is previously Managing Director at Grosvenor for Interserve plc, a support services group.
currently Non-Executive Chairman of Casinos, a division of Rank Group and Previously, he was Director of Financial Carpetright plc, a Non-Executive Director Chairman of the National Casino Forum.
Operations at Novar plc and held senior of Charles Wells Limited and President of Prior to that, he was Managing Director for financial roles both in the UK and overseas in The Association of Licensed Multiple Retailers.
Whitbreads Pub Restaurant division, and for the logistics company, Exel plc.
Tim is a member He was previously Senior Independent Scottish & Newcastle Retails Restaurants and of the Institute of Chartered Accountants Director of AGA Rangemaster Group plc Accommodation Division.
Phil has an MBA and in England and Wales and obtained an MA and Britvic plc, and a main Board Director of is a qualified management accountant CIMA.
in Economics at Cambridge University.
S&N plc as Chairman and Managing Director of its Scottish & Newcastle retail division.
He has also been Chairman of Regent Inns, Park Resorts and David Lloyd Leisure Limited, and was Managing Director of Beefeater Restaurants, one of Whitbreads pub restaurant brands, and a Director of The Restaurant Group.
Bob is Chair of the Nomination Committee and of the Market Disclosure Committee.
Ron Robson Colin Rutherford Imelda Walsh Deputy Chairman Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Aged 54 Aged 58 Aged 53 Appointed as Deputy Chairman in July 2011, Appointed as an independent Non-Executive Appointed as an independent Non-Executive Ron is a Managing Director of Tavistock Group, Director in April 2013, Colin is currently Director in April 2013, Imelda is a NonChief Executive of Ultimate Finance Group, Chairman of Brookgate Limited and Teachers Executive Director, and Chair of the Chairman of Avenue Insurance Partners and a Media plc.
He is also a Non-Executive Director Remuneration Committees of William Hill plc Non-Executive Director of Tottenham Hotspur of Evofem Biosciences Inc. and Renaissance and FirstGroup plc.
He was previously Chief Financial Services SAOG amongst his other activities.
Director, and Chair of the Remuneration Officer of Tamar Capital Partners and Group He was formerly Executive Chairman of MAM Committee, of Mothercare plc from 2013 to Finance Director of Kenmore, both property Funds plc and Euro Sales Finance plc and has 2016 and of Sainsburys Bank plc from 2006 investment and management groups.
From served as a Director of various other public to 2010.
She has held senior Executive roles 2005 to 2008 he was Group Finance Director and private companies in the UK and overseas.
at J Sainsbury plc, where she was Group of The Belhaven Group plc, a listed pub Colin is a member of the Institute of Chartered HR Director from March 2004 to July 2010, retailing, brewing and drink distribution group.
Accountants of Scotland and has directly Barclays Bank plc and Coca-Cola & Prior to that he held a number of senior finance relevant corporate finance experience in Schweppes Beverages Limited.
Imelda roles including Group Finance Director of a both the leisure and hospitality industries.
is Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
listed shipping and logistics group, and trained Colin is Chairman of the Audit Committee, as a Chartered Accountant with Arthur and serves on all other independent Andersen.
Ron is a nominated shareholder governance committees.
representative of Piedmont Inc. 46 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | Annual report and accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 43 GOVERNANCE 44TO87 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 88 TO 139 OTHER INFORMATION 140 TO 144 Stewart Gilliland Eddie Irwin Josh Levy Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Aged 60 Aged 58 Aged 27 Appointed as an independent Non-Executive Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in Appointed a Non-Executive Director in Director in May 2013 and as Senior March 2012, Eddie is a nominee of Elpida November 2015, Josh is a nominated Independent Director in February 2015.
Group Limited, a significant shareholder in shareholder representative of Piedmont Inc. Stewart was Chief Executive Officer of Muller Mitchells & Butlers.
Eddie is Finance Director a significant shareholder in Mitchells & Butlers.
Dairy UK Limited until 2010 and prior to that of Coolmore, a leading thoroughbred Josh is an Investment Analyst at Tavistock held senior management positions in InBev SA, bloodstock breeder with operations in Ireland, Group having previously worked in the Interbrew UK Limited and Whitbread plc.
He is the USA and Australia and a Non-Executive Investment Banking Division of Investec Bank.
currently Chairman of Booker Group Plc and Director of Grove Ltd, the holding company of Josh holds an MSc and a BA Hons from the Curious Drinks Limited and a Non-Executive Barchester Healthcare Limited.
He graduated University of Nottingham.
Director of C&C Group plc and Natures Way from University College Dublin, with a Foods Limited.
Bachelor of Commerce Degree and he is a Fellow of both the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants and the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
Keith Browne Dave Coplin Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Aged 48 Aged 47 Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in Appointed as an independent Non-Executive September 2016, Keith is a representative of Director in February 2016, Dave is the CEO Elpida Group Limited, a significant shareholder and founder of The Envisioners Limited and in Mitchells & Butlers.
Keith obtained a was formerly the Chief Envisioning Officer Bachelor of Commerce Degree from University for Microsoft Limited, and is an established College Dublin, qualified as a chartered thought leader on the role of technology in accountant in 1994 and subsequently gained our personal and professional lives.
For over an MBA from University College Dublin.
After 25 years he has worked across a range of joining KPMG Corporate Finance in 1996, he industries and customer marketplaces, became a partner in the firm in 2001 and Head providing strategic advice and guidance of Corporate Finance in 2009.
He retired from around the role and optimisation of technology the partnership to operate as an Independent in the modern society both inside and outside Consultant in 2011. of the world of work.
Annual report and accounts 2017 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | 47
