Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Corporate Governance Report Leadership The Board has a majority of independent Non-Executive Directors.
Further information on the Directors range of skills and expertise can be found on pages 42 and 43.
In order for the Directors to discharge their responsibilities as set out in the Matters Reserved for the Board, the Board meets at least eight times a year a full list of Matters Reserved for the Board can be found on our website.
In addition to this, the Board attends a strategy day to discuss in depth the Groups direction with executive management.
Key areas of discussion that took place during the year: Routine Non-routine Reports from the Chief Executive People strategy Reports from the Finance Director Corporate Responsibility strategy Reports from the Group Risk & Compliance Director Duncan Lawrie Asset Management Limited DLAM acquisition Group strategy review Deep dive on Investment Governance Broker reports on shareholder feedback Medium-term plan and ICAAP Board and Committee evaluations Management presentations Training Board composition and roles The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Group, in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, there is a clear division of roles and responsibilities as shown below: Chairman Chief Executive Provides leadership to the Board, promoting constructive Provides leadership to the Group.
debate and challenge between the Executive and Develops strategy proposals for recommendation to the Non-Executive Directors.
Board and is accountable for business performance.
Ensures that there is good information flow to the Board, Maintains a dialogue with the Chairman on all important and from the Board to its key stakeholders.
matters and strategic issues facing the Group.
Supports and advises the Chief Executive, particularly in Ensures that there is an effective framework of internal the development of strategy.
controls, including risk management, covering all business activities.
Builds an effective and complementary Board, regularly considering its composition and balance, diversity and Ensures that the Board is fully informed of all key matters.
Finance Director Senior Independent Director Independent NonSupports the Chief Executive in Acts as a sounding board for the Executive Directors developing and implementing Chairman and serves when required Constructively challenge management strategy.
as an intermediary for the other and decisions taken at Board level.
Oversees the financial delivery and Oversee the performance of performance of the Group and Meets with the Non-Executive management in meeting agreed provides insightful financial analysis Directors without the Chairman goals.
that informs key decision making.
present at least annually and leads Support the Chairman and Executive the Board in the ongoing monitoring Leads investor relations activities and Directors in instilling appropriate and annual evaluation of the communication with investors culture, values and behaviours in the Chairmans performance.
boardroom and across the Group.
Available to meet with major Works with the Chief Executive to Challenge the adequacy and quality shareholders and acts as a point of develop budgets and medium-term of information received prior to contact for shareholders and other plans to support the agreed strategy.
co. uk Corporate Governance Report continued Governance Framework Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Board Remuneration Nomination Audit Committee Risk Committee Committee Committee The Board delegates certain responsibilities to formal Board Committees whilst maintaining an appropriate level of oversight through regular reports from the Committee chairs.
Further information on the individual committees composition and activities in the year can be found throughout this section of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Executive Committees Responsibility for the Groups day to day management is delegated to the Chief Executive, who chairs an Executive Committee.
The purpose of this Committee is to support the Chief Executive in the implementation and formation of strategy, as well as overseeing the day to day running of the Group.
Further, it agrees operational decisions that are otherwise not reserved for the Board.
The Committee consists of eight members of senior management from different areas of the business and meets monthly.
There is a Disclosure Committee which is a delegated Committee of the Board.
It focuses on discharging the Companys duties in accordance with the EU Market Abuse Regulation.
It comprises the Chief Executive, Finance Director, either the Group Risk and Compliance Director or the Head of Compliance as alternate, and either the Company Secretary or Head of Legal as alternate.
Effectiveness Composition A review of the Board composition is conducted by the Nomination Committee and since Angela Knights retirement at the 2017 AGM, the Committee has been searching for potential Non-Executive Directors based on merit against objective criteria.
More information on this search can be found in the Nomination Committee Report on page 48.
Induction of Directors All new Directors receive a tailored induction programme designed to broaden their understanding of the Groups operations, strategic aims and culture.
This involves meetings with the Directors and members of the senior management team and the provision of any relevant training.
Time commitment The expectation of the Non-Executive Directors time commitment is set out in their letters of appointment.
Copies of which are available for inspection at the Companys Registered Office and will also be available at the AGM.
Their attendance, along with Executive Directors, at meetings during the year is set out in the table below.
Board and Committee attendance record Nomination Risk Audit Remuneration 3 3 Member Independent Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Executive Director David Nicol N 8 8 n a n a n a n a Andrew Westenberger N 8 8 n a n a n a n a Non-Executive Director Simon Miller N 8 8 3 3 n a n a 5 5 1 Kath Cates Y 8 8 2 2 5 5 8 8 n a Paul Wilson Y 8 8 3 3 5 5 n a 5 5 Caroline Taylor Y 8 8 3 3 n a 8 8 5 5 Ian Dewar Y 8 8 n a 5 5 8 8 5 5 2 Angela Knight Y 3 3 1 1 n a 5 5 n a 1.
Kath Cates was appointed as a member of the Nomination Committee following Angela Knights retirement.
Angela Knight attended all meetings until her retirement at the 2017 AGM.
The Risk Committee and the Audit Committee held one joint meeting during the year to discuss the ICAAP.
Brewin Dolphin 46 Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Directors conflicts of interest Director evaluation During the year, the Chairman evaluated the performance of the The Board has a policy in place for managing and, where Directors in one-to-one meetings and the Senior Independent appropriate, approving conflicts or potential conflicts of interest.
Director evaluated the performance of the Chairman.
It was All Directors are provided with an opportunity to disclose any confirmed that each Director continued to deliver the required changes in conflicts at the start of every meeting.
commitment to their role and made an effective and valuable Independence of Directors contribution to the Company.
All Non-Executive Directors are considered to be independent in Accountability character and judgement and do not hold any positions that will conflict with their responsibilities with the Group.
Please see pages 26 to 29 in the Strategic Report for an overview of the Groups Principal Risks and Uncertainties and a Information flow description of the risk management framework.
As part of the annual cycle, all Board Committees forward plan Please see page 71 of the Directors report for a description of their agendas for the year to ensure that important issues are how the Board has discharged its responsibilities in relation to addressed.
The Chairman of each Committee works closely internal controls and risk management.
with the Company Secretariat and other relevant members of senior management to agree areas of discussion or approval.
Shareholder relations Board evaluations The Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director meet The Board and its Committees undertake an annual evaluation regularly with the Groups major shareholders.
The Chairman of their performance.
The appraisal process provides an communicates the shareholder feedback at the following Board opportunity for the Board to appraise its own effectiveness and meeting.
The Board also receives regular broker reports which identify areas of development as well as follow up on the actions detail shareholder feedback.
raised from the previous review.
Following the release of our annual results, an analysts and In 2017 Lintstock Ltd were appointed as a retained adviser, for investor presentation is held.
The presentation is available on a three year programme to facilitate Board evaluations and to our website for those unable to attend.
Lintstock designed a set of questionnaires for This years AGM will be held in Haberdashers Hall, 18 West this years review, focusing on areas of specific relevance to the Smithfield, London EC1A 9HQ on 2 February 2018 at 11.30am.
Topics included the composition of the Board and its Further details can be found in the Notice of AGM, a copy Committees, board dynamics, risk management, strategy of which can be found on the Companys website oversight, board efficiency, board training and priorities for www.
It is intended that an interview exercise will be conducted next year followed by a questionnaire only approach UK Corporate Governance Code in the final year.
Compliance statement Lintstock produced anonymised reports from the online We have complied with all principles and provisions of the 2016 questionnaires and these were discussed by the Board and its UK Corporate Governance Code the Code throughout the committees at their relevant meetings.
Overall the results were financial year ended 30 September 2017.
The Corporate positive and a number of actions were agreed.
Progress against Governance Statement and the cross referenced reports within these actions will be reviewed during the year.
Lintstock has no set out our approach to applying the Code.
other connections to the Company.
Evaluation topic Action Board Review of skills matrix to ensure the correct composition balance of skills and experience.
Continuing succession discussions for Executive, Non-Executive and senior management roles.
Board Improvements to be made to length and focus support and of Board papers.
Improved clarity to avoid efficiency duplication between Board and Committee agendas.
People Increased opportunities for Board members to meet with senior management and wider employee population to enhance challenge and improve evaluation.
Strategic Redesigned agendas to ensure more meeting oversight time focused on strategy, mergers and acquisitions and other key issues.
