Audit Committee report Membership and remit of the Audit Committee Colin Rutherford The main purpose of the Audit Committee is to review and maintain Chairman of the oversight of Mitchells & Butlers corporate governance, particularly with Audit Committee respect to financial reporting, internal control and risk management.
The Audit Committees responsibilities also include: reviewing the processes for detecting fraud, misconduct and internal control weaknesses: reviewing the effectiveness of the Group Assurance function: and overseeing the relationship with the external and internal auditors.
At the date of the 2017 Annual Report, the Audit Committee comprises four independent Non-Executive Directors: Colin Rutherford Chair, Imelda Walsh, Stewart Gilliland and Dave Coplin, and two further Non-Executive Directors nominated by substantial shareholders, Ron Robson and Eddie Irwin.
In accordance with Code provision C. 3.1 the Board considers that Colin Rutherford has significant, recent and Introduction from the Audit relevant financial experience.
Biographies of all of the members of the Committee Chairman Audit Committee, including a summary of their respective experience, I am delighted to present, on behalf of the appear on pages 46 and 47.
Board, the report of its Audit Committee for Following the appointment of three Independent Non-Executive the financial year ended 30 September 2017.
Directors in April and May 2013, Committee members were appointed with effect from 11 July 2013, and revised terms of reference were Over the previous year we continued to have the benefit of spending established, in order to comply with Code requirements.
Those terms valuable time with our Group Risk Director and those key individuals of reference are reviewed annually.
throughout the Group, who collectively provide an appreciation and The Audit Committee continued to meet quarterly during FY 2017. rigorous insight into how our Group functions and reports.
These In each case, appropriate papers were distributed to the Committee interactions are extremely valuable and the Committee are grateful members and other invited attendees, including, where and to the for the instruction they provide.
These activities also significantly extent appropriate, representatives of the external audit firm and assist towards the promotion and efficient execution of the the internal Group Assurance function.
When appropriate, the Audit Committee augments the skills and Engagement with auditors and third parties experience of its members with advice from internal and external audit The Committee continued to engage formally, regularly and at professionals, for example, on matters such as developments in financial an appropriate level of detail with our external auditors, internal reporting.
Audit Committee meetings are also attended, by invitation, auditors also externally resourced, and other third-party advisers as by other members of the Board including the Chief Executive and the necessary.
This has enabled the Committee to maintain an appropriate Finance Director, the Company Secretary and General Counsel, the understanding of how our auditors and third-party advisers interact Group Risk Director and representatives of the external auditor, Deloitte with our assurance and risk function.
In turn this enabled these LLP.
The Audit Committee also meets privately not less than twice a year, essential authorities to provide comprehensive coverage of audit without any member of management present, in relation to audit process and third-party assurance and risk, and this helped augment matters, with the external auditor.
our Committees confidence in their respective and collective The remuneration of the members of the Audit Committee is set out fieldwork conclusions.
in the Report on Directors remuneration on page 80.
It is also important to note our Committees role in overseeing the well-considered provision of adequate resources by the Group, towards ensuring that any additional non-audit services required over the year were obtained where necessary, and in dealing with the increasing role of the FRC and its incumbent reporting demands.
Effectiveness of internal controls and Group assurance and risk function The above efforts provided the Committee with a clear and detailed understanding of the principal operations at all levels over the year.
The Committee continued to focus on challenging the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls, the robustness of Group Assurance and Risk Management processes and in assessing the importance of, and acting as required upon, all reported information received from our auditors and third-party advisers.
We remain committed to maintaining an open and constructive dialogue with our shareholders on audit matters.
Therefore, if you have any comments or questions on any element of the report, please email me, care of Adrian Brannan, Group Risk Director, at company.
com 62 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | Annual report and accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 43 GOVERNANCE 44TO87 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 88 TO 139 OTHER INFORMATION 140 TO 144 Summary terms of reference Key activities of the Audit Committee A copy of the Audit Committees terms of reference is publicly Audit matters are reviewed at quarterly Audit Committee meetings available within the Investor section of the Companys website: throughout the year at which detailed reports are presented for review.
com pdf audit committee terms.
pdf The Audit Committee commissions reports from external advisers, the Group Risk Director or Company management, either after The Audit Committees terms of reference were approved by the consideration of the Companys major risks or in response to developing Committee and adopted by the plc Board in 2013.
During the year, in order to fulfil the roles and responsibilities of reference specifically provide that they will be reviewed annually.
the Audit Committee, the following matters were considered: They have been reviewed each year since and no changes were felt to be needed in FY 2017.
At the time of re-adoption of the Companys the suitability of the Groups accounting policies and practices: Corporate Governance Compliance Statement in July 2016, as updated half year and full year financial results: to reflect changes required to give effect to the introduction of the Market Abuse Regulation MAR, any changes to the Companys the scope and cost of the external audit: governance arrangements to reflect the requirements of MAR were the auditors half year and full year reports: introduced.
Other than those MAR related amendments, which related to consequential changes to regulatory references e. g. the UKLAs reappointment and evaluation of the performance of the auditor, Disclosure and Transparency Rules are now known as the Disclosure including recommendations to the Board, for approval by Guidance and Transparency Rules, there have been no material changes shareholders, on the reappointment of the Companys auditor to these Terms of Reference since the last review in 2015.
Accordingly, and on the approval of fees and terms of engagement: in FY 2017 no changes were made to the terms of reference of the Audit non-audit work carried out by the auditor and trends in the non-audit Committee, and the work of the Audit Committee is kept under review fees in accordance with the Committees policy to ensure the with the expectation that any such matters which come to light are safeguarding of audit independence: included in the review scheduled for FY 2018. the co-ordination of the activities and the work programmes of the The Audit Committee is authorised by the Board to review any activity internal and external audit functions: within the business.
It is authorised to seek any information it requires from, and require the attendance at any of its meetings of, any Director the arrangements in respect of Group Assurance including its or member of management, and all employees are expected to resourcing, external support, the scope of the annual internal audit co-operate with any request made by the Audit Committee.
plan for FY 2017 regarding the level of achievement and the scope of the annual internal audit plan for FY 2018: The Audit Committee is authorised by the Board to obtain, at the Companys expense, outside legal or other independent professional periodic internal control and assurance reports from Group Assurance: advice and secure the attendance of outsiders with relevant experience the Groups risk management framework for the identification and and expertise, if it considers this necessary.
The Chair of the Audit control of major risks, its risk and assurance mitigation plan and the Committee reports to the subsequent Board meeting on the Committees annual assessment of effectiveness of controls: work and the Board receives a copy of the minutes of each meeting.
compliance with the Companys Code of Ethics: The role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee are to: corporate governance developments: review the Companys public statements on internal control, risk management and corporate governance compliance: the status of material litigation involving the Group: and review the Companys processes for detecting fraud, misconduct reports on allegations made via the Groups whistleblowing and control weaknesses and to consider the Companys response procedures and the effectiveness of these procedures including to any such occurrence: a summary of reports received during FY 2017. review managements evaluation of any change in internal controls over financial reporting: review with management and the auditor, Company financial statements required under UK legislation before submission to the Board: establish, review and maintain the role and effectiveness of the internal audit function, known as Group Assurance, whose objective is to provide independent assurance over the Groups significant processes and controls, including those in respect of the Groups key risks: assume direct responsibility for the appointment, compensation, resignation, dismissal and the overseeing of the auditor, including review of the external audit, its cost and effectiveness: pre-approve non-audit work to be carried out by the auditor and the fees to be paid for that work together with the monitoring of the external auditors independence: oversee the process for dealing with complaints received by the Group regarding accounting, internal accounting controls or auditing matters and any confidential, anonymous submission by employees of concerns regarding questionable accounting or auditing matters: and adopt and oversee a specific Code of Ethics for all corporate employees which is consistent with the Companys overall statement of business ethics.
Annual report and accounts 2017 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | 63 Audit Committee report continued Disclosure of significant issues considered During FY 2017, 15 audit reports were issued by the Group Assurance The Audit Committee has reviewed the key judgements applied in the function and reviewed by the Board or the Audit Committee.
Internal preparation of the consolidated financial statements, which are described audit recommendations are closely monitored through to closure via a in the relevant accounting policies and detailed notes to the financial web-based recommendation tracking system, introduced in FY 2013 statements on pages 88 to 139. and updated in FY 2017, which has significantly improved the overall monitoring of internal audit recommendations to ensure these are The Audit Committees review included consideration of the following successfully implemented in a timely manner.
A summary of the status of key accounting judgements: the implementation of internal audit recommendations is made monthly Property, Plant and Equipment Valuation the assumptions used by to the Executive Committee and quarterly to the Audit Committee.
management to value the long leasehold and freehold estate including estimated fair maintainable trading levels, brand multiples and use of Risk management framework spot valuations to ensure a consistent valuation methodology is in As disclosed in the Risk and uncertainties section on pages 36 to 40 place.
A number of key judgements are also applied in calculating the Risk Committee continues to meet on a quarterly basis to review short leasehold impairment such as trading levels and the use of the key risks facing the business.
Membership of the Risk Committee, an appropriate discount rate: which includes representation from each of the key business functions, is detailed below: Valuation of onerous lease provisions as currently calculated the onerous lease provision including the key matters considered, Company Secretary and General Counsel Chairman e. g. lease term, rental commitments, operating performance and Group Finance Director turnaround plans has increased in FY 2017, resulting in a separately disclosed charge: and Commercial and Marketing Director Pension deficit the pension liability is sensitive to the actuarial Divisional Director Operations assumptions applied in measuring future cash outflows.
The use Group HR Director of assumptions such as the discount rate and inflation which have an impact on the valuation of the defined benefit pension scheme Director of Business Change & Technology was assessed by the Audit Committee.
Group Risk Director Effectiveness of internal audit Senior Legal Counsel The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing Key risks identified are reviewed and assessed on a quarterly basis in the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function.
The Audit terms of their likelihood and impact, within the Groups Key Risk Heat Committee meets regularly with management and with the Group Risk Map, in conjunction with associated risk mitigation plans.
In addition, Director and the auditor, to review the effectiveness of internal controls the Risk Committee review includes an assessment of the material and risk management and receives reports from the Group Risk Director relevance of emerging risks and the continued relevance of previously on a quarterly basis.
During FY 2017, Risk Committee meetings continued The annual internal audit plan is approved by the Audit Committee to include a cross-functional, detailed review of the Groups key risks.
and kept under review on a monthly basis, by the Group Risk Director, This process, which was introduced in FY 2016, continues to prove to be in order to reflect the changing business needs and to ensure new and effective and adds value to the continued development and progression emerging risks are considered.
The Audit Committee is informed of any of the Groups approach to evaluating new and existing risks, supported amendments made to the audit plan on a quarterly basis.
The FY 2017 by robust mitigation plans.
internal audit plan was developed through a review of formal risk Actions arising from Risk Committee meetings are followed up by the assessments in conjunction with the Risk Committee and the Groups Group Risk Director.
The Audit Committee reviews the Risk Committee Executive Committee together with consideration of the Groups minutes, in addition to undertaking a quarterly review of the Groups key business processes and functions that could be subject to audit.
A similar approach has been employed in relation to the FY 2018 internal audit plan.
Confidential reporting The principal objectives of the internal audit plan for FY 2017 were, The Groups whistleblowing policy enables staff, in confidence, to raise and remain for FY 2018: concerns about possible improprieties in financial and other matters and to do so without fear of reprisal.
Details of the policy are set out in the to provide confidence that existing and emerging key risks are being Companys Code of Ethics.
The Audit Committee receives quarterly managed effectively: reports on whistleblowing incidents and remains satisfied that the to confirm that controls over core business functions and processes procedures in place are satisfactory to enable independent investigation are operating as intended core assurance : and and follow up action of all matters reported.
No major issues have been reported in FY 2017 major issues being defined for this purpose as to confirm that major projects and significant business change matters having a financial impact of greater than 100k.
programmes are being adequately controlled.
64 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | Annual report and accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 43 GOVERNANCE 44TO87 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 88 TO 139 OTHER INFORMATION 140 TO 144 External auditor appointment External audit annual assessment Deloitte LLP was appointed as the auditor in 2011, following a formal The Audit Committee assesses annually the qualification, expertise, tender process.
The Audit Committee has considered the recent resources and independence of the Groups auditor and the overall guidance in relation to rotation including the proposed transition rules effectiveness of the audit process.
The Finance Director, Company which will be considered when recommending the appointment of the Secretary and General Counsel, Audit Committee Chairman and Group auditor in future years.
The Company has complied throughout the Risk Director meet with the auditor to discuss the audit, significant risks reporting year with the provisions of The Statutory Audit Services for and any key issues included on the Audit Committees agenda during Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive the year.
Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014.
Under the terms of that Order, the Committee expects to carry out a Fair, balanced and understandable statement competitive audit tender by no later than 2020 in respect of the financial One of the key governance requirements of the Groups financial year ending in 2021 to ensure the continued objectivity, independence statements is for the report and accounts to be fair, balanced and and value for money of the statutory audit.
It may choose to do so at understandable.
Therefore, upon review of the financial statements, an earlier time.
the Audit Committee and the Board have confirmed that they are satisfied with the overall fairness, balance and clarity of the Annual The Audit Committee considers that the relationship with the auditor is Report, which is underpinned by the following: working well and is satisfied with its effectiveness and has not considered it necessary to require Deloitte LLP to re-tender for the external audit formal minutes of the year end working group comprised of relevant work.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Companys internal functional representatives and appropriate external advisers: choice of auditor.
Following its appointment as auditor, Deloitte LLP clear guidance being issued to all contributors to ensure a consistent was replaced in respect of the provision of internal audit services by approach: and  LLP.
formal review processes at all levels to ensure the Annual Report External auditors independence is factually correct.
The external auditors should not provide non-audit services where it might impair their independence or objectivity to do so.
The Audit Committee has established a policy to safeguard the independence Colin Rutherford and objectivity of the Groups auditor as set out in below.
That policy Chairman of the Audit Committee has been reviewed in FY 2017 and a copy of it is appended to the Audit 22 November 2017 Committees terms of reference and is available on the Companys website.
Pursuant to that policy the following services have been The Going Concern and Long-Term Viability Statement pre-approved by the Audit Committee provided that the fees for such can be found on pages 101 and 40 respectively.
services do not exceed in any year more than 70% of the average audit fee paid to that audit firm over the past three years: audit services, including work related to the annual Group financial statements, and statutory accounts: and certain specified tax services, including tax compliance, tax planning and tax advice.
Acquisition and vendor due-diligence may only be provided if it is specifically approved by the Committee on a case by case basis in advance of the engagement commencing.
Any other work for which management wishes to utilise the external auditor must be approved as follows: services with fees less than 50,000 may be approved by the Finance Director: and engagements with fees over 50,000 may be approved by the Audit Committee or its Chair.
The Audit Committee remains confident that the objectivity and independence of the auditor are not in any way impaired by reason of the non-audit services which they provide to the Group.
That policy also includes an extensive list of services which the audit firm may not provide or may only provide in very limited circumstances where the Company and the audit firm agree that there would be no impact on the impartiality of the audit firm.
Details of the remuneration paid to the auditor, and the split between audit and non-audit services, are set out at note 2.3 of the financial statements on page 107.
Annual report and accounts 2017 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | 65
