STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 43 GOVERNANCE 44TO87 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 88 TO 139 OTHER INFORMATION 140 TO 144 Corporate governance statement The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
I am Bob Ivell delighted to be able to report that the Board considers that the Company Chairman has complied throughout the year ended 30 September 2017 with all the provisions and best practice guidance of the Code except those in respect of Board composition and the constitution of Board Committees.
This corporate governance statement addresses the small number of areas where, for reasons specific to Mitchells & Butlers, there are divergences from the Code as described below.
The Audit Committee report and Nomination Committee report which are set out on pages 62 to 65 and page 58 respectively of the Annual Report also form part of this corporate governance statement and they should all be considered together.
The Board recognises the importance of good corporate governance in creating a sustainable, successful and profitable business and details are set out in this statement of the Companys corporate governance procedures and application of the principles of the Code.
There are, Corporate governance statement however, a small number of areas where, for reasons specifically related This corporate governance statement sets out to the Company, the detailed provisions of the Code were not fully our report to shareholders on the status of our complied with in FY 2017.
These areas are kept under regular review.
A fundamental aspect of the Code is that it contains best practice corporate governance arrangements.
recommendations in relation to corporate governance yet acknowledges that, in individual cases, these will not all necessarily be appropriate for The Board is responsible for ensuring that the activities of the particular companies.
Accordingly, the Code specifically recognises the Mitchells & Butlers Group and its various businesses are conducted concept of Comply or Explain in relation to divergences from the Code.
in compliance with the law, regulatory requirements and rules, good practices, ethically and with appropriate and proper governance and Compliance with the Code standards.
This includes reviewing internal controls, ensuring that Except for the matters which are explained below in line with the there is an appropriate balance of skills and experience represented Comply or Explain concept, the Company complied fully with the on the Board and compliance with the UK Corporate Governance principles and provisions of the Code throughout the financial year Code the Code, which is issued by the Financial Reporting Council in respect of which this statement is prepared and continues to do and which is available at www.
uk, and for maintaining so as at the date of this statement.
Explanation for non-compliance with parts of the Code In 2016, the Company reported against the 2014 version of the Code.
During the year, there were three divergences from full compliance In September 2015, the FRC published a consultation on revisions to with the Code as set out below by reference to specific paragraphs Ethical and Auditing Standards, the UK Corporate Governance Code in the Code: and related Guidance on Audit Committees and, as a result of this consultation, the FRC issued an updated UK Corporate Governance B.
1.2 Composition of the Board, C. 3.1 and D. 2.1 Constitution Code and associated Guidance on Audit Committees.
of Committees During the year, Code Provision B.
1.2, which requires that at least The Company is therefore reporting against the 2016 edition of the half of the Board be made up of independent Non-Executive Directors Code which came into effect for accounting periods beginning on or excluding the Chairman, was not complied with.
Accordingly, this had after 17 June 2016.
Key changes between the 2014 and 2016 Codes consequential implications on the composition of the Audit and relate to a requirement for competence of audit committees relevant Remuneration Committees.
There were no changes in Board to the sector in which the company operates, a deletion of the composition during FY 2017. requirement for FTSE 350 companies to put the external audit contract out to tender at least every ten years, and a requirement for While the Board does not comply fully with the requirement for at the Audit Committee report to include advance notice of any external least half of its members to be independent, it recognises and values audit retendering plans.
During the year, the Audit Committee the presence of representatives of its major shareholders on the Board reviewed its Terms of Reference including the section dealing with the and welcomes the interest shown by them in the Company as a whole.
Group Policy for the Provision of Non-Audit Services by the External The Board will continue to work closely with the representatives of its Auditor, and further details are included in the Audit Committee major shareholders to further the interests of the Company.
The possibility of appointing a further independent Non-Executive Director remains a matter for the Nomination Committee to review and is considered regularly.
Throughout FY 2017, the Company had The latest financial information for Mitchells & Butlers and its group of companies is included in the 2017 Annual Report and and continues to have fully functioning Nomination, Audit and Accounts of which this corporate governance statement forms Remuneration Committees as required by the Code.
The Audit and part and which are available online at: www.
com investors Remuneration Committees are not fully compliant with the relevant provisions of paragraphs C. 3.1 and D. 2.1 of the Code in that they include the presence of representatives of major shareholders.
Nevertheless, the Board values the contribution of those shareholder representatives on those Committees, does not consider this to be an impediment to good governance and looks forward to continuing to work with them on matters affecting the Group and its activities in the future.
Annual report and accounts 2017 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | 55 Corporate governance statement continued The information required by Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Attendance levels at Board and Committee meetings Rule DGTR 7.1 is set out in the Audit Committee report on pages 62 Audit Remuneration Nomination to 65.
The information required by DGTR 7.2 is set out in this corporate Board Committee Committee Committee governance statement, other than that required under DGTR 7.2.
6 Directors who served during the year which is set out in the Directors report on pages 48 to 53.
Bob Ivell 10 10 n a 5 5 1 1 Keith Browne 10 10 n a n a n a Board composition The Board started and ended the year with eleven Directors and Dave Coplin 10 10 3 4 4 5 1 1 the table opposite lists the composition of the Board during the year.
Stewart Gilliland 9 10 4 4 4 5 1 1 Eddie Irwin 9 10 3 4 3 5 1 1 The Board Tim Jones 10 10 n a n a n a The Board is responsible to all stakeholders, including its shareholders, Josh Levy 10 10 n a 1 1 n a for the strategic direction, development and control of the Group.
It approves strategic plans and annual capital and revenue budgets.
Ron Robson 10 10 4 4 4 4 1 1 It reviews significant investment proposals and the performance of Colin Rutherford 10 10 4 4 5 5 1 1 past investments and maintains an overview and control of the Groups Phil Urban 10 10 n a n a n a operating and financial performance.
It monitors the Groups overall Imelda Walsh 10 10 4 4 5 5 1 1 system of internal controls, governance and compliance and ensures that the necessary financial, technical and human resources are in place Where a Director was prevented from attending a meeting due to travel difficulties or for the Company to meet its objectives.
Our website includes a schedule clashes with other business commitments, in each case the Director concerned provided comments on the matters to be considered to the Chairman, another Director or the of matters which have been reserved for the main Board.
During FY 2016 there were ten scheduled Board meetings.
There were also four meetings of the Audit Committee, five meetings of Directors the Remuneration Committee and one meeting of the Nomination The following were Directors of the Company during the year ended Committee.
The table shows attendance levels at the Board and 30 September 2017: Committee meetings held during the year: the numbers in brackets Date Date of confirm how many meetings each Director was eligible to attend appointed change of role during the year.
Directors who served during the year Where a Director was unable to attend a meeting whether of the Bob Ivell Independent Non- 1 Board or one of its Committees, they were provided with all the papers Executive Director 09 05 11 14 07 11 and information relating to that meeting and were able to discuss issues 1 Interim Chairman 14 07 11 26 10 11 arising directly with the Chairman of the Board or Chair of the relevant Executive Chairman 26 10 11 12 11 12 Committee.
In addition, the Board members meet more informally Non-Executive approximately four times a year and the Chairman and the Non-Executive Chairman 12 11 12 Directors meet without the Executive Directors twice a year.
2 Keith Browne Non-Executive Director 22 09 16 There are ten Board meetings currently planned for FY 2018.
Dave Coplin Independent NonThe Company Secretarys responsibilities include ensuring good Executive Director 29 02 16 information flows to the Board and between senior management and Stewart Gilliland Independent Nonthe Non-Executive Directors.
The Company Secretary is responsible, Executive Director 23 05 13 through the Chairman, for advising the Board on all corporate Senior Independent governance matters and for assisting the Directors with their professional Director 02 02 15 development.
This includes regular corporate governance and business 2 Eddie Irwin Non-Executive Director 21 03 12 issues updates, as well as the use of operational site visits and the 3 Josh Levy Non-Executive Director 13 11 15 provision of external courses where required.
The Company Secretary facilitates a comprehensive induction for newly appointed Directors, Tim Jones Finance Director 18 10 10 tailored to individual requirements and including guidance on the 3 Ron Robson Non-Executive Director 22 01 10 requirements of, and Directors duties in connection with, the Code and Deputy Chairman 14 07 11 the Companies Act 2006 as well as other relevant legislation.
In FY 2017, Colin Rutherford Independent Nonthe Company Secretary also co-ordinated an internal performance Executive Director 22 04 13 evaluation of the Board.
The appointment and removal of the Company Phil Urban Chief Executive 27 09 15 Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board.
Imelda Walsh Independent NonExecutive Director 22 04 13 1.
Independent while in the role specified.
Nominated shareholder representative of Elpida Group Limited.
Nominated shareholder representative of Piedmont Inc. 56 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | Annual report and accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 43 GOVERNANCE 44TO87 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 88 TO 139 OTHER INFORMATION 140 TO 144 At the start and end of the year, the Board was made up of ten male Chief Executive and one female members.
There were no changes to the Board during Phil Urban was appointed Chief Executive on 27 September 2015. the year.
He has responsibility for implementing the strategy agreed by the Board and for the executive management of the Group.
The Executive Directors have service contracts which are summarised on pages 76 and 77.
The Chairman and each of the Non-Executive Senior Independent Director Directors have letters of appointment.
Copies of the respective service Stewart Gilliland was appointed to the role of Senior Independent contracts or letters of appointment of all the members of the Board Director on 2 February 2015. are available on the Companys website.
In addition, they are available The Senior Independent Director supports the Chairman in the delivery for inspection at the registered office of the Company during normal of the Boards objectives and ensures that the views of all major business hours and at the place of the Annual General Meeting from shareholders and stakeholders are conveyed to the Board.
Stewart at least 15 minutes before and until the end of the meeting.
Gilliland is available to all shareholders should they have any concerns All the Companys Directors are required to stand for annual re-election if the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director at the Companys Annual General Meeting in accordance with the have failed to resolve them, or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Their biographical details as at The Senior Independent Director also meets with Non-Executive 22 November 2017 are set out on pages 46 and 47, including their main Directors, without the Chairman present, at least annually, and conducts commitments outside the Company.
the annual appraisal of the Chairmans performance and provides The Executive Directors may be permitted to accept one external feedback to the Chairman on the outputs of that appraisal.
Non-Executive Director appointment with the Boards prior approval Non-Executive Directors and as long as this is not likely to lead to conflicts of interest.
The Company has experienced Non-Executive Directors on its Board.
Division of responsibilities between Chairman and Chief Executive Bob Ivell was considered to be independent upon his appointment on In accordance with provision A.
2.1 of the Code, the roles of Chairman 9 May 2011 in that he was free from any business or other relationship and Chief Executive should not be exercised by the same individual.
with the Company which could materially influence his judgement and he continues to represent a strong source of advice and independent The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief challenge.
Since his appointment as Chairman on 14 July 2011 the Executive are clearly established and set out in writing and agreed by independence test, as set out in the Code, is no longer applicable the Board.
In particular, it has been agreed in writing that the Chairman to his current position.
shall be responsible for running the Board and shall provide advice and assistance to the Chief Executive.
He also chairs the Nomination Ron Robson and Josh Levy were appointed to the Board as Committee, is a member of the Remuneration Committee and attends, representatives of one of the Companys largest shareholders, Piedmont by invitation, meetings of the Audit Committee.
He also chairs the Inc. and were therefore not regarded as independent in accordance Market Disclosure Committee, the Property Committee and the with the Code.
Eddie Irwin and Keith Browne were appointed to the Board as It is also agreed in writing that the Chief Executive has responsibility for representatives of another of the Companys largest shareholders, all aspects of the Groups overall commercial, operational and strategic Elpida Group Limited and were therefore not regarded as independent development.
He chairs the Executive Committee details of which in accordance with the Code.
appear on page 59 and attends the Nomination, Remuneration and There are currently four independent Non-Executive Directors on the Audit Committee by invitation, not necessarily for the entirety of such Board: Stewart Gilliland, Colin Rutherford, Imelda Walsh and Dave Coplin.
meetings depending upon the subject matter.
He is also a member of the Market Disclosure Committee, the Property Committee and the Other than their fees, and reimbursement of taxable expenses which Pensions Committee.
are disclosed on page 80, the Non-Executive Directors received no remuneration from the Company during the year.
All other Executive Directors currently just the Finance Director and all other members of the Executive Committee report to the Chief Executive.
When Non-Executive Directors are considered for appointment, the Board takes into account their other responsibilities in assessing Chairman whether they can commit sufficient time to their prospective directorship.
The UK Corporate Governance Code provides that the Chairman On average, the Non-Executive Directors spend two to three days per should, on appointment, meet the independence criteria set out in month on Company business, but this may be more depending on the provision B.
Bob Ivell met these independence criteria circumstances from time to time.
Bob Ivell was appointed to the role of Executive Chairman on 26 October 2011 on the departure of the then Chief Executive and reverted to the role of Non-Executive Chairman on 12 November 2012.
The Chairman ensures that appropriate communication is maintained with shareholders.
He ensures that all Directors are fully informed of matters relevant to their roles.
Annual report and accounts 2017 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | 57 Corporate governance statement continued Board information and training Objectives: All Directors are briefed by the use of comprehensive papers circulated The Board should ensure an appropriate mix of skills and experience in advance of Board meetings and by presentations at those meetings, in to ensure an optimum Board and efficient stewardship.
All Board addition to receiving minutes of previous meetings.
Their understanding appointments will be made on merit while taking into account of the Groups business is enhanced by business specific presentations individual competence, skills and expertise measured against and operational visits to the Groups businesses.
Separate strategy identified objective criteria including consideration of diversity.
meetings and meetings with senior executives and representatives of The Board should ensure that it comprises Directors who are specific functions, brands or business units are also held throughout sufficiently experienced and independent of character and judgement.
The Nomination Committee will discuss and agree measurable The training needs of Directors are formally considered on an annual objectives for achieving diversity on the Board with due regard being basis and are also monitored throughout the year with appropriate given to the recommendations set out in the Davies Report, the training being provided as required, including corporate social Hampton-Alexander Review and the UK Corporate Governance responsibility and corporate governance as well as the environmental Code 2016.
These will be reviewed on an annual basis.
impacts of the Companys activities.
Progress against the policy: Committees The Board continues to monitor progress against this policy.
In terms Each Board Committee has written terms of reference approved by of Board diversity, the proportion of women on the Board was 9% as the Board, which are available on the Companys website.
Those terms at the year ended 30 September 2017.
Any future appointments will of reference are each reviewed annually by the relevant Committee always be made on merit and will continue to take into account diversity, to ensure they remain appropriate.
not only in terms of gender, but also in terms of the appropriate mix of skills and experience.
Audit Committee Details of the Audit Committee and its activities during the year are Details of the Mitchells & Butlers Diversity Policy, which applies to included in the Audit Committee report on pages 62 to 65 which is diversity in relation to employees of the Mitchells & Butlers Group, can incorporated by reference into this statement.
be found in the corporate social responsibility section on pages 30 to 35.
Remuneration Committee A detailed description of the duties of the Nomination Committee Details of the Remuneration Committee and its activities during the year is set out within its terms of reference which can be viewed at are included in the Report on Directors remuneration on pages 66 to 87. www.
com investors businessconduct boardcommittees Nomination Committee The following were members of the Nomination Committee during The Nomination Committee is responsible for nominating, for the the year: approval of the Board, candidates for appointment to the Board.
It is also Appointment Member at responsible for succession planning for the Board and the Executive date 30 09 17 Committee and reviewing the output of the Board effectiveness review.
Bob Ivell Chair 11 07 13 Y During the year, the Nomination Committee considered the composition Dave Coplin 29 02 16 Y of the Board and commissioned the  Board Stewart Gilliland 11 07 13 Y effectiveness review.
Eddie Irwin 11 07 13 Y The Nomination Committee agrees the importance of having diversity Ron Robson 11 07 13 Y on the Board, including female representation and individuals with Colin Rutherford 11 07 13 Y different experiences, skill sets and expertise, so as to maintain an Imelda Walsh 11 07 13 Y appropriate balance within the Company and on the Board.
Board Diversity Policy During the year, the Company complied with provision B.
2.1 of the Code The Board has approved a Board Diversity Policy.
The key statement as the Nomination Committee comprised a majority of independent and objectives of that policy are as follows: Non-Executive Directors.
Statement: The Board recognises the benefits of diversity.
Diversity of skills, background, knowledge, international and industry experience, and gender, amongst many other factors, will be taken into consideration when seeking to appoint a new Director to the Board.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, all Board appointments will always be made on merit.
58 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | Annual report and accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 43 GOVERNANCE 44TO87 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 88 TO 139 OTHER INFORMATION 140 TO 144 Market Disclosure Committee Portfolio Development Committee The EU Market Abuse Regulation MAR which took effect in July 2016, The executive review of property transactions and capital allocation to brought about substantial changes relating to announcements of material significant property matters such as site remodel and conversion plans information about the Company and its affairs, and relating to dealings and the Companys real estate strategy is carried out by the Portfolio in shares or other securities by Directors and other senior managers, Development Committee.
This is not a formal Board Committee but including tighter controls on permitted dealings during closed periods is comprised of the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the Group and the handling of information relating to the Company.
MAR requires Property Director and the Company Secretary and General Counsel.
companies to keep a list of people affected and the previous compliance It has delegated authority to approve certain transactions up to agreed regime and timeframe were enhanced.
financial limits and, above those authority levels, it makes recommendations to the Board or the Property Committee.
As a result, a formal standing Committee of the Board was established, called the Market Disclosure Committee, which is comprised of the Pensions Committee Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Finance Director and an independent The Board has established a Pensions Committee to supervise and Non-Executive Director, currently Colin Rutherford.
manage the Companys relationship with its various pension schemes and their trustees.
Executive Committee The Executive Committee, which is chaired by the Chief Executive, The Pensions Committee members are Bob Ivell Committee Chair, consists of the Executive Directors and certain other senior executives, Colin Rutherford, Imelda Walsh, Tim Jones, Phil Urban, Keith Browne namely Gary John Group Property Director, Susan Martindale and Josh Levy.
Group HR Director, Greg McMahon Company Secretary and Throughout FY 2017 the work of the Pensions Committee focused General Counsel, Chris Hopkins Commercial and Marketing Director primarily on the negotiations with the Trustee of the Groups two and Susan Chappell, Nick Crossley, Dennis Deare and Rob Pitcher principal defined benefit pension schemes, the Mitchells & Butlers all Divisional Directors.
Pension Plan and the Mitchells & Butlers Executive Pension Plan, The Executive Committee meets at least every six weeks and has to agree the triennial valuations of those schemes as at 31 March 2016. day-to-day responsibility for the running of the Groups business.
It The successful conclusion of those triennial valuations was announced develops the Groups strategy and annual revenue and capital budgets by the Company in its Third Quarter Trading Update on 27 July 2017. for Board approval.
It reviews and recommends to the Board any Those valuations showed an agreed deficit of 451m which was a significant investment proposals.
This Committee monitors the financial reduction from the deficit of 572m as disclosed by the 2013 triennial and operational performance of the Group and allocates resources valuations which will be funded by an unchanged level of cash within the budgets agreed by the Board.
It considers employment issues, contribution of 46m p. a. indexed to 2023. ensures the Group has an appropriate pool of talent and develops senior The discussions and negotiations between the Trustee of the Groups management manpower planning and succession plans.
A note of the two defined benefit plans and the Pensions Committee were led on the actions agreed by, and the principal decisions of, the Executive Pension Committees behalf by Colin Rutherford, one of the Companys Committee are supplied to the Board for information in order that independent Non-Executive Directors.
This process was complicated Board members can keep abreast of operational developments.
To reflect the very significant amount Phil Urban has ultimate responsibility for employment related issues of time and effort which Mr Rutherford committed to this process during and he also oversees matters relating to human rights including the FY 2017, the Board approved a one-off additional fee for Mr Rutherford implementation of the Modern Slavery Act throughout the Group.
The Board does not expect that there will be any further fee of this nature in FY 2018.
General Purposes Committee The General Purposes Committee comprises any two Executive Treasury Committee Directors or any one Executive Director together with a senior officer The treasury operations of the Mitchells & Butlers Group are operated from an agreed and restricted list of senior Executives.
It is always on a centralised basis under the control of the Group Treasury chaired by an Executive Director.
It attends to business of a routine department.
Although not a formal Board Committee, the Treasury nature and to the administration of matters, the principles of which have Committee, which reports to the Finance Director but is subject to been agreed previously by the Board or an appropriate Committee.
oversight from the Audit Committee and, ultimately, the Board, has day-to-day responsibility for: Property Committee liquidity management: The Property Committee reviews property transactions which have been reviewed and recommended by the Portfolio Development investment of surplus cash: Committee, without the need for submission of transactions to the full funding, cash and banking arrangements: Board.
The Property Committee agrees to the overall strategic direction for the management of the Groups property portfolio on a half-yearly interest rate and currency risk management: basis and may decide that a particular transaction should be referred guarantees, bonds, indemnities and any financial encumbrances to the Board for consideration or approval.
The Property Committee including charges on assets: and comprises Bob Ivell Committee Chair, Phil Urban, Tim Jones, Josh Levy, Keith Browne, Colin Rutherford, Stewart Gilliland and Gary John.
relationships with Banks and other market counterparties such as credit rating agencies.
Annual report and accounts 2017 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | 59 Corporate governance statement continued The Treasury Committee also works closely with the financial accounting Directors training includes environmental, social and governance ESG department to review the impact of changes in relevant accounting matters and the Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that practices and to ensure that treasury activities are disclosed appropriately Directors are made aware of and receive regular training in respect of in the Companys accounts.
The Chief Executive, Phil Urban, is ultimately responsible for ESG matters.
The Board delegates the monitoring of treasury activity and compliance to the Treasury Committee.
It is responsible for monitoring The Board is responsible for the Companys internal risk management the effectiveness of treasury policies and making proposals for any system, in respect of which more details can be found in the Risks changes to policies or in respect of the utilisation of new instruments.
and uncertainties section of this report, and in the following section The approval of the Board, or a designated committee thereof, of this statement.
is required for any such proposals.
Internal control and risk management Independent advice The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal Members of the Board may take independent professional advice in control and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In order the furtherance of their duties and the Board has agreed a formal process to discharge that responsibility, the Board has established the procedures for such advice to be made available.
Members of the Board also have necessary to apply the Code for the year under review and to the date of access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and General approval of the Annual Report.
Such procedures are regularly reviewed Counsel, the Companys legal and other professional advisers and its by the Audit Committee.
The terms of engagement of the Companys external The key features of the Groups internal control and risk management advisers and its external auditor are regularly reviewed by the Company systems include: Secretary and General Counsel.
Processes, including monitoring by the Board, in respect of: Code of Ethics i. financial performance within a comprehensive financial planning, The Company has implemented business conduct guidelines describing accounting and reporting framework: the standards of behaviour expected from those working for the ii.
strategic plan achievement: Company in the form of a code of ethics the Ethics Code.
capital investment and asset management performance, with Code was reviewed and re-communicated to all employees in FY 2017 detailed appraisal, authorisation and post-investment reviews: and to ensure it was kept clearly in focus.
Its aim is to promote honest and iv.
consumer insight data and actions to assess the evolution of ethical conduct throughout our business.
The Ethics Code requires: brands and formats to ensure that they continue to be appealing compliance with all applicable rules and regulations that apply to the and relevant to the Groups guests.
Company and its officers including compliance with the requirements An overall governance framework including: of the Bribery Act 2010: i. clearly defined delegations of authority and reporting lines: the ethical handling of actual or apparent conflicts of interest between ii.
a comprehensive set of policies and procedures that employees internal and external, personal and professional relationships: and are required to follow: and that any hospitality from suppliers must be approved in advance iii.
the Groups Ethics Code, in respect of which an annual by appropriate senior management, with a presumption against confirmation of compliance is sought from all corporate employees.
The Risk Committee, a sub-committee of the Executive Committee, The Company takes a zero tolerance approach to bribery and has which assists the Board, the Audit Committee and the Executive developed an extensive Bribery Policy which is included in the Ethics Committee in managing the processes for identifying, evaluating, Code.
The Ethics Code requires employees to comply with the monitoring and mitigating risks.
The Risk Committee, which continues Bribery Policy.
to meet quarterly, is chaired by the Company Secretary and General Counsel and comprises Executive Committee members and other The Company also offers an independently administered, confidential members of senior management from a cross-section of functions.
whistleblowing hotline for any employee wishing to report any concern Its primary responsibilities are to: that they feel would be inappropriate to raise with their line manager.
All whistleblowing allegations are reported to, and considered by, the i. advise the Executive Committee on the Companys overall Executive Committee and a summary report with details of any major risk appetite and risk strategy, taking account of the current concerns is supplied to, and considered by, the Audit Committee at and prospective operating, legal, macroeconomic and each meeting.
advise the Executive Committee on the current and emerging The Board takes regular account of social, environmental and ethical risk exposures of the Company in the context of the Boards matters concerning the Company through regular reports to the Board overall risk appetite and risk strategy: and presentations to the Board at its strategy meetings.
promote the management of risk throughout the organisation: compliance statement in relation to the Modern Slavery Act can be iv.
review and monitor the Companys capability and processes viewed on the Companys website www.
com to identify and manage risks: v. consider the identified key risks faced by the Company and new and emerging risks and consider the adequacy of mitigation plans in respect of such risks: and vi.
where mitigation plans are inadequate, recommend improvement actions.
60 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | Annual report and accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 43 GOVERNANCE 44TO87 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 88 TO 139 OTHER INFORMATION 140 TO 144 The Groups risks identified by the processes that are managed by The AGM provides a useful interface with shareholders, many of the Risk Committee are described in Risks and uncertainties on pages whom are also guests in our pubs, bars and restaurants.
More details of the work of the Risk Committee are included received in respect of each resolution at the AGM are counted and the in the Audit Committee report on pages 62 to 65. balance for and against, and any votes withheld, are indicated.
Examination of business processes on a risk basis including reports Board effectiveness evaluation and Chairmans from the internal audit function, known as Group Assurance, which evaluation and appraisal reports directly to the Audit Committee.
During FY 2017, the Nomination Committee commissioned an internal The Group also has in place systems, including policies and procedures, self-evaluation review in which the Board continued to review the for exercising control and managing risk in respect of financial reporting effectiveness of individual Directors.
The conclusions of that review and the preparation of consolidated accounts.
These systems, policies have been reported on to the Board and appropriate actions relating and procedures: to adjustments and improvements to the way in which the Directors, the Board and its Committees interact have been agreed upon.
None govern the maintenance of accounting records that, in reasonable of these constitute significant changes to the pre-existing operational detail, accurately and fairly reflect transactions: practices of the Board or its Committees but, rather, fall within the ambit require reported information to be reviewed and reconciled, of continuous review and evolution.
with monitoring by the Audit Committee and the Board: and In summary, the principal outputs of that review were that: provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as The Board should continue to keep under close review the evolution necessary to permit the preparation of financial statements in of, and emerging trends across, the leisure and hospitality industry, accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS which it was noted is still developing rapidly, as well as monitoring or UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, as appropriate.
current operations: In accordance with the Code, during the year the Audit Committee There was a continued need for up to date succession plans with completed and reported to the Board its conclusions in respect of its particular reference to diversity: and annual review of the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control systems, including financial, operational and compliance The Board should have the opportunity to spend time in the Groups controls.
The system of internal control is designed to manage, rather businesses to ensure continued familiarity with the delivery of the than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and, as Groups goods and services and the operational environment.
such, it can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against All of these matters have been built into the Boards timetable for FY 2018. material misstatement or loss.
In that context, in the opinion of the Audit Committee, the review did not indicate that the system was ineffective The Senior Independent Director, Stewart Gilliland, has led the process or unsatisfactory and to the extent that weaknesses in internal controls for the annual appraisal of the Chairmans performance with the were identified, the Audit Committee confirmed that necessary remedial independent Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman present action plans were in place.
The Audit Committee is not aware of any and the conclusions were fed back to the Chairman.
change to this status up to the date of approval of this Annual Report.
Annual reviews of the Chairmans performance will continue to be With regard to insurance against risk, it is not practicable to insure against conducted as required by the Code.
Further, the Board Effectiveness every risk to the fullest extent.
The Group regularly reviews both the Review included an assessment of the Chairman and his fulfilment type and amount of external insurance that it buys with guidance from of his role.
an external independent broker, bearing in mind the availability of such cover, its cost and the likelihood and magnitude of the risks involved.
Going concern The Directors statement as to the status of the Company as a going Shareholder relations concern can be found on page 51.
The Board recognises that it is accountable to shareholders for the performance and activities of the Company.
The Company regularly updates the market on its financial performance, at the half year and full year results in May and November respectively, and by way of other announcements as required.
The content of these updates is available by webcast on the Companys website, together with general information about the Company so as to be available to all shareholders.
The Company has a regular programme of meetings with its larger shareholders which provides an opportunity to discuss, on the basis of publicly available information, the progress of the business.
On a more informal basis, the Chairman, Chief Executive and the Finance Director regularly report to the Board the views of larger shareholders about the Company, and the other Non-Executive Directors are available to meet shareholders on request and are offered the opportunity to attend meetings with larger shareholders.
Annual report and accounts 2017 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | 61
