Corporate governance Statement of corporate governance The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance, an important part of which is compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Victrex continues to review its systems, processes and policies to support its philosophy of continuous improvement in sustainability and governance practices.
The revised code published by the Financial Reporting Council in April 2016 the Code took effect for companies with accounting periods beginning on or after 17 June 2016 and has applied to the Company for the financial year ended 30 September 2017.
As disclosed in our last report, during the preceding financial year, the Board proactively considered the areas of change arising from the Code which also implemented the European Unions Audit Regulation and Directive, choosing to early adopt a number of the provisions.
The following report reflects the actions taken to comply with the Code and the underlying principles.
the sustainable success of the Company, not only for our Statement of compliance shareholders, but also for our stakeholders, which includes our A detailed review has been performed of the Companys compliance employees, suppliers, customers and the wider community.
with the Code published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in April 2016 and which was effective for year ends beginning on The offices of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer CEO orafter 17 June 2016.
As mentioned in the introduction, during 2016, are separate and clearly distinct.
The division of their responsibilities the Board reflected upon the revised Code, within which the more is set out in writing.
It is intended to review these during the material changes concerned the impact of the EUs Audit Regulation forthcoming financial year with the appointment of our new CEO, and Directive.
As part of the review, we amended the terms of reference Jakob Sigurdsson, to ensure that they reflect appropriately the of the Audit Committee and gave full consideration to theimpact of functions and activities of the respective roles, changes occurring changes to section C. 3 of the Code.
We have been mindful to consider in the Group and management of the business.
The role and how we comply not just with the principles ofthe Code but also the spirit responsibilities of the Senior Independent Director SID are also set of the Code and our report below reflects this assessment.
out in writing and approved by the Board.
The CEO is responsible for the day to day running of the Group, carrying out the agreed This report, including the Directors Remuneration Report on pages strategy and implementing specific Board decisions.
54 to 66, describes how the main principles of good governance have been applied throughout our business.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role.
The Chairman The Company has complied with all relevant provisions of the Code isalso responsible for creating the right board dynamic and for throughout the year ended 30 September 2017.
With the appointment promoting a culture of openness and debate, in addition to to the Board of Jakob Sigurdsson as an executive Director with effect ensuringconstructive and productive relations between executive from 1 October 2017, the Board does not comply with the requirement andnon-executive Directors.
The Chairman is an ambassador of B.
1.2 of the Code that at least halfof the Board excluding the fortheCompany to shareholders and wider stakeholders.
chairman comprise independent non-executive Directors.
The executive Directors are responsible for the running of the business.
The Company took steps during the last financial year to comply The non-executive Directors are responsible for exercising independent with the requirements of The Statutory Audit Services for Large and objective judgement in respect of Board decisions, developing Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive corporate strategy with senior management and scrutinising and Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 constructively challenging the actions of senior management.
concerning the period of tenure of the external auditor.
As previously reported and also noted on page 52, KPMG has been our auditor Our Senior Independent Director, Pamela Kirby, acts as a sounding board since the management buy-out from ICI in 1993.
We explain in more to the Chairman and serves as an intermediary for other Directors when detail on pages 52 and 53 how, during 2017, led by the Audit necessary.
She is also available to meet with shareholders should they Committee, we conducted a competitive tender, culminating in a have any concerns, where contact through the normal channels may recommendation to appoint  LLP PwC.
Pamela Kirby also leads the review of the Chairmans Appointment of PwC remains subject to shareholder approval at the performance, as part of the annual Board evaluation.
Annual General Meeting AGM being held in February 2018.
The Group Company Secretary reports to the Chairman on governance Formore details on the proposal to appoint PwC, please see the and is responsible for keeping the Board up to date on all legislative, Notice of AGM on page 113. regulatory and governance matters.
He is also responsible for supporting the Chairman and other Board members as necessary, including the Leadership management of Board and Committee meetings and their evaluation, The role of the Board advising on Directors duties and facilitating appropriate, high quality The role of the Board is to provide entrepreneurial leadership and and timely information flows between management and the Board.
the Directors are collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Company.
The Board also acts as custodian of the Companys values and of its long-term vision and provides strategic direction Operation of the Board and guidance for the Company.
The names, biographical details and The Board is responsible for the Groups strategic development, significant time commitments of the members of the Board are set monitoring achievement of its business objectives and maintaining out on pages 42 and 43. asystem of effective corporate governance, which includes the responsibility for health, safety, environmental, social and ethical In discharging its responsibilities, the Board also seeks to set, matters.
It also establishes the Companys risk management and promote and demonstrate adherence to our values and ethical internal control systems and carries out a review of their effectiveness, standards for the Company.
It remains mindful of the need to and has reported on this in the report on pages 48 and 49. observe the duties owed by directors in law, including promoting 44 Victrex plc Annual Report 2017 Corporate governance Corporate governance framework Victrex plc Board Disclosure Audit Nominations Chief Executives Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Committee ELT Committee Industrial Medical Internal Audit External Audit Business Unit Business Unit The Board discharges these responsibilities through scheduled there is appropriate escalation of decisions through the Group meetings, which include regular reviews of financial performance hierarchy.
and business issues and benchmarking performance against our Board Committees strategic plan and objectives.
The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to Board The agenda for each meeting of the Board combines scheduled Committees, namely: items derived from a planned programme of business in addition, the Nominations Committee: u where appropriate, to ad-hoc matters reflecting the needs of the Group.
When preparing each agenda, attention is given to ensuring that the Audit Committee: u sufficient time is provided for debate and challenge.
Standing agenda the Remuneration Committee: and u items include, for example, reports on health and safety and financial performance.
The programme of business is subject to periodic review the Disclosure Committee u and assessment to ensure that the Board is discharging its duties The Board has ultimate responsibility for the annual approval of effectively, taking into account the development of the Group as thetreasury and cash management policy and continues to be well as evolving governance requirements.
supported in its work by the Currency Committee.
The Currency Committee is chaired by the Group Finance Director, Louisa Burdett, Matters reserved for the Board and delegation and meets on a monthly basis to manage the application of the ofauthority Groups treasury policy.
During 2017 the Currency Committee led work in the renewal of the Groups revolving credit facility with a There are certain matters that are deemed significant enough to be consortium of banks, which was approved by the Board in May reserved for Board decision only.
Further details on the policy and the activities of the Currency reserved for the Boards decision is reviewed annually to ensure it continues Committee are included in note 14 to the financial statements.
to be appropriate for the activities of the Group.
These matters include: The reports of the Nominations, Audit and Remuneration Committees u setting the Groups strategy and approval of the Companys areset out on pages 50 to 66 and that for the Disclosure Committee long-term objectives: isshown on page 47.
These Committees operate under terms of u approval of preliminary announcements of the final results, reference and a standing agenda item provides for them to report theAnnual Report, announcement of results for the half year and ateach Board meeting via the Committee Chairmen.
The terms other announcements concerned with the financial performance ofreference are reviewed at least annually, with any revisions proposed of the Group: by the respective Committees and then approved by the Board.
TheBoard has provided its Committees with sufficient resources to u changes to the Companys capital structure: undertake their duties, including access to the services of the Group u approval of the dividend policy: Company Secretary andexternal advisors, where appropriate.
u considering major contracts and capital expenditure: Nominations Committee Report u approval of the risk management policy and framework: Page 50 u considering major investments and acquisitions: and Audit Committee Report u approving the treasury and cash management policy.
Page 51 The Board delegates day to day and business management control to the executive Directors, who in turn delegate as appropriate to Remuneration CommitteeReport senior management.
A detailed review of the Groups authority Page 54 matrix has been undertaken, taking account of the prevailing matters reserved for the Board.
This has reflected developments The terms of reference of theNominations, Audit and  are availableon the Companys website www.
com and in paper inthe breadth and scale of the Groups business to ensure that form on request from the registered office of the Company.
Annual Report 2017 Victrex plc 45 Corporate governance Statement of corporate governance continued Attendance at meetings Directors attendance at the Board and Committee meetings convened in the year to 30 September 2017: Attended Not attended Audit Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings Chairman L C Pentz n a n a Executive Directors D R Hummel n a n a n a L S Burdett n a n a n a T J Cooper n a n a n a M L Court n a n a n a Non-executive Directors P J M fide Smedt P J Kirby A J H Dougal J E Toogood Although not members of all of the Committees, when appropriate to the business under consideration Larry Pentz, Jakob Sigurdsson, David Hummel, Louisa Burdett, Tim Cooper and Martin Court may be invited to attend meetings of the Committees.
In addition other employees and advisors may be asked to attend and provide support to the conduct of the business of the Board and Committees, asreflected in their respective terms of reference.
The non-executive Directors including the Chairman, Larry Pentz, Board effectiveness who was independent on his appointment are all considered by Composition, independence anddiversity of the Board the Board to be independent of management and free from any At the date of this report, the Board comprised a non-executive business or other relationship that could materially interfere with Chairman, four other non-executive Directors and five executive theexercise of their independent judgement.
The Code requirement that at least half the Board should be independent non-executive Directors continued to be met The composition of the Board is intended to ensure that its throughout the year to 30 September 2017. membership represents a mix of backgrounds, skills and experience that will enhance the quality of its deliberations and decisions.
As mentioned in the Annual Report for the year ended Diversity in Board composition is considered to be an important part 30September2016, during 2017, Mr Patrick fide Smedt completed of overall Board effectiveness.
As a result, in looking for prospective nineyears as a non-executive Director.
Mr fide Smedt has served on Directors, there is regard to the skills and experience of the Board at each of the Committees of the Board, including as Chairman of the that time, the need to address longer-term succession and business Remuneration Committee.
The Board gave particular consideration priorities, inherent qualities, as well as cultural background.
The annual to the recommendation that Mr fide Smedt be re-elected at the formal evaluation of the Board takes board diversity into account Annual General Meeting held in February 2017, including as to and contributes to identifying any new skill requirements, as well MrDe Smedts independence, as to which the Board confirmed it was aspossible shortcomings, gaps or inefficiencies.
The Board gives due satisfied.
The recommendation that Mr fide Smedt be re-elected consideration to cultural and ethnic background which it believes atthe last Annual General Meeting was approved by shareholders.
positively contribute to the skills, experience and knowledge at Board With the appointment of Jakob Sigurdsson as an additional level, especially as the Group continues to extend its global reach.
executive Director in October 2017, compliance with provisions Current female representation on the Board is 30% and, therefore, ofthe Code on the balance of the Board is not met.
exceeds the minimum target representation level as recommended At the Companys Annual General Meeting in February 2018 both by the Davies Review.
The Board recognises the importance of gender David Hummel, an executive Director, and Patrick fide Smedt, a diversity at the level below the Board and is committed to ensuring an non-executive Director, will retire from the Board.
At the same meeting appropriate level of gender diversity, in particular at senior management resolutions will be submitted to shareholders for the election of level.
There is a commitment in the Company to support women in Janet Ashdown and Brendan Connolly as additional non-executive rising to the top of the management structure.
The female representation Directors and of Jakob Sigurdsson as an executive Director.
Further information on the totalfemale the appointment of Janet Ashdown and Brendan Connolly, the Board representation on our workforce isprovided in our Sustainability willcomprise five independent non-executive Directors and four report on page 38. executive Directors, amajority therefore being independent nonexecutive Directors.
46 Victrex plc Annual Report 2017 Corporate governance The Notice of AGM on pages 111 and 112 gives details of the Directors.
Disclosure Committee Further information on both the appointment and replacement of Chairman Larry Pentz, Jakob Sigurdsson or Louisa Burdett Directors is given in the Directors report on page 68.
The Disclosure Committee facilitates timely and accurate Conflicts of interest disclosure of information by the Company in accordance Under the Companies Act 2006, a director must avoid a situation with applicable law or regulation in circumstances where it where a direct or indirect conflict of interest may occur and is impractical for the Board, or any other Board Committee, procedures are in place to deal with any situation where a conflict to fulfil those obligations.
Accordingly, the Committee is may be perceived.
The Board confirms that it has considered and authorised to make disclosures on behalf of the Board.
The authorised any conflicts or potential conflicts of interest in accordance Committee will take advice, including as appropriate to the with these procedures.
The Board has specifically considered the subject matter from the Companys broker, external auditor other appointments held by Directors, summary details of which and legal advisors, on the form and content of any disclosure are contained in their biographies on pages 42 and 43, and has under consideration.
confirmed that each is able to devote sufficient time to fulfil the duties required of them under the terms of their contracts or letters The Committee comprises all Directors of the Company and of appointment.
the Group Company Secretary, with a quorum being any two Directors which must include one of the Chairman, the Board evaluation CEO or the Group Finance Director.
The Chairman of each The Board recognises that a rigorous performance evaluation Committee meeting will be appointed on an ad-hoc basis.
isimportant to optimise Board effectiveness.
A formal evaluation Meetings of the Committee may be called by any member of ofthe Board, Board Committees and individual Directors performance the Committee on any period of notice, provided that notice is carried out annually.
The most recent externally facilitated Board isgiven to all members.
evaluation was conducted in 2015 with Stone Court Consulting.
Afurther externally supported review is intended to be undertaken in 2018.
The Chief Executives Committee In discharging his responsibilities, the Chief Executive is assisted In the year ended 30 September 2017, the performance evaluation by the Executive Leadership Team ELT.
The ELT comprises was conducted internally through use of a questionnaire which was the five executive Directors, Jakob Sigurdsson, David Hummel, prepared by the Group Company Secretary following consultation with Louisa Burdett, Tim Cooper and Martin Court.
They are chairs of the Board and Committees.
As well as questions designed to supported in their duties by the Group HR Director, the Group support the assessment, the questionnaire also incorporated sections Company Secretary and the General Counsel.
This team is that invited respondents to provide comments and observations on responsible for making recommendations to the Board on aspects of the business of the Board and Committees.
matters that are reserved for their decision, such as strategy, The results of completed questionnaires were shared with the corporate development and annual budgets.
During 2017, Chairman of the Board and chairs of the respective Committees elevenmeetings of the ELT were held.
In addition, members of anddiscussed at subsequent meetings held during the autumn.
the ELT participate in other forums which oversee and provide Theoverall conclusion was that the Board and its Committees were governance on the conduct of the Groups business, including performing well and that satisfactory progress had been made in for example a committee that meets to discuss investment addressing areas which the Directors had previously identified as in new products and technologies together with monitoring meriting additional attention.
In reaching this conclusion, particular progress in execution of programme milestones.
consideration was given to progress in reporting on each of strategy including delivery by management against key milestones and risk, as well as work on succession planning with due regard forthe As already mentioned on page 46, we also recognise the importance appointment to the Board during the 2017 calendar year and in of diversity in general at Board level and our Board members comprise respect of remuneration, the work resulting in adoption by shareholders a number of different nationalities with a wide range of experience at the 2017 Annual General Meeting of the Remuneration Policy.
from a variety of business backgrounds.
Further information on our The Board considers that performance evaluation should form Group HR policies, including those on equal opportunities and diversity, animportant part of evolving practice not just at Board level but is set out on page 38. throughout the organisation.
For example, as part of continuous Election and re-election of Directors improvement, during the year, changes were made to reporting on Consistent with best practice, all the Directors will retire at the progress in meeting milestones and objectives associated with the Annual General Meeting AGM being held in February 2018. execution of initiatives.
This included tracking of progress being Asalready mentioned, Mr Hummel and Mr fide Smedt will be made in the mega-programmes, enabling discussion between standing down from the Board and therefore will not be proposed members of the Board and senior management on the overall for re-election.
Jakob Sigurdsson was appointed to the Board in performance, with due regard to evolving opportunities and routes October 2017.
Accordingly, approval of the shareholders to his to market identified through engagement with potential partners as election will be considered at the forthcoming AGM.
Being eligible, well as potential new challenges that may arise.
Further information with the exception of Mr Hummel and Mr fide Smedt, each of the on progress inthemega-programmes is given on pages 18 to 21. other Directors will offer themselves for re-election by shareholders.
Executive Directors performance is reviewed by the Remuneration Inaddition, the approval of shareholders will also be sought at Committee in conjunction with the Chief Executive, except in the theAGM for the election of Ms Ashdown and Mr Connolly as case of his own performance review.
The Chairmans performance non-executive Directors of the Board.
isreviewed by the Board, without the Chairman present, which The Board is recommending that shareholders vote in favour during 2017 was led by the Senior Independent Director.
oftheelection of Mr Sigurdsson, Ms Ashdown and Mr Connolly During the year, pursuant to the Code, the Chairman met with andthe re-election of MrPentz, Mr Dougal, Ms Toogood, Dr Kirby, the other non-executive Directors without the executive Directors MrCooper, Ms Burdett and Dr Court having given due consideration present, and the Senior Independent Director met with the other toperformance and terms of office.
non-executive Directors without the Chairman present.
Annual Report 2017 Victrex plc 47 Corporate governance Statement of corporate governance continued During 2017, management completed the Group-wide implementation Board effectiveness continued of a new ERP system.
The Board and Audit Committee have received Induction and training reports on aspects of the implementation, including for example All new non-executive Directors receive a personalised induction consideration of underlying system and financial controls associated programme, tailored to their experience, background and particular with the migration.
Positive feedback has also been provided by areas of focus.
It includes a wide range of meetings with other users on the enhanced reporting of business information, which Directors and senior management, attending results and broker isexpected to benefit decision making and reporting, thereby briefings and opportunities to visit the Groups operations outside supporting the Group as it continues to grow.
The programme has evolved over time to take into account feedback from Board members.
The Board evaluation The Directors statement explaining why they continue to adopt the process also considers specific training or development needs.
going concern basis for preparing the financial statements is given in the Directors report Strategic report on page 27.
In accordance New executive Directors also receive an induction focused on their with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, the Directors have assessed the new role and wider responsibilities which includes briefings on areas prospect of the Company over a longer period than the twelve months such as directors duties and corporate governance guidelines and required by the going concern provision.
This assessment is outlined best practice.
Induction programmes cover matters such as Group in our Viability statement on page 27. structure and strategy, industry and competitive environment, Group risk profile and our approach to risk and safety, health and The Board considers that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken environmental matters.
Training including social, environmental as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the andethical matters is also provided, which for 2017 incorporated necessary information for shareholders to assess the Companys refresher training on the UK Market Abuse Regime and on the position and performance, business model and strategy.
Groups response to the forthcoming GDPR.
Risk management and internal control procedures In conjunction with his appointment as CEO, Mr Sigurdsson The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of attended a number of meetings with the Directors, as well as the principal risks it is willing to take in seeking to meet its strategic withthe Companys corporate broker, J P Morgan, and legal objectives.
It is ultimately responsible for maintaining sound risk advisors, Slaughter & May.
The latter included training concerning management systems including financial reporting process, and theUK Listing Rules and the UK Market Abuse Regime.
In addition, appropriate financial and non-financial controls.
The Board is meetings were held with shareholders, aswell as a detailed supported in assessing the risk framework and internal reporting programme of discussions with management and employees in bythe Audit Committee and our risk management processes.
various forums, which included visiting offices across our various A sound system of internal control is designed to manage rather regions as part of developing an understanding ofthe Group.
than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and Information and support can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against There are robust processes in place to ensure the Board receives material misstatement or loss.
The Board is responsible for establishing management information and reports on strategic and operational formal and transparent arrangements for considering how it should matters on a timely basis.
The CEO also updates the Board on progress apply the corporate reporting, risk management and internal control against the Groups strategic plan.
Briefings by operational management principles and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the also take place regularly to enhance the Boards understanding of the Companys auditor.
business, during which consideration is given to financial and commercial Twice a year the Board reviews the principal risks, allowing it performance within target markets against the relevant business plan theopportunity to review the level of risk it is prepared to accept for the year and future strategy.
inpursuit of the Groups strategic objectives.
This has included Directors can take independent professional advice, where necessary remaining vigilant to evolving issues, for example connected at the Companys expense and have access to the services of the Group withthe termination of the United Kingdoms membership of Company Secretary.
The Group Company Secretary is responsible theEuropean Union and understanding their potential impact for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and for providing ontheGroup in the conduct of its business Brexit.
The Board advice to the Board on corporate governance.
Both the appointment considers that there remain a wide range of issues to be addressed and removal of the Group Company Secretary are matters for the before the Group can make an informed assessment on the Board as a whole.
Appropriate levels of insurance cover are obtained for all Directors During 2017, the Board also considered in particular certain and Officers of the Company.
Further information on Directors mitigation steps for a number of the principal risks.
This included indemnities is given in the Directors report on page 69. discussing managements assessment of how the mitigation measures reduce the potential occurrence or impact of a risk.
Arising from the Accountability autumn 2017 Board performance evaluation, the Directors agreed that Financial and business reporting focus on the management and reporting of risk in the forthcoming The Board is responsible for presenting a fair, balanced and year remained a priority, as the Group continues to evolve.
understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
The Board confirms that it has carried out a robust assessment of At a divisional level the relevant members of management report the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would tothe Board through a standardised process on recent business threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and performance and expectations for the future.
The Group has a liquidity: that the principal risks remain within its risk appetite: comprehensive annual budgeting protocol and the annual budget and that there is a framework of processes in place for identifying, isapproved by the Board.
Reforecasts are presented to the Board evaluating, monitoring and managing the principal risks faced by the during the course of the year.
These processes were reviewed during the year by the ELT Risk Management Committee, and the findings 48 Victrex plc Annual Report 2017 Corporate governance reported to the Audit Committee, which has responsibility Relations with shareholders as delegated by the Board for reviewing the risk management The Board as a whole has a responsibility for ensuring that systems and the effectiveness of these systems andreporting to satisfactory engagement with shareholders takes place, based theBoard.
onthe mutual understanding of objectives.
The Board achieves thisthrough dialogue with shareholders and analysts, led by the The Boards view of the key strategic and operational risks and Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Head of Investor Relations.
howwe seek to manage those risks is set out on pages 22 to 26.
In addition, the Chairman is available to meet institutional shareholders.
The independent Risk and Compliance function supports the The Senior Independent Director and other non-executive Directors Boardin its assessment of the effectiveness of the system of internal will attend meetings with major shareholders, ifrequested.
There is a rolling programme of business assurance meetings were requested during the year.
including internal audit carried out across the Group, co-ordinated The Board believes that appropriate steps have been taken during by the Director of Risk and Compliance, who reports to the theyear so that all members of the Board and, in particular the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee reviews non-executive Directors, have an understanding of the views of the annual business assurance plan, its findings, effectiveness, major shareholders.
Such steps include, for example, analyst and allocation of appropriate resources and risk management activities.
broker briefings, a standing Board agenda item covering investor The Audit Committee also provides assurance over the completeness relations matters, consideration by the Board of brokers reports and accuracy of our reporting process, on which the Chairman of and feedback from shareholder meetings on a six-monthly basis.
the Committee reports to the Board as part of finalising approval During the year, a detailed investor survey was conducted by our ofthe Annual Report.
brokers, J P Morgan, which was discussed by the Board.
Institutional investor relations activity is normally concentrated intheperiods The Group has a whistleblowing policy, which is subject to periodic following the announcement of the half-year andfull-year results, review to ensure compliance with relevant local regulations within although the Group participates in investor conferences and UK each of the territories in which we operate and with good governance.
and overseas investor roadshows throughout the year.
Additional The most recent detailed review of the policy was undertaken during presentations and site visits are arranged where appropriate and we 2016.
The Audit Committee oversees whistleblowing arrangements, hosted a number of such meetings during 2017.
Following joining by which staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible the Company, Mr Sigurdsson attended a number of meetings with improprieties.
The Company continues to operate a Global Code institutional shareholders as part of his induction.
This Code ofConduct includes areas such as anti-bribery, data protection and conflicts of interest.
During the year, led by All shareholders will have the opportunity to ask questions at the theGeneral Counsel, training combined with question and answer forthcoming AGM, which is being held on 9 February 2018.
The sessions were conducted across our regions to facilitate engagement Chairs of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees and enhance understanding of certain Group policies.
That training will be available to answer questions at that meeting.
Proxy votes was also provided to the executive Directors in the first instance.
lodged on each AGM resolution are announced at the meeting, This allowed the Directors to benefit from the training and also published on the Companys website and announced via the gavethem the opportunity to provide comment on the approach Regulatory Information Service.
tobe taken, prior to wider engagement.
Inaddition, at staff briefings attended by executive Directors, presentations have been held on particular aspects of the Code of Conduct and how this affects employees.
These form an important element in our drive topromulgate practices and standards which we recognise contribute to ourreputation as abusiness and our standing .
The Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control system, including financial, operational and compliance controls, and risk management in accordance with the Code.
As a result of this process, the Board is satisfied that there have been no significant failings or weaknesses.
We confirm that the Group has complied with the Code provisions on internal control by operating throughout the year ended 30 September 2017 and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report appropriate procedures in accordance with the FRCs Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
Further details of the risk management framework operating atVictrex are given on pages 22 and 23.
Annual Report 2017 Victrex plc 49 Corporate governance Statement of corporate governance continued A particular focus during the financial year was considering Larry Pentz candidates for appointment of a new CEO in preparation for Chairman of the theretirement of David Hummel, who has served as CEO and a Nominations Director of the Company for nearly 25 years.
As reported previously, Committee David Hummel stood down as CEO with effect from 30 September 2017 and will retire from the Board as a Director at the Annual General Meeting in February 2018.
The Committee was supported in the conduct of a search for asuitable candidate by external recruitment agency Korn Ferry.
Inconjunction with the Remuneration Committee, an assessment was also undertaken of the appropriate structure for remuneration of the successful candidate which was supported by WillisTowersWatson.
The search culminated in appointment of Mr Jakob Sigurdsson, who joined the Company on 1 September 2017.
Jakob assumed the role of Chief Executive Officer and was appointed an executive Director Nominations Committee report from 1 October 2017.
The biography of Jakob is on page 43 and a The Committee is responsible for regularly resolution for his election as a Director will be proposed to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in February 2018. reviewing the structure, size, diversity and Information on Jakobs remuneration can be found in the report composition of the Board.
This is to ensure ofthe Remuneration Committee on page 66. that the Company has the right leadership, During 2017, meetings of the Committee also considered the balance of skills and experience to deliver the Companys initiatives for the training and development of employees, including those to support succession planning and Companys strategy and enable the Board career progression to senior positions in the Group, which the toeffectively fulfil its obligations.
Board recognises can in turn support future considerations on theappointment of internal candidates to executive positions, Membership but also plays an important part in enabling the Group to fulfil The Nominations Committee comprises all of the non-executive itsstrategic objectives.
Directors and is chaired by the Chairman of the Board, Larry Pentz.
The Nominations Committee also reviews the time required from each The Committee met on three occasions during the year, as well as in non-executive Director and any other significant commitments of the combination with other formal meetings of the Board where this was Chairman.
The 2017 review found the non-executives time commitments appropriate to the matter under consideration, thereby enabling views to be sufficient to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
of all Directors to be taken into account in reaching balanced and Based on recommendations from the Nominations Committee, informed decisions.
Directors submit themselves for election at the AGM following their appointment and thereafter annually for re-election in accordance Responsibilities with good governance.
The Committee is responsible for regularly reviewing the structure, size, diversity and composition of the Board.
It is also responsible for Boardroom diversity succession planning and identifying and recommending appropriate The Boards statement on diversity, which has been published candidates for membership of the Board when vacancies arise.
onour website, is as follows: TheCommittee has applied the UK Corporate Governance Code provisions in developing the Companys policies on succession The Board of Victrex plc welcomed the publication in February 2011 planning and appointments.
of the Davies Review on Women on Boards.
Our current female representation on the Board is 30% and is therefore in excess of In considering an appointment, the Committee evaluates the the minimum representation level as recommended by the Davies balance of skills, knowledge, independence and experience of Review.
We also recognise the importance of diversity in general at the Board and prepares a description of the role and capabilities Board level and our Board members comprise a number of different required for a particular appointment.
Internal candidates are nationalities with a wide range of experience from avariety of considered where appropriate.
50 Victrex plc Annual Report 2017 Corporate governance Committee meetings Andrew Dougal The Committee believes it is important to have regular engagement Chairman of the with senior management as part of addressing items of business AuditCommittee effectively.
Accordingly, by invitation, the Chairman, executive Directors, Group Financial Controller, Director of Risk and Compliance and the External Audit Engagement Partner routinely attend each meeting.
Other members of the management team may also be asked to attend meetings for discussion on specific issues.
The Committee also meets with the auditor twice each year without management being present.
The Committee has a programme of business reflecting the annual financial cycle of the Company within which are addressed matters pertaining to governance, the system of financial and non-financial controls, and planning where relevant to the Committees terms ofreference.
Audit Committee report For example, during 2017, the Committee supported the Board in As previewed in our report for 2016, we have undertaking areview of the Groups tax strategy, with regard to during the past year undertaken a comprehensive evolving regulation and good governance.
This included considering audit tender.
The process was completed in the statement on tax strategy, prior to its approval by the Board.
The tax strategy has been published on the Victrex plc website.
September with a recommendation to appoint PwC, who will, subject to shareholder approval Responsibilities at the 2018 AGM, succeed KPMG, our The Audit Committee undertakes its activities in line with a programme of business based on its terms of reference which are presentauditor.
reviewed annually and approved by the Board.
The terms of reference I am pleased to present the report of the Audit Committee for the were most recently reviewed in September 2017.
The terms of reference year ended 30 September 2017.
The Audit Committee is integral are available on our website, www.
The key to the scrutiny which is given by the Board to the performance of responsibilities of the Committee are to: management and the standing of the Group as a whole.
u review the quality and acceptability of accounting policies The Committee has three scheduled meetings each year, in addition andpractices: to which I meet with members of the executive and management u review financial statements and announcements relating to the outside of those formal meetings to discuss matters which fall within financial performance of the Company: the Committees terms of reference.
These have included meetings with the Head of Internal Audit and the Groups Head of Compliance u review the risk management systems and the effectiveness in addition to regular meetings with the Group Company Secretary ofthose systems: and Director of Risk and Compliance as part of reviewing pertinent u monitor and review the effectiveness of the internal audit function: matters and forward planning on the business of the Committee.
u review significant legal and regulatory matters: As previewed in our report for 2016, we have during the past year undertaken a comprehensive audit tender.
The Audit Committee u review the Companys internal financial controls that is, the systems appointed a subcommittee, which included me and non-executive established to identify, assess, manage and monitor financial risks Director Jane Toogood, in addition to the Group Finance Director and the Companys internal control systems: and members ofmanagement.
The process was completed in u review the Committees terms of reference and carry out an September, with a recommendation to appoint PwC, who will, annual review of the performance of the Committee: subject to shareholder approval at the 2018 AGM, succeed KPMG, our present auditor.
We report separately on this work on page 52. u review matters associated with the appointment, terms, remuneration, independence, objectivity and effectiveness Membership oftheexternal audit process and review the scope and results I am a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of ofthe audit: and Scotland.
In addition to experience serving as chairman of audit u report to the Board on how the Committee has discharged the committees for other FTSE 250 companies, I have previously served aforementioned responsibilities.
as Group Finance Director for a FTSE 100 business.
The Board is satisfied that I have recent and relevant financial experience as required by the Code.
The other members of the Audit Committee during the year were Patrick fide Smedt, Pamela Kirby and Jane Toogood.
The qualifications of the Audit Committee members are outlined in the Directors biographies on pages 42 and 43.
The members of the Audit Committee provide a wide range of financial and commercial expertise which includes competence relevant to the sectors in which the Company operates and which enables the Committee tofulfil its function.
The effectiveness of the Committee in fulfilling its remit was considered as part of the most recent evaluation of performance which was completed in the autumn and subsequently reported tothe Board.
Annual Report 2017 Victrex plc 51 Corporate governance Statement of corporate governance continued Audit Committee report continued discussed with management, including how such analysis related Responsibilities continued to managements own assessment and the appropriateness of the Within its routine business, the Committee supports the Board formof disclosure provided by the Company inthe Annual Report in considering the systems of controls associated with financial andFinancial Statements.
Inparticular we considered the following reporting.
During 2017, the Company completed the global recurring matters: implementation of an integrated ERP system first launched in the UK during 2016.
The Committee has given particular emphasis Carrying value of inventory: the Committee reviews the nature to the control and reporting environments of the new system ofthe costs absorbed into inventory, the level of production over during its meetings to assess to what extent key metrics identified which these costs are absorbed, the variances between standard during the planning and implementation stage have been satisfied.
cost and actual cost and the reasons for movements in inventory Inaddition, it considered separate reports from an independent value period to period.
The basis for and level of provisioning, including consultant, engaged by the Director of Risk and Compliance, which those areas which are judgemental or require a high degree of evaluated the steps for mitigating potential risks associated with the estimation, are presented to the Committee by management.
Committee discussed and assessed the information provided by management and concluded that the valuation of inventory and In the following sections, we explain how the Committee fulfils its level of provisioning were reasonable.
responsibilities and highlight matters which have been addressed Defined benefit accounting: the valuation of the defined benefit during the course of the year.
scheme obligation is dependent on a number of assumptions that areinherently judgemental, or require a high level of estimation.
Financial reporting Following the closure of the scheme on 31 March 2016, judgement The primary role of the Committee in relation to financial reporting on future salary growth rates ceased, but judgement over future is to review with both management and the external auditor, and interest and inflation rates, together with the estimation of mortality report to the Board the appropriateness of the annual and half-year rates remain, with sensitivities of -1% having a material impact on financial statements, considering amongst other matters: the value of scheme liabilities and therefore the balance recognised the clarity of the disclosures and compliance with financial u on the Group Balance sheet.
The Audit Committee assesses these reporting standards and relevant financial and governance judgements and estimates based on reports received from management reporting requirements: and the Groups actuarial advisors.
The Committee also considered the opinions made and benchmark provided by KPMG.
The Committee areas in which significant judgements have been applied, u concluded that the assumptions used and the resulting valuation including discussions on such matters undertaken with the werereasonable.
external auditor: To aid the conduct of reviews, the Committee considers reports whether the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced u from the Group Finance Director and the Group Financial Controller and understandable and provides the information necessary for and also reports from the external auditor on the outcomes of its shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business half-year review and annual audit.
The statement incorporating the conclusion of this assessment is included on page 71: and External audit any correspondence from regulators in relation to our u Appointment, independence and effectiveness financialreporting.
KPMG was re-appointed as auditor at the 2017 AGM.
The Committee considers the appointment of the external auditor each year, whilst In addition to the above, the Committee supports the Board in assessing its independence and effectiveness onan ongoingbasis.
completing its assessment of the adoption of the going concern The Committee reports its findings to the Board alongside basis of preparing the financial statements.
Committee reviewed the approach taken by management in preparing and reporting on the Viability Statement with due regard The Committee has acted upon The Statutory Audit Services for wider market practice and developing guidance.
As a result of forLarge Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of that review, the Committee was satisfied that the approach adopted Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities was appropriate.
The Viability Statement for the 2017 financial year Order 2014 concerning the need to put the external audit to tender was prepared on a consistent basis with that reported in each of at least every ten years.
Taking account of those requirements, and 2015 its year of inception and 2016 and is on page 27. as communicated in the financial statements for the year ended 30September 2016, the2017 financial year was the final year In the preparation and final approval of the financial statements, KPMG has been the Companys auditor having been the auditor the Committee has discussed with management the key sources since 1993.
An audit tender processhas taken place through the of estimation and critical accounting judgements outlined in note year ended 30September 2017, overseen by the Committee and 20.
The significant areas of focus considered and assessed by supported byasubcommittee.
The subcommittee was chaired the Committee in relation to the 2017 financial statements and bythe Audit Committee Chairman and comprised another Audit how these have been addressed are set out below.
In concluding Committee member, the Group Finance Director, the Group that these represented the primary areas of judgement, or a high Financial Controller, the Director of Risk and Compliance, the degree of estimation, the Audit Committee considered reports by Headof Internal Audit, theGroup Reporting Manager and the management which referenced both quantitative and qualitative Group Company Secretary.
judgement factors across each significant account balance, assessing the impact on the user of the financial statements.
These are also At each stage of the process, Victrex participants declared any areas of higher audit risk and, accordingly, KPMG reported to the conflicts of interest, which primarily related to the alumni status Committee on, and the Audit Committee discussed and assessed, ofcertain individuals.
These were discussed and considered to these judgements and estimates.
During the meeting of the beappropriately managed through the number of participants Committee which considered the draft of the report and financial inthe process.
statements, the matters raised by KPMG in their report were 52 Victrex plc Annual Report 2017 Corporate governance The subcommittee provided updates to and received feedback from audit and reporting and the role of relevant functions within the the Committee throughout the process, following the audit tender Company in the context of audit findings and, in addition, their plan approved by the Committee.
The plan took due regard for facilitation and engagement with theaudit process as a whole.
As part of its preparations for the The Committee considers KPMG to be independent and effective in tendering process, the Committee satisfied itself that there were no their role asauditor for the financial year ended 30 September 2017. contractual obligations that restricted the Committees choice of external auditor.
The Committee was also mindful of the new Non-audit services regulations requiring a cooling in period, which precludes the To further safeguard the independence and objectivity of the performance of certain non-audit services for the year preceding external auditor, non-audit services provided by the external auditor appointment as auditor.
are considered and where appropriate authorised by the Committee in accordance with a non-audit services policy.
The policy is outlined Five audit firms registered an interest in participating in the tender, inan appendix to the Committees terms of reference, which are with four being formally invited to present to the subcommittee, published on our website.
This policy places constraints on the quantum during June 2017.
The quality of engagement from each was very and type of services undertaken by our auditor with the aim of high, during which constructive dialogue was held covering the key safeguarding the independence and objectivity of our auditor.
aspects of the audit with due regard for Victrexs evolving business Non-audit fees for the year ended 30 September 2017 were and global reach.
Of the four invited three took part, being Deloitte 28,699 2016: 51,800.
The non-audit fees primarily related to LLP, Ernst & Young LLP and  LLP PwC, theinterim review, the pension scheme audit and iXBRL tagging of with one firm opting not toparticipate in the remainder ofthe the UK subsidiaries statutory accounts.
Alternative providers were selection process.
considered but not deemed practical in the specific circumstances.
The three firms were reduced to two firms by the subcommittee with No approval was given to any non-audit services not in accordance the final two presenting to the full Audit Committee in September 2017. with the APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
When awarding non-audit work to KPMG, the Committee is cognisant of the EU The candidates were assessed against eight criteria approved by Audit Regulation, including the cap on non-audit fees of 70% of theCommittee at the start of the process.
The criteria, which were theaudit fee.
Non-audit services in the 2017 financial year weighted by importance, included audit quality, relevant experience, represented 19% 2016: 35% of the audit fee.
audit approach, cultural fit and the ability to add value.
The firms were assessed throughout the process, including the site visit, Risk management, internal control and internalaudit meetings with management, the tender submission document, The Audit Committee has responsibility for reviewing the risk firstpresentation, tender exercise and second presentation, with management systems and effectiveness of these systems.
The theCommittee taking input from all those involved at each stage responsibilities and processes in respect of risk management are when making its finalrecommendation.
described separately on pages 22 to 26 and pages 48 and 49.
A final decision following presentations from the shortlisted The Audit Committee also monitors the effectiveness of the Groups firmswas taken in September 2017, with a recommendation by internal control systems.
theAudit Committee to appoint PwC as auditor for the Company and The Director of Risk and Compliance, as appointed by the its subsidiaries, which was approved by the Board.
Whilst aclose Committee, has responsibility for internal audit and independently decision, the areas where PwC differentiated were the extensive reports to the Chairman of the Audit Committee in relation to experience of the team, particularly in the chemical manufacturing internal control matters.
In addition to attendance by invitation at sector and listed company market, audit quality, both interms of AQRT meetings of the Committee, I have met on three separate occasions scores and team commitment to quality, and their experience in auditing during the year with the Director of Risk and Compliance to consider systems similar to those used by Victrex.
Appointment of PwC as findings from internal audit and progress being made as we evolve auditor for the 2018 financial year is subject to approval of shareholders our practices associated with the identification and reporting of risk.
at the Annual General Meeting being held in February 2018.
The programme of business for the internal audit function is Whilst PwCs appointment is subject to approval at the AGM, considered and approved each year by the Committee.
In reviewing thenominated partner, Ian Morrison, was invited to attend the the proposed programme, the Committee gives consideration to the AuditCommittee meeting which considered the Annual Report Groups strategic priorities and specific initiatives which are being forthe year ended 30 September 2017, in order tocommence undertaken, which could impact the business and also the findings theknowledge transfer from KPMG.
In the event ofshareholder and actions arising from the assessment of the Groups risk register.
approval at the AGM in February 2018, a detailed handover will take Thereafter, together with findings from audits which are presented place, including review of KPMG working papers, spending time with at each meeting, the Committee considers progress against management and visiting key locations.
PwChas not performed any agreed objectives as part of ensuring the robustness and proper precluded work for Victrex during theyear ended 30 September 2017. resourcing of the function to enable it to perform effectively.
Where The Committee would like to thank KPMG for their work appropriate to the nature of the work being undertaken, reviews are andsupport over many years.
supported by other independent assurance providers.
External audit: effectiveness The Committee has reflected upon the FRC Guidance on The Audit Committee actively considers the effectiveness of the AuditCommittees and was satisfied that the principles concerning external audit process on an ongoing basis.
This process commences internal audit are reflected in the prevailing responsibilities and in advance of the audit with the identification by the Committee of function of the Companys Internal Audit department.
the key risks to audit quality and effectiveness.
The Committee then assesses the auditor against these key risks twice during the annual audit cycle.
This focused approach is supplemented by a detailed questionnaire provided to Committee members and management following the completion of the audit.
The questionnaire covers assessment of the audit partner, the approach, communication, independence, objectivity, audit quality, interaction with internal Annual Report 2017 Victrex plc 53
