B3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE B3.1 Governance framework The Board of Directors is responsible for overall Group strategy and for the delivery of that strategy within a robust corporate governance and corporate responsibility framework.
That framework is described in the following pages.
The Board is committed to the principles of corporate governance contained in the Code issued by the FRC in April 2016 and which is publicly available at www.
Throughout the year ended 30 September 2017 the Company complied with the principles and provisions of the Code.
The Board notes that a new edition of the Code is being considered by the FRC and the Board will review it and consider whether any amendments to its practices are appropriate when the revised Code is published.
Stakeholders The Board, in its deliberations and decision making processes takes into account the views of the Groups stakeholders and, where applicable, considers the impact of those decisions on the communities and environment within which the Group operates.
While good corporate governance is important to the Board, so too is maintaining a reputation for high standards of business conduct in all of the Groups operations, and management of conduct risk is a key part of the risk management framework.
Section A5 sets out information on corporate responsibility including the Groups people policies, its involvement in industry initiatives, its support for the community and its environmental, social and conduct impacts.
The People Director, as well as the executive directors, report regularly on the views of the Groups employees and the impact of new projects on the workforce is taken into account.
The Group has no single major supplier or contractor which could be considered a primary stakeholder but a number of its suppliers are of significant importance to the Groups operations and a close relationship is maintained, and reported to the Board, to help ensure that the Group runs effectively.
The Group also endeavours to maintain an open and transparent relationship with its various regulators, including the PRA and FCA.
Its relationship with HMRC and the principles it applies to its tax affairs are described in Section A5.3.
Leadership The schedule of matters reserved for the Board, which was reviewed during the year, details the key matters for which the Board is responsible including: The Groups values and standards Its strategic aims and objectives Approval of major capital projects and material acquisitions and disposals Approval of annual operational and capital expenditure budgets Approval of the Companys dividend and corporate governance policies Agreeing the Groups risk appetite Determining the remuneration policy for the executive directors All directors receive sufficient relevant information on financial, business and corporate issues prior to meetings.
PAGE 64 Corporate Governance PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts For most of the year the Board consisted of the Chairman, three executive directors and four non-executive directors.
On 20 September 2017, an additional four non-executive directors were appointed.
All the directors bring a broad and valuable range of experience to the Company and further details of this together with other biographical details are set out in Section B2.
Alan Fletcher will cease to be considered an independent non-executive director in February 2018 on the ninth anniversary of his first appointment.
From this date he will cease to be a member of any board committees but will remain on the Board.
As required by the Code he will be subject to annual re-election.
The Board is then expected to comprise the Chairman, three executive directors, seven independent non-executive directors and one non-independent non-executive director.
Consequently, the balance between independent and non-independent directors will remain appropriate.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive is clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
This division was fully revised during the year to ensure that it remained fit for purpose following the group reorganisation and was in line with best practice.
There is a strong non-executive representation on the Board, including the Senior Independent Director, Fiona Clutterbuck.
This provides effective balance and challenge.
The Chairmans other business commitments are set out in the biographical details in Section B2.
During the year, the Chairman ceased to undertake his role with AXA which he had held for a number of years.
Otherwise there have been no significant changes during the period to his commitments.
The Board has agreed a policy for managing conflicts and a process to identify and authorise any conflicts which might arise, which was recently updated.
At each meeting of the Board and its committees actual or potential conflicts of interest in respect of any director are reviewed.
The Board also operates through a number of committees covering certain specific matters, illustrated in the chart below.
Board Committee structure Board of Directors Risk and Audit Disclosure Nomination Remuneration Compliance Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Asset and Operational Risk Liability Credit Model Risk and Compliance Committee Committee Committee Committee Board committees Summarised information on each of the board committees is set out below.
Committee Audit Remuneration Risk and Compliance Nomination Chair From 20 09 17 P J N Hartill F J Clutterbuck F F Williamson R G Dench To 20 09 17 P J N Hartill A K Fletcher F J Clutterbuck R G Dench Minimum number of meetings 3 3 4 2 Further information Section B4 Section B5 Section B6 Section B3.2 Members Independent Audit Remuneration Risk and Compliance Nomination non-executive R G Dench - No Yes Yes Yes N S Terrington - No No No Yes F J Clutterbuck Yes Yes Yes Yes A K Fletcher Yes Yes Yes Yes P J N Hartill Yes Yes Yes Yes H R Tudor Yes Yes Yes Yes P J Newberry Yes No Yes Yes B A Ridpath Yes No Yes No F F Williamson Yes No Yes No G H Yorston Yes No Yes No Member from appointment to the Board on 20 September 2017.
Alan Fletcher will cease to be a member of all board committees from 25 February 2018.
PAGE 65 Corporate Governance PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts The Board has considered the requirements of the Code with respect to the composition of audit committees and is satisfied that all members of the Audit Committee have recent and relevant financial experience and that the Committee as a whole has competence relevant to the sector in which the Group operates.
In addition to the committees listed above a further standing committee, the Disclosure Committee, was established during 2016.
The purpose of the Committee is to assist in the design, implementation and evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures: monitor compliance with the Companys disclosure controls: consider the requirements for announcement: and overall determine the disclosure treatment of material market information.
The Committees members are Robert Dench, Nigel Terrington and Richard Woodman, of which any two can form a quorum but that quorum should include either the Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer.
Executive committees Four executive committees, the Asset and Liability Committee ALCO, the Credit Committee, the Model Risk Committee MRC and the Operational Risk and Compliance Committee ORCC, consisting of executive directors and appropriate senior employees, report to the Risk and Compliance Committee.
The MRC was established during the year broadly to review and advise the Board upon all material aspects of the rating and estimation processes in relation to credit and finance models used by the Group.
All of these committees are described further in the Risk Management Section B6.
All board committees operate within defined terms of reference and sufficient resources are made available to them to undertake their duties.
The terms of reference of the committees are available on request from the Company Secretary.
The attendance of individual directors at the regular meetings of the Board and its committees in the year is set out below, with the number of meetings each was eligible to attend shown in brackets.
Directors who are unable to attend meetings receive the papers and any comments from them are reported to the relevant meeting.
Directors have attended a number of ad hoc meetings during the year in addition to the regular Board meetings and have contributed to discussions outside of the regular meeting calendar.
Director Board Audit Risk and Compliance Remuneration Nomination Committee Committee Committee Committee Robert G Dench 12 12 - 4 4 7 7 5 5 Nigel S Terrington 12 12 - - - 5 5 Richard J Woodman 12 12 - - - - John A Heron 12 12 - - - - Alan K Fletcher 12 12 4 4 4 4 7 7 5 5 Peter J N Hartill 11 12 4 4 4 4 6 7 4 5 Fiona J Clutterbuck 12 12 4 4 4 4 7 7 5 5 Hugo R Tudor 12 12 4 4 4 4 7 7 5 5 Patrick J Newberry 1 1 1 1 0 0 - 1 1 Barbara A Ridpath 1 1 1 1 0 0 - - Finlay F Williamson 1 1 1 1 0 0 - - Graeme H Yorston 1 1 1 1 0 0 - - Directors also attended an annual two-day strategy event, held off site, to enable further, more detailed, discussion of the Groups position and future development.
This strategy event has been a regular fixture in the Groups governance calendar for a number of years and recently has also been attended by the Groups executive management group and by the executive and non-executive directors of the Bank.
The Board regularly receives, reviews and considers reports on the following matters: Strategic matters Potential acquisition opportunities Business performance Results, management accounts and financial commentary Operational reports from business areas Treasury and funding matters Legal and governance matters The work of the Boards committees Matters arising from subsidiary company boards, including that of Paragon Bank Investor relations and shareholder feedback PAGE 66 Corporate Governance PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts Subsidiary governance A number of the corporate entities within the Group are regulated by either the PRA and the FCA or solely by the FCA.
The Company has oversight of these entities as part of its overall responsibility for the management of the Group and also to ensure that the Groups values and standards in regulated spheres are met.
Since the completion of the strategic reorganisation in September 2017 the directors of the Company have also comprised the Board of Paragon Bank PLC.
The intention of the directors is that the boards of both companies will meet jointly in most foreseeable circumstances.
Consequently, oversight of Paragon Bank PLC will form an intrinsic part of the board and committee meetings of the Company going forward.
Effectiveness All of the non-executive directors are independent of management and all are appointed for fixed terms.
They are kept fully informed of all relevant operational and strategic issues and bring a strongly independent and experienced judgement to bear on these issues.
The non-executive directors meet with the Chairman, from time to time, without the presence of the executive directors.
All of the directors holding office at 30 September 2017 had been either reappointed at the AGM on 9 February 2017, or, in the cases of Patrick Newberry, Barbara Ridpath, Finlay Williamson and Graeme Yorston, appointed since that date, and all of them have submitted themselves for election or re-election, as appropriate, at the forthcoming AGM.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that board procedures are complied with.
Both the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary are matters for the Board as a whole.
All directors are able to take independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties whenever it is considered appropriate to do so and have access to such continuing professional development opportunities as are identified as appropriate in the Board appraisal process.
The Board considers that each of the non-executive directors are independent of the Group and free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Alan Fletcher serves as a director of the corporate trustee of the Paragon Pension Plan the Plan and receives 10,000 per annum increasing to 15,000 per annum from 1 October 2017 in respect of that appointment from Paragon Finance PLC, the sponsoring company of the Plan and a subsidiary of the Company.
The Board considers that this does not impact on his independence because the Plan is a trust which is independent of the Company and, as a director of its corporate trustee, he has a fiduciary duty to act in the best interests of the trust and the Plans beneficiaries.
The composition of the Board and its committees is kept under review, with the aim of ensuring that there is an appropriate balance of power and authority between executive and non-executive directors and that the directors collectively possess the skills and experience necessary to direct the Companys and the Groups business activities.
The directors review actual or potential conflicts of interest in respect of any director at each meeting of the Board and its committees.
There is an established process for external appointments through the Nomination Committee.
Ultimately, the appointment of any new director is a matter for the Board.
Executive director appointments are based upon merit and business need.
Non-executive appointments are based upon the candidates profiles matching those agreed by the Nomination Committee.
In all cases the Board approves the appointment only after careful consideration.
Succession planning for the Board is in place with emergency cover available for the executive directors.
Further detail is provided in the Nomination Committee Section B3.2.
The Human Resources department has a wider succession development plan for senior management roles across the Group, prioritising those positions likely to require recruitment within the next five years.
This data has been considered against internally identified individuals with high potential and the capability to fulfil those roles as they become vacant, to ensure that succession requirements can be met.
Internal individuals will be developed for future senior roles and this will be complemented with external recruitment at a senior level where necessary, to balance the required skills and experience of the senior management team and ensure continuing success in the future.
This succession plan will be reviewed in the current financial year following the Groups strategic reorganisation.
Training All of the non-executive directors have received presentations during the year on various aspects of the Groups activities.
In addition, training has been provided by external advisors on topics such as the economy, and the markets and regulatory environments in which the Group operates or is considering operating in.
As part of its development programme the Board has agreed a dedicated day and half for training in each financial year and such days are scheduled into the ongoing board calendar.
The session in October 2016 included presentations from external advisors and banking analysts as well as in-house presenters.
The session in March 2017 was superseded by various individual sessions related to matters necessary to the strategic reorganisation and accounted for approximately a day of the directors time covering Group liquidity in general and the Groups ILAAP.
The focus at the October 2017 session was on regulation, including the General Data Protection Regulation and IFRS 9 and the day also included an external presentation on the Groups Recovery and Resolution Plan.
Ongoing development opportunities for all directors will be provided, as required, during the forthcoming year.
A training schedule is maintained by the Human Resources department.
The directors appointed in September 2017 will receive appropriately tailored induction training during the new financial year to develop their understanding of the Group and its operations.
PAGE 67 Corporate Governance PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts Board evaluation The effectiveness of the Board, individual directors and the Boards main committees are reviewed annually, with an externally facilitated review every three years as required by the Code.
This years annual board and committee review was internally facilitated.
No issues arose that were required to be addressed.
Last years review was the triennial external evaluation which considered the performance of the Board and its committees, all individual directors, including the Chairman and also the Company Secretary.
The review was undertaken by Armstrong Bonham Carter LLP with the lead review work completed by Tom Bonham Carter.
Neither Armstrong Bonham Carter LLP nor Tom Bonham Carter had undertaken any other work for the Group.
The review concluded that there was clear evidence of the effectiveness of the Board and identified a small number of issues to be followed up in the current year.
A few matters were identified for the long-established Audit and Remuneration Committees and these were addressed immediately.
The Risk and Compliance Committee, which was established in 2014, and the Nomination Committee whose role has developed significantly in recent years had some points to address during the financial year.
The board evaluation for 2017 concluded that the follow up points from the 2016 evaluation had been sufficiently addressed and were now considered closed.
Detailed below are the recommendations described in the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts, excluding those noted there as already completed, and how they were addressed in the year: RECOMMENDATION CONCLUSION Board To ensure that the Groups strategy, as it evolves, is clearly Strategy was considered and reviewed at the strategy days in 2017 articulated and defined over the short, medium and long-term and and will continue to be monitored at these events and discussed as that related risk appetite is fully documented required during normal business.
The strategic reorganisation completed during the year will enable the Group to provide greater clarity to the market of the direction of its future development.
Risk appetite was reviewed as part of the strategic reorganisation and revised risk appetite statements documented and approved.
Risk appetites and key risk metrics are considered at Risk and Compliance Committee at every meeting and, if necessary, on an ad hoc basis as required by internal and external developments To consider further enhancing the ongoing investor relations The programme was reviewed and the enhancements described programme under Relations with shareholders below have been made To consider the appointment of an additional non-executive Additional directors with the suggested experience were appointed director with more retail and SME banking experience on 20 September 2017 Nomination Committee To consider the appointment of an additional non-executive See above director with more retail and SME banking experience Risk and Compliance Committee To ensure the Committee has a robust process to check that the A formal risk appetite statement, including limits and triggers was risk profile is in line with the approved risk appetite adopted and regular reporting is undertaken against those metrics.
This is described further in the Risk Report Section B6 To ensure that the Committee has a robust risk review process in The Committee has an agreed process that any major risk event place for historic risk events will be assessed relative to risk appetite: current principal risk register: and local risk and control self-assessments, to evidence the effectiveness of the risk review process.
This assessment will be reported by the Chief Risk Officer to a subsequent Committee meeting Individual performance The performance of the Chief Executive is appraised by the Chairman.
The performance of the other executive directors is appraised by the Chief Executive in conjunction with the Chairman.
The results of these appraisals are presented to the Remuneration Committee for consideration and determination of remuneration.
The Chairman appraises the performance of the non-executive directors, identifying any development opportunities or training needs.
The Senior Independent Director leads the review of the performance of the Chairman with the other non-executive directors, taking into account the views of the executive directors.
At the Annual General Meeting the Chairman will confirm to shareholders, when proposing the re-election of any non-executive director, that following formal performance evaluation, the individuals performance continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to the role.
The letters of appointment of the non-executive directors will be available for inspection at the AGM.
PAGE 68 Corporate Governance PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts Accountability Detailed reviews of the performance of the Groups main business lines are included within the Strategic Report.
The Board uses this to present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
The directors responsibility for the financial statements is described in Section B8.
An on-going process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group, which is regularly reviewed by the Board, was in place for the year ended 30 September 2017 and to the date of these financial statements.
An overview of this process, and its part in the directors consideration of the Groups viability is given in Section A4.
The directors are responsible for the system of internal control throughout the Group, including the system of internal control over financial reporting, and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against the risk of material misstatement or loss and that assets are safeguarded against unauthorised use or disposition.
In assessing what constitutes reasonable assurance, the directors have regard to the relationship between the cost and benefits from particular aspects of the control system.
The system of internal control includes documented procedures covering accounting, compliance, risk management, personnel matters and operations, clear reporting lines, delegation of authority through a formal structure of mandates, a formalised budgeting, management reporting and review process, the use of key performance indicators throughout the Group and regular meetings of the ALCO, Credit Committee, MRC and ORCC and senior management.
Internal control over financial reporting within the Group is provided by a process designed, under the supervision of the Chief Financial Officer and senior financial management of the Group, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external reporting purposes, including the process of preparing the Groups consolidated financial statements.
Internal control over financial reporting includes policies and procedures intended to ensure that records are maintained that fairly, and in reasonable detail, reflect transactions and dispositions of assets, to provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit the preparation of the financial statements, to ensure that receipts and expenditures are only being made in accordance with management authorisation and to provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use or disposition of assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations and may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that internal controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may reduce.
The Board receives regular reports setting out key performance and risk indicators.
In addition the Board operates a formal risk management process, described in more detail in Section B6, from which the key risks facing the business are identified.
The process results in reports to the Board, through its Risk and Compliance Committee, on how these risks are being managed.
The Board has a programme of regular presentations from senior management to enable the Board to review the operation of internal controls in relation to the risks associated with their specific areas.
The system of internal control is monitored by management and by an internal audit function that concentrates on the areas of greater risk and reports its conclusions regularly to management and the Audit Committee.
The internal audit work plan is approved annually by the Audit Committee, which reviews the effectiveness of the system of internal control annually and reports its conclusions to the Board.
Further details of the role and activities of the Audit Committee and its relationship with the internal and external auditors are set out in Section B4.
The Risk and Compliance Committee is responsible for reviewing the Groups risk management framework and the effectiveness of the Groups systems and controls.
Further details of the role and activities of the Risk and Compliance Committee and the Groups risk management system are set out in Section B6.
There is some overlap between the work of the Audit Committee and that of the Risk and Compliance Committee and the Board monitors these areas to ensure that no gaps develop in the system of internal control.
The directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control for the period and that these procedures accord with the Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business reporting published by the FRC.
Remuneration Information on how the Group has applied the provisions of the Code relating to remuneration is set out in the Directors Remuneration Report in Section B5.
Relations with shareholders The Board encourages communication with the Companys institutional and private investors.
All shareholders have at least twenty working days notice of the Annual General Meeting at which the directors and committee chairmen are available for questions.
The Annual General Meeting is held in London during business hours and provides an opportunity for directors to report to investors on the Groups activities, to answer their questions and receive their views.
At all general meetings shareholders have an opportunity to vote separately on each resolution and all proxy votes lodged are counted and the balances for, against and directed to be withheld in respect of each resolution are announced.
The Chairman, Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer have a full programme of meetings with institutional investors during the course of the year and investors comments are communicated to all members of the Board, enabling them to develop an understanding of major shareholders views of the Group.
During the year ended 30 September 2017 meetings were held with investors from the UK, Europe and North America.
From time to time other presentations are made to institutional investors and analysts to enable them to gain a greater understanding of important aspects of the Groups business.
This programme was expanded during the year following feedback from last years Board effectiveness review.
PAGE 69 Corporate Governance PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts The Chairman, the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and the People Director hold annual meetings, generally in October, with leading shareholders to discuss remuneration policies and other corporate governance matters and the comments received are reported to the Board and considered by the Remuneration Committee in determining or varying the Groups approach to executive compensation.
The October 2017 meetings were attended by both the current Chairman of the Remuneration Committee who is also the Senior Independent Director and the former Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
The results of all of these meetings are reported to the Board so that all directors are aware of shareholder views.
The Senior Independent Director is also made aware of views expressed by shareholders to other members of the Board, via the Companys brokers or through the Investor Relations team and is available to meet with shareholders should they wish.
Such meetings can be arranged via the Company Secretary.
The Companys website at www.
co. uk provides access to information on the Group and its businesses.
B3.2 Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee consists of the Chairman of the Company, Robert Dench, who chairs the Committee, Nigel Terrington, the Chief Executive and Alan Fletcher, Peter Hartill, Fiona Clutterbuck and Hugo Tudor, all independent non-executive directors.
On 20 September 2017, Patrick Newberry, a further independent non-executive director became a member of the Committee.
The majority of the Committees members are, therefore, independent non-executive directors.
In February 2018 Alan Fletcher will cease to be a member of the Committee when he ceases to be an independent non-executive director.
During 2016 the Committee reviewed its terms of reference which were adopted by the Board in October 2016 to align its remit with best practice.
The Committees purpose has been defined to include ensuring that there is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors to the Board: leading the process for Board appointments and to make recommendations to the Board on those appointments: and assisting the Board in ensuring its composition is regularly reviewed and refreshed so that it is effective and able to operate in the best interests of shareholders.
Ultimate responsibility for any appointment remains with the Board.
The Committee also considers re-appointment of directors, re-election of directors and the independence of non-executive directors and makes recommendations regarding these matters to the Board.
The Committee keeps under review the structure, size and composition of the Board including its skills, experience, independence, knowledge and diversity and makes any recommendations that it deems necessary.
The Board recognises the benefits that can flow from non-executive directors holding other appointments but requires them to seek the agreement of the Chairman before entering into any commitments that might affect the time they can devote to the Company.
The Committee also has a general responsibility for oversight of the Groups senior management succession policy and its initiatives on workforce and management diversity, with a particular focus on its participation in external programmes, such as Women in Finance.
Appointments during the year For the appointment of new directors during the year, the Committee led the evaluation of the Boards requirements, in the light of both the external evaluation undertaken in 2016 and the proposed strategic re-organisation.
An external search consultant, Gavin Orr of Lomond Consulting, who has previously assisted the Group with senior appointments, was used in this process.
The Committee determined the skills required both hard and soft skills and all potential candidates were considered and ranked against a skills matrix taking account of diversity of possible candidates and the structure, size and composition of any future board configuration.
The Chairman also interviewed all potential internal candidates for the non-executive director roles.
An initial longlist of 26 potential candidates was produced and the Chairman interviewed ten, using a competency-based interview approach.
They were also all interviewed by independent non-executive directors, Fiona Clutterbuck on behalf of the Company and Finlay Williamson on behalf of the Bank as these candidates were also being considered as candidates for appointment to the Bank board and its committees, and by Nigel Terrington, the Chief Executive, and Anne Barnett, the People Director.
The four interviewers jointly provided feedback and a shortlist of recommended candidates for consideration by the Committee and the board of the Bank.
The shortlisted candidates were referenced at a level commensurate with their potential role, including discussions with the PRA, and they also underwent pre-employment screening, as do all potential Group employees.
Diversity was a factor considered in the initial review of potential external candidates for the Board, the Committee having previously considered its existing diversity levels including its gender balance.
The Committee reviewed and challenged the final proposed external candidates, taking account of references provided, before making recommendations to the boards of the Company and the Bank with regard to both membership of the Board and Committees.
The choice of appointees was based entirely on merit.
The Committee ensured that prospective non-executive directors could devote sufficient time to the appointment.
PAGE 70 Corporate Governance PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts Internal candidates for both executive and non-executive roles on the board were also reviewed by at least two members of the Nomination Committee and the People Director, with one-to-one interviews being held by the Chairman with all the internal candidates for non-executive roles from the then current Paragon Banking Group PLC and Paragon Bank PLC boards.
Additionally, the Nomination Committee, considered the candidates for the executive Senior Management Roles for approval by the board of Paragon Bank PLC.
Furthermore, the Nomination Committee considered the suitability of internal candidates allocated to the specific Senior Manager Function roles, under the Senior Manager Certification Regime, prior to submission for regulatory approval.
Diversity The Group recognises the importance of diversity, including gender diversity, at all levels of the organisation including the Board and the contribution which it can make to board effectiveness.
The Group recognises the importance of diversity on the Board, not only of gender, but also of experience and background, and the valuable contribution which such diversity can make towards achieving the appropriate balance of skills and knowledge which an effective board of directors requires.
The Board has always believed and continues to believe in appointing the best person to the role regardless of gender or other points of diversity and this belief is reflected and operates across all appointments made by the Group.
However, the Board recognises that measurement and publication of targets can assist in driving forward change and developing a talent pipeline in a sector where gender diversity has been difficult to achieve.
For this reason, the Group has signed up to HM Treasurys Women in Finance Charter initiative and has agreed targets in respect of gender diversity amongst the Groups senior management.
As is clear from the existence of the Women in Finance initiative, obtaining full diversification of gender in the financial services sector is particularly challenging given the size of the female talent pool across the industry.
Similar issues apply to advancing diversity of ethnicity in the sector.
The targets adopted reflect the Boards commitment to ensuring that diversity considerations throughout the Group are wider than gender.
The Groups diversity policies are described in Section A5.1 of the Annual Report, where information on the composition of the workforce is also given, together with further information on the Groups Women in Finance targets and details of other initiatives in this field in the period.
Succession planning The succession plans for the Board were noted during the year and will be reviewed during the current financial year following the Groups strategic reorganisation.
The tenure of the non-executive directors is monitored by the Committee.
Emergency cover is in place for the executive directors and their direct reports.
Following review work in 2016, which considered approximately 100 roles, internal development has been undertaken to enhance succession planning with consideration given to possible at risk roles as well as to the development of potential future senior management candidates.
Risk mitigation will continue to include the ongoing development of employees, as well as work to further validate potential candidates for senior positions.
Development work on potential candidates occurs with those employees remaining in their current roles, as this training is undertaken so as to minimise business impact while ensuring that candidates are enabled to undertake a more senior role in due course.
The Groups preference, where possible, is that internal candidates are developed and supported to undertake senior roles as this assists in the ongoing maintenance of its strong cultural focus on its people.
PAGE 71 Corporate Governance PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts
