B4 AUDIT COMMITTEE B4.1 S tatement by the Chairman of the Audit Committee Dear Shareholder The year ended 30 September 2017 has seen major changes in both the Groups business and the Peter J N Hartill Committees responsibilities.
The Groups reorganisation in September means that all of the Committees Chairman of the members now serve on the audit committee of Paragon Bank, the Groups regulated subsidiary, extending Audit Committee the Committee members regulatory duties.
This has taken place against a background of change within the Group with new business lines launched and new regulatory requirements rolled out.
In September I was pleased to welcome Patrick Newberry, Barbara Ridpath, Finlay Williamson and Graham Yorston to the Committee.
Patrick and Finlay previously served on the audit committee of Paragon Bank, Patrick as Chairman, and all of the new members will enhance the Committees experience and understanding of the retail banking sector and banking regulation.
As a Committee, our responsibility is to ensure that financial information published by the Group properly presents its activities to stakeholders in a way that is useful and understandable, as well as overseeing the effective delivery of both external and internal audit services.
During the year, the Committee met four times and its principal activities were as follows: The review of the annual and half-yearly financial statements to ensure these properly present the Groups activities in accordance with accounting standards, law, regulations and market practice In particular, the consideration of the Groups accounting policies for the recognition of interest income and loan impairment amongst other significant accounting issues The review of other financial information published by the Group, such as Pillar III disclosures required by banking regulations The supervision of the internal audit function as its role changes as the business evolves and best practice develops Overseeing the Groups preparations for the introduction of IFRS 9 which will be implemented from 1 October 2018 and, with the Risk and Compliance Committee, the early stages of the Groups IRB project Overseeing the continuing integration of the PAF and Premier operations acquired in the year ended 30 September 2016 into the Groups financial reporting and control framework Considering the Groups readiness to address other forthcoming accounting changes which will affect it, such as IFRS 15 and IFRS 16 Considering whether the Internal Audit function is compliant with the new guidance from the Chartered Institute of Internal Audit on internal audit in the financial services sector, issued in September 2017 The Committee also considered the impact on its work of the Groups reorganisation and adopted new terms of reference to ensure that changes in its role were addressed.
PAGE 72 Corporate Governance PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts In the financial year ending 30 September 2018 the Committees main priorities will include: Continued monitoring of the Groups IFRS 9 implementation programme as the implementation date draws near Maintaining oversight of the changes in control and reporting arising from the Groups reorganisation Ensuring that the Groups control processes develop alongside developments in the business I commend this report to shareholders and ask you to support the resolutions concerning the reappointment of KPMG LLP KPMG as auditors and their remuneration at the Annual General Meeting in 2018.
Peter J N Hartill Chairman of the Audit Committee 23 November 2017 PAGE 73 Corporate Governance PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts B4.2 Operations of the Committee The Audit Committee comprises all of the independent non-executive directors of the Company whose relevant experience is set out in Section B2 and its terms of reference include all matters indicated by Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.1 and the Code.
The latest edition of the Code, which applies to the Group from 1 October 2016 includes increased provisions around the role of audit committees.
The Committees responsibilities include: Monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial reporting Reviewing the Groups internal control systems Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function Monitoring the relationship between the Group and the external auditor It also provides a forum through which the Groups external and internal audit functions report to the non-executive directors.
The Internal Audit Director reports ultimately to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He attends all meetings of the Audit Committee and also reports regularly to the Risk and Compliance Committee.
The Committee considers that, as a whole, it possesses the competence relevant to the sector in which the Group operates that the Code requires and thus it complies with the new edition.
Both Peter Hartill and Patrick Newberry have competence in accounting and auditing while other committee members have experience in various aspects of the financial services industry.
The Committee meets at least three times a year and has an agenda linked to events in the Groups financial calendar.
Meetings generally take place before the half year and year end reporting dates in March and September and before the approval of results in May and November.
The Committee normally invites the Chairman, the executive directors, Group Financial Controller, Director of Internal Audit and a partner and other representatives from the external auditor to attend meetings of the Committee, although it reserves the right to request any of these individuals to withdraw.
For part of each meeting the Committee meets separately with representatives of the external auditor and with the Director of Internal Audit without any other persons present.
At each meeting the Committee receives reports of reviews conducted throughout the Group by the Internal Audit and, from time to time, Compliance functions.
During the year the Chairman of Paragon Banks audit committee and its finance director were invited to meetings of the Committee when matters relating to the Bank were to be discussed.
As the membership of the Bank audit committee is now the same as that of the Committee, this will not be required in future.
From time to time, when there are major changes in the Groups accounting policies or audit arrangements in progress, the Chairman of the Committee has held meetings with shareholders and is prepared to meet investors in future to discuss such matters.
Details on the Committee members attendance at meetings and the Boards evaluation of the Committees effectiveness are given in Section B3.1.
B4.3 Significant issues addressed by the Committee in relation to the Financial Statements The Committee considers whether the accounting policies adopted by the Group are suitable and whether significant estimates and judgements made by the management are appropriate.
In evaluating the Groups financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2017 the Committee considered particularly: The calculation of interest income under the Effective Interest Rate EIR method for both internally originated and purchased loan assets and the Groups borrowings The levels of impairment provision against loan assets The requirement for any impairment provision against the purchased goodwill carried in the Groups balance sheet The valuation of the deficit in the Groups defined benefit pension scheme, particularly in the light of the updated triennial valuation The viability statement which the Group is required to make under the Code The Groups capital and funding position and the Group forecasts for future periods PAGE 74 Corporate Governance PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts The Committee also considered whether this Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
In each of these areas the Committee was provided with papers discussing the position shown in the accounts, the underlying market conditions and assumptions and the methodology adopted for any calculations.
The papers also detailed any changes in approach from previous periods.
These were reviewed in detail and discussed with the relevant Group employees and the results of this work were considered, together with the results of testing by the external auditor.
There were no material or significant disagreements between the management and the external auditor.
Particular matters which the Committee focused on in each of these areas were: Matter Particular areas of focus Interest income and expense As required by IAS 39, the Group recognises income from loan balances on an EIR basis, which is recognition intended to produce a constant yield throughout the behavioural life of the loan, taking account of such matters as costs of procuration, and initially fixed or discounted interest rates.
The calculation therefore rests on assumptions about the future behaviour of the Groups customers.
A similar approach is taken to assessing interest on borrowings, where redemption profiles and anticipated refinancing dates influence expense recognition.
The Committee assessed the appropriateness of the assumptions made, considering performance of the portfolios against expectations and the impact of changes in product specifications.
Redemption profiles used in the modelling of mortgage books and the availability of alternative offerings in the market were areas of particular focus.
The Committee also paid particular attention to the accounting for new Idem portfolio purchases, which are generally made at a discount to the gross balance owed by customers on the accounts purchased, and where portfolio performance is a major driver of the EIR calculation.
Further information on these estimates can be found in note 6b to the accounts, and the interest income and expense recognised on this basis is shown in notes 16 and 17 Loan impairment IAS 39 requires that companies provide for any financial assets, held at amortised cost, considered to be impaired at the balance sheet date, to the extent that the carrying value might not be recovered.
The Groups calculation of impairment provision relies on assumptions to determine when an account might require provision and how large that provision would need to be.
In order to satisfy itself that this calculation resulted in appropriate provisioning, the Committee considered actual out-turns against historical impairment provision amounts calculated by the Groups models and the continued relevance of historical cash flow experience to the current loan book, based on present economic conditions and account administration practices.
This included an assessment of the impact of the Groups receiver of rent processes on cash flows and ultimate impairment levels, consideration of the likely effects of movements in property prices on security values and an examination of exposure on large portfolios.
Further information on these estimates can be found in note 6a to the accounts, the impairment charge for the year is shown in note 25 and movements in provision for impairment are shown in note 35.
The Groups exposure to credit risk is discussed in note 9 Goodwill impairment The Group is required to assess, at the end of the year, whether the carrying value of the acquired goodwill balance in its accounts, which is not subject to amortisation under IFRS, remains appropriate or whether any impairment has occurred.
In considering whether any impairment of goodwill had occurred the Committee considered particularly the Groups forecasts for the cash flows to be generated by the acquired businesses and their reasonableness in the light of current trading performance and the Groups strategy for these operations.
The potential impairment of goodwill is discussed in notes 6c and 42 PAGE 75 Corporate Governance PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts Matter Particular areas of focus Pension deficit The deficit on the Groups defined benefit pension plan is valued in accordance with IAS 19, which requires an actuarial valuation of the plan liabilities.
Such a valuation is based on assumptions including market interest rates, inflation and mortality rates in the Plan.
The triennial valuation of the Plan at 31 March 2016 was approved by the Trustee in the year and the Committee considered whether the Trustees conclusions necessitated any changes in the accounting valuation.
In order to satisfy itself as to the appropriateness of these assumptions, the Committee considered their derivation and the market data underlying them.
These were compared to market benchmarks and advice from the Groups actuarial advisers.
The Committee also considered benchmarking data provided by the external auditor.
Further information on the Plan deficit, the basis of valuation and the assumptions underlying it can be can be found in note 54 to the accounts, along with an analysis of sensitivities to the more significant assumptions Viability statement The Board is required by the Code and the Listing Rules to make a viability statement in the Annual Report.
The Committee has been asked to express an opinion to the Board as to whether this statement could properly be made.
The Committee considered aspects of the work of the Board and its various committees which addressed the Groups business model, risk profile, access to funds and future strategy, they also considered guidance issued by the FRC and stress testing which had been carried out in the year.
A fuller discussion of the directors consideration of the viability statement is set out in Section A4 Capital and funding The Board is required by the Code and the Listing Rules to make a going concern statement in the Annual Report.
The Committee considered the Groups detailed forecasts and the implicit cash and capital requirements.
The Committee discussed availability of funding, potential stress events and the impact of the economic environment.
A fuller discussion of the directors consideration of the going concern statement is set out in Section A4 Fair, balanced and understandable The Board is required by the Code to state whether, in its view, the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable.
The Committee considered the draft Annual Report for the financial year, as a whole, satisfying itself that the process for the preparation and review of its various sections, was appropriate.
The Committee especially focused on areas where disclosure requirements had changed or where new activities were to be reported on.
Based on this exercise, and the Committees own understanding of the business in the year, it determined whether the Annual Report, overall, portrayed the Groups activities, position and results properly.
The Committee also examined the disclosure changes made in compiling the Annual Report and Accounts following the Groups reorganisation.
These included the adoption of new reporting segments described in note 14 and revised presentation described in note 2.
The Committee considered whether these changes met the Groups objectives of increasing clarity and comparability with other similar entities.
The Committee was able to reach satisfactory conclusions on all of these areas and therefore resolved to commend the Annual Report to the Board for approval, and to advise the Board that it can conclude that the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable.
Earlier in the year the Committee had considered each of these areas, where applicable, in the same manner in concluding that it could commend the Groups half-yearly financial report for the six months ended 31 March 2017 to the Board for approval.
PAGE 76 Corporate Governance PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts B4.4 External auditor The Committee is responsible for assessing the effectiveness of the external audit process, for monitoring the independence and objectivity of the external auditor and for making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment and remuneration of external auditors.
The Committee is also responsible for developing and implementing the Groups policy on the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor.
Audit tendering On 24 September 2014, the Competition and Markets Authority finalised its investigation into the audit market and published The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 the Order.
The provisions of the Order are consistent with new requirements being introduced by European legislation.
The Order first applied to the Group from the beginning of the year ended 30 September 2016 and requires that only the Committee can agree the fees and terms of service of the external auditors, initiate and supervise a tendering process or recommend the appointment of an external auditor to the Board following a tender process.
The Group has complied with the requirements of the Order during the year.
KPMG were appointed as auditors, following a competitive tender process, with effect from the year ended 30 September 2016 at the Annual General Meeting in February 2016.
The financial year ended 30 September 2017 is the second reported on by KPMG and Andrew Walker has been the engagement partner since their appointment.
The Group is therefore not subject to a legal requirement to undertake an audit tender until ten years have elapsed, and will report to shareholders no later than after the completion of the fifth year the year ending 30 September 2020, and in each subsequent year thereafter, its conclusions on whether a further tender is in the Groups interest at that time.
Other than the legal requirements of the Order, the Committee has not identified any factors which might restrict its choice of external auditor.
Audit effectiveness The Committee has considered the effectiveness of the external audit for the year ended 30 September 2017 and the Groups relationship with the external auditor, KPMG, on an on-going basis, and has conducted a formal review of the effectiveness of the annual audit before commending this Annual Report to the Board.
This review consisted of the following steps: A list of relevant questions was considered by senior management who submitted their responses in writing to the Committee in advance of the meeting convened to consider the Annual Report The Committee members, with reference to the same questions considered their experience of the audit process in advance of that meeting At the meeting the Committee discussed the results of the exercise with the senior financial management of the Group, without the external auditor present The Committee then addressed the evaluation, as appropriate, with the external auditors The Committee was able to conclude, on the basis of this exercise and its experience over the year, that the external audit process remained effective and that the auditor was independent and objective, up to the signing date of this report.
A further review will be carried out following the completion of audit procedures on all Group companies and reported on in next years Annual Report.
The effectiveness review addressing the conduct of the 2016 audit, undertaken at the time of approval of the 2016 Group accounts was updated once the external audit process for all Group companies had been completed and affirmed the original conclusion, that the external audit was independent and objective and that the audit process was effective for that financial year.
In conjunction with the effectiveness review the Committee considered whether KPMG remained able to provide the required quality of service and were independent of the Group.
More specifically the Committee considered whether KPMGs understanding of the Groups business, their access to appropriate financial services and regulatory specialists within their firm, both locally and nationally, and their understanding of the sectors in which the Group operates were appropriate to the Groups needs.
As part of this exercise the Committee also considered the transparency report presented by the Auditor and the FRCs most recent audit inspection review on the audit firm.
As a result of these exercises the Committee concluded that it would recommend to the Board that a resolution to reappoint KPMG as auditors for the year ending 30 September 2018 should be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
PAGE 77 Corporate Governance PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts Independence policy Both the Committee and the external auditor have safeguards in place to avoid any compromise of the independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
The Committee considers the independence of the external auditor annually and the Group has a formal policy for the engagement of its external auditor to supply non-audit services, reviewed, most recently, in 2016.
The policy is designed to ensure that neither the nature of the service to be provided nor the level of reliance placed on the services could impact the objectivity of the external auditors opinion on the Groups financial statements.
The policy precludes the appointment of the external auditor to provide any service where there is involvement in management functions or decision making, or any service on which management might place primary reliance in determining the adequacy of internal controls, financial systems or financial reporting.
It also precludes the external auditor from providing tax or remuneration advice.
Internal audit services may not be provided by the external auditor.
The Committee must approve any engagement of the external auditors for non-audit work, except where the fee involved is clearly trivial.
The policy sets out rules for the employment of former employees of the external auditor and procedures for monitoring such persons within the organisation.
The Committee reviews, on a regular basis, the levels of fees paid to all major accounting firms to identify any matters which might impact on those firms ability to tender for the group audit at any future date.
Fees paid to the external auditor Fees paid to the external auditor are shown in note 24 to the Accounts.
Other than services required to be provided by external auditors by legislation or regulation, non-audit services provided by KPMG related to accounting and regulatory advisory work in respect of the Groups preparation for the introduction of IFRS 9 and its IRB project and other accounting advice shown as other services in note 24.
Overall the fees paid to KPMG, the Groups external auditor, for non-audit services excluding VAT, were 52,000 2016: 103,000, which is equivalent to 5.4% of the total fees paid to them.
The Group actively considers other providers for the type of non-audit services typically provided by accounting firms.
It maintains on-going relationships relating to tax, remuneration and regulatory advice with firms other than the Auditors firm and considers discrete projects on a case-by-case basis.
The Group has engaged with a number of firms, including some outside the big four largest audit firms for assignments during the year, assessing each firms appropriateness for the particular assignment before an appointment was made.
Fees paid to audit firms excluding VAT, excluding the Group audit and related fees can be analysed as shown below: 2017 2016 000 000 Auditors KPMG 52 103 Auditors - Deloitte N A 161 Other big four firms 673 478 Other firms 33 367 758 1,109 Fees paid in the year ended 30 September 2016 to the outgoing auditors after their resignation and the incoming auditors before their appointment are included within other big four firms.
The audit tender process conducted in 2015 helped to further relationships with all of the big four firms, not simply the incoming auditors, and those relationships, and the Groups relationship with its former Auditor, Deloitte, have been maintained.
PAGE 78 Corporate Governance PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts B4.5 Internal Audit The Committee is responsible for considering and approving the remit of the internal audit function and ensuring it has adequate resources and appropriate access to information to enable it to perform its function effectively and in accordance with the relevant professional standards.
The Committee also ensures that the internal audit function has adequate standing and is free from management or other restrictions which may impair its independence.
Operations During the year, the Committee considered and approved the three year rolling internal audit plan, which is based on an assessment of the key risks faced by the Group.
Progress in respect of the plan is monitored throughout the year and an assessment made of whether the internal audit function has sufficient resource to complete the plan.
With the approval of the Committee the audit plan may be revised during the year, based on the ongoing assessment of the key risks or in response to the requirements of the Group.
The Internal Audit Director met regularly throughout the year with the Chairman of the Committee to discuss progress against plan, outstanding agreed actions, and departmental resourcing.
Ahead of finalisation of the 2017 18 Audit Plan the Chairman of the Committee and the then Chairman of the Bank Audit Committee met with the Internal Audit Director and his managers to discuss audit planning priorities, key business risks and assess current resourcing.
The chairmen then took the opportunity to meet informally with all the Internal Audit team members to enhance understanding on both sides.
At the request of the PRA, in 2016 17 Internal Audit has undertaken specific review work in the areas of Common Reporting COREP and the provision of an independent treasury capability in the Bank.
Both of these reviews were co-sourced under the agreement with a third-party accounting firm on a subject matter expertise basis.
Certain other technical or specialist reviews of the first and second line have also been undertaken including an element of co-sourced input where it was deemed by the Internal Audit Director that such skills would complement those of the internal team.
All Internal Audit reports are circulated to the full Board.
Main findings of reports graded high or above are discussed by the Committee.
Overdue actions graded medium or above are challenged at both the Committee and the Risk and Compliance Committee.
The results of this work, together with the Committees engagement with the management information of the Group and the executive directors, have enabled them to conclude that the statements given in Section B3 relating to the Groups systems of internal control and its management of risk are appropriate.
Effectiveness In line with the Chartered Institute of Internal Audit CIIA standards, the Committee has agreed to commission an external quality assessment EQA in January 2018 to benchmark internal audit activities against best practice and peers.
The previous EQA completed in January 2015 was also undertaken by the CIIA and provided assurance to the Committee that the function complied with all relevant areas.
In September 2017, the CIIA revised their Guidance on Effective Internal Audit in the Financial Services Sector originally issued in July 2013.
A summary of the revisions and the internal audit functions compliance with these revised guidelines has been considered by the Committee and further consideration of these will form part of the EQA.
B4.6 Whistleblowing There is an established procedure whereby employees can make disclosures regarding malpractice within the Group on a confidential basis, in accordance with the Public Interest Disclosure Act 1998 PIDA.
The policy also makes provision to ensure that no employee making such a disclosure suffers any detriment by doing so.
This process is supervised by the Committee and any amendments to the policy require the approval of the Chairman of the Committee.
There is a right of appeal to the Chairman where the employee is dissatisfied with the outcome and his decision is final in all cases.
To ensure that the policy is embedded in the operations of the Group all employees received training on the requirements of PIDA and the Groups policy during the year and were tested to ensure their understanding.
During the year ended 30 September 2017 no reports were made through the Groups whistleblowing process which necessitated action being taken.
PAGE 79 Corporate Governance PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts
