CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SSP GROUP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT UK Corporate Governance Code compliance Responsibility for good governance lies with the Board.
The Board is accountable to shareholders and is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance as set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code published in April 2016 the Code.
The Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Council website at www.
This Corporate Governance report, together with the Directors remuneration report set out on pages 37 to 51, describes how the Board has applied the main principles of good governance set out in the Code during the year under review.
The Company also has an Audit Committee which functions as an internal control and risk management system for the Company, as more fully set out on page 31.
Compliance statement It is the Boards view that for the year ended 30 September 2017 the Company has complied with all of the principles set out in the Code applicable to this reporting period.
How we govern the Company Our governance structure comprises the Board and various committees detailed below, supported by the Groups standards, policies and controls, which are described in more detail in this report.
The Board Composition As at both 30 September 2017 and the date of this report, the Board of Directors was made up of seven members, comprising the Chairman, two Executive Directors and four Non-Executive Directors.
John Barton, Ian Dyson, Denis Hennequin and Per Utnegaard are considered by the Board to be independent of management and free of any relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The Board considers that the Non-Executive Directors bring their own senior level of experience, gained in their own fields.
Biographical details of each of the Directors currently in office are shown on pages 26 and 27.
The Companys policy relating to the terms of appointment and the remuneration of both Executive and Non-Executive Directors is detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report which is on pages 37 to 51.
The Board meets regularly during the year, as well as on an ad hoc basis, as required by business need.
The Board met seven times between 1 October 2016 and 30 September 2017 and attendance at these meetings is shown in the table on page 30.
Each Director is also proposing to attend the 2018 Annual General Meeting the 2018 AGM to answer shareholder questions.
The Company also has an Executive Committee, composed of the Executive Directors and senior management, which meets regularly to discuss the business and strategy of the Company.
Responsibilities The Board manages the business of the Company and may, subject to the Articles of Association and applicable legislation, borrow money, guarantee, indemnify, mortgage or charge the business, property and assets present and future and issue debentures and other securities and give security, whether outright or as a collateral security, for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company or of any third party.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision, although its primary role is to direct the strategic development of the Group.
In addition, the Board sets the Groups values and standards and ensures that it acts ethically and that its obligations to its shareholders are understood and met.
The Board may delegate any of its powers to any committee consisting of one or more Directors.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups systems of risk management and internal control and for reviewing the effectiveness of such systems.
The Audit Committee oversees the risk management process and provides oversight of internal controls on the Boards behalf.
Details of the Groups systems of risk management and internal control including financial controls, controls in respect of the financial reporting process and operational and compliance controls can be found in the Audit Committee report on pages 33 to 36.
The Board has established a procedure for Directors, if deemed necessary, to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties.
Every Director also has access to the General Counsel and Company Secretary, who is charged with ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that good corporate governance and compliance are implemented throughout the Group.
Together with the Chief Executive Officer and the General Counsel and Company Secretary, the Chairman ensures that the Board is kept properly informed and is consulted on all issues reserved to it.
Board papers and other information are distributed at times to allow Directors to be properly briefed in advance of meetings.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate and clearly defined in accordance with the division of responsibilities set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
Director effectiveness and training In accordance with best practice, the Chairman addresses the developmental needs of the Board as a whole, with a view to further developing its effectiveness as a team, and ensures that each Director refreshes and updates his or her individual skills, knowledge and expertise.
This is supported by regular legal, compliance and governance updates to the Board by the Group General Counsel.
Meetings between the Non-Executive Directors, both with and without the presence of the Chief Executive Officer, are scheduled in the Boards annual programme.
Board meetings are also held at Group business locations to help all Board members to gain deeper understanding of the business.
This also provides senior managers from across the Group with the opportunity to present to the Board, as well as to meet the Directors on more informal occasions.
28 SSP GROUP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Succession planning is a matter for the whole Board, rather than for a committee.
The Companys Articles of Association provide that at every Annual General Meeting AGM, each Director shall retire and seek re-election.
New Directors may be appointed by the Board, but are subject to election by shareholders at the first AGM after their appointment.
The Articles of Association limit the number of Directors to not less than two, save where shareholders decide otherwise.
Non-Executive Directors are normally appointed for an initial term of three years which is reviewed and may be extended for a further three years.
The Board may then invite Non-Executive Directors to serve for a further additional period.
A formal, comprehensive and tailored induction is given to all Non-Executive Directors following their appointment, including visits to key locations within the Group and meetings with members of the Executive Board and other key senior executives.
The induction also covers a review of the Groups governance policies, structures and business, including details of the risks including environmental, social and governance risks and operating issues facing the Group.
John Barton is the Companys Senior Independent Director.
His role includes providing a sounding board for the Chairman and acting as an intermediary for the Non-Executive Directors, where necessary.
The Board believes that John Barton continues to have the appropriate experience, knowledge and independence to continue in this role.
The Chairman ensures that the Board maintains an appropriate dialogue with shareholders.
A performance evaluation of each of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer was separately carried out by the Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman being present for the Chairmans evaluation and without the Chief Executive Officer being present for the Chief Executive Officers evaluation as part of the September Board meeting.
As a result of the evaluation, overall, the Non-Executive Directors continue to consider that each of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer is effective and more particularly that the Chairman continues to provide effective leadership of the Board and to exert the required levels of governance and control and that the Chief Executive Officer continues to provide effective management of the business.
To this extent, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer both continue to have the full support of the Non-Executive Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors will continue to review the roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in the year ahead.
Board effectiveness A performance evaluation of the Board and of its committees is carried out annually to ensure that they continue to be effective and that each of the Directors demonstrates commitment to his or her respective role and has sufficient time to meet his or her commitment to the Company.
This year, the Board carried out a formal evaluation in July and August 2017.
The evaluation was conducted externally by EquityCommunications, which provides board evaluation services and has no other connection with the Company.
The evaluation was conducted by means of individual interviews with each Director and the Company Secretary.
The scope of the evaluation was broad and included Board effectiveness, Board structure and diversity, decision-making processes, corporate strategy and business model, risk, succession planning, values and culture, and Board Committees.
The findings of EquityCommunications were presented to the Board in September 2017.
The Board considered the results of the assessment and agreed that it confirmed strong leadership and management, which were key to the success of the Boards effectiveness, as well as a sound governance framework and practices compliant with the Code.
Following this review, the Board also agreed to work on putting together an action plan for the year ending 30 September 2018, which would include ensuring continued focus on succession planning and considering the format and delivery of the strategy Board meeting.
In light of this review, the Board confirms that it considers each Director to be effective and that both the Board and its committees continue to provide effective leadership and exert the required levels of governance and control.
The Board will continue to review its procedures, effectiveness and development in the year ahead.
Conflicts of interest As part of their ongoing development, the Chief Executive Officer may seek two, and the Chief Financial Officer may seek one, external non-executive role s on a non-competitor board, for which they may retain remuneration in respect of the appointment.
In order to avoid any conflict of interest, all appointments are subject to the Boards approval and the Board monitors the extent of Directors other interests to ensure that its effectiveness is not compromised.
Each Director has a duty under the Companies Act 2006 to avoid a situation in which he or she has or could have a direct or indirect interest that conflicts or possibly may conflict with the interests of the Company.
This duty is in addition to the obligation that he or she owes to the Company to disclose to the Board his or her interest in any transaction or arrangement under consideration by the Company.
The Companys Articles of Association authorise the Directors to approve such situations and to include other provisions to allow conflicts of interest to be dealt with.
The Board follows an established procedure when deciding whether to authorise an actual or potential conflict of interest.
Only independent Directors i. e. those who have no interest in the matter under consideration will be able to take the relevant decision, and in taking the decision the Directors must act in good faith and in a way they consider will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
Furthermore, the Directors may, if appropriate, impose limits or conditions when granting authorisation.
Any authorities are reviewed at least every 12 months.
The Board considered and authorised each Directors reported actual and potential conflicts of interest at its September 2017 Board meeting.
Committees of the Board The Board has established a number of committees to assist in the discharge of its duties, and the formal Terms of Reference for the principal committees, approved by the Board and complying with the Code, are available from the General Counsel and Company Secretary and also on the Companys website.
The Terms of Reference are reviewed regularly and updated where necessary.
Membership and details of the principal committees are shown on pages 30 to 32.
The General Counsel and Company Secretary acts as Secretary to all Board committees.
29 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SSP GROUP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Meeting attendance The following table shows the attendance of Directors at meetings of the Board, Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees in the year ended 30 September 2017: Name Board Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee John Barton 7 of 7 3 of 3 2 of 2 4 of 4 Jonathan Davies 7 of 7 Ian Dyson 7 of 7 3 of 3 2 of 2 4 of 4 Denis Hennequin 7 of 7 3 of 3 2 of 2 4 of 4 Vagn Srensen 7of 7 2 of 2 Kate Swann 7 of 7 Per Utnegaard 7 of 7 3 of 3 4 of 4 The table shows the number of meetings attended out of the number of meetings that each Director was eligible to attend.
Directors who are not members of individual Board committees have also been invited to attend one or more meetings of those committees during the year.
Nomination Committee The following sections constitute the Directors Nomination Committee report.
Key responsibilities The Nomination Committee reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board and its committees and makes recommendations with regard to any changes considered necessary in the identification and nomination of new Directors, the reappointment of existing Directors and appointment of members to the Boards committees.
It also assesses the roles of the existing Directors in office to ensure that there continues to be a balanced Board in terms of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity.
The Nomination Committee reviews the senior leadership needs of the Group to enable it to compete effectively in the marketplace.
The Nomination Committee also advises the Board on succession planning for Executive Director appointments, although the Board itself is responsible for succession generally.
In addition, following a review of its Terms of Reference during the year see further below, the Nomination Committee advises the Board on significant developments in the law and practice of corporate governance.
The Nomination Committees key objective is to ensure that the Board comprises individuals with the necessary skills, knowledge and experience to ensure that it is effective in discharging its responsibilities.
As noted in the Sustainability report on pages 23 to 25, the Group is committed to equal opportunities and non-discrimination throughout the business, which includes its approach to its Board members.
The Group believes that diversity, including gender and race diversity, but also diversity of experience and backgrounds, is important not only in the business generally, but also with respect to each Board member.
In order to help ensure the Board has the appropriate balance of skills and attributes required for effective decision making and strategy, Board appointments are made purely on merit regardless of a persons gender, age, disability, race or religion.
The Company and therefore the Nomination Committee does not therefore have set targets for the composition of the Board, so that all employees have an equal chance of progressing their careers within the Company and so that the most appropriate people are appointed to the Board.
Membership as at 30 September 2017 John Barton Chairman Ian Dyson Denis Hennequin Vagn Srensen Meetings held in 2017 financial year: two Activities of the Nomination Committee Matters the Nomination Committee considered during the year include: assessing the composition of the Board and its committees: succession planning and executive talent review and management: and carrying out the annual review of its Terms of Reference.
Following the review of its Terms of Reference during the year, the Nomination Committee recommended, and the Board approved, the expansion of the remit of the Nomination Committee to cover corporate governance.
The duties of the Nomination Committee were extended to include advising the Board on significant developments in the law and practice of corporate governance, including the Companys compliance with the Code and making recommendations to the Board regarding any changes to the Companys corporate governance practices.
The updated Terms of Reference are available on the Companys website at http: investors.
The Chairman of the Nomination Committee will attend the 2018 AGM to respond to any shareholder questions that might be raised on the Nomination Committees activities.
30 SSP GROUP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Board appointment process The Company adopts a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors and senior executives with due regard to diversity and gender.
Prior to making an appointment, the Nomination Committee will evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge, independence, experience and diversity on the Board and, in the light of this evaluation, will prepare a description of the role and capabilities required, with a view to appointing the best-placed individual for the role.
In identifying suitable candidates, the Nomination Committee: uses open advertising or the services of external advisors to facilitate the search: considers candidates from different genders and a wide range of backgrounds: and considers candidates on merit and against objective criteria ensuring that appointees have sufficient time to devote to the position, in light of other significant commitments.
In the year ahead, the Nomination Committee will continue to assess the Boards composition and how it may be enhanced and will consider diversity gender and experience and geographic representation and use independent consultants as appropriate to ensure a broad search for suitable candidates.
Remuneration Committee Key responsibilities The Remuneration Committee is responsible for making recommendations on remuneration policy for the Chairman, Executive Directors and senior management.
Membership as at 30 September 2017 John Barton Chairman Ian Dyson Denis Hennequin Per Utnegaard Meetings held in 2017 financial year: four The Directors Remuneration Report is set out on pages 38 to 51 and includes details of the Remuneration Committees activities during the year and the Companys revised policy on remuneration.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee will attend the 2018 AGM to respond to any shareholder questions that might be raised on the Remuneration Committees activities.
Audit Committee Key responsibilities The Audit Committee is responsible for assisting the Board with the discharge of its responsibilities in relation to financial reporting, including reviewing the Groups annual and half-year financial statements and accounting policies, internal and external audits and controls, reviewing and monitoring the scope of the annual audit, the independence of the external auditors and the extent of the non-audit work undertaken by external auditors, advising on the appointment of external auditors and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit, internal controls, whistleblowing and fraud systems in place within the Group.
Membership as at 30 September 2017 Ian Dyson Chairman John Barton Denis Hennequin Per Utnegaard Meetings held in 2017 financial year: three The Audit Committees report is set out on pages 33 to 36 and includes details of the Audit Committees responsibilities and activities during the year.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee will attend the 2018 AGM to respond to any shareholder questions that might be raised on the Audit Committees activities.
Other Committees Executive Committee The Executive Committee is not a Board committee but is the key management committee for the Group and is made up of the Executive Directors and senior management.
The Executive Committee meets regularly and is responsible for developing the Groups strategy and capital expenditure and investment budgets and reporting on those areas to the Board for approval, implementing Group policy, monitoring financial, operational and quality of customer service performance, health and safety, purchasing and supply chain issues, succession planning and day-to-day management of the Group.
31 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SSP GROUP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Risk Committee The Risk Committee is responsible for risk management.
It is not a Board committee and is made up of the Chief Financial Officer, senior management and representatives from Deloitte, the Groups internal auditor.
It meets quarterly and reports to the Audit Committee.
Further details of the Risk Committee are set out in the Strategic report on pages 16 and 17.
Disclosure Committee Following the implementation of the new EU Market Abuse Regulation MAR, the Board established a Disclosure Committee, which is responsible for ensuring compliance with the Companys disclosure obligations under MAR.
The Committee is not a Board committee and is made up of the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the Company Secretary.
It meets on an ad hoc basis and reports to the Board.
Communicating with shareholders The Company places considerable importance on communication with its shareholders, including its private shareholders.
The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer are closely involved in investor relations supported by the Groups investor relations function, which has primary responsibility for day-to-day communication with investors.
The views of the Companys major shareholders are reported to the Board by the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, as well as by the Chairman, and are discussed at its meetings.
The Board recognises the importance of promoting mutual understanding between the Company and its shareholders through a programme of engagement.
This includes the maintenance of a regular dialogue between the Board and senior management and major shareholders.
The AGM provides an opportunity for all shareholders to meet the Board, and shareholders are encouraged to attend and to raise any questions at the meeting or in advance of the 2018 AGM using the email address shown in the Notice of AGM.
The primary method of communication with shareholders is by electronic means, helping to make the Company more environmentally friendly by reducing waste and pollution associated with the printing and posting of its annual report.
The SSP Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 is available to all shareholders and can be accessed via the Companys website at www.
The Groups annual and interim results announcements are also published on the Companys website, together with other announcements and documents issued to the market, such as trading updates and presentations.
Enquiries from shareholders may also be addressed to the Groups investor relations function through the contacts provided on the Groups website.
The Notice of AGM is circulated to shareholders at least 20 working days prior to the AGM, and it is company policy not to combine resolutions to be proposed at general meetings insofar as they relate to separate issues.
All shareholders are invited to the Companys AGM, at which they have the opportunity to put questions to the Board, and it is standard practice to have the Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees available to answer questions.
The results of proxy voting for and against each resolution, as well as abstentions, are announced to the London Stock Exchange and are published on the Companys website shortly after the AGM.
