SSP GROUP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Dear Shareholder On behalf of the Audit Committee the Committee, I am pleased to present its report for the year ended 30 September 2017.
Throughout the year, the Committee continued to play a key oversight role for the Group.
We focused on monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial reporting, internal control and risk management systems: reviewing the effectiveness of key audit and risk programmes: and maintaining processes to oversee business conduct and ethics, including anti-bribery and anti-corruption and whistleblowing arrangements.
As part of our meetings, we continued our focus on the review of the Groups outsourcing projects and the threat of cyber security.
This year, we also discussed the appropriate accounting treatment for the Groups acquisition of our interest in Travel Food Services Private Limited our Indian joint venture and the significant impact of the new lease accounting standard IFRS 16.
Membership The Committee held three meetings during the year and comprises myself and three other independent Non-Executive Directors: John Barton, Denis Hennequin and Per Utnegaard.
Attendance at these meetings is shown on page 30.
As Chairman, I have recent and relevant financial experience through my past roles as a Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of publicly quoted companies.
The expertise and experience of the members of the Committee is summarised on pages 26 and 27.
Helen Byrne Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
At the Committees request, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Financial Officer and senior members of the SSP Group Finance and Business Controls Departments attend meetings of the Committee, together with senior representatives from the internal and external auditors.
From time to time, the Committee reserves time for discussions without invitees being present.
Senior management from the wider business is invited to present such reports as are required for the Committee to discharge its duties.
The Committee holds private sessions with the external and internal auditors without management being present, and I meet privately with both the internal and external auditors.
I provide regular updates to the Board on the key issues discussed at the Committees meetings.
The Committee receives independent assurance from the Groups internal audit function, which is outsourced to Deloitte, and also receives updates from the external auditors across a wide range of issues in support of their respective oversight responsibilities.
The Committee is further supported by the Risk Committee which meets quarterly.
The Committee seeks to balance independent oversight of the matters within its remit with providing support and guidance to management.
I am confident that the Committee, supported by members of senior management and the internal and external auditors, has carried out its duties effectively and to a high standard during the year.
Overview of the year During the year the Committee: reviewed the Groups risk assessment, with particular focus on the risks which were deemed to have increased, either in likelihood or impact, along with the supporting action plans to mitigate the risks.
In 2017, areas of particular focus included the Groups ongoing outsourcing projects including the transition of certain finance processes to a shared service centre model, the Groups management of the risks relating to information security, IT disaster recovery and cyber security, including General Data Protection Regulation GDPR, and the Groups Corporate Tax Strategy: reviewed and evaluated the Groups internal financial control and risk management systems, whistleblowing arrangements and other audit and risk-related arrangements to assist the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities relating to the effectiveness of those systems.
It also reviewed a number of detailed reports on the internal controls including the Control Self-Assessment results and risk management processes within the business units: agreed the scope of both the external and internal annual audit programmes and reviewed the output, and monitored the effectiveness of the internal and external auditors: reviewed and monitored the external auditors independence and objectivity, and approved the policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services: oversaw the relationship with the external auditor and made recommendations to the Board in relation to reappointment, remuneration and terms of engagement: monitored the integrity of the Groups financial statements and continued to challenge the assumptions and judgements made by management in determining the financial results of the Group, including ensuring that the disclosures in the financial statements were appropriate: oversaw the process for determining whether the Annual Report and Accounts presented a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: and evaluated and approved the going concern assumption and longer-term viability statements.
A fuller description of the operation of the Committee during the year is set out in this report.
I will be available at the 2018 Annual General Meeting AGM to answer any shareholder questions about the work of the Committee.
33 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SSP GROUP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Terms of reference The terms of reference of the Committee were reviewed and updated during the year and the latest version can be found at www.
Risk management and internal control The Board has overall responsibility for risk management and the system of internal control, and for reviewing their effectiveness: this is overseen by the Committee on the Boards behalf.
The system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has established a clear organisational structure with defined authority levels.
The day-to-day running of the Groups business is delegated to the Executive Directors of the Group.
The Executive Directors meet with both operational and financial management on a weekly and monthly basis.
Key financial and operational measures are reported on a weekly and monthly basis and are measured against both budget and re-forecasts in these meetings.
The Group maintains Group and regional country level risk registers which outline the key risks faced by the Group including their impacts and likelihood along with relevant mitigating controls and actions.
On an annual basis, regional and country management teams are required to update local risk registers and risk maps to ensure that the key strategic, operational and financial risks in each location are captured and prioritised according to likelihood and impact and to identify the risk management activities for each risk.
The regional and country risk registers are used in conjunction with input from the Executive Committee refer to page 31 for members to update the Group risk register.
The Risk Committee and Executive Committee review the assessment of risk, as well as current and future mitigation activities, at both Group and regional country level.
The Committee reviewed this process and a summary of the risk registers during the year.
Following this process, a summary of the principal risks and uncertainties which are currently judged to have the most significant impact on the Groups long-term performance are set out on pages 18 to 21.
The Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups financial controls and system of internal control by reviewing the results of the Control Self-Assessment confirmations and scope of work and reports of the internal and external auditors during the year.
Internal audit Deloitte acts as internal auditor to the Company, and the partner responsible is a permanent member of the Risk Committee and reports directly to the Audit Committee.
Internal audit plays an important role in assessing the effectiveness of internal controls through a programme of reviews based on a continuing assessment of business risk across the Group.
Internal audit is in regular dialogue with the regional Chief Financial Officers and the Group Chief Financial Officer to discuss the output from the assurance work and gain an update on the business risks across the Group.
Where control deficiencies are noted through the assurance work performed, Deloitte will perform follow-up reviews and visits.
The Committee meets regularly with Deloitte to review and progress the Groups internal audit plan.
The relevant audit plan and procedures are aimed at addressing risk management objectives and providing coverage of the risks identified in the regional and country risk registers.
The internal audit plans have been prepared in accordance with standards promoted by the Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors.
The Committee continues to monitor the effectiveness of internal audit plans in accordance with the Groups ongoing requirements.
The Committee considered the output from the 2017 annual internal audit programme of assurance work, reviewed managements responses to the matters raised and ensured that any action was timely and commensurate with its level of risk, whether real or perceived.
There were no significant weaknesses identified in the year that would materially impact the Group as a whole, but a number of recommendations were acted upon within the Group to strengthen controls or develop action plans to mitigate risk.
The Committee remains satisfied that the Groups system of internal controls works well.
The Committee determines the adequacy of the performance of the internal auditor through the quality and depth of findings and recommendations.
During 2017, the Committee also carried out an assessment of Deloitte using questionnaires completed by senior finance personnel both at Group and in country, along with key members of the business controls, legal and tax departments.
The survey covered areas such as their organisation, purpose and remit, process management, people and knowledge, performance and communication.
The survey indicated overall satisfaction with Deloittes interaction with local teams and their understanding of the business and the issues it faces.
The Committee was satisfied with Deloittes responses to the points raised in the survey.
34 SSP GROUP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Anti-bribery and anti-corruption and whistleblowing SSP has a Group-wide Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy to comply with the Bribery Act 2010 and it periodically reviews its procedures to ensure continued effective compliance in its businesses around the world.
The Groups Whistleblowing Policy provides the framework to encourage and give all employees confidence to blow the whistle and report irregularities.
Employees are encouraged to raise concerns with designated individuals, including the Executive Directors or the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Committee monitors this policy and reviews annually the number of matters reported and the outcome of any investigations.
The Committee will periodically review the Groups policies and procedures for preventing and detecting fraud, its systems, controls and policies for preventing bribery and for preventing the facilitation of tax evasion, its code of corporate conduct and business ethics and its policies for ensuring that the Group complies with relevant regulatory and legal requirements.
The Committee receives updates on bribery and fraud trends and activity in the business, if any, at least twice a year, with individual updates being given to the Committee, as needed, inmore serious cases of alleged bribery, fraud or related activities.
During the year, the Group updated its training on anti-bribery and anti-corruption.
External audit The effectiveness and the independence of KPMG LLP KPMG, the Groups external auditor, is key to ensuring the integrity of the Groups published financial information.
Prior to the commencement of the audit, the Committee reviewed and approved the audit plan to gauge whether it was appropriately focused.
KPMG presented to the Committee its proposed plan of work which was designed to ensure there are no material misstatements in the financial statements.
The Committee considered the accounting, financial control and audit issues reported by the external auditor that flowed from the audit work.
During the 2017 financial year, the Committee carried out an assessment of KPMG.
This was supported by the results of discussions with individual Committee members and questionnaires completed by senior finance personnel both at Group and in country, along with key members of the legal and tax departments.
The survey covered areas such as communication, the audit approach and scope, the calibre of the audit teams, technical expertise and independence.
The survey indicated overall satisfaction with the services provided by KPMG, and the Committee was satisfied with KPMGs responses to the points raised in the survey.
In 2015, the Group tendered its external audit appointment and, as a result, KPMG was reappointed as external auditor.
Under the terms of the new legislation and in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Group is required to put its external audit process out to tender again in 2025.
The Committee confirms it is in compliance with the provisions of the Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Order 2014.
Auditor independence and non-audit services policy The Committee has adopted a formal policy governing the engagement of the external auditor to provide non-audit services, taking into account the relevant ethical guidance on the matter.
This policy is reviewed annually by the Committee.
The policy describes the circumstances in which the auditor may be engaged to undertake non-audit work for the Group.
The Committee oversees compliance with the policy and considers and approves requests to use the auditor for non-audit work.
Recognising that the auditor is best placed to undertake certain work of a non-audit nature, the engagements for non-audit services that are not prohibited are subject to formal review by the Committee based on the level of fees involved, with reference to the 70% cap that applies.
Non-audit services that are pre-approved are either routine in nature with a fee that is not significant in the context of the audit, or are auditrelated services.
Details of fees payable to the external auditor are set out in note 5 on page 76.
In 2017, non-audit fees represented approximately 20% of the audit fee.
KPMG have provided tax compliance services to certain Group companies in 2017 and the non-audit fees in 2017 included 0.1m of tax compliance fees where local regulations require these to be performed by the local auditor.
In response to the new regulations SSP has transitioned all other areas of tax work to other advisors.
The external auditor reported to the Committee on its independence from the Group and confirmed it had complied with the independence requirements as set out by the APB Ethical Standards for Reporting Accountants.
The Committee is satisfied that KPMG has adequate policies and safeguards in place to ensure that auditor objectivity and independence are maintained.
Financial reporting As part of our work to ensure the integrity of the financial reporting, the Committee focused on the following during the year: Goodwill and intangible assets The Group has a significant goodwill balance, representing consideration paid in excess of the fair value of the identified net assets acquired relating to the 2006 acquisition of the SSP business through the purchase of various Compass Group plc subsidiaries by various subsidiaries of SSP Group plc.
The net assets acquired include intangible assets relating to the Groups own brands and franchise rights in respect of third party brands which were determined at the date of acquisition.
Further goodwill and intangible assets balance includes that which was recognised on acquisition of the Indian business during the current financial year refer to the point below.
The Committee recognises that there is a risk that an asset can become impaired, for example, due to market changes.
As a result, the Group monitors carrying values of goodwill and intangible assets to ensure that they are recoverable and any specific indicators of goodwill or intangible asset impairment are discussed by the Executive Directors with both operational and financial management at Group and in country.
35 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SSP GROUP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED The carrying value of goodwill is subject to impairment testing, at least on an annual basis.
The carrying values of goodwill and intangible assets are reviewed for the identification of a possible indicator of impairment, to ensure that the carrying values are recoverable.
This testing, including the key assumptions and sensitivity analysis, is reviewed by the Chief Financial Officer and the Group Financial Controller.
After reviewing reports from management and consulting, where necessary, with the external auditor, the Committee is satisfied that the financial statements appropriately address the critical judgements and key estimates, both in respect to the amounts reported and the disclosures provided.
The Committee agrees with management that no impairment needs to be recognised.
Acquisition of subsidiary In October 2016, the Group announced the agreement to create a joint venture, whereby SSP would ultimately own a 49% interest in Travel Food Services Private Limited TFS.
As at 30 September 2017, SSP owned a 33% share of the business.
The Groups full year consolidated results include ten months of TFS results.
In addition, the balance sheet as at 30 September 2017 includes SSPs share of the net assets acquired and goodwill and intangible assets recognised on acquisition.
The Committee recognises that there were multiple accounting judgements to consider including: treatment of the acquisition as a subsidiary: identification and valuation of intangible assets: and recognition and measurement of the financial liability to acquire a further 16% share in 2018.
The goodwill recognised on acquisition was also subject to impairment review, and this was included in the Group annual impairment review as part of the Asia Pacific cash-generating unit.
After reviewing reports from management, the Committee agreed that the Group has control over the relevant activities of TFS including establishing budgets and operating plans, appointing key management personnel and ongoing review of performance and reporting procedures and therefore agreed with the treatment of the acquisition as a subsidiary.
The Committee also reviewed managements and the external auditors conclusions on the accounting treatment of the goodwill, intangible assets and financial liability in respect of the TFS acquisition and agreed with the treatment.
Taxation The Group operates in, and is subject to income taxes in, a number of jurisdictions.
Management is required to make judgements and estimates in determining the provisions for income taxes and the amount of deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised in the consolidated financial statements.
The Committee recognises that management judgement is required in determining the amount and timing of recognition of tax benefits and an assessment of the requirement for provisions against the recognition of such benefits.
The Committee reviewed the Groups tax strategy and received reports and presentations from the Head of Tax highlighting the principal tax risks that the Group faces, the tax strategy and the judgements underpinning the provisions for potential tax liabilities.
The Committee also reviewed the results of the external auditors assessment of provisions for income taxes and deferred tax assets and liabilities and, having done so, was satisfied with the key judgements made by management.
Viability statement The Committee agreed the parameters and the supporting analysis for the viability statement as presented on page 22 of the Strategic report.
Fair, balanced and understandable financial statements An intrinsic requirement of a Groups financial statements is for the Annual Report and Accounts to be fair, balanced and understandable.
The co-ordination and review of the Group-wide input into the annual report is a sizeable exercise performed within an exacting timeframe, which runs alongside the formal audit process undertaken by the external auditor.
The process to ensure that the Committee, and then the Board, are satisfied with the overall fairness, balance and clarity of the document has been underpinned by: guidance issued to contributors at an operational level: a verification process dealing with the factual content of the reports: and comprehensive review by the Directors and the senior management team.
Priorities for 2018 In 2018, the Committee will continue to focus on key areas of judgement, risk management, audit and internal controls to ensure the management of risks to strategic objectives and the integrity of financial reporting.
As in 2017, areas of focus will include review of: theGroups risk assessment: the effectiveness and output of the work of the internal and external auditor: and the financial statements, disclosure and associated judgements.
Ian Dyson Chairman, Audit Committee 21 November 2017 36
