Report of the Audit and Risk Committee The Board is supported by the Audit and Risk Committee.
The Committee was established on 1st June 2017 in place of the Audit Committee to reflect the increased responsibility of the Board for risk management following the termination of the agreement with Epiris.
I am Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee and with effect from 2nd December 2016, the members of the Committee have been Paul Goodson and Linda Wilding.
The Board has taken note of the requirement that at least one member of the Audit and Risk Committee should have recent and relevant financial experience and is satisfied that the Audit and Risk Committee is properly constituted in this respect, as I am a former partner at Ernst & Young LLP and a Chartered Accountant.
The Audit and Risk Committees authority and duties are clearly defined in its written terms of reference which are available on the Companys website.
The Audit and Risk Committees responsibilities include: Monitoring and reviewing the integrity of the Financial Statements, the internal financial controls and the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the external auditors Making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of external auditors and approving their remuneration and the terms of their engagement Developing and implementing the Companys policy on the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors Reviewing the arrangements in place whereby staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters insofar as they may affect the Company Considering annually whether there is a need for the Company to have its own internal audit function Providing advice to the Board on whether the annual Financial Statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy Advising the Board on the Companys overall risk appetite, tolerance and strategy, and Overseeing and advising the Board on the current risk exposures of the Company and future risk strategy, including reviewing the Companys key risks and internal controls I report to the Board after each Audit and Risk Committee meeting on the main matters discussed at the meeting.
The Audit and Risk Committee met 3 times during the year under review.
The main matters discussed at those meetings were: Review and approval of the annual plan of the external auditors Discussion and approval of the fee for the external audit Detailed review of the Annual Report and Financial Statements and Half Year Report and recommendation for approval by the Board Discussion of reports from the external auditors following their audit Assessment of the effectiveness of the external audit process as described below Review of the Companys key risks and internal controls Consideration of the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code, 2016 AIC Code of Corporate Governance, 2014 Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting, 2016 Guidance on Audit Committees and 2012 UK Stewardship Code and impact of these on the Company The most significant risk in the Companys Financial Statements is whether its investments are fairly and consistently valued including the recognition of unrealised gains and interest income and this issue is considered carefully when the Audit and Risk Committee reviews the Companys Annual and Half Year Accounts.
The Valuations Committee considers detailed explanations of the rationale for the valuation of each investment and these are discussed in detail with the auditors at a meeting which is normally attended by all members of the Audit and Risk Committee.
The key areas of focus in the review and challenge by the Valuations Committee are the overall methodology and underlying business performance EBITDA of investee companies, multiples and discounts used where valuations derive from an earnings basis.
The Auditors separately report on their procedures and the conclusions from their work.
This is more fully described in their report on pages 66 to 73.
The Audit and Risk Committee concluded that the year-end valuation process had been properly carried out and that the investments have been fairly valued.
The Audit and Risk Committee was also keen to ensure that amounts due to Epiris in respect of priority profit share and incentive scheme provisions payable in respect of the period to 31st May 2017 had been correctly provided for in the Financial Statements 104 Electra Private Equity PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 due to the sensitive nature of these amounts.
The Audit and Risk Committee ensured that the auditors had checked that the amounts had been calculated on a basis which was consistent with the management agreement and properly attributable to the underlying valuations.
The auditors confirmed to the Audit and Risk Committee that they had not identified any issues related to their work in this area and the Audit and Risk Committee concluded that the figures are fairly stated.
As reported in last years report, the Company put the audit contract out to tender during the year and, on the recommendation of the Audit Committee, the Board agreed to appoint Deloitte LLP as auditors of the Company with effect from the audit of the Companys Financial Statements for the year ended 30th September 2017, subject to approval by the members, which was granted at the AGM held on 23rd March 2017.
The Audit and Risk Committee would like to thank  LLP for its work on the audit of the Company over many years.
The Audit and Risk Committee annually reviews the performance of the Companys external auditors.
In doing so the Audit and Risk Committee considers a range of factors, including the quality of service, the auditors specialist expertise and the level of audit fee.
The Audit and Risk Committee will carry out a formal review of Deloittes audit this year once all the work has been completed but has been satisfied with their effectiveness so far and therefore does not consider it necessary to carry out a further tender for the audit at this time.
The auditors are required to rotate the audit partner every 5 years: the current partner has been in place for 1 year.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the choice of external auditor.
Under Company law, the reappointment of the external auditors is subject to shareholder approval at the AGM.
EU Audit Regulation reforms in relation to non-audit services has become effective and applies to the Company under these regulations as a Public Interest Entity for the preparation of the Companys 2017 Report and Financial Statements.
In light of this, the Committee has approved a revised policy on non-audit services, which requires that non-audit fees must not exceed 70% of the average of the fees paid in the last three consecutive years for the statutory audit.
The Audit and Risk Committee confirms that the Company expects to comply with these requirements in future in respect of Deloitte LLP.
The Audit and Risk Committee has reviewed the provision of non-audit services provided during the course of the current year and believes them to be cost-effective and not an impediment to the external auditors objectivity and independence.
It has been agreed that I must approve all non-audit work to be carried out by the external auditors for the Company and that any special projects must be approved in advance.
The non-audit services provided by Deloitte during the course of the year under review included transaction-related services associated with the strategic review of the Company see Note 4.
The Board has delegated oversight of risk management and monitoring of the Companys control systems to the Audit and Risk Committee, The Audit and Risk Committee is supported in this by the work of the executive management team.
G10 is responsible for the provision of risk management services as required by the AIFMD.
G10 has oversight of risk management and the ongoing process of identifying, evaluating, monitoring and managing the risks facing the Company in accordance with AIFMD.
Prior to 1st June 2017 the responsibility for risk management was delegated to Epiris, the former AIFM of the Company, under the supervision of the Board.
Executive management commissioned an independent review of the operating effectiveness of the internal controls related to the financial reporting process during the year and reported the findings of this review to the Audit and Risk Committee.
The Audit and Risk Committee has considered whether there is a need for the Company to have its own internal audit function, but continues to believe that the Companys internal control systems in place give sufficient assurance, given the size of the Company, that a sound system of internal control, which safeguards shareholders investment and the Companys assets is maintained.
This view is supported by the review of the effectiveness of internal controls referred to above.
The Audit and Risk Committee considers, therefore, that an internal audit function specific to the Company is unnecessary.
Roger Perkin Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee 6th December 2017 Electra Private Equity PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 105 Further Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Strategic and Business Review
