246557 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp29-pp47 GOV 15 12 2017 13:23 Page 29 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 29 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2017 Governance Corporate Governance The Corporate Governance statement, on pages 29 to 38, The Company has complied with the recommendations of the forms part of the Report of the Directors on pages 71 to 75.
AIC Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, except as follows: The Board has considered the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance The UK Corporate Governance Code includes certain AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance provisions relating to: Guide for Investment Companies AIC Guide.
the role of the chief executive The Financial Reporting Counsel has confirmed that byexecutive directors remuneration following the AIC Code and the AIC Guide, boards ofthe need for an internal audit function investment companies will meet their obligations in relation to For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, the Board considers the UK Corporate Governance Code and paragraph 9.8.
6 of these provisions are not relevant to the position of the the UK Listing Rules.
Company, being an externally managed investment company.
The AIC Code can be viewed on the AICs website In particular, all of the Companys day-to-day management and www.
co. uk and the UK Corporate Code can be viewed administrative functions are outsourced to third parties.
As a on the Financial Reporting Council website www.
result, the Company has no executive directors, employees or internal operations.
Therefore with the exception of the need for an internal audit function which is addressed on page 39, the Company has not reported further in respect of these provisions.
The Principles of the AIC Code The AIC Code is made up of 21 principles split into three sections covering: - The Board - Board Meetings and relations with the AIFM and the Portfolio Manager - Shareholder Communications AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement The Board 1.
The Chairman should be The Board believes that the Chairman, Anthony Townsend is independent in character and judgement and is free from relationships that may create a conflict of interest between his independent.
own and the shareholders interests.
The Directors are conscious of the benefits of continuity on the Board and believe that retaining a chairman with sufficient experience of both the Company and the markets is of great benefit to shareholders.
There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman, the Directors, the AIFM, the Portfolio Manager and the Companys other third party service providers.
The Chairman also continues to be independent of the Portfolio Manager.
The Chairman has a seat on the Board of the Companys AIFM by virtue of the Companys minority partnership interest in Frostrow.
It is a non-executive position and therefore the Board does not believe that this compromises his independence from the Company.
A majority of the Board The Board consists of non-executive Directors, each of whom is independent of the AIFM and of the Portfolio Manager.
None of the Board members has been an employee of the AIFM or should be independent of Portfolio Manager nor does any Director have relationships or conflicts which are likely to affect the AIFM and the Portfolio their independent judgement.
FURTHER INFORMATION REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 3.
Directors should be submitted for re-election at regular intervals.
Nomination for re-election should not be assumed but be based on disclosed procedures and continued satisfactory performance.
246557 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp29-pp47 GOV 15 12 2017 13:23 Page 30 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 30 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2017 Governance Corporate Governance AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement All Directors who are not retiring from the Board submit themselves for annual re-election by shareholders.
The individual performance of each Director standing for re-election is evaluated annually by the remaining members of the Board and, if considered appropriate, a recommendation is made that shareholders vote in favour of their re-election at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
John Allard and Vanessa Renwick will be retiring from the Board and will, therefore not be seeking re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Kate Cornish-Bowden and Lorna Tilbian joined the Board on 26 October 2017.
Accordingly their appointments will be proposed to shareholders for ratification at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Board should have a The Board subscribes to the view expressed within the AIC Code that long-serving directors should not be prevented from forming part of an independent majority.
It does not consider policy on tenure, which is that a directors tenure necessarily reduces his or her ability to act independently and, disclosed in the annual following formal performance evaluations, believes that each of those directors is report.
independent in character and judgement and that there are no relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect their judgement.
The Boards policy on tenure is that continuity and experience are considered to add significantly to the strength of the Board and, as such, no limit on the overall length of service of any of the Companys Directors, including the Chairman, has been imposed.
In view of its non-executive nature, the Board considers that it is not appropriate for the Directors to be appointed for a specified term, although new Directors are appointed with the expectation that they will serve for a minimum period of three years, subject to shareholder approval.
The terms and conditions of the Directors appointments are set out in letters of engagement which are available for inspection on request at the office of Frostrow, the Companys AIFM, and from the Company Secretary at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
246557 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp29-pp47 GOV 15 12 2017 13:23 Page 31 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 31 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2017 Governance Corporate Governance AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 5.
There should be full The Directors biographical details, set out on pages 26 and 27, demonstrate the wide range of skills and experience that they bring to the Board.
disclosure of information Details of the length of service of each Director are set out on page 43. about the Board.
Details of the Boards committees and their composition are set out on page 28.
The Board has a Senior Independent Director David Hunt, who may be contacted by Shareholders and other directors as required.
The Senior Independent Director will: 1.
Be available to the Companys shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channel of the Chairman has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Attend meetings with major shareholders and financial analysts to obtain a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of such shareholders.
Act as a sounding board for the Chairman, providing support for him in the delivery of the Companys objectives.
In certain circumstances, work with the Chairman and other directors and shareholders as necessary to resolve any significant issues.
c. Chair discussions if succession to the role of Chairman is considered.
d. Conduct the appraisal of the Chairmans performance at least once a year and on such other occasions as are deemed appropriate.
The Audit Committee is comprised of at least one member with recent relevant financial experience and as a whole has competence relevant to the sector to carry out its duties.
Owing to non-executive nature of the Board, the Chairman continues to be a member of the Audit Committee.
Separate remuneration and nomination committees have not been established.
Instead, these functions are carried out by the Board as a whole.
Further details concerning Board composition can be found within the Chairmans Statement set out on pages 4 and 5.
FURTHER INFORMATION REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 246557 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp29-pp47 GOV 15 12 2017 13:23 Page 32 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 32 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2017 Governance Corporate Governance AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 6.
The Board should aim to The Board considers annually the mix of skills possessed by the Directors, as well as the balance and composition of the Board.
The Directors biographies on pages 26 and 27 demonstrate the have a balance of skills, breadth of investment, commercial and professional experience relevant to their positions as experience, length of directors of the Company.
It is the Directors measured opinion that the Board displays the service and knowledge of necessary balance of skills, experience, length of service and knowledge of the Company.
When considering new appointments, the Board seeks to add persons with complementary skills or who possess the skills and experience which fill any gaps in the Boards knowledge or experience and who can, alongside existing Directors, devote sufficient time to the Company to carry out their duties effectively.
During the year the Board adopted a Board and Audit Committee Composition and Succession Plan the Plan.
These guidelines have been produced to accord with the EU Audit Directive 2014 56 EU, which came into effect in June 2016 and, where deemed applicable, to follow the Guidance on Audit Committees published by the Financial Reporting Council in 2016 and the FCAs DTR 7.1.
The purpose of the Plan is to ensure that the Board is comprised of members who collectively: i display the necessary balance of professional skills, experience, length of service and industry Company knowledge: and ii are fit and proper to direct the Companys business with prudence and integrity: and provide policy guidance on the structure, size and composition of the Board and its Committee and the identification and selection of suitable candidates for appointment to the Board and its Committee.
This Plan will be reviewed by the Board annually and at such other times as circumstances may require.
All Directors act in what they consider to be in the best interests of the Company, consistent with their statutory duties set out in the Companies Act 2006.
During the year the performance of the Board, its committees and individual Directors 7.
The Board should including each Directors independence was evaluated through a formal assessment undertake a formal and process led by the Chairman.
This involved the circulation of a Board effectiveness checklist, rigorous annual evaluation tailored to suit the nature of the Company, followed by discussions between the Chairman of its own performance and and each of the Directors.
The performance of the Chairman was evaluated by the other Directors under the leadership of the Senior Independent Director.
The review concluded that of its committees and that the Board was working well and that the structure, mix of skills and operation of the individual directors.
Board continue to be effective and relevant for the Company.
An independent evaluation of the Board will be carried out every three years in accordance with the AICs recommendations for FTSE 350 companies.
The Board will undertake an independent evaluation in October 2018.
Directors remuneration The Board annually reviews the fees paid to the Directors and compares these with the fees paid by the Companys peer group and the investment trust industry generally, taking into should reflect their duties, account the level of time commitment and the responsibilities of each Board member.
Details responsibilities and the value of the remuneration arrangements for the Directors can be found in the Directors of their time spent.
Remuneration Policy Report and Directors Remuneration Report on pages 43 to 46.
246557 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp29-pp47 GOV 15 12 2017 13:23 Page 33 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 33 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2017 Governance Corporate Governance AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 9.
The independent All of the Directors are independent and, subject to there being no conflicts of interest, all Board members are entitled to vote on the appointment of new directors.
The Board directors should take the annually reviews its size and structure, and is responsible for succession planning.
lead in the appointment of In accordance with the Board and Audit Committee Composites and Succession Plan, which new directors and the is reviewed annually, the Board seeks to search for candidates and make appointments process should be disclosed based on merit, against objective criteria and with due regard for the benefits of diversity on in the annual report.
Details of the Boards commitment to diversity are set out on page 18.
As part of the process to appoint Kate Cornish-Bowden and Lorna Tilbian the Board engaged the services of a specialist recruitment consultant, Trust Associates.
Trust Associates prepared a list of potential candidates for consideration by the Board.
A short list was then arrived at, the candidates were interviewed and Kate Cornish-Bowden and Lorna Tilbian were subsequently appointed.
Trust Associates has no other connection with the Company.
Directors should be New appointees to the Board are provided with a full induction programme.
The programme covers the Companys investment strategy, policies and practices.
The Directors offered relevant training and are also given key information on the Companys regulatory and statutory requirements as induction.
they arise including information on the role of the Board, matters reserved for its decision, the terms of reference for the Board Committees, the Companys corporate governance practices and procedures and the latest financial information.
It is the Chairmans responsibility to ensure that the Directors have sufficient knowledge to fulfil their role and Directors are encouraged to participate in training courses where appropriate.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The Company Secretary updates the Board on statutory, regulatory and industry matters and internal controls, and changes affecting Directors responsibilities are advised to the Board as they arise.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice if necessary at the Companys expense.
The Chairman and the Principle 11 applies to the launch of new investment companies and is therefore not applicable to the Company.
Board should be brought into the process of structuring a new launch at an early stage.
Board Meetings and Relations with Frostrow and Lindsell Train 12.
Boards and managers The Board meets regularly throughout the year and representatives of the AIFM and the Portfolio Manager are in attendance at each meeting.
The Chairman encourages open should operate in a debate to foster a supportive and co-operative approach for all participants.
supportive, co-operative and open environment.
FURTHER INFORMATION REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 246557 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp29-pp47 GOV 15 12 2017 13:23 Page 34 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 34 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2017 Governance Corporate Governance AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 13.
The primary focus at The Board has agreed a schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the Board.
This includes establishing the investment objectives, strategy and benchmarks, the regular Board meetings permitted types or categories of investments, the markets in which transactions may be should be a review of undertaken, the amount or proportion of the assets that may be invested in any category of investment performance investment or in any one investment, and the Companys share issuance, share buy-back and and associated matters, such treasury policies and level of gearing and asset allocation.
as gearing, asset allocation, The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the Board receives accurate, timely and clear marketing investor relations, information.
peer group information and The Board, at its regular meetings, undertakes reviews of key investment and financial data, industry issues.
revenue projections and expenses, analyses of asset allocation, transactions and performance comparisons, share price and net asset value performance, marketing and shareholder communication strategies, the risks associated with pursuing the investment strategy, peer group information and industry issues.
Boards should give The Board is responsible for strategy and has established an annual programme of agenda items under which it regularly reviews the Companys investment objectives and strategy.
sufficient attention to overall strategy.
The Board should The Management Engagement Committee has reviewed annually the performance of the AIFM and the Portfolio Manager.
The Committee has considered the quality, cost and regularly review both the remuneration method of the service provided by the AIFM and the Portfolio Manager performance of, and the against their contractual obligations.
The Management Engagement Committee was also contractual arrangements responsible for the regular review of the terms of the AIFM Agreement and the Portfolio with, the Portfolio Manager Management Agreement.
The Committee last met in September 2017. or executives of a selfGiven that the Board consists solely of non-executive Directors, each of whom is independent managed company.
of the AIFM and of the Portfolio Manager, it was agreed on 27 September 2017 that the Management Engagement Committee be dissolved and its duties transferred to the Board.
246557 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp29-pp47 GOV 15 12 2017 13:23 Page 35 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 35 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2017 Governance Corporate Governance AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 16.
The Board should The Portfolio Management Agreement sets out the limits of the Portfolio Managers authority, beyond which Board approval is required.
The Board has also agreed detailed agree policies with the AIFM investment guidelines with the AIFM and the Portfolio Manager, which are considered at and the Portfolio Manager each Board meeting.
covering key operational A representative of the AIFM and the Portfolio Manager attends each meeting of the Board issues.
to address questions on specific matters and to seek approval for specific transactions which the Portfolio Manager is required to refer to the Board.
Frostrow in their capacity as the Companys AIFM have delegated the management of the portfolio and subsequent proxy voting to the Portfolio Manager.
The Board has reviewed the Portfolio Managers statement of commitment to the UK Stewardship Code and voting policy and the Portfolio Manager reports on their application.
The Portfolio Managers statement of commitment to the UK Stewardship Code and voting policy can be found on the Portfolio Managers website in the corporate information section.
Boards should monitor The Board considers the discount or premium of the Companys share price to net asset value per share at each Board meeting and reviews any changes since the previous Board the level of the share price meeting and over the previous twelve months.
discount or premium if any The Board has implemented a discount premium control mechanism, the details of which can and, if desirable, take action be found on page 6. to reduce it.
At each meeting the Board reviews reports from the AIFM on marketing and shareholder communication strategies.
It considers their effectiveness as well as measures of investor sentiment and any recommendations on share issuance and buyback.
The Board does not consider that any conflicts arose from the AIFM and Portfolio Manager promoting the Company alongside their other clients.
The Board should The Management Engagement Committee has reviewed annually the performance of all the Companys third party service providers, including the level and structure of fees payable monitor and evaluate other and the length of the notice period, to ensure that they remained competitive and in the service providers.
With effect from 27 September 2017 the duties of the Management Engagement Committee are undertaken by the Board.
The Audit Committee also reviews reports from the principal service providers on compliance and the internal and financial control systems in operation and relevant independent audit reports thereon, as well as reviewing service providers anti-bribery and corruption policies to address the provisions of the Bribery Act 2010, tax evasion, whistle blowing and detection of fraud policies and cyber security information polices.
The Board is satisfied that the Companys Auditor does not carry out any work for the AIFM and therefore no potential conflict will arise.
FURTHER INFORMATION REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 246557 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp29-pp47 GOV 15 12 2017 13:23 Page 36 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 36 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2017 Governance Corporate Governance AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement Shareholder Communications 19.
The Board should A detailed analysis of the shareholder register is provided at each Board meeting.
Representatives of the AIFM and Portfolio Manager regularly meet institutional regularly monitor the shareholders and private client asset managers to discuss strategy and to understand their shareholder profile of the issues and concerns and, if applicable, to discuss corporate governance issues.
The results of company and put in place a such meetings are reported at the following Board meeting.
system for canvassing Regular reports from the Companys broker are submitted to the Board on investor shareholder views and for sentiment and industry issues.
communicating the Boards Shareholders wishing to communicate with the Chairman, or any other member of the Board, may do so by writing to the Company, for the attention of the Company Secretary.
shareholders are encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting.
The Portfolio Manager will make a presentation to shareholders covering the investment performance and strategy of the Company at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Directors welcome the views of all shareholders and place considerable importance on communications with them.
The Chairman will ensure that all members of the Board are made aware of any issues or concerns raised by shareholders and that appropriate steps are taken so that the Board has an adequate understanding of these views, through communications with the Companys AIFM email address: info@frostrow.
The Board should The Board is directly involved in and responsible for communications on all major corporate issues and takes into account representations from the AIFM and Portfolio Manager, the normally take responsibility Auditors, legal advisers and the Companys stockbroker.
for, and have a direct involvement in, the content of communications regarding major corporate issues even if the manager is asked to act as spokesman.
The Board should The Company places great importance on communication with shareholders and aims to provide them with a full understanding of the Companys investment objective, policy and ensure that shareholders activities, its performance and the principal investment risks by means of informative annual are provided with sufficient and half-year reports.
This is supplemented by the daily publication, through the London information for them to Stock Exchange, of the net asset value of the Companys shares and the monthly factsheet.
understand the risk reward The Annual Report provides information on the investment performance, portfolio risk and balance to which they are operational and compliance issues.
Further details on the risk reward balance are set out in note 17 to the Financial Statements starting on page 59.
Details of the principal risks identified by exposed by holding the the Board and the actions taken to mitigate them can be found within the Strategic Report on shares.
The Directors statement on the long term viability of the Company is set out on pages 20 and 21.
The investment portfolio is listed on page 9.
com, is updated with monthly factsheets and provides useful information about the Company including the Companys financial reports, latest prospectus and announcements.
246557 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp29-pp47 GOV 15 12 2017 13:23 Page 37 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 37 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2017 Governance Corporate Governance The Chairman is pleased to report that following a formal Election and Re-Election of the Directors performance evaluation, the Directors performance continues As the Company is a FTSE 250 company the Board has to be effective and they continue to demonstrate commitment implemented the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance to the role.
Code whereby all Directors of the Company stand for reelection on an annual basis.
Conflicts of Interest Policy The Board has considered the position of all of the Directors as Directors have a duty to avoid situations in which he or she part of the evaluation process, and believes that it would be in has, or may have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or the Companys best interests to propose them for re-election possibly may conflict, with the Companys interests.
In line with at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting for the following the Companies Act 2006, the Board has the power to sanction reasons: any potential conflicts of interest that may arise and impose such limits or conditions as it thinks fit.
Mr Townsend, who has been Chairman of the Company since A register of interests and external appointments is maintained January 2008, brings a wealth of experience to the Board by the Company Secretary and is reviewed at each Board through his long City career.
He has been in the investment meeting.
It was resolved at each Board meeting during the trust industry for over 25 years and was Chairman of the year that there were no direct or indirect interests of a Director Association of Investment Companies from 2001-2003. which conflicted with the interests of the Company.
Mr Collins is a financial journalist.
He was City Editor of the Daily Telegraph for 19 years and currently writes a weekly Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy column for the Financial Times.
He has followed most of the A copy of the Companys anti-bribery and corruption policy companies in the Companys portfolio for many years and is a can be found on its website at www.
The policy passionate advocate of shareholders interests.
is reviewed annually by the Audit Committee.
Mr Hayes is the Chairman of Peel Hunt LLP and has extensive Prevention of the Facilitation of Tax Evasion industry and financial expertise with a strong interest in the A copy of the Companys prevention of facilitation of tax investment trust sector.
evasion policy can be found on its website at Mr Hunt is Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the www.
The policy is reviewed annually by the Audit Committee.
He is a Chartered Accountant with over Audit Committee.
30 years experience at partner level of advising quoted companies with Binder Hamlyn, Arthur Andersen and Smith & Relationship with Shareholders Williamson: his contribution to the Companys Audit The Board, the AIFM and the Portfolio Manager consider Committee is particularly respected by his colleagues.
maintaining good communications with shareholders and engaging with larger shareholders through meetings and The Board believes that it would be in the Companys best presentations a key priority.
Shareholders are informed by the interests to propose Ms Kate Cornish-Bowden and publication of annual and half year reports which include Ms Lorna Tilbian for election at the forthcoming Annual financial statements.
These reports are supplemented by the General Meeting for the following reasons: daily release of the net asset value per share to the London Stock Exchange and the publication of monthly fact sheets.
All Ms Cornish-Bowdens executive career was in the investment this information including interviews with the Portfolio management sector, initially at M&G as a research analyst Manager is available on the Companys website at followed by a senior role at Morgan Stanley where she was www.
managing director and Head of the Global Equity team.
She left Morgan Stanley in 2004 and set up her own consultancy The Board is also keen that the Annual General Meeting business in 2005.
She has combined this with a number of AGM be a participative event for all shareholders.
The non-executive roles principally in the biotech sector but also Portfolio Manager makes a presentation and shareholders are with Investec Structured Products and Calculus VCT where she encouraged to attend.
The Chairman and all other directors is Chair of the Audit Committee.
attend the AGM and are available to respond to any queries or concerns of shareholders.
At least 20 working days notice of Ms Tilbian has had a very successful career in broking, most the AGM is given to shareholders and separate resolutions are recently as the number one ranked media analyst.
Until recently proposed in relation to each substantive issue.
Shareholders she was a main board executive director of Numis.
She is a may submit questions for the AGM in advance of the meeting non-executive director of Jupiter UK Growth Investment Trust, or make general enquiries of the Company via the Company Euromoney Institutional Investor plc and ProVen VCT.
FURTHER INFORMATION REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 246557 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp29-pp47 GOV 15 12 2017 13:23 Page 38 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 38 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2017 Governance Corporate Governance Secretary.
The Directors make themselves available after the Resolution 12 Authority to sell shares held in Treasury on a non AGM to meet shareholders.
pre-emptive basis Where the vote is decided on a show of hands, the proxy votes Resolution 13 Authority to buy back shares received are relayed to the meeting and subsequently Resolution 14 Authority to hold General Meetings other than published on the Companys website.
Proxy forms have a vote the Annual General Meeting on at least 14 clear withheld option.
The notice of the forthcoming Annual days notice.
General Meeting sets out the business of the Annual General Meeting together with the full text of any special resolutions The full text of the resolutions can be found in the Notice of and begins on page 83.
Annual General Meeting on pages 83 to 86.
Explanatory notes The Company has made arrangements for investors through regarding the resolutions can be found on pages 90 and 91. the Alliance Trust Savings Scheme to receive all Company communications and have the ability to direct the casting of Exercise of Voting Powers their votes.
The Company has also made arrangements with its The Board has delegated authority to the Portfolio Manager to registrar for shareholders who own their shares directly rather vote the shares owned by the Company which are held on its than through a nominee or share scheme, to view their behalf by its Depositary, BNY Mellon Trust & Depositary UK account via the internet at www.
Share Limited which in turn delegates custody to the Global Dealing services are also available via this website.
Custodian, The Bank of New York Mellon SA NV London Branch, to safe keep the assets.
The Board has instructed that The Board monitors the share register of the Company: it also the Portfolio Manager submit votes for such shares wherever reviews any correspondence from shareholders at each possible and practicable.
The Portfolio Manager may refer to meeting.
Shareholders who wish to raise matters with a the Board on any matters of a contentious nature.
Director may do so by writing to him her at the registered office of the Company.
Nominee Share Code The Board receives marketing and public relations reports Where shares are held in a nominee company name and where from the AIFM to which the marketing function has been the beneficial owner of the shares is unable to vote in person, delegated.
The Board reviews and considers the marketing the Company nevertheless undertakes: plans of the AIFM at each meeting.
to provide the nominee company with multiple copies of shareholder communications, so long as an Annual General Meeting indication of quantities has been provided in advance: THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION TO BE DISCUSSED AT THE FORTHCOMING ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING IS to allow investors holding shares through a nominee IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE company to attend General Meetings, provided the ATTENTION.
correct authority from the nominee company is available: and If you are in any doubt about the action you should take, you should seek advice from your stockbroker, bankthat investors in the Alliance Trust Savings Scheme are manager, solicitor, accountant or other financial adviser automatically sent shareholder communications, authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act including details of General Meetings, together with a form of direction to facilitate voting and to seek 2000 as amended.
If you have sold or transferred all of authority to attend.
your ordinary shares in the Company, you should pass this document, together with any other accompanying Nominee companies are encouraged to provide the necessary documents, including the form of proxy, at once to the authority to underlying shareholders to attend the Companys purchaser or transferee, or to the stockbroker, bank or General Meetings.
other agent through whom the sale or transfer was By order of the Board effected, for onward transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
Frostrow Capital LLP Resolutions relating to the following items of special business Company Secretary will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
14 December 2017 Resolution 10 Authority to allot shares Resolution 11 Authority to disapply pre-emption rights
