246557 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp29-pp47 GOV 15 12 2017 13:23 Page 39 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 39 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2017 Governance Audit Committee Report I am pleased to present the Audit Committees Report for the year ended 30 September 2017.
Role and Composition The role of the Committee is to ensure that shareholder interests are properly protected in relation to the application of financial reporting and internal control principles and to assess the effectiveness of the audit.
The Committees role and responsibilities are set out in full in its terms of reference which are available on request from the Company Secretary, Frostrow, and can be seen on the Companys website www.
A summary of the Committees main responsibilities and how it has fulfilled them is set out below.
The Committee, which comprises all of the Directors, met three times during the year.
All of the Committee members have recent and relevant financial experience, either through their senior management roles or other directorships, and their attendance is shown in the table on page 28.
Responsibilities As Chairman of the Audit Committee I can confirm that the Committees main responsibilities during the year were: 1.
To review the Companys half year and annual financial statements together with announcements and other filings relating to the financial performance of the Company and issuance of the Companys shares.
In particular, the Committee considered whether the financial statements were fair, balanced and understandable, allowing shareholders to assess the Companys strategy, investment policy, business model, position and financial performance.
To review the risk management and internal control processes of the Company and its key service providers.
As part of this review the Committee again reviewed the appropriateness of the Companys anti-bribery and corruption policy.
During the year the Committee reviewed the internal controls in place at the Companys AIFM, its Portfolio Manager, its Registrar and its Depositary.
To recommend the appointment of external Auditors and agree the scope of their work and their remuneration, reviewing their independence and the effectiveness of the audit process.
To consider any non-audit work to be carried out by the Auditors.
The Committee reviews the need for non-audit services in accordance with the Companys non-audit services policy, and authorises such on a case by case basis having given consideration to the cost effectiveness of the services and the objectivity of the Auditors.
The Auditors carried out no non-audit work during the year.
To consider the need for an internal audit function.
Since the Company delegates its day-to-day operations to third parties and has no employees, the Committee has again determined there is no requirement for such a function.
Meetings and business Representatives of the AIFM, Frostrow, attended each of the Committees three meetings and reported as to the proper conduct of business in accordance with the regulatory environment in which the Company and the AIFM operate.
The Committee also met the Auditors three times during the year and once, following completion of the audit, without representatives of the AIFM being present.
FURTHER INFORMATION REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 246557 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp29-pp47 GOV 15 12 2017 13:23 Page 40 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 40 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2017 Governance Audit Committee Report for the year ended 30 September 2017 The following matters were dealt with at these meetings: December 2016: Consideration and review of the annual results Approval of the annual report and financial statements Review of the Companys risk management process Review of the Companys anti-bribery and corruption policy and the measures put in place by its key service providers May 2017: Review of the Committees terms of reference and audit tender guidelines in light of the new ethical standards Consideration and review of the half year report and financial statements Approval of the half year report Review of the Companys risk management process and internal controls of its key service providers September 2017: Approval of the Auditors engagement letter and review of their plan for the 2017 audit Review of the Companys risk management process and internal controls of its key service providers Review of the Companys policy for non-audit services in light of the new ethical standards Review of the Companys whistle blowing, anti slavery and cyber security procedures and the measures for these put in place by its key service providers Review of the Companys anti-bribery and corruption policy and the measures put in place by its key service providers Interest in Frostrow Capital LLP Financial Statements The Committee reviewed the consistently applied valuation The Financial Statements, and the Annual Report as a whole, are methodology of the Companys partnership interest in the responsibility of the Board.
The Directors Responsibility Frostrow Capital LLP.
The valuation, based upon a discounted Statement is contained on page 47.
The Board looks to the multiple of revenue, was accepted.
Audit Committee to advise them in relation to the Financial Statements both as regards their form and content, issues which Taxation might arise and on any specific areas requiring judgement.
The Committee dealt with ensuring compliance with section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 by seeking confirmation that the Company continues to meet the Significant Reporting Matters regulatory requirements.
Although the Committee did not identify any significant issues as part of its review of the Annual Report and Financial Going Concern Statements, it paid particular attention to: Having received the Companys financial position, the Company satisfied itself that it is appropriate for the Board to Accounting Policies present the financial statements on the going concern basis.
The current accounting policies, as set out on pages 52 to 54, have been consistently applied throughout the year.
In light of Long Term Viability there being no unusual transactions during the year or other The Committee satisfied itself that it is appropriate for the possible reasons, the Committee found no reasons to change Board to make the statement on pages 20 and 21 that they the policies.
have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue its operations over the next five years.
Investments The Committee reviews the valuation and existence of Internal Controls and Risk Management investments every six months.
Controls are in place to ensure The Directors have identified Strategic Report pages 23 to 25 that valuations are appropriate and existence is verified six main areas of risk: Corporate Strategy, Investment Strategy through recalculations with the Depositary.
and Activity, Shareholder Relations and Corporate Recognition of Revenue from Investments Governance, Operational, Financial, Accounting and Legal and The Committee wished to receive assurance that all dividends Regulatory.
They have set out the actions taken to evaluate receivable, including special dividends, had been accounted and manage these risks.
The Committee reviews the various for correctly.
They received the necessary confirmation.
actions taken and satisfies itself that they are sufficient: in particular the Committee reviews the Companys schedule of key risks at each meeting and requires amendments to both risks and mitigating actions if necessary.
246557 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp29-pp47 GOV 15 12 2017 13:23 Page 41 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 41 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2017 Governance Audit Committee Report During the year the Committee considered whether the UKs In order to consider the effectiveness of the audit process, the exit from the European Union Brexit poses potential risks to Committee reviewed: the Company.
It does not consider that Brexit has affected the the Auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan, risk profile of the Company but will continue to monitor the report arising from the audit itself, and developments as the exit negotiations progress and reassess feedback from the AIFM on the conduct of the audit.
The Committee satisfied itself concerning the Auditors The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys risk independence and the effectiveness of the audit process, management and systems of internal controls and for together with the degree of diligence and professional reviewing their effectiveness.
In common with the majority of scepticism brought to bear.
investment trusts, investment management, accounting, The Committee monitors the level of non-audit work carried company secretarial and custodial services have been out by the Auditors and seeks assurances from the Auditors delegated to third parties.
The effectiveness of the internal that they maintain suitable policies and processes ensuring controls is assessed on a continuing basis by the AIFM, the independence, and monitor compliance with the relevant Portfolio Manager and the Depositary.
Each maintains its own regulatory requirements on an annual basis.
The Company systems and the Committee receives regular reports from operates on the basis whereby the provision of non-audit them.
The Committee is satisfied that appropriate systems services by the Auditors is permissible where no conflict of have been in place for the year under review.
interest arises, where the independence of the Auditors is not likely to be impinged by undertaking the work and the quality External Auditors and objectivity of both the non-audit work and audit work will Meetings: not be compromised.
In particular, non-audit services may be This year the nature and scope of the audit together with provided by the Auditor if they are inconsequential or would  LLPs audit plan were reviewed by have no direct effect on the Companys financial statements the Committee on 27 September 2017. and the audit firm would not place significant reliance on the work for the purposes of the statutory audit.
As Chairman of the Committee I, together with one other Committee member, met the Audit Partner, Mr Alex Bertolotti, and his Audit Manager on 21 November 2017 to discuss the outcome of the audit and the draft 2017 Annual Report and financial statements.
The Committee then met  LLP on 8 December 2017 to review the outcome of the audit.
Details of the fees paid to the Auditors for audit services are set out in note 4 to the Financial Statements on page 54.
Independence and Effectiveness: In order to fulfil the Committees responsibility regarding the independence of the Auditors, the Committee reviewed: the senior audit personnel in the audit plan, the Auditors arrangements concerning potential conflicts of interest, the statement by the Auditors that they remain independent within the meaning of the regulations and their professional standards, and the extent of any non-audit services in line with the Companys policy.
FURTHER INFORMATION REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 246557 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp29-pp47 GOV 15 12 2017 13:23 Page 42 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 42 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2017 Governance Audit Committee Report Auditor Tendering Performance Evaluation The Committee undertook an evaluation of its performance at  LLP were appointed as Auditors of its September 2017 meeting and will do so annually in future.
the Company in June 2014, which was the last occasion an No formal recommendations were required to be or reported audit tender was held.
Formal audit tender guidelines have to the Board this year in accordance with the Committees recently been adopted to govern the audit tender process and terms of reference.
As part of its evaluation the Committee reviewed the Date of Length of following: Auditors appointment service Its role  Membership, independence, objectivity and LLP 19 June 2014 4 years understanding Audit Partner Alex Bertolotti 19 June 2014 4 years Skills In accordance with EU Audit Regulations the Company will Scope of work Communications need to re-tender for new auditors at least every 10 years.
It will be mandatory to change audit firm after 20 years.
In the meantime, the Committee will continue to carry out an annual assessment of the effectiveness of the external audit process.
A post audit assessment was completed during the year to assess the quality of the 2016 audit and concluded that David Hunt, FCA performance was satisfactory and there were no grounds for Chairman of the Audit Committee change.
14 December 2017 Auditor Re-appointment  LLP have carried out the audit for the years ended 30 September 2014 to 2017 and were considered to be independent by the Board.
Having indicated their willingness to continue to act as Auditors to the Company for the forthcoming year a resolution re-appointing  LLP as Auditors will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
